21-10-2021||Business||Sensex drops 336 points to close at 60,923||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 336.46 points on Thursday following losses in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, Infosys and TCS amid a negative trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index declined 336.46 points or 0.55 per cent to 60,923.50. Similarly, the NSE Nifty fell 88.50 points or 0.48 per cent to 18,178.10. Asian Paints was the top loser in the Sensex pack, tanking around 5 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Infosys, Tata Steel, TCS and Dr Reddy's. On the other hand, Kotak Bank, HDFC, ICICI Bank and NTPC were among the gainers. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, domestic headwinds like high valuations have become unsustainable and rising commodity inflation will impact the margins of firms. "Sustained selling by institutions -- both DIIs and FIIs -- indicates that smart money regards the market as overheated and overvalued," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended in the in the red, while Shanghai was positive. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 1.12 per cent to USD 84.86 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
21-10-2021||Business||Sensex surges over 250 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 250 points in opening trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, Kotak Bank and Infosys amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 265.84 points or 0.43 per cent higher at 61,525.80 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty advanced 93.45 points or 0.51 per cent to 18,360.05. Sun Pharma was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 2 per cent, followed by PowerGrid, NTPC, HDFC, Kotak Bank and M&M. On the other hand, HCL Tech, Tech Mahindra, TCS and Bharti Airtel were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 456.09 points or 0.74 per cent lower at 61,259.96, and Nifty dropped 152.15 points or 0.83 per cent to 18,266.60. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,843.09 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Tokyo were in the red. Stock exchanges on Wall Street largely ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.08 per cent to USD 85.75 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
21-10-2021||Business||Stress for micro finance lenders worsen during Covid second wave||Portfolio at risk, a measure of stress for micro finance lenders, has worsened during the second wave of the Covid pandemic. Dues in excess of 30 days were at 15.4 per cent as of June 30, 2021 against 9.7 per cent as of March 31, 2021, according to data compiled by CRIF High Mark. The dues were less than 2 per cent before the pandemic, while they stood at 14.5 per cent at the end of December. Assam (32.1 per cent), Bengal (19.7 per cent), Karnataka (18.4 per cent), Madhya Pradesh (17.1 per cent) were among the states where the dues were higher at the end of June. The portfolio quality was affected across ticket sizes and lenders including banks, non bank finance institutions and small finance banks. The gross loan portfolio outstanding for the microfinance industry as of June 2021 was Rs 2,36,109 crore, which was 7 per cent lower than March, 2021 and higher by 1 per cent from June 2021. All the top 10 states recorded a quarterly decline in gross loan portfolio — the highest in Assam of 14.4 per cent, while Bengal saw a decline of nearly 10 per cent. “Braving Covid 19 pandemic impact, the microfinance sector was quick to recover to pre pandemic level by Q4 FY21. “However, with Covid 19 second wave and reimplementation of lockdown in several parts of the country, the sector took a major blow again in Q1 FY22, with a steep decline in disbursements and high delinquencies,” CRIF High Mark said in its quarterly report. Micro-finance lenders said the stress level was expected to ease in the second half of the fiscal with the removal of restrictions and opening up of the economy if the infection rate does not go up again. In line with a decline in gross loan portfolio, the number of active microfinance borrowers came down to 5.9 crore for the period ending June 30, 2021, posting 3.2 per cent quarter-on-quarter decline, while on a year-on-year basis, there was a growth of 7.5 per cent. Average balance per unique microfinance borrower at Rs 40,300 witnessed a quarter on quarter decline of 3.8 per cent while on a year on year basis there was a growth of 7.4 per cent. Banks continue to dominate the market with a portfolio share of 42.2 per cent followed by NBFC MFIs at 30.6 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
21-10-2021||Business||Covid: ICICI Prudential steps up provisions for mortality claim||ICICI Prudential Life Insurance has stepped up provisions for mortality claims amid delayed Covid claim intimation. The life insurer has made a provision of Rs 412 crore as of September 30, 2021 against Rs 332 crore as of March 31, 2021. The total claims on account of Covid during the first six months stood at Rs 1,879 crore, which net of reinsurance was Rs 862 crore. “As of September 2021, we hold reserves of Rs 412 crore towards potential Covid-19 claims. This includes provisions for claims that have been incurred but not reported as well as new claims over the balance six months of the financial year. “Unless Covid claims exceed Rs 1,274 crore, we would not expect any further negative impact,” Satyan Jambunathan, chief financial officer, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, said at the earnings call. He said that even as there is a reduction in new Covid infections, insurers continue to receive claims during the second quarter of 2021-22 for cases pertaining to the first quarter of the fiscal, indicating delayed intimations. “We have also seen a declining trend in these intimations across the month of this quarter (October). As a result our Covid 19 claims net of reinsurance stood at Rs 862 crore for H1 FY22. Each and every claim notified at our touch points is accounted for in this number even as they are being processed,” he said. N.S. Kannan, MD and CEO, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, said the increased awareness on the need of life insurance has aided the growth in new business for the insurance company. “Our absolute value of new business grew by 45 per cent year on year to Rs 873 crore for H1 FY22, demonstrating our progress towards achieving the stated objective of doubling of FY2019 value of new business by FY2023.” The company has posted a net profit of Rs 445 crore for the second quarter ended September 30, 2021 against Rs 303 crore in the corresponding quarter of last year. Reinsurance rates ICICI Prudential said that reinsurance rates are expected to go up even as negotiations between life insurance companies and reinsurance companies continue. The Telegraph had reported last month that term life insurance policies are expected to become costlier amid high mortality claims. “As we speak today while discussions with the reinsurer are underway. We expect the final outcome to be a combination of price increase and applicable underwriting norms in line with emerging experience. We would like to maintain the profitability of the overall protection segment intact. In terms of business impact over the short term, we don't expect it to be material given the pandemic situation is still live and the constraints in the environment continue,” said Jambunathan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||Business||SC dismisses Sebi appeal against SAT order in PNB Housing case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed as infructuous the appeal filed by capital markets regulator Sebi against the Securities Appellate Tribunal’s order in a matter related to PNB Housing Finance Ltd’s Rs 4,000 crore equity capital raise plan. A bench headed by Justice L. Nageswara Rao was informed by counsel for PNB Housing Finance Ltd that it has decided not to proceed with the issue and moved an application before the appellate tribunal to withdraw the appeal. “Counsel for the respondent submits that an application has been moved before the appellate tribunal to withdraw the appeal. In view of the subsequent developments, where the respondent does not want to pursue the matter, this appeal is dismissed as infructuous,” the bench also comprising Justice B R Gavai said. A two-member bench of the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT) on August 9 gave a split verdict, saying there was a difference of opinion between the members of the bench. The SAT directed that its interim order of June 21, 2021 will continue till further orders, restraining PNB Housing Finance from disclosing the voting results by the shareholders on the fund raise plan. The voting was part of a special resolution to seek shareholders’ approval for the Rs 4,000 crore equity raise plan of PNB Housing by allotting preference shares and warrants to a handful of investors led by US-based private equity player Carlyle Group. On May 31, the housing finance company promoted by state-owned lender Punjab National Bank (PNB) had announced the capital raise plan. However, it soon hit a roadblock after a proxy advisory firm red flagged the preference issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||Business||Trifecta Capital invests Rs 400 crore from its maiden equity fund||Trifecta Capital on Wednesday said it has invested Rs 400 crore (about $53 million) across four companies from its maiden equity fund, Trifecta Leaders Fund-I. The fund has invested in ixigo, Good Glamm Group (MyGlamm), API Holdings (PharmEasy), and Meesho, in line with its strategy to back growth to late-stage category-leading tech companies, a statement said. The fund was launched in May this year with a target corpus of Rs 1,500 crore (about $200 million) and announced its first close in July. ixigo is a multi-modal travel platform, while Good Glamm Group is a D2C (Direct-to-Consumer) beauty and personal care company and Meesho is a social-commerce company. API Holdings (PharmEasy) is an omnichannel healthcare platform spanning medicines, diagnostics, consultation, and information. Pharmeasy is preparing to file a DRHP with Sebi for its upcoming IPO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||Business||India nudges Opec nations to work towards affordable supplies||India, the world’s third-largest energy consumer, on Wednesday warned that high oil prices will undermine global economic recovery and nudged Saudi Arabia and other Opec nations to work towards affordable and reliable supplies. “Crude oil accounts for nearly 20 per cent of our import bill. Our fuel import bill has jumped from $8.8 billion (in quarter ending June 2020) to $24 billion in quarter ending June 2021,” oil minister Hardeep Singh Puri said at the India Energy Forum by CERAWeek. “Rising prices impact all economies. In large developing countries such as India, you could see a surge in inflation which could also increase the cost of producing and transporting goods,” he said. Petroleum secretary Tarun Kapoor said the price volatility is not good for both producers and consumers. “This just does not work. The price of natural gas has shot up. There is a natural gas supply mismatch of just 5 per cent but the price went up 10 times,” Kapoor said. Saudi energy minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman said crude prices were being led higher by other commodities such as natural gas and coal. “For the first time, we see our role limited. The issue is not the lack of crude oil. Even if we supply it, ... where are the refineries that will convert the oil?” Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with the CEOs of global oil and gas firms and pitched for collaboration and investment in the country’s energy sector. Among those who attended the meeting included Mukesh Ambani, Igor Sechin, chairman and CEO, Rosneft and Amin Nasser, president and CEO, Saudi Aramco.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||Business||Foxconn to make electric vehicles in India, Europe||Taiwan tech giant Foxconn is looking at making electric vehicles (EVs) in Europe, India and Latin America, including “indirectly” cooperating with German auto makers, chairman Liu Young-way said on Wednesday. Foxconn, formally called Hon Hai Precision Industry Co Ltd, aims to become a major player in the global EV market and has clinched deals with US. startup Fisker Inc and Thailand’s energy group PTT PCL. Speaking to reporters at a business forum in Taipei after unveiling three EV prototypes on Monday, Liu said that due to disclosure restrictions he couldn’t provide any details of its plans for Europe, India and Latin America. “Europe will be a bit faster, I agree with that. But as to where, I can’t tell you," he said. Asked if they would be cooperating with German car firms he said “indirectly”, saying the timeline would be Europe first, then India and Latin America, adding that Mexico was “very possible”. Liu has previously mentioned Mexico as a possible EV production site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||Business||Sensex falls 456 points, Nifty ends below 18300 mark ||The Sensex on Wednesday cracked by 456 points, while the Nifty ended below the 18300 mark as market participants resorted to profit booking amid concerns over rich valuations. This is the second straight session that the benchmark indices are closing in the red, which has resulted in investor wealth eroding almost Rs 6.82 lakh crore. The sharp rise in equity values has led to apprehensions that the markets may have run ahead of fundamentals. The broader Nifty has gained more than 30 per cent this year, moving ahead of its Asian peers. On Wednesday, UBS said that the Indian equity markets look unattractive on account of extremely expensive valuations. The foreign brokerage, which is now ‘underweight’ on India added that the country, apart from Taiwan and Australia, is unattractive particularly on valuations even as Asean looks positive. UBS said that the earnings momentum in India is seen fading and that there is less scope for an economic rebound this year. Though there has not been any big shocks in the earnings season, some of the big companies such as TCS and Hindustan Unilever Ltd  have disappointed the street. On Wednesday, the shares of the FMCG giant fell 2.63 per cent after a 4 per cent drop on Tuesday. Market circles said that while there are concerns over high valuations, the selling is on account of higher commodity prices that pose an headwind to such companies. In Wednesday’s trading, the 30-share Sensex began in the green at 61800.07 and hit a high of 61880.36 after which profit booking set in. It later settled at 61259.96 — a drop of 456.09 points or 0.74 per cent. Barring seven stocks in the index, the rest ended in the red with losses of up to 3 per cent. While Titan led the list of losers, it was followed by HUL, Bajaj Finserv, NTPC and Larsen & Toubro. Similarly, on the NSE, the Nifty sank by 152.15 points, or 0.83 per cent, at 18266.60. Mid-cap and small cap stocks also felt the heat with the Nifty Midcap index dropping 1.91 per cent while the small-cap index cracked by 2.42 per cent. “Indices corrected quite meaningfully led by the expensive side of the market where valuations had got stretched,” said S. Ranganathan, head of research at LKP Securities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||Business||L&T Finance Holdings reports 10% decline in consolidated net profit||L&T Finance Holdings (LTFH) on Wednesday reported a 10 per cent decline in its consolidated net profit at Rs 223 crore for the second quarter ended September 2021. The non-banking financial company had posted a net profit of Rs 248 crore in the corresponding period of the previous financial year. Total income during July-September 2021 fell to Rs 3,134.46 crore against Rs 3,508.91 crore in the year-ago period, LTFH said in a regulatory filing. LTFH said it witnessed the highest-ever disbursement in rural finance during the reported quarter, while retail disbursements grew 55 per cent quarter-on-quarter. In the second quarter of FY22, all LTFH businesses witnessed robust disbursement momentum. Rural finance business saw the highest-ever Q2 disbursement at Rs 4,987 crore, a jump of 51 per cent quarter-on-quarter, it said. Jubilant profit jumps Jubilant Foodworks on Wednesday reported a 58.11 per cent jump in consolidated net profit at Rs 119.82 crore for the second quarter ended September 30, 2021, driven by continued strong momentum in delivery and takeaway channels. The company, which operates popular fast food chains such as Domino’s Pizza and Dunkin’ Donuts in India, logged a profit of Rs 75.78 crore in the year-ago period. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 1,116.19 crore compared with Rs 816.33 crore in the same period a year ago. Tata Steel BSL Tata Steel BSL has reported a five-fold jump in its consolidated net profit at Rs 1,837.03 crore for the September 2021 quarter, mainly on account of higher income. The company had clocked a net profit of Rs 341.71 crore a year ago. Total income rose to Rs 8,329.68 crore from Rs 5,545.35 crore a year ago. Expenses stood at Rs 6,492.97 crore against Rs 5,203.33 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||Business||Gita Gopinath to leave IMF in January 2022||International Monetary Fund chief economist Gita Gopinath will return to Harvard University in January as planned when her public service leave of absence from the university ends, the IMF said on Tuesday. Gopinath, the IMF’s first female chief economist, joined the fund in October 2018 and led new IMF analytical research on the Covid-19 pandemic and vaccination targets as well as on climate change mitigation. She was the John Zwaanstra Professor of International Studies and Economics at Harvard University when she joined the Washington-based global lender. IMF managing director Kristalina Georgieva cited Gopinath’s “tremendous” impact on the IMF’s work. “She made history as the first female Chief Economist of the Fund and we benefited immensely from her sharp intellect and deep knowledge of international finance and macroeconomics as we navigate through the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. “Gita also won the respect and admiration of colleagues in the research department, across the Fund, and throughout the membership for leading analytically rigorous work and policy-relevant projects with high impact and influence,” Georgieva said. Gopinath won praise for drafting a $50 billion proposal on ending the pandemic by vaccinating at least 40 per cent of the population in all countries by the end of 2021, a plan later endorsed by the World Bank, the World Trade Organisation and the World Health Organisation. Gopinath helped set up a climate change team inside the IMF to analyse, among other things, optimal climate mitigation policies. Later, in a tweet, Gopinath thanked her colleagues for making her stint at the IMF truly gratifying. Her departure from the global crisis lender is unrelated to the ethics scandal that had raised questions about Georgieva’s future as the IMF’s leader, according to a person familiar with the matter. Gopinath’s leave from Harvard, already extended by one year, was ending, and her family had remained in Boston, the person said. She will remain at the IMF to oversee the release of the fund’s next World Economic Outlook forecasts in January. The IMF executive board last week cleared Georgieva of any wrongdoing related to allegations that in 2017, as the World Bank’s chief executive, she put undue pressure on bank staff to alter data to favour China. The US Treasury Department continues to press for changes at the institutions to safeguard their integrity. Gopinath told a news conference last week that the IMF takes data integrity “incredibly seriously” and has robust systems in place but is always looking for ways to improve.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea agrees to accept govt moratorium offer on spectrum fees||Vodafone Idea on Wednesday said its board has agreed to accept the government offer of a moratorium on the payment of spectrum fees for four years. In a filing to the stock exchanges, the beleaguered telecom operator said it will give its response to the department of telecom’s (DoT) proposal on AGR (adjusted gross revenue) dues and the conversion of accrued interest to equity within the deadline set by the DoT. “We wish to inform you that the board of directors of the company has approved the exercise of the option of deferment of the company’s spectrum auction instalments for a period of four years (October 2021 to September 2025) in accordance with ...the notification dated 14 October 2021 issued by the department of telecommunications (DoT) to the company,” it said. “The other options offered in the said notification by DoT will be considered by the board of directors of the company within the stipulated timeframe,” the company said in the regulatory filing. The DoT has given the telecom operators time till October 29 to decide on the moratorium on spectrum payments and the AGR dues. The operators must also inform the DoT on whether they want to convert their accrued interest into equity within 90 days of the issuance of the letter. The government has offered the option to defer payment of the spectrum auction instalments due up to four years, with immediate effect, excluding the instalments due for auction held in 2021. These deferred amounts will be spread equally over the remaining instalments to be paid, without any increase in the existing time period specified for making the instalment payments. Interest as stipulated in the relevant year of auction of spectrum will, however, be charged so that the Net Present Value (NPV) of the payable amount is protected. Vodafone Idea shares rose 6.4 per cent to Rs 10.64 on the BSE following the board decision. Vodafone owes almost Rs 23,000 crore in annual spectrum and AGR liabilities, which will now be spread over the next four years. Subscribers quit The latest data of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) showed Vodafone Idea losing 8.33 lakh subscribers in August against the loss of 14.30 subscribers in July. Reliance Jio added 6.5 lakh subscribers  against the addition of 65.19 lakh subscribers in July, while Bharti Airtel added 1.38 lakh subscribers against the addition of 19.43 lakh in July. An increase in entry-level prepaid tariffs in July led to the fall in subscriber additions in August. The data showed that telecom companies lost more than a lakh subscribers (1.13 lakh) in August against the addition of 60 lakh subscribers in July.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-30
21-10-2021||India||Actor Ananya Panday appears before NCB to record statement||Actor Ananya Panday appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) here on Thursday after the central agency allegedly came across WhatsApp chats during its investigation against Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, in a drugs case, sources said. Ananya's father Chunky Panday accompanied her to the NCB office located at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai, where they reached around 4 pm. The NCB's Mumbai zonal unit, which is probing the cruise drugs seizure case, in which Aryan Khan has been arrested, visited Ananya Panday's residence in Bandra this morning and summoned her to record her statement later in the day, the sources said. Ananya's name cropped up in the case after certain WhatsApp chats between her and Aryan Khan were allegedly found in the latter's mobile phone, the sources said, adding that earlier in the day, the NCB officials had seized her mobile and laptop. Ananya was asked to appear before the NCB in the afternoon. Accordingly, she along with her father Chunky Panday appeared before the NCB officials, the sources said. The NCB officials, however, are yet to clarify her role, if any, in the case. There was heavy deployment of police outside the NCB office and a large number of media persons were also present there. Aryan Khan was arrested with a few others on October 3 after the NCB raided a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and claimed to have seized drugs, including charas. An NCB team visited Shah Rukh Khan's residence 'Mannat' in suburban Bandra this afternoon for seeking from him certain material related to the investigation into the case, an official said. On Thursday morning, Shah Rukh Khan met his son Aryan Khan at the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai where the latter has been lodged following his arrest in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
21-10-2021||India||Mandaviya launches song, film from Red Fort to mark India's Covid milestone||As the cumulative vaccine doses administered in India surpassed the 100-crore mark, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Thursday launched a song and a film describing the efforts that went behind the launch of the world's largest Covid inoculation programme. The Union Health minister launched the song and the film at the iconic Red Fort where the country's largest khadi tricolour, weighing around 1,400 kg, has been displayed. The same tricolour (225 feet by 150 feet) was unfurled on Gandhi Jayanti at Leh. "Today India created history. It's a story of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'Sankalp'. 100 crore vaccine is a story of Atma Nirbhar Bharat," Mandaviya said at the event. The song has been sung by singer Kailash Kher. The audio-visual film is about how the entire process of vaccination was initiated and what efforts it took to launch the world's largest Covid inoculation programme. The film also thanks doctors, nurses and everyone else who contributed in the largest vaccination drive and made it a success. The flag was displayed at a raised slant platform at the lawn right in front of the ramparts of the Red Fort. Over 75 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, while over 31 percent have been administered both the doses, according to Unon health ministry officials. To mark the milestone on the COVID-19 vaccination exercise, a series of events have also been lined up. The Archaeological Survey of India will light up 100 of its heritage monuments in colours of the national flag to mark the milestone which will be a tribute to health professionals, frontline workers, scientists, vaccine manufacturers and the citizens of the country who bravely fought the pandemic, officials said on Thursday. SpiceJet will unveil a special livery at the Delhi airport to celebrate the 100 crore vaccine milestone on Thursday. "After 100 crore doses are administered, we will go on a mission mode to ensure that those who have taken their first dose take their second dose too to ensure they are protected against COVID-19," Mandaviya had earlier said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
21-10-2021||India||Kerala, true to form, is still the outlier in Covid-19 pandemic ||Kerala has been the odd man out in India’s fearsome Covid-19 pandemic. Now a government report shows the state’s playing true to form again with 82.6 per cent of the population having Covid-19 antibodies but the number of daily new cases coming down much more slowly than might have been expected. The government’s detailed seropositivity study which looks at how many people have Covid-19 antibodies studied different groups like tribals, antenatal women, children and also people living on the coast. It found that more than 80 per cent of each group had high seropositivity levels. People show Covid-19 antibodies when they have either had the illness or been vaccinated against it. Crucially, the study says that unvaccinated people had 70 per cent seropositivity, indicating the widespread nature of the infections in the state even before the vaccinations had reached a high level. Natural immunity is considered stronger protection than that afforded by vaccinations. Kerala reported over 11,000 new cases daily on Wednesday after falling to around 7,000 for a few days. Test positivity ratios are also at around 10 per cent, which is still quite high. About 94 per cent of the adult population has received one Covid-19 vaccination and 48 per cent has received two jabs. By contrast, Delhi, which according to one study had seropositivity levels of 86 per cent two months ago, reported only 35 new cases on Monday. Virologists and other medical researchers have been puzzled why Kerala with similarly high seropositivity levels is still having a large number of new cases daily. A second Death Analysis Report by the Kerala Government shows that out of 9,195 deaths between June 18, 2021, and September 3, 52.52 per cent had either hypertension or diabetes mellitus or both. Also, 12 per cent of people who died suffered from coronary artery disease and another 8.19 per cent had chronic kidney disease. First of a kind survey The Seropositivity report by the Kerala Government Department of Health and Family Welfare looked at six different segments including children between the ages of five and 17. The report says: “This survey is perhaps the first of its kind in India which also focuses on specific vulnerable populations like the Antenatal women, Tribal, coastal and urban slum populations.” This is the third seroepidemiological study carried out in Kerala since the pandemic began. The first report for the period May-June 2020 found there was not much community transmission. The second in February 2021 found “overall seroprevalence in the community” was at 10.76 per cent. An Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) report in May 2021 found that Kerala seroprevalence estimates were around 44.4 per cent. This was at a time when the national seroprevalence was at 67.6 per cent. Children not showing symptoms Significantly, the study of children between five and 17 found that 40.2 per cent of them had SARS CoV-2 IgG antibodies. In the state’s Kasargod district which was one of the earliest to be badly hit by the pandemic, 63.3 per cent of children showed seropositivity. Similarly, Alappuzha district had 55 per cent seropositivity and Malappuram 50.9 per cent. In the thinly populated Wayanad district, only 7.9 per cent of the children showed seropositivity. The study on children assumes importance because the Kerala government is planning to open schools on November 1. However, this may not happen because of the severe floods in the state, says a state government official. The report also points out that children often do not show symptoms or have only mild symptoms so are often not tested for Covid-19. It says: “Infections among children are not adequately captured in our routine testing data. Estimation of infection rate among children thus becomes an important epidemiological exercise, especially in the context of relaxation in Covid-19 restrictions.” Children who lived in urban areas had higher seropositivity than youngsters from rural areas. Also, children who had been in contact with Covid-19 patients had higher levels of seropositivity. Vaccinations crucial In a warning to people resisting the vaccinations, the death report says that 90 per cent of the deaths were of people who had not been vaccinated. In sharp contrast, only 3 per cent of the deaths were people who had had both jabs. Kerala has earned itself the reputation as the state where the medical system was never overwhelmed by the case numbers and around 80 per cent of the people who were fatally afflicted, died in ICUs. A huge 92.82 per cent of people died in hospitals and only 5.59 per cent at home. The remainder appears to have died in transit. The greater burden of the pandemic was taken by the government hospitals so 62.68 per cent of the deaths took place in these institutions. The private hospitals had 36.33 per cent of the deaths. Kerala has a densely populated coastline of over 500km and it’s perhaps not surprising that the people tested from these areas had seropositivity levels of 87.7 per cent. Similarly, out of the urban slum-dwellers tested, 85.3 per cent had antibodies. At a slightly lower level, the tribals, many of whom live in relatively remote areas, showed seropositivity levels of 78.2 per cent. New study offers hope A study in the scientific journal Current Issues in Molecular Biology may suggest some clues to the nature of the deaths noted in the second Kerala report. Researchers have discovered the infection of cells with the Covid-causing coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 leads to increased levels of a “don’t destroy me” protein called CD47 on cell surfaces. The data suggested high virus-induced CD47 levels and age contributed to severe Covid-19 by preventing the immune system from mounting a strong defence and increasing disease-associated organ damage. Crucially, high CD47 levels are linked with diabetes and also contribute to high blood pressure, a big risk for Covid-19 complications like heart attacks, stroke and kidney disease. The good news is that since medicines targeting the reduction of CD47 levels are being developed, the discovery by the researchers at the University of Kent's School of Biosciences and the Institute of Medical Virology at Goethe-University may result in better treatments. “We may have identified a major factor associated with severe COVID-19. This is a huge step in combating the disease and we can now look forward to further progress in the design of therapeutics,” said Professor Martin Michaelis at the University of Kent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
21-10-2021||India||Woman of 'easy virtue' no reason to absolve rapist, says Kerala High Court ||A woman or girl being of easy virtue or habituated to sexual intercourse cannot be reasons to absolve someone of rape, especially a father who is expected to be the "fortress and refuge" of his daughter, the Kerala High Court said while convicting a man for repeatedly raping his daughter which also resulted in her becoming pregnant. The high court noted that when a father rapes his daughter, it was worse than a gamekeeper becoming a poacher or a treasury guard becoming a robber. The observations by Justice R Narayana Pisharadi came after the victim's father claimed that he was being falsely implicated in the case as his daughter has admitted that she had sexual relations with another person. Rejecting his claims of innocence, the high court further said that DNA analysis of the baby, born in May 2013 as a result of the sexual assault, reveals that the victim's father was the biological father of the infant also. The high court said, "Even in a case where it is shown that the victim is a girl of easy virtue or a girl habituated to sexual intercourse, it may not be a ground to absolve the accused from the charge of rape. Even assuming that the victim is previously accustomed to sexual intercourse, that is not a decisive question." "On the contrary, the question which is required to be adjudicated is, did the accused commit rape on the victim on the occasion complained of. It is the accused who is on trial and not the victim." The high court further said that the father "was duty-bound to provide the victim girl protection and support." "But, he perpetrated sexual assault and rape on her. One cannot even imagine the trauma the victim would have suffered. The indelible imprint which the incestuous act has left in her mind cannot be ignored. She may feel the mental agony and pain for years to come," it said. The high court also observed, "There can never be graver and heinous crime than the father committing rape on his own daughter. The protector then becomes the predator. The father is the fortress and refuge of his daughter. "Charged of raping his own daughter under his refuge and fortress is worst than the gamekeeper becoming a poacher and treasury guard becoming a robber." In the instant case, the high court also noted that due to the rape committed by her father, the victim delivered a male child and therefore, the sufferings endured by her "would be beyond imagination". "In such circumstances, the accused is not entitled to any leniency in the matter of punishment," it added. The high court while convicting the man for rape and sentencing him to 12 years in jail, set aside the trial court's decision to sentence him to 14 years imprisonment under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act on the ground that the prosecution was unable to prove the victim was a minor when the rapes occurred between June 2012-January 2013. The high court also set aside the man's conviction and sentence for criminal intimidation of the victim, saying the prosecution has not proved that she was being threatened with dire consequences by her father.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
21-10-2021||India||Farmers have right to protest but they can't block roads indefinitely, says SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the three farms laws have the right to agitate but they cannot block roads indefinitely even as the farmer unions and government embroiled themselves in a blame game. While the farmers' unions alleged that the police were responsible for the blockade as it suits them to allow a feeling in the minds of the citizens that farmers are blocking the road, the Centre said there was an oblique purpose behind the protests. During the hearing, a bench headed by Justice S K Kaul said it was not against the right to protest even when the legal challenge is pending but ultimately some solution has to be found. "Farmers have the right to protest but they cannot keep roads blocked indefinitely. You may have a right to agitate in any manner but roads should not be blocked like this. People have the right to go on roads but it cannot be blocked," the bench also comprising Justice M M Sundresh said. The top court asked the farmer unions to respond within three weeks on the issue and posted the matter for hearing on December 7. The bench noted that only four respondents have appeared before it in pursuance of its earlier direction. The apex court said the issue is limited here, "So far as the road is concerned, can the road be blocked? "We are only concerned with the issue that the roads are not blocked. Law is laid down (Shaheen Bagh protests case). You have a right to agitate but you cannot block roads. People also have right on the roads," the bench said. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, representing farmers' associations, said the right to protest is a fundamental right. He said a large number of similar matters are pending before another bench of the apex court and this case should also be tagged along and be heard by the same bench. The senior advocate further alleged that roads were being blocked by the police and not farmers and said he has travelled six times on those roads. Dave said the simple solution to remove the blockade is that the police should allow farmers at Ramlila Maidan and Jantar Mantar. "Roads are blocked by the police. After stopping us, the BJP had a rally at Ramlila Maidan (over the attack on Hindus in Bangladesh) where more than five lakh people came. Why should they be selective? Why don't the lordship take cognisance of that? This is the double standard" Dave said. The solution is allow us to agitate at Jantar Mantar... he said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, however, submitted that there was an oblique purpose behind the protests and "sometimes it is felt the farmers' protest is not for the cause but for something else." Last time they came (on Republic Day), it became a serious issue... something much more than a serious issue, the Solicitor General submitted. Responding to his submission, Dave, however, said an independent investigation will show that the serious issue was engineered and the people have been given bail who allegedly insulted this country by climbing on Red Fort. On Mehta's submission that there was an oblique purpose behind the protests, Dave said he can't put allegations on bonafides of farmers. "We all know that passing of the farm laws was for an oblique purpose. It is to help corporate houses," he said. The bench asked Dave, "Is it your contention that roads can be occupied, or is it your contention that roads have been blocked by police." Dave submitted that the roads have been blocked due to improper arrangements by the Delhi police. "It suits them to allow a feeling that farmers are blocking the road. Let us come to Ramlila Maidan," Dave said. Mehta said that for some people Ramlila Maidan should be the residence as they survive on Ramlila Maidan and Jantar Mantar. Addressing the bench, Dave said judicial discipline demands that this matter be transferred to a three-judge bench. Reacting strongly to Dave's submission, the Solicitor General said, "We will not succumb to this browbeating." The apex court noted Dave's submission that he does not want this bench to hear the matter and the case be sent to another bench for hearing. The apex court had earlier wondered how can highways be blocked perpetually, while referring to road blockades by farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the three farm laws passed last year, and said it is the executive's duty to implement the law laid down by the court. The top court had allowed the Centre to file a formal application to make farmer unions party to the plea seeking opening of road blockade at Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border at UP Gate here. The top court was hearing a plea of a NOIDA resident Monicca Agrawaal, who has sought removal of blockade saying that earlier it took 20 minutes to reach Delhi and now it is taking over two hours and people of the area are facing hardships due to protests at the UP Gate on Delhi border. On August 23, the top court had said that the Centre and Delhi's neighbouring states should find a solution to road blockades on the national capital's borders due to farmers' protests. The farmers are protesting against the passage of three laws-Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
21-10-2021||India||NCB detectives visit homes of actors Shah Rukh Khan, Ananya Pandey||Officials of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) visited the residence of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan on Thursday in connection with their investigation into a cruise drugs party case, sources said. The actor's son, Aryan Khan, was arrested with a few others on October 3 after the NCB raided a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and claimed to have seized drugs, including charas. The NCB team, led by senior officials of the agency, visited Shah Rukh Khan's residence 'Mannat' in suburban Bandra in the afternoon for some paperwork, sources said. Another team of the NCB also visited actor Ananya Pandey's residence in Bandra, they said. Pandey has been asked to appear before the NCB on Thursday to record her statement, the sources said. Earlier in the day, Shah Rukh Khan met his son Aryan Khan at the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai where the latter has been lodged following arrest in a case of seizure of drugs on board the cruise ship off the city coast. The actor reached the prison located in Mumbai Central around 9 am and left at 9.35 am, the official said. He met his son for about 10 minutes, according to sources. A large number of mediapersons and local residents had gathered outside the prison when the actor arrived. Heavy police security was also deployed outside the jail premises. A special court here on Wednesday denied bail to Aryan Khan, observing that 'on the face of it', he was indulging in "illicit drug activities on a regular basis". His WhatsApp chats also showed, prima facie, that he was in touch with drug peddlers, the court noted. Aryan Khan subsequently moved the Bombay High Court to challenge the lower court's order. The HC on Thursday said it would hear his bail plea on October 26.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
21-10-2021||India||100 heritage monuments to be lit in colours of Indian flag to mark 100 cr Covid vaccination feat||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will light up 100 of its heritage monuments in colours of the national flag to mark the 100 crore COVID-19 vaccination milestone achieved in the country, officials said on Thursday. Seventeen UNESCO World Heritage Sites including the Red Fort, Qutub Minar, Humayun Tomb, Tughlaqabad Fort, Purana Qila, Fatehpur Sikri Agra, Ramappa Temple, Hampi, Dholavira (Gujarat), ancient Leh Palace; Currency Building and Metcalf Hall in Kolkata; Khajuraho temples (MP), and Golconda Fort in Hyderabad are among the 100 monuments which will be illuminated in tricolour, the officials said. This will be a tribute to health professionals, frontline workers, scientists, vaccine manufacturers and the citizens of the country who bravely fought the pandemic, they said. The officials said it is part of the activities planned to celebrate the vaccination milestone across the country. The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore milestone on Thursday. In a tweet, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya congratulated the country on achieving the feat, and said it was the result of the able leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. According to official sources, around 75 per cent of India's all eligible adult population has been administered at least the first dose and around 31 per cent has received both the doses of the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
21-10-2021||India||Country now has strong 'protective shield' of 100 crore vaccine doses, says PM||The country now has a strong "protective shield" of 100 crore vaccine doses to combat the biggest pandemic in 100 years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. India achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against COVID-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark on Thursday. Speaking via video conferencing after inaugurating the Infosys Foundation Vishram Sadan at the National Cancer Institute (NCI) on the Jhajjar Campus of New Delhi AIIMS, Modi said, "This day of October 21, 2021, has been recorded in history. India has crossed the 100 crore vaccine doses mark sometime back." "To combat the biggest pandemic in 100 years, the country now has a strong protective shield of 100 crore vaccine doses. This achievement belongs to India, every citizen of India," the prime minister said. Modi also expressed gratitude to all the vaccine manufacturing companies of the country, workers engaged in vaccine transportation and health sector professionals engaged in administering the vaccines. On the inauguration of the Vishram Sadan, Modi said the Infosys Foundation has constructed the building of Vishram Sadan, while the cost of land and electricity and water has been provided by AIIMS Jhajjar. "I express my gratitude to AIIMS Management and Sudha Murthy ji's team for this service," he said. India's corporate sector, private sector, and social organisations have continuously contributed in strengthening the health services of the country, the prime minister noted. Private sector will have a key role in our efforts to have at least one medical college in every district, Modi said. The 806-bed Vishram Sadan has been constructed by the Infosys Foundation as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative. It is aimed at providing air-conditioned accommodation to the attendants of cancer patients, who often have to stay in hospitals for a long duration, the PMO had said in a statement. Built at the cost of about Rs 93 crore, it is located in close proximity to the hospital and OPD Blocks of the NCI. Union Health & Family Welfare Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, and Infosys Foundation Chairperson Sudha Murthy attended the inauguration, conducted via video conferencing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
21-10-2021||India||IAF plane crashes at Bhind in Madhya Pradesh||An Indian Air Force (IAF) plane crashed in Madhya Pradesh's Bhind district on Thursday morning, officials said. "An IAF Mirage 2000 aircraft experienced a technical malfunction during a training sortie in the central sector this morning. The pilot ejected safely. An inquiry has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident," the IAF said in a tweet. The pilot ejected safely before the aircraft crashed in Mankabagh village of the district, Bhind Superintendent of Police Manoj Kumar Singh told PTI. The plane caught fire after the crash, he said, adding that the pilot was rescued. The aircraft had taken off from the Maharajpura airbase at Gwalior in the morning, the official said. Bhind district administration and IAF officials reached the spot soon after getting information about the crash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: Bombay HC to hear Aryan Khan's bail plea on October 26||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said it would hear on October 26 the bail plea filed by Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, in connection with a case of seizure of banned drugs on board a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Aryan Khan's advocate Satish Maneshinde mentioned the plea before a single bench of Justice N W Sambre, seeking urgent hearing on Friday. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), however, sought time till next week. Justice Sambre then posted the plea for hearing on October 26. On that day, the HC will also hear the bail plea filed by co-accused Munmun Dhamecha. Aryan Khan (23) moved the HC on Wednesday evening after a special NDPS court here rejected his bail plea in the afternoon. The special court, while refusing bail, had observed that Aryan Khan was involved in "illicit drug activities on a regular basis" and had a nexus with drug peddlers and suppliers. The lower court had also rejected the bail pleas of Aryan Khan's friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion model Munmun Dhamecha. The three were arrested on October 3 by the NCB after it raided the Goa-bound ship and claimed to have seized drugs, including charas. They are now in judicial custody. While Aryan Khan and Merchant are lodged at the Arthur Road prison, Dhamecha is lodged at the Byculla women's prison in the city. The trio and others were held in the case for alleged conspiracy, possession, consumption, purchase and trafficking of drugs under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. So far, 20 people have been arrested in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||India sees over 18,000 fresh Covid cases, 160 casualties in a day||A single-day rise of 18,454 fresh cases pushed India's COVID-19 tally to 3,41,27,450, while the number of active infections rose to 1,78,831, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll from the pandemic climbed to 4,52,811 with 160 new fatalities, showing the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 27 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 116 consecutive days now. The number of active cases has increased to 1,78,831, comprising 0.52 per cent of the total infections -- the lowest since March 2020 -- while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.15 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the Health Ministry said. An increase of 733 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 case count in a span of 24 hours. Also, 12,47,506 tests were conducted on Wednesday, taking the cumulative number of tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 59,57,42,218. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.48 per cent. It has been less than 3 per cent for the last 52 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent. It has been below 3 per cent for the last 118 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,34,95,808, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 100 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore novel coronavirus cases on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 160 new fatalities include 82 from Kerala, 21 from Maharashtra and 20 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 4,52,811 coronavirus-linked deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,886 from Maharashtra, 37,976 from Karnataka, 35,948 from Tamil Nadu, 27,084 from Kerala, 25,090 from Delhi, 22,898 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,007 from West Bengal. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||Total Covid vaccine doses administered in India crosses 100-crore milestone||India achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against COVID-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark on Thursday. Hailing the vaccination milestone as a triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the country has scripted history. The prime minister also visited the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital here after the milestone was achieved and interacted with hospital officials. He was accompanied by Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya. In a tweet, Mandaviya congratulated the country on achieving the feat, and said it was the result of the able leadership of Prime Minister Modi, whom he described as a visionary. Congratulating the country for the vaccination landmark, Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO, South-East Asia, said it was not possible without strong political leadership. "Huge congratulations to India for marking yet another milestone- a billion COVID-19 vaccine doses administered. This extraordinary feat in a short span was not possible without strong leadership, inter-sectoral convergence, dedicated efforts of the entire health and frontline workforce and the people themselves," she said. India's progress must be viewed in the context of the country's commendable commitment and efforts to ensure that these life-saving vaccines are accessible globally, she said. According to official sources, over 75 per cent of India's all eligible adult population has been administered at least the first dose and around 31 per cent has received both the doses of the vaccine. India took 85 days to touch the 10-crore vaccination mark, 45 more days to cross the 20-crore mark and 29 more days to reach the 30-crore mark, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The country took 24 days to reach the 40-crore mark from 30-crore doses and then 20 more days to surpass the 50-crore vaccination mark on August 6.It then took 76 days to go past the 100-crore mark. The top five states which have administered the highest number of doses are Uttar Pradesh followed by Maharashtra, West Bengal, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. To mark the completion of administering of 100 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses, the largest khadi tricolour in the country, weighing around 1,400 kg, will be displayed at the Red Fort on Thursday, official sources said. The same tricolour with dimensions 225 feet by 150 feet was unfurled on October 2 Gandhi Jayanti in Leh, they said. Mandaviya had on Wednesday appealed to all those who are eligible to get inoculated without delay and contribute to the historic vaccination journey of India. To mark the milestone on the COVID-19 vaccination exercise, a series of events have been lined up. Mandaviya will launch a song by singer Kailash Kher and an audio-visual film at the Red Fort. "The country is close to making a vaccine century. To be a part of this golden opportunity, I appeal to the citizens who are yet to be vaccinated to contribute to this historic golden vaccination journey of India by getting vaccinated immediately," he had said in a tweet in Hindi. SpiceJet will unveil a special livery at the Delhi airport to celebrate the 100 crore vaccine milestone on Thursday. The health minister, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia and SpiceJet CMD Ajay Singh will be present on the occasion. Speaking about the flag, a source said, The same 1,400-kg handwoven khadi tricolour, the largest in the country, which was unfurled in Leh to mark Mahatma Gandhi's 152nd birth anniversary and the 75th year of Independence will also be displayed at the Red Fort to mark the occasion (100 crore doses). The flag is the largest handwoven and handspun cotton khadi flag ever manufactured in India and it measures 225 feet by 150 feet, the source said. Mandaviya had earlier said that announcements will be made on airplanes, ships, metros and at railway stations when India achieves its target of administering 100 crore doses. Celebrations will also be held at central government hospitals in the city to mark the occasion. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with health care workers (HCWs) getting inoculated in the first phase. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of COVID-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. The country launched vaccination for all people aged over 45 years from April 1. The government then decided to expand its vaccination drive by allowing all above 18 to be vaccinated from May 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: Shah Rukh Khan meets son Aryan in Mumbai jail||Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan on Thursday met his son Aryan Khan at the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai where the latter has been lodged following arrest in a case of seizure of drugs on board a cruise ship off the city coast, an official said. The actor reached the prison located in Mumbai Central around 9 am and left at 9.35 am, the official said. He met his son for about 10 minutes, according to sources. A large number of mediapersons and local residents had gathered outside the prison when the actor arrived. Heavy police security was also deployed outside the jail premises. So far, family members of the prisoners were not being allowed to visit the jail in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The prison authorities started allowing the family members of prisoners to visit them from Thursday morning, the official said. Aryan Khan (23) was arrested with a few others on October 3 after the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raided a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast and claimed to have seized drugs, including charas. A special court here on Wednesday denied bail to Aryan Khan, observing that 'on the face of it', he was indulging in "illicit drug activities on a regular basis". His WhatsApp chats also showed, prima facie, that he was in touch with drug peddlers, the court noted. Aryan Khan has now moved the Bombay High Court to challenge the lower court's order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||Tesla requests tax cut on electric vehicles from Modi: Report||Tesla Inc has urged Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's office to slash import taxes on electric vehicles before it enters the market, four sources told Reuters, ratcheting up demands that faced objections from some Indian automakers. Tesla wants to begin selling imported cars in India this year but says taxes in the country are among the highest in the world. Its request for tax cuts - first reported by Reuters in July - prompted objections from several local players, who say such a move would deter investment in domestic manufacturing. Tesla executives, including its head of policy in India, Manuj Khurana, took the company's demands to Modi's officials last month in a closed-door meeting, arguing that the taxes were too high, four sources familiar with the discussions said. During the meeting at Modi's office, Tesla said that India's duty structure would not make its business in the country a "viable proposition", according to one of the sources. India levies an import duty of 60% on electric vehicles that cost $40,000 or less, and 100% duty on those priced over $40,000. Analysts have said that at these rates Tesla cars would become far too costly for buyers and could limit their sales. Tesla has separately also put in a request for a meeting between its Chief Executive Elon Musk and Modi, three of the sources said. Modi's office and Tesla, as well as its executive Khurana, did not respond to a request for comment. It is not clear what Modi's office specifically told Tesla in response, but the four sources told Reuters government officials are divided over the U.S. automaker's demands. Some officials want the company to commit to local manufacturing before considering any import tax breaks. Concern about the impact on the local auto industry is also weighing on the government, the sources added. Indian companies such as Tata Motors, which recently raised $1 billion from investors including TPG to boost EV production locally, has said giving Tesla concessions would be contrary to India's plans to boost domestic EV manufacturing. One of the sources, who has direct knowledge of the government's thinking, said: "If Tesla was the only EV maker, decreasing duties would have worked. But there are others." The transport minister said this month Tesla should not sell made-in-China cars in India and should manufacture locally instead, but Tesla has indicated it first wants to experiment with imports. Musk said on Twitter in July that "if Tesla is able to succeed with imported vehicles, then a factory in India is quite likely." The Indian market for premium EVs is still in its infancy and charging infrastructure is scarce. Just 5,000 of the 2.4 million cars sold in India last year were electric. One government official said lowering duties for a limited period to pave the way for Tesla's entry could "boost India's investor friendly image and green credentials" while also attracting more investments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: SC chastises Yogi govt for lackadaisical probe||The Supreme Court on Wednesday again chastised the Yogi Adityanath government over a perception that it was dragging its feet on the Lakhimpur Kheri probe, frowned at its delayed filing of the status report and asked it to ensure protection of the witnesses. “We get the impression that you are dragging your feet. Please do the needful to dispel…,” Justice Hima Kohli, sitting on a bench with Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justice Surya Kant, told Uttar Pradesh additional advocate-general Garima Parshad. Four farmers and a journalist were killed on October 3 when a convoy led by a Thar jeep, belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra and with his son Ashis allegedly seated in it, ploughed into farmers returning from a protest in Tikunia, Lakhimpur Kheri. The court’s comments came after it had gone through the status report and found that the statements of only four of the 44 witnesses had been recorded before a judicial magistrate. Justice Ramana also expressed dismay that the state had chosen to file the status report just before the proceedings started instead of two to three days in advance, as convention demanded. “We were waiting till 1am last night, but we received nothing,” Justice Ramana said. Senior advocate Harish Salve, representing the state government, suggested the court adjourn the matter till Friday to go through the status report but the Chief Justice rejected the plea. Instead, the bench read the report in court and sought clarifications on various gaps in the investigations. It remained unimpressed by Parshad’s plea that the delay in getting witness statements recorded stemmed from the special investigation team (SIT) conducting a reconstruction of the crime, and Salve’s interjection that the courts had been closed for Dussehra. The bench underlined that criminal courts do not normally close during the vacation, and that statements recorded before a judicial magistrate had more evidentiary value. The court also rebuffed Salve’s claim that the delay in filing the status report resulted from the bench seeking it in a sealed cover. “No, no, that was not required (sealed cover report),” Justice Ramana said. Justice Kant added: “We never said anything about sealed covers.” Custody query When Parshad said the SIT had obtained custody of six accused for three days, Justice Ramana wondered why an extension of police custody was not sought. The police can seek a suspect’s custody for up to 15 days. Ashis, however, has been sent back to judicial custody from police custody. “You know that until and unless they are interrogated by police, you won’t be able to find out the truth,” Justice Ramana remarked. Salve argued that more than interrogation, video footage and forensic evidence would bolster the investigators’ case. “We feel that if the forensic report comes out, there may not be need for further questioning,” he said. Justice Ramana said Salve must ensure that the state took adequate steps to protect all the vulnerable witnesses. The next hearing has been fixed for October 26. At the last hearing on October 8, Justice Ramana had castigated the state government for failing to arrest Ashis. The next day, the SIT interrogated and arrested the minister’s son. The court had earlier converted into a public interest plea a letter from two advocates seeking an independent probe into the massacre, and sought a detailed status report. The bench had indicated it might constitute an independent team of investigators if it found the ongoing probe lax or biased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||Police stops Priyanka from visiting family of a Dalit youth in Agra||Uttar Pradesh police stopped Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on a highway for over two hours on Wednesday afternoon while she was travelling to Agra to meet the family of a Dalit youth who had died in police custody on Tuesday night. “What is the Uttar Pradesh government afraid of? Why are they stopping me?” the Congress general secretary, detained earlier this month on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri, tweeted while arguing with the police on the highway. Stopped around 3pm on Lucknow’s fringes, at the entrance to the expressway to Agra, Priyanka was eventually allowed to resume her journey at 5.40pm. She was expected to reach her destination, 360km from here, at night. Mystery surrounds the death of Arun Valmiki, a sweeper in his 20s, who was detained for alleged theft but never produced in court during two days in custody. A Congress leader has alleged his body bore injury marks. A video circulated by Congress leaders shows Priyanka asking a police officer to furnish the magistrate’s order that says she should be stopped. The officer shows her something — presumably the order — on his mobile, which she takes from his hand and reads. Priyanka then demands the reason she is being stopped. “Has Section 144 (prohibition on the assembly of five or more people) been imposed on the highway?” she asks. “Yes, madam,” the officer replies. “Let me travel with three people,” Priyanka says. The officer refuses. A male voice similar to state Congress president Ajay Kumar Lallu’s is heard from the background, saying: “Did you impose Section 144 in Kushinagar where the Prime Minister has gathered people and is delivering a speech?” Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated an international airport on Wednesday — which marked the holy Buddhist occasion of Abhidhamma Divas — at the Buddhist pilgrimage centre of Kushinagar, eastern Uttar Pradesh. Eventually, the police accepted Priyanka’s logic and allowed her to leave with three others: the driver, Lallu and a party worker. On October 7, Priyanka had been stopped in Sitapur on her way to Lakhimpur Kheri to meet the families of four farmers and a journalist mowed down by a Thar, driven allegedly by Union minister Ajay Mishra’s son Ashis Mishra. She was allowed to resume her journey two days later after the Congress launched a state-wide agitation and her brother Rahul Gandhi arrived in Lucknow intending to intensify the protests. Priyanka’s tweet from the highway on Wednesday said: “Arun Valmiki died in police custody. His family is demanding justice. I want to go to meet the family.” After asking what the state government was afraid of, she added: “Today is Bhagwan Valmiki’s Jayanti (birth anniversary). The Prime Minister talked big about Mahatma Buddha but has been assaulting his ideas.” Valmiki, considered the writer of the Ramayan, is a Dalit icon. Police sources have said that Arun, a sweeper at Jagdishpura police station in Agra, was detained on Sunday on the charge of stealing Rs 25 lakh from the locker room. The police say the money had been seized from criminals. Arun is said to have fallen unconscious on Tuesday night. He was declared dead on arrival at the district hospital. District Congress chief Raghvendra Singh Minu, who had visited the hospital, alleged there were injury marks all over Arun’s body. The post-mortem report has not been submitted yet. “We have suspended five policemen, including an inspector. We have also registered a murder case against unidentified people. Further action will be initiated after an inquiry,” Agra senior superintendent of police Muniraj G said. Muniraj had earlier said the police had taken Arun to his home to recover the money and that he fell ill there. Samajwadi Party president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav alleged the police had stolen the money and implicated Arun. “The police are committing crimes in Uttar Pradesh and the government is protecting the criminal cops,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||Taliban claim engagement with Indian official at Moscow||The Taliban on Wednesday night claimed to have engaged with the Indian official attending the Moscow format meeting on Afghanistan, suggesting the two sides had emphasised the need to expand diplomatic and economic ties. There was no official confirmation from India on such a bilateral engagement though the joint secretary in the external affairs ministry, J.P. Singh, is in Russia to participate in the Moscow format meeting. The meeting advocated taking into account the new reality in Afghanistan irrespective of recognition of the new government in Kabul by the international community. “The delegation of the Islamic Emirate met with the Special Representative of India for Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan,” the official spokesperson for the Afghanistan government, Zabihullah Mujahid, tweeted late on Wednesday night. According to Mujahid, a high-level delegation led by Afghanistan’s deputy Prime Minister, Maulvi Abdul Salam Hanafi, met Singh and the rest of the Indian delegation on the sidelines of the Moscow format meeting. Mujahid said both sides considered it necessary to take into account each other’s concerns and improve diplomatic and economic relations. The Indian side, he added, expressed readiness to provide extensive humanitarian assistance to the Afghans. The joint statement issued at the end of the meeting of the Moscow format said: “Further practical engagement with Afghanistan needed to take into account the new reality, that is the Taliban coming to power in the country, irrespective of the official recognition of the new Afghan government by the international community.” Besides reaffirming the need for the new government to be inclusive and representative of all the “ethno-political forces in the country”, the statement said all sides had proposed to launch a collective initiative to convene a broad-based international donor conference under the auspices of the United Nations as soon as possible. This would be done with the understanding that the core burden of the post-conflict economic and financial reconstruction and development of Afghanistan must be shouldered by troop-based actors that were in the country for the past 20 years. The Moscow format saw India sit at the same table as the Taliban government for the first time. Besides India, hosts Russia and Afghanistan, seven other countries including Pakistan and China attended the meeting. Before this, there had been only one other officially acknowledged contact with the Taliban — in Doha on August 31 when India announced that senior Taliban leader Sher Mohammad Abbas Stanekzai had met the Indian ambassador to Qatar, Deepak Mittal, at the embassy. The Taliban have till now not talked about this meeting, which took place a fortnight after the group overran Kabul but before it formally formed the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||House panel to look into Bengal, Assam and Punjab BSF widening||The parliamentary standing committee on home is learnt to have decided to take up border management for closer scrutiny in light of the Narendra Modi government’s recent decision to widen the jurisdictional area of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Bengal, Assam and Punjab. This was agreed at the meeting of the committee on Wednesday after the Trinamul Congress flagged the issue and underscored that the Union government’s decision went against the spirit of federalism as now the BSF had the powers to conduct searches and make seizures and arrests without informing the local police within 50km of the international border. On October 11, the Union home ministry had issued a notification amending the BSF Act, 1968, to extend the “arrest, search and seize” powers of the central paramilitary force up to 50km from the international boundary in Assam, Bengal and Punjab. In Gujarat, the limit was reduced from 80km to 50km. Prior to this amendment, the BSF’s writ in Bengal, Assam and Punjab extended only 15km from the international border. The Centre contends that the amendment was done to bring uniformity across the states where the BSF guards the borders. The BJP ecosystem has been underlining that the change was suggested by the Congress too when it was in office about a decade ago. However, the Opposition contends that the move is yet another effort by the Modi government to erode the federal structure, and has highlighted that unlike the UPA, the current dispensation had not consulted the state governments before bringing out the notification. Since the standing committee is already discussing coastal security, chairperson and Congress veteran Anand Sharma is learnt to have agreed to club border management with this issue. State governments are now likely to be asked to weigh in on the issue whenever coastal security and border management are slated for detailed discussions. The issue is also likely to generate heat in the next session of Parliament when the government is mandated to table the notification in both Houses. There is also talk in Opposition quarters of bringing in a statutory resolution opposing the move even if the numbers are stacked in favour of the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-101
21-10-2021||India||Required daily jab rate climbs from 8.9 in mid-July to 12.3 million now||India on Wednesday approached a billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines administered, but the daily targets required to fully vaccinate all adults by December 31 have increased from 8.9 million in mid-July to 12.3 million now. Health experts say the increase in the target daily dose probably reflects gaps between the volume of doses the Centre had expected to be available and what has actually been available up to the eve of the milestone one billionth dose. India needs 1,888 million doses to inoculate all its estimated 944 million adults with the two doses required for full vaccination. The CoWIN digital platform that helps manage the Covid-19 vaccination campaign on Wednesday displayed a counter with the title “India counting to 1 billion doses”, showing the country at 5.40pm was 4,637,186 doses away from its one billionth dose. The campaign had by Wednesday evening administered nearly 996 million doses and would need to administer 892 million doses over the remaining 72 days of the year to meet the projected goal of vaccinating all adult Indians by the end of the year. The Union minister of state for health, Bharati Pravin Pawar, on Wednesday reaffirmed the Centre’s goal of vaccinating all adults by December 31. “More than 99 crore (990 million) doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered in the country and the government has set a target of vaccinating the country’s entire adult population by the end of the year,” Pawar told a healthcare event organised by the Federation of the Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry. The campaign will have to administer around 12.3 million doses daily on an average to complete full adult vaccination by December 31, an increase from the calculated daily target dose of 9.8 million on August 19 and 10.5 million on September 20. Health experts say the campaign’s pace in October has been less than half what it should have been to complete full vaccination by December 31. The average daily doses administered rose from 4.3 million in July to 5.9 million in August to 7.8 million in September, but have been less than 6 million during October so far. The Union health ministry had in June projected an anticipated availability of 1,350 million vaccine doses — 500 million Covishield, 400 million Covaxin, 100 million Sputnik, 50 million doses of a Zydus Cadila vaccine and 300 million doses of a vaccine from Bio E. But the campaign has even until mid-October remained almost entirely dependent on Covishield and Covaxin. Among the nearly 996 million doses administered until Wednesday evening, Sputnik V accounted for only around 1 million. The health ministry is yet to introduce the Zydus Cadila vaccine into the campaign and India’s drug regulatory authority is yet to approve Bio E’s vaccine. A Bio E spokesperson contacted by this newspaper declined to discuss the current regulatory status of the company’s vaccine. Health experts say this puts a question mark on the 300 million doses of the Bio E vaccine which the health ministry had factored in to calculate the figure of 1,350 million doses. Some public health experts had earlier this year predicted that vaccine hesitancy or difficulties in accessing vaccines for certain sections of the population could at some point begin to limit the uptake of doses. But the nationwide counts of first doses still remain similar to the numbers of second doses. For instance, on Wednesday, the campaign administered over 3.7 million first doses and nearly 2.9 million second doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Supreme Court lawyers split over decision to resume physical hearing||Supreme Court lawyers are split over the decision to resume physical hearings, with some senior lawyers preferring a hybrid mode while many others hit hard financially by the pandemic wanting a return to the old format. A group of senior lawyers on Wednesday urged Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana to adopt a hybrid model of hearing instead of making physical presence of advocates mandatory, on a day the Supreme Court resumed physical hearings after a Covid-induced hiatus of one and a half years. Under the hybrid mode, it will be up to the lawyer to decide whether he or she wants to be present during physical hearings or appear online. According to the apex court’s decision, physical hearings will be held on Wednesdays and Thursdays. A mix of offline and online hearings will be conducted on Tuesdays. On Mondays and Fridays the court will continue to hold virtual hearings. CJI Ramana had earlier issued a directive that advocates must appear physically in the apex court during the in-person hearings. Senior lawyers Kapil Sibal, Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Mukul Rohatgi on Wednesday pleaded for hybrid hearing. Senior advocate and Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) president Vikas Singh, however, stoutly opposed the appeal and defended the resumption of physical hearings. Singh suggested that if necessary senior lawyers, including himself, should take a break for a year or six months to enable struggling lawyers to appear in physical hearings. The pandemic has drastically brought down the incomes of most lawyers. Some senior lawyers, however, have seen their earnings rise on account of virtual hearings, which has allowed them to attend multiple proceedings across the country on a day from one location. Sibal took the matter of hybrid hearings up on behalf of a group of senior lawyers during the mentioning time. Referring to CJI Ramana’s decision to resume physical hearings mandatorily every Wednesday and Thursday, Sibal pleaded that there should not be any such hard and fast rule. His argument was that in certain cases like those under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, a large volume of files make it difficult to carry them to and from court. In such cases the lawyers should be allowed to argue online, Sibal said. He, however, clarified that the senior lawyers were not opposed to physical hearings and were willing to appear in certain cases. He pointed out that most high courts had adopted hybrid hearings. SCBA president Singh opposed the senior lawyers’ plea for hybrid hearings. “I am opposing the plea. I want physical hearings to in fact start on all days. The senior lawyers who have difficulty can afford to take a break for six months or even one year, but junior lawyers cannot afford to do that. They are literally starving. Even I can take a break. Let us all take a break,” Singh submitted. Justice Ramana said that since the decision to resume physical hearings had been taken by a committee of judges, he would have to consult his colleagues before taking a call. The CJI, heading a bench that also had Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli, told Sibal that the decision to restore physical hearings was taken following multiple representations from the Bar. Wednesdays and Thursdays, or the days earmarked for physical hearings, are listed as non-miscellaneous days during which mostly old or part-heard matters are taken up. Mondays and Fridays, when the virtual mode will be opted for, are treated as miscellaneous days when new cases are heard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Rahul accuses Modi government of attacking poor and Dalits||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government was attacking the poor and the Dalits as it was committed to serving the interest of merely 10-15 industrialists in the country. Speaking on the occasion of Valmiki Jayanti, Rahul said: “The poor and Dalits are under attack. The entire country knows it. The government was busy serving the interests of 10-15 industrialists while crores of others were being attacked, silenced. But the Congress party will fight this attack. We will stop this. They will break the society, we will unite and harmonise the society.” The Congress leader added: “Valmiki showed the path of love and brotherhood. His message is similar to what the Constitution of India says. The message of equality and brotherhood. And that’s why the Constitution is being attacked today. Valmiki said what India’s true culture is. The Congress follows that path. I want to tell my Dalit brothers there is no need to panic. We will resist this attack together.” Shah silence on J&K The Congress on Wednesday attacked home minister Amit Shah for his silence on the alarming situation in Jammu and Kashmir. Party spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “We don’t know what the home minister invests his time in. Twenty-five people have been killed in Kashmir, outsiders are being targeted and a massive exodus has begun, but the home minister has not spoken a word. He had said Kashmir would become normal while removing Article 370 but the situation has worsened. Unemployment in J&K is maximum today.” Vallabh demanded full restoration of statehood and immediate election in the Union Territory. He also demanded job opportunities and compensation for those who had to flee Kashmir because of targeted killings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Garland and scissors jab at Modi for UP airport inauguration||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday inaugurated an international airport at Uttar Pradesh’s Kushinagar and hailed it as the “fulfilment of a commitment” in the election-bound state, but was soon reminded that his government had not laid “even one brick” for it. The airport, built at an estimated cost of Rs 260 crore, had been a work in progress since 1946. Kushinagar is the final resting place of Lord Buddha. “Kushinagar airport is the result of decades of hope and expectations of the people…. It is time for the fulfilment of a commitment. India is laying special focus on better connectivity and building better infrastructure for the comfort of the devotees,” the Prime Minister said after inaugurating the airport. “The development of Kushinagar is one of the key priorities of the UP and central governments,” Modi added. However, Samajwadi Party leader and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav told reporters in Lucknow that the Modi government had no role in the airport coming up. “These people didn’t lay even one brick to build the airport. They only keep coming with scissors, tape, garlands and sweets at those places where work had been done by my government (from 2012 to 2017),” Akhilesh said. “The BJP government shouldn’t forget that the runway on which they landed in Kushinagar today was made by the SP government,” he added. An aerodrome was built at Bhaluhi Madaripatti village in Kushinagar in 1946, a year before independence. A large number of Buddhist tourists had landed there during an international summit in 1954. The aerodrome had not been used thereafter. Bahujan Samaj Party leader Mayawati had as chief minister ordered extensive construction work in 1995 and proposed to make it a full-fledged airport. The plan was approved by the Congress-led UPA government and flagged off by Ghulam Nabi Azad, the then aviation minister. After a period of development and then falling dormant, it was planned during Mayawati’s last stint as chief minister in 2008 that the facility would be upgraded to an international airport. The Congress government at the Centre gave the go-ahead but the extension of the airstrips and other construction work were started in 2012, when the Samajwadis came to power with Akhilesh as chief minister. Around 9am on Wednesday, a Sri Lankan Airlines flight carrying Buddhist monks and dignitaries from the island nation touched down at Kushinagar airport. The Lankan delegation was led by cabinet minister Namal Rajapaksa, son of Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa. Diplomats from a dozen countries — Mongolia, Myanmar, Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, Lao PDR, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, South Korea, Nepal, Japan and Singapore — were present at the inaugural ceremony of the airport.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Oxford & Pfizer jabs prevent death from Delta variant: Research||The Covid-19 vaccines from Oxford-AstraZeneca and Pfizer-BioNTech offer strong protection against death from the Delta variant of the coronavirus, researchers said on Wednesday reporting the first full-country data on mortality from Scotland. The researchers who analysed the outcomes of over 114,000 Covid-19 patients have found that the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is 91 per cent effective and the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine is 90 per cent effective in preventing deaths in double vaccinated people. Multiple earlier studies have already suggested that Covid-19 vaccines are able to protect people from severe disease and death even though the highly contagious Delta variant — that emerged in India and fuelled the country’s second wave — can also cause infections in vaccinated people. The new study from Scotland is the first to measure across an entire country vaccine effectiveness in preventing deaths from the Delta variant that has spread worldwide and accounted for 99.5 per cent of the infections in Scotland. The researchers at the University of Edinburgh and collaborating institutions analysed vaccination status and survival in 114,706 who tested positive for Covid-19 between April 1 and August 16 this year among 5.4 million people in Scotland. Among the 204 casualties, they found no deaths among fully vaccinated people aged between 16 and 39 years, but 17 deaths among unvaccinated people in this age group. In people 40 years or older, they recorded an overall vaccine effectiveness of 91 per cent for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine and 90 per cent for the Pfizer-BioNtech vaccine. “It is reassuring to see that vaccination offers such high protection from death very shortly after the second dose,” Aziz Sheikh, a respiratory medicine specialist and director of the University of Edinburgh’s Usher Institute. Sheikh and his collaborators have described their results in a paper in the New England Journal of Medicine on Wednesday. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, called Covishield in India and produced by the Serum Institute of India, is one of the two main vaccines used in the country’s vaccination campaign. Over 876 million Covishield doses have been administered in India among a total of 995 million. The Indian Council of Medical Research had earlier this year initiated a similar study across hospitals in 11 cities to determine real-world vaccine effectiveness. The results are expected to emerge within the next two weeks, a researcher associated with the Indian study said. Health researchers say the findings from Scotland reinforce the urgency to complete full vaccination of the population through double doses, as already underlined by multiple earlier studies from India and other countries. Nearly 74 per cent of India’s estimated 944 million adults had received one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine by Wednesday afternoon, but only around 292 million (30 per cent) people are fully vaccinated with two doses. A hospital-based study in Delhi had earlier this year indicated that a single Covid-19 vaccine dose does not protect people from severe disease, highlighting the need to accelerate second doses. But limited vaccine supplies, which health experts have attributed to poor advance planning and investments by the Centre, have not allowed India’s vaccination campaign to adopt a pace that the country’s vaccine delivery infrastructure could support. A medical adviser to the vaccination campaign had said earlier this year that the available vaccine delivery infrastructure could easily have supported the administration of 10 million doses per day. But the campaign has administered on an average less than 6 million doses daily through October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Covid: India releases new rules for international travellers ||India on Wednesday released new guidelines for international travellers entering the country that require all to show they were Covid-19 negative before boarding flights and impose additional restrictions on visitors from “countries at risk”. The guidelines released by the Union health ministry require travellers — whether fully, partially, or not vaccinated — from the “countries at risk” to home quarantine for seven days, take a post-arrival Covid-19 test and a re-test on day eight. The guidelines also list a set of so-called “Category A” countries that have established reciprocal arrangements with India for mutual acceptance of Covid-19 vaccines. Fully vaccinated travellers from Category A countries will only need to self monitor their health for 14 days. The countries at risk include nations in Europe — including the UK — Bangladesh, China, Brazil, Botswana, Mauritius, New Zealand, South Africa and Zimbabwe. The Category A countries include the UK, Armenia, Belarus, Belgium, France, Germany, Hungary, Lebanon, Nepal, Serbia and Ukraine, which have signed pacts with India for mutual recognition of vaccination certificates and exempt Indian citizens fully immunised with nationally approved or World Health Organisation recognised jabs. But travellers from Category A countries who are partially vaccinated or not vaccinated would need to take a post-arrival test, home quarantine for seven days and go for a retest on the eighth day. The guidelines require airlines to ensure that all travellers have Covid-19 negative test reports before they board flights. Any traveller who is found symptomatic during screening on arrival will be isolated, taken to a medical facility and tested for Covid-19. For anyone who tests positive, the co-passengers in the same row, three rows in front and three rows in the rear of the aircraft, and the cabin crew will be considered contacts and will also be asked to quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Karnataka: Yediyurappa swims against abuse tide||Former Karnataka chief minister and BJP veteran B.S. Yediyurappa has called for respecting political rivals after state unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel called Rahul Gandhi a “drug addict and peddler”. “There was no need to say such a thing, if he (Kateel) has said so,” Yediyurappa told reporters in Hanagal, where he was campaigning for an Assembly by-election. “Whether it is Rahul Gandhi or some other leader, they are respected. I feel no one should speak in a disrespectful manner against them.” State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar too asked politicians to be “civil and respectful, even to our opponents”. Kateel had made the remark on Tuesday, a day after the state Congress Twitter handle posted and then removed a tweet that had referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi as an illiterate. “Rahul Gandhi is a drug addict and peddler. I’m not the one saying this; it has been reported,” Kateel said without revealing his source. A party hardliner, Kateel has never been close to Yediyurappa, who has always followed a soft line towards minorities. Kateel’s statement came as the Congress-BJP rivalry took an ugly turn amid the campaign for the October 30 by-elections to the Hanagal and Sindagi Assembly seats. Hundreds of Youth Congress workers laid siege on Wednesday to the state BJP office, where a large posse of policemen stood guard after removing the protesters. Leader of the Opposition P.C. Siddaramaiah of the Congress said: “He (Kateel) speaks like a mad man although he is president of a political party. It appears he has lost his mental balance…. I urge (BJP national president) J.P. Nadda to get him hospitalised.” Shivakumar told reporters in Hanagal that BJP leaders were making such comments to divert attention from the real problems. He had earlier posted a tweet seeking an apology from the BJP for Kateel’s comment. “Yesterday I said that I believe we should be civil and respectful in politics, even to our opponents. I hope the BJP agrees with me, and will apologise for their state president’s abusive and un-parliamentary remarks against Shri Rahul Gandhi,” he wrote. Shivakumar had on Tuesday apologised for the offensive tweet against Modi and blamed it on a rookie social media manager. The now-deleted tweet had targeted Modi for not attending schools built by the Congress. “Can’t even speak without a teleprompter. Can’t deal with foreign affairs without translators. The man who quit education and went to beg doesn’t understand even the basics of economics,” the tweet said in Kannada. “His only assets are his clothing, undue publicity and speeches packed with lies #hebbettugirakimodi (illiterate Modi).” Former chief minister H.D. Kumaraswamy of the Janata Dal Secular too criticised Kateel. “If I reveal the history of their (BJP) president who called Rahul Gandhi a peddler… (but) I don’t want to say anything,” he said. “His history is being discussed in Mangalore where he destroyed the family of an RSS worker.” Kumaraswamy seemed to be alluding to a police complaint registered in 2014 by an RSS worker who accused Kateel of having an illicit relationship with his wife and trying to have him (the complainant) murdered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Soldier and two militants die in gunfight in Shopian||A soldier and two militants, including the alleged killer of a non-local carpenter, died in a gunfight in Shopian on Wednesday, in continuance of violence that has marked this October out as Kashmir’s bloodiest month in over two years. In Kulgam, also in south Kashmir, two more militants were killed in an encounter with the security forces. One of them was identified by police as Gulzar Ahamad Reshi, who was suspected to be involved in the killing of two migrant labourers from Bihar on October 17. Police said three soldiers were injured in a gunfight with militants in the Dragad area of south Kashmir’s Shopian, with one of them succumbing later. The soldier was identified as Sepoy Karamveer Singh. A dozen civilians, 10 soldiers and 15 militants have died in the first three weeks of October, the spurt in violence emerging as the biggest challenge for the security establishment in the Valley after the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in 2019. Union home minister Amit Shah is likely to visit the Union Territory in the last week of October to review the security situation and inaugurate development projects. Congress veteran and former chief minister Ghulam Nabi Azad on Wednesday linked the blood-letting to the dilution of Article 370. A police officer said two militants were killed in the Dragad operation. One of them was identified as Adil Wani, the Shopian chief of the Lashkar-e-Toiba. Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar said Wani was involved in the killing of “a poor labourer at the Litter area of Pulwama”, referring to the death of Uttar Pradesh carpenter Sageer Ahmad. Ahmad is among the dozen civilians killed this month. Seven of them were non-Muslim, mostly migrant workers. It is widely believed the militants targeted these people to drive non-locals out of the Valley and scuttle the purported plan of the central government plan to facilitate the settlement of outsiders in Kashmir. Ahmad was killed on a day Arvind Kumar Sah, 30, who hailed from Banka in Bihar, was murdered in Srinagar. Labourers Raja Rishideo and Yogendra Rishideo from Bihar were shot dead at Wanpoh in Kulgam district a day later on Sunday. The Valley is on the edge following these killings. The authorities have arrested hundreds on the mere suspicion of involvement in the murders. Hundreds of two-wheelers belonging to ordinary citizens have been confiscated over the past few days after reports emerged that the suspected militants targeting non-locals were using motorcycles. The residents have complained their bikes and scooters are being seized without any reason, preventing them from attending to daily chores. People have been queuing up outside police stations seeking the return of their vehicles. In Jammu’s Poonch and Rajouri districts, security forces on Wednesday continued searches in a vast forest area for the 10th day for militants involved in the killing of nine soldiers, including two junior commissioned officers. Officials said the last contact with militants took place on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Leadership is about action, says Narayana Murthy||Infosys founder N.R. Narayana Murthy on Wednesday exhorted students of the Indian Institute of Technology, Bhubaneswar, to try to excel in whatever they do and not to consider anything small. “You must need to change yourself if you want to see change in the world. Look at every lacuna as an opportunity for change. You are the leader to bring about the change,” Narayana Murthy said while addressing students at the 10th convocation of IIT Bhubaneswar. Addressing students through the virtual mode, he urged them to develop entrepreneurship attitude and show the character of a leader. “Leadership is about action and not about rhetoric,” Narayana Murthy said. Urging students to be good citizens, he said that everybody needs to work to develop a society where every citizen gets equal opportunities and every child gets food. “We have to build a society which is based on performance and not empty slogans. We need to put the country’s interests, society’s interests and the company’s interests where you are working above the individual’s interest,” he said. Recalling Mahatma Gandhi’s statement that his mission was “to wipe every tear from every eye”, Narayana Murthy said: “Our country has been successful in sending rockets, satellites, building big dams, bridges, a good education system, globally competitive software industry. But on the other hand, we are far from the dreams of Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and Rajen(dra Prasad) babu of creating India where every Indian would be provided the wherewithal to develop and rise to his/her fullest stature, and where poverty, ill health, and ignorance would have vanished.” Urging the students to demonstrate excellence in whatever they do, Narayana Murthy said: “The only way to solve poverty is to create more and more jobs with better and better income. This requires entrepreneurship. We have too much underemployment in the agriculture sector. Hence, we must create jobs in the manufacturing and service sectors,” he said, adding that the best way to escape from a problem is to solve it. Stressing the need to explore the world, he said one needs to go outside the government set-up where lies great opportunity and also great challenges. He also stressed on the need for a good English education system. “Please remember that English is the only window to the modern world for Indians to access knowledge to achieve progress in science, technology, medicine and economy for India,” Narayana Murthy said. Rajendra Prasad Singh, chairman, board of governors, urged the students to promote technology based on culture and not to forget the fundamentals of life. “We have not delivered what we should have — roti, kapda and makan.” IIT director R.V. Raja Kumar narrated the institute’s journey of 10 years. “The convocation is a celebration of the graduation of students who earned their degrees with important learning during their peak youthhood and the institute is keen on their live participation. Therefore, the institute has come up with this very unique and innovative form of holding convocation during the last convocation itself and the same is being adopted this time too due to the continuation of pandemic.” The IIT conferred degrees upon 559 students, including 35 PhD, 153 MTech, 79 MSc, 256 BTech and 36 dual degrees. The President of India Gold Medal awarded to Dinesh Mohanty of the computer science and engineering stream for the best academic performance among the entire outgoing BTech batch.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||India||Alok Tandon inaugurates Nalco’s Lean Slurry Project at Angul||Ministry of mines secretary Alok Tandon on Wednesday inaugurated the National Aluminium Company Ltd’s Lean Slurry Project at Angul, marking a significant milestone in the navratna company’s journey for business excellence and adopting outstanding practices in environmental management. Completion of the Lean Slurry Project by the company will ensure 100 per cent utilisation of the ash generated at the company’s Captive Power Plant (CPP) and marks a big step forward in its commitment towards environment-friendly and sustainable operations, said a media release issued by Nalco. Tandon, accompanied by chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) Nalco, Sridhar Patra, visited the Smelter and Captive Power Plants of Nalco at Angul and appreciated its  efforts in achieving the targets and scaling new heights of success amid challenging business environment. The mines secretary also interacted with officials and employees, and motivated them to maintain the tempo of production and productivity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-102
21-10-2021||West Bengal||35,000 Indian entrepreneurs left country under Modi govt, says Amit Mitra||West Bengal Finance Minister Amit Mitra on Thursday cited three different studies to claim that 35,000 Indian entrepreneurs of high net worth left the country between 2014 and 2020 during the tenure of the Narendra Modi government. He wondered whether this was due to "fear psychosis", and demanded that PM Modi must place a white paper in parliament on "massive flight of Indian entrepreneurs during his regime". "Under Modi Govt 35,000 Indian Entrepreneurs of High Net Worth LEFT India between 2014-2020, as NRI/Immigrants. India RANKED No 1 IN EXODUS IN THE WORLD. WHY? Fear psychosis'?? "PM must place WHITE PAPER to Parliament on massive flight of Indian entrepreneurs during his regime," Mitra wrote on Twitter. Citing a study, he claimed 23,000 high net worth entrepreneurs left India during the 2014-18 period, the worst in the world. "In 2014-2018, 23,000 High Net worth entrepreneurs left India ( Morgan Stanley study) Worst in the World. 7,000 left India in 2019 (AfrAsia Bank). 5,000 left India in 2020.(GWM Review)," he said. "Recall 19 minutes of TIRADE against Indian business by Piyush Goel (Goyal), reportedly saying business practices of Indian Industry went against national interest - short of calling them "anti national'. Breeds 'fear psychosis', motivating exodus? But the PM did not rebuke Goel (Goyal). Why?" Mitra also said on the microblogging site.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Basirhat youth feared dead in Puri||A BA first-year student from Basirhat in North 24-Parganas has gone missing after he was swept away by high tidal waves at a beach in Puri on Tuesday evening. While Sanju Bhattacharyya, 21, is still missing, his elder brother Sourabh Bhattacharyya, 24, and another youth Sahin, 21, who had accompanied Sanju on the trip, were initially swept away but managed to stay afloat and were rescued by onlookers. Police and local sources said the three youths, all residents of Kachharipara in Basirhat’s ward 9, had dared ignore warnings issued by the Puri district administration asking tourists not to venture into the turbulent sea. The sea had turned rough following depression in the Odisha coast of the Bay of Bengal and the accompanying squall. Family sources in Basirhat said Sanju, his elder brother Sourabh and their common friend Sahin reached Puri on Tuesday afternoon. In the evening, the trio went to the sea beach for a bath. Sanju’s father Prasanta Bhattacharyya, a businessman by profession, rushed to Puri with some relatives and friends after getting the news. The family has alleged non-cooperation by the Puri beach authorities and police in tracing Sanju, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri bridge closed after water bends pillar ||Vehicular movement along the bridge over Balason river on the northwestern end of Siliguri stopped suddenly on Wednesday morning after one of its pillars bent with the force of the water of the swollen river. The 50-year-old bridge is a vital stretch of National Highway 31, the principal highway that connects Siliguri, some other districts of north Bengal and the Northeast with rest of the country. Though road connectivity has not completely snapped, vehicles moving towards Siliguri and beyond have to make detours through the under-construction stretch of NH 27 or along the stretch of Asian Highway II, work on which has been completed only recently. On Wednesday morning, some residents in Matigara block of Siliguri subdivision spotted the tilted pillar and noticed that a portion of the concrete plank of the bridge had sunk visibly, by some inches. Residents immediately informed the police. Soon, the Siliguri Metropolitan Police issued an advisory that only two-wheelers and pedestrians would be allowed on the bridge till further notice. “We have issued an advisory that other than two-wheelers, all other vehicles will have to go via Naukaghat More (a junction on Asian Highway II in the southern end of Siliguri). Vehicles bound for the hills will have to take other routes. Our men will be posted at the bridge and we will also put men to guide vehicles through other routes,” said Gautam Sharma, commissioner of police. For many years now, there has been a longstanding demand to built a parallel bridge over Balason river and also to widen the stretch of NH31 between Balason and Salugara (on the northeast-end of Siliguri) through which the highway heads towards Sevoke. The demand had intensified because of the regular congestion at Darjeeling More at the junction of NH 31 and NH 55, and is considered the main entry point to Siliguri But no work to build a second bridge or widen the stretch has been taken up as yet. On one hand, state ministers and Trinamul leaders blamed the Centre for not allocating funds for the project. On the other, BJP leaders and MPs accused the state of not arranging land required for the project. In August this year, Raju Bista, the Darjeeling MP of the BJP, had said that Union minister of road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari had told him that the project has been taken up in the 2021-22 fiscal. “He (Gadkari) also said that the ministry will build a 13.4km elevated four-lane corridor (along NH 31) between Balason Sevoke and will spent around Rs 1,150 crore for the project,” Bista had said. Gautam Deb, a former state minister who is the administrator of the board of administrators in Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC), who visited the spot on Wednesday, said the state PWD that looks after the stretch and the bridge, will shortly take necessary steps. “The chief engineer of the PWD inspected the structure on his way to Calcutta. I have requested the minister of PWD to send technical experts soon for restoration work. It is because of the Centre that the project got delayed,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||4 killed in Toto-truck collision in Shaktigarh||Four persons, including the driver of an e-rickshaw , were killed on Wednesday afternoon when the vehicle collided head-on with a truck on the Burdwan-Kalna road in East Burdwan’s Shaktigarh. Police have seized the truck and said that prima facie the Toto driver was drunk. “All four passengers, including the driver of the e-rickshaw (commonly called Toto), were drunk. Eyewitnesses said that the Toto was going in a zigzag way. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem,” said Kamanisish Sen, East Burdwan SP. Police have identified the deceased as driver Bhairab Das, 26, Nirmal Chatterjee, 50, and Abhijit Pal, 48. The fourth person is yet to be identified. According to eyewitnesses, the Toto headed for Burdwan town careened near Baliara village in Shaktigarh and collided with the truck coming from the opposite direction. Raw spirit East Burdwan police on Tuesday night recovered 1,500 litres of raw spirit from Shaktigarh. Police said the raw spirit would have gone towards making around 15,000 litres of illicit liquor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Finance agent drugged, looted of lakhs in Siliguri||An agent of a private finance company was abducted in Siliguri on Tuesday with Rs 11.5 lakh in cash that he was carrying. Police have rescued Paritosh Roy from Malbazar subdivision of Jalpaiguri district and nabbed three suspects. Sources said on Tuesday. Paritosh, who collects cash on behalf of the company from depositors, was on his way to a bank in Siliguri from Fulbari when he was attacked in Kamrangaguri. "We suspect the men had drugged him,” said a policeman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Plan to upgrade NJP station infrastructure ||The authorities of Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) are planning to improve the operating systems and some allied infrastructure of New Jalpaiguri (NJP), the largest and busiest station in north Bengal and the second most important station in the division after Guwahati, to buttress the expansion of railway network across the Northeast. Over the past few years, the Indian Railways have been expanding its network in the northeastern states and intends to connect all the state capitals in due course. Trains are running from Agartala (Tripura) and Itanagar (Arunachal Pradesh) and work is in progress to introduce train connectivity to places like Imphal (Manipur), Kohima (Nagaland), Shillong (Meghalaya) and Aizawl (Mizoram). “NJP has always been an important station in the principal rail route that connects the Northeast. As it is evident that train movement through this route will increase in due course, we have decided to improve the operating system of NJP station within the next three months,” Anshul Gupta, the general manager of NFR, said here on Wednesday. Sources said Gupta has held a meeting with all senior officials of the NFR zone and discussed infrastructure issues as well as train services. In north Bengal and the Northeast, the track till Guwahati has been electrified, which is considered as a major development and can reduce the running time of trains. “We have identified a few areas which need to be improved to introduce more trains. As a part of the programme, the signalling system, the entire operational process of the station, the infrastructure for carrying out necessary maintenance work of trains and improvement of passenger amenities are required in NJP,” said an official. The general manager also spoke about the upcoming Ghum Festival, a fest that has been planned by the NFR to promote the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway — a world heritage mountain railway recognised by the Unesco. The festival has been planned for November and will continue till the first week of December. The idea is to draw more tourists to Darjeeling hills and also include local residents in the plan for conservation of the DHR toy train and its other assets, which are all part of the heritage. “We want to portray the glory of this century-old world heritage train, which started its journey in 1881, before the people. Sharing its memories with the people, developing the DHR museum at Kurseong and the promotion of DHR are some of the objectives for hosting the fest,” said Gupta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Cooch Behar villager shot at ‘over land’, neighbour blamed||A 36-year-old man in Jorpatki village under Mathabhanga police station of Cooch Behar was allegedly shot at by one of his neighbours on Tuesday over a land dispute. Chamiul Mian sustained two bullet injuries on his chest and is under treatment at a private nursing home in Siliguri. He is reportedly critical. His brother Kadar Mian has filed a complaint with the police, accusing their neighbour Aharuddin Mian. All are residents of Jorpatki, the village where  CISF personnel had fired outside a local booth on April 10 this year during the Assembly elections, killing four youths. In his complaint, Kadar has stated that last year, they had sold a part of their ancestral land to Aharuddin. Since then, the latter had problems with them over the borders of the piece of land which was sold to him, the brother alleged. On Tuesday evening, Aharuddin shot three rounds at Chamiul, one of which missed him, Kadar alleged. A team from Mathabhanga police are in search of the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||3 Bangladeshi nationals arrested for illegal entry||The BSF arrested three Bangladeshi nationals in  north Bengal on Tuesday for allegedly illegally entering India and later handed them to respective local police stations. According to BSF sources,  the 61 battalion posted at the border outpost in Bhimpur of South Dinajpur apprehended two Bangladeshis while they were allegedly trying to infiltrate into India. They have been identified as Akhil Sarkar and Sumitra Rani Sarkar, both residents of Rajshahi district of Bangladesh. In another raid, another team of the same battalion nabbed Mohammad Sohan, a Bangladeshi youth from Dinajpur district, at the international border. Along with the arrests, the border guards have also seized a number of items, including cattle and cough syrup bottles estimated at Rs 2 lakh, from the Indo-Bangla border in different districts of north Bengal on Tuesday, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid cases cross 800 in Bengal after months||Bengal on Wednesday reported 867 new Covid-19 infections, above 800 in a day for the first time since July 25. The state also reported 795 recoveries and nine deaths. In all, active cases rose by 63 on Wednesday to 7,491. A minister said the new infections reported now are indicative of people who got infected between October 11 to 15 (Sashthi to Vijaya Dashami). “We are seeing the worst of the spike from the puja revelry and allied disregard for safety. It is unlikely to deteriorate drastically from this stage,” he said. Calcutta reported 244 new infections and North 24-Parganas 129, the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases in a day. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths on Wednesday. Calcutta reported two deaths and North 24-Parganas three. “Calcutta and North 24-Parganas witnessed the most indiscipline in terms of Covid-19 protocols before and during Puja, so it’s no surprise that the sharpest spike would be found in these districts,” said the minister. The state’s recovery rate is 98.33 per cent, while the national rate is 98.13 now. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.43 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.83 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.56 lakh recoveries and 19,007 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP targets Mamata for silence on Bangladesh minority attacks||Bengal BJP leaders targeted Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday over her alleged silence on the issue of attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh According to sources in the party, the targeting of the chief minister is a part of the BJP’s plan to reap political dividends from the developments in the neighbouring country. “Mamata Banerjee’s silence on the attack on Hindus in the neighbouring country is suspicious. She only does vote-bank politics,” Dilip Ghosh, the party’s national vice-president and Midnapore MP, tweeted. “Why hasn’t she issued a statement on the security of Hindu Bengalis in Bangladesh yet?” Ghosh questioned. Speaking on similar lines at a news conference in the evening, BJP Bengal chief and Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar said: “The incidents are happening very close to Bengal. Yet the chief minister is silent. Trinamul is silent, the government is silent. What is their stand?” “People are upset with what’s happening in Bangladesh.... The chief minister is silent and the other political parties are also giving rhetorical reactions. The BJP is the only party that has hit the streets demanding security and protection for the Hindus. The stand that we have taken will surely help us,” said a senior state BJP leader. The Trinamul Congress has swatted away the BJP’s allegations about Mamata’s silence. Replying to Majumdar’s allegations, state minister and Trinamul spokesperson Subrata Mukherjee said that his party has spoken on the issue. “She (Mamata) is unwell. But I’ve seen Partha Chatterjee (state minister and Trinamul’s secretary general) speak on the violence,” Mukherjee said. Majumdar on Wednesday also demanded the deployment of central forces during the ensuing civic polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Poor upkeep hits Nadia bridge ||Traffic between Nadia and East Burdwan district was affected since Wednesday morning as the state public works department suspended movement of heavy vehicles on Gouranga Setu over Bhagirathi river in Nadia. The expansion joints of the suspended spans of the cantilever bridge were dislocated owing to poor maintenance, said sources. PWD authorities on Wednesday barricaded the lane under which the joints have been dislocated while keeping the other lane open to allow movement of only light vehicles. A team of PWD engineers of Nadia highway division-II led by executive engineer Sanjay Singh examined the bridge and said movement of heavy vehicles would remain suspended till repairs were done. Repairs will start from Friday after a fresh visit by experts on Thursday. Singh told this paper: “Expansion joints of 6m-wide suspended spans of the cantilever bridge have become dislocated by over an inch, hence making it uneven. We have examined the joints of the bridge from various angles.” He added that it was a good sign that so far no crack was noticed. “So, we have barricaded one lane of the bridge to avert further damage,” he said. “We have done preliminary investigations today (Wednesday). There will be a fresh investigation by our expert team on Thursday and we have planned to start restoration work from Friday with a target to finish repairs by one week,” Singh said. The 569-metre-long cantilever bridge connects Krishnagar with Nabadwip in Nadia, adjacent to Purbasthali block in East Burdwan district. A large number of vehicles and inter-district public transport connecting Nadia, East Burdwan and Birbhum use Gouranga Setu. The “over-hanging balanced cantilever beam” bridge was inaugurated by former urban development minister Bhola Nath Sen of the Congress government on June 17, 1973. This bridge spans over six piers. One approach pier at both ends is located on the river embankment while the other four piers are based on the riverbed. In 2016, two of the main piers of the bridge were dislocated owing to erosion of river embankment and repeated floods during monsoon. The snag was repaired but the bridge’s health remained feeble. Residents and motorists  said soil at the base of piers eroded regularly and feared that this might lead to the bridge collapsing. They also demanded the construction of a new bridge as an alternative to the Gouranga Setu. “Gouranga Setu is around 50 years old and its two lanes take a huge load every day. The state government should consider building a new bridge as it has been doing for Iswar Gupta Setu over river Hooghly that connects Nadia (Kalyani) to Hooghly (Tribeni),” a local resident said. To this, Singh said: “We have so far no such proposal for a new bridge.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-42
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BJP ex-chief Dilip Ghosh to ‘introduce’ successor in districts||Bengal BJP’s immediate past chief Dilip Ghosh and his successor Sukanta Majumdar will embark on a statewide tour from Thursday in what party insiders have said is a rare initiative in the faction-ridden Bengal unit The trip, planned by Ghosh, is part of a strategy to “introduce” the new party president to the district-level functionaries. This journey is being called Samwardhana Yatra (felicitation rally) since Majumdar will be felicitated in all the districts that he visits. “We will start our journey from tomorrow (Thursday) with Birbhum. As of now, we will visit three-four districts in the coming three days,” Ghosh, currently one of the national vice-presidents of the party, said. “Once this leg of our tour is over, we will wait till the bypolls and then visit north Bengal,” he added. According to multiple sources, the idea of this tour was mooted by Ghosh and approved by BJP national president J.P. Nadda. “The morale of our workers is down after the poll debacle. Most of us are tired of the factionalism. Dilip-da’s plan, if it works, may just be the elixir we need,” a state BJP functionary said. Birbhum  apart, Ghosh and Majumdar will visit Nadia and East Burdwan in the first leg of their journey. Majumdar was appointed as the state unit chief on September 20 after removing Ghosh. While the change was imminent, the announcement came as a sudden jolt to the party. Several leaders within the party are of the opinion that Majumdar is close to the state unit’s general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty, who in turn reportedly does not get along with Ghosh. “This could also be an attempt on Dilip-da’s part to strengthen his ties with Sukanta Majumdar, so that he doesn’t completely lose his grip on the party,” a source said. Several BJP old-timers this correspondent spoke to said they couldn’t recall any instance of the immediate past president handholding his successor like this. “This (trip with  is a rare development indeed and Dilip-da must be complimented for it,” said a BJP source. A senior state BJP leader recounted how Ghosh had received a cold shoulder from his predecessor Rahul Sinha, who was made a national secretary of the party after Ghosh became the state president. Majumdar said the idea was to connect with leaders in the districts. “We leave tomorrow (Thursday) and will offer our prayers at Tarapith the day after,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
21-10-2021||West Bengal||Heavy rainfall across Sikkim, north Bengal paralyse life||Extremely heavy rainfall across the Sikkim and Darjeeling hills and north Bengal foothills since Monday night has caused flooding and landslides that have damaged roads, houses and key bridges, paralysing life in the hills and plains. Mud, rock and water running down the mountains damaged close to 400 houses in the Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts. At least three people, including two minor girls, were missing and tens of thousands were evacuated away from the swollen, fuming rivers. Hundreds of tourists got stranded. A weather expert said a “sudden” low-pressure zone and southerly winds had caused 230mm of rain in 24 hours in Darjeeling, which was 68 times higher than the normal for this time of year. The Balason river, which flows down the hills and cuts across the NH-31 at Matigara on Siliguri city’s northwest end, has damaged one of the pillars of the 50-year-old bridge that connects the city with Bagdogra airport. With the tilted pillar causing a part of the bridge’s plank to subside, police are allowing only two-wheelers and pedestrians to cross the bridge. Traffic has been stopped along NH-31, which runs along the “chicken’s neck” and connects the Northeast. At Rangpokhola in Sikkim, a stream that flows along the Bengal border and cuts across NH-10 — the principal highway connecting Sikkim with the rest of the country — swept away two reinforcement pillars of its bridge on Tuesday night. The Sikkim government is allowing only light vehicles to ply — and only in a single flank — along the route, the most-used entry point to the state opposite the border town of Rangpo. “Both bridges are strategically important for the region and the country, and are regularly used by the defence forces,” a retired army officer said. “At Rangpo, the NHIDCL (National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited) is building an alternative bridge that will be ready by the year-end. As for the bridge over the Balason, it’s surprising that neither the Centre nor the state has taken the initiative to build an alternative bridge so far.” Swollen rivers Principal rivers like the Teesta, Torsa and Jaldhaka have flooded their banks, with 70,000 people being shifted to safer places. Tourist ordeal Traffic has been affected across landslide-hit highways and roads, such as NH10 at 29th Mile and Swetijhora, creating a nightmare for thousands of local people and tourists travelling to Sikkim and Kalimpong from Siliguri or the other way round. While some made detours with their vehicles, many were seen crossing the landslide spots on foot and then trying to hitch a ride. Many tourists missed flights, buses or trains because the travel to Siliguri had taken extra hours. In the evening, North Bengal State Transport Corporation announced it would run three additional buses to Calcutta. On Wednesday morning, a portion of NH55 — the main highway connecting Siliguri with Darjeeling along which the Darjeeling Himalayan Railway track runs — caved in at Cheuri Vhir near Mahanadi, halting traffic. “The Rohini Road and the Pankhabari Road are open and vehicles are moving between Siliguri and Darjeeling through these routes,” an official said. Missing A portion of Vauxhall, the official residence of the sub-divisional officer (SDO) of Darjeeling, took a landslide hit on Tuesday night. D. Roy, the SDO, was not at home at the time. Suman Thapa, 59, a policeman posted on the compound, is missing. A search is on. In Alipurduar, two minor girls who had gone to the Torsa’s banks are missing. Low pressure Weather experts said it rarely rains in north Bengal this time of the year. “Data shows there’s hardly any rainfall at this time as the southwest monsoon starts withdrawing from September-end. But this rain was caused by a sudden low-pressure area that developed in the region, along with southerly winds,” a meteorologist said. He said the average rainfall in Darjeeling on October 20 is 3.2mm. “But it rained around 230mm (from October 19 morning to October 20 morning), which is over 68 times the normal,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-43
21-10-2021||North East||Assam government urges centre to release funds for repair work||The Assam government on Wednesday urged a central team visiting various districts of the state for on-spot assessment of damages caused by flood and landslides this year to release funds for repair and restoration work. On the visit since October 19, the inter-ministerial central team comprising seven members from various Union ministries discussed the details at a meeting with senior Assam government officials in Guwahati on Wednesday. The state government has requested the team to release of Rs 1,088.19 crore it had sought for repair and restoration work, a statement issued by the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said. The team headed by Manish Tiwari, joint secretary in the ministry of home affairs, talked about the damages and loss of livelihood and property in the districts of Bongaigaon, Chirang and Lakhimpur it had visited. “The state government urged the central team to consider releasing funds under the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) for restoration of damages during current year flood,” the statement said. It said the team was also requested to consider erosion as an item admissible under SDRF/NDRF in their report to the Centre as the state suffered heavily because of river erosion every year. Assuring the state government officials in this regard, Tiwari said the team would submit the report with recommendations very soon to the government of India. The team members were from the ministries of finance, agriculture, cooperation and farmers welfare, jal shakti, power, road transport and highways and rural development.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
21-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Daily dose||A change is best sensed from everyday happenings. Different regions of India are displaying aspects of religious discrimination as though to leave no doubt that expectations of peaceful coexistence — not always ideal but always possible — can now be jettisoned. Sometimes the government takes the initiative. The legislative committee on backward classes and minorities welfare in Karnataka has asked for detailed information on churches, priests and missionaries in the state. The goal is to discover how many churches are “authorized” and whether illegal conversions are taking place. The Bharatiya Janata Party legislator, who presided over the committee meeting in place of the chairperson, was vocal about his conviction regarding ‘illegal’ conversions because his mother had almost been through one. Non-BJP members of the committee claimed that the order had been given without consulting them. Strong protests from the Christian community, some pointing out that the Christian population has shown no noticeable increase since Independence, have apparently fallen on deaf ears, since the chief minister has promised to strengthen anti-conversion laws. Elsewhere, too, the goal is the systematic destruction of unthinking, everyday coexistence. Right-wing fringe groups, powered by Hindutva believers, can create the appearance of popular protest, as has been happening in Sector 47 of Gurgaon. Although the spot is one of the designated ones for Friday prayers in the open after tensions in 2018, alleged residents are trying to disrupt worship by marching in with banners, loudspeakers and bhajans. That the police are protecting the worshippers from this barefaced display of intolerance has resulted in threats and vilification. It is a contagious sickness. The Hindu religious and charitable endowments department in Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam-ruled Tamil Nadu has advertised for only Hindu applicants to fill teaching and non-teaching posts in one of the four colleges it is opening. This may be a deliberate extension of the regulation for temple employees; in any case, it is blatantly unconstitutional and discriminatory. It could not have been expected of any government department even a few years ago. Now it is politically correct to be frankly discriminatory. Not even advertisements suggesting inclusion can escape outrage, whether it is a clothing brand accused of naming its Diwali collection in terms of all-India celebrations, or a jewellery company showcasing inter-community marriage. India is thriving on daily doses of aggression and hatred.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
21-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Sometimes, laughter indeed is the best medicine||Laughter therapy Sir — An organization based in Delhi has come up with a novel way of cheering up patients in hospitals by making them laugh. Known as ‘clownselors’, the volunteers don red noses and colourful wigs in an attempt to reduce the pain and anxiety experienced by patients. Although medical clowning can be therapeutic for both pediatric and adult patients, medical practitioners in India are largely unaware of its benefits. Not only can it help distract from excruciating pain but can aid in reinvigorating those who have lost their will to fight. Sometimes, laughter indeed is the best medicine. Anamika Saha,Calcutta Changing times Sir — The Covid-19 pandemic has made the healthcare industry worldwide realize the need for digitization. In 2018, a report by Econsultancy revealed that only seven per cent of healthcare and pharmaceutical companies had gone digital, compared to 15 per cent of companies in other industries. These numbers have surely changed since the outbreak of the pandemic. There is much to be learnt from existing programmes like the Electronic Health Record in Austria which simplifies the process of accessing health records for medical personnel and patients, making it easier for doctors and hospitals to view the patient’s medical records during treatment through one link. Adoption of such measures can vastly modernize the medical sector. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Sir — The adoption of digital medical services is the need of the hour. But such measures can only be helpful in countries with high digital penetration. India has a long way to go before such digitized medical services can be properly implemented. Abhra Sengupta,Calcutta Act now Sir — The recently-held meeting of the Congress Working Committee has made it amply clear that the Gandhis will not be relinquishing their hold over the party anytime soon (“In charge”, Oct 19). Sonia Gandhi will remain at the helm of affairs, and Rahul Gandhi, no matter his outward show of reluctance, seems to be in charge of all major organizational decisions. While it is good that there is internal clarity about who will lead the party in the future, it is time that the Congress made its decision public. Regional leaders like Mamata Banerjee, M.K. Stalin and Sharad Pawar are already gearing up for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. If the Congress delays the announcement any longer, it will erode public confidence in the party even further and cost it the crucial assembly polls in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. Rahul Gandhi must step up to his role. Bal Govind, Noida Sir — It is unfortunate that Sonia Gandhi did not adequately address concerns about leadership raised by the G-23 leaders at the CWC meeting. The Grand Old Party has instead decided to continue under the interim president till September 2022. The Congress must realize that a year’s delay in announcing the president will only complicate matters. A clear decision would have been beneficial in resolving some of the internal problems which now threaten the party’s performance in the upcoming assembly polls. Rahul Gandhi should stop dragging his feet and take charge immediately. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The Congress has been plagued by endless internal strife ever since Rahul Gandhi resigned as party president in 2019 after its loss in the Lok Sabha elections. This infighting has decimated the credibility of the party. The Congress may not regain its lost glory anytime soon, but it will still be an important player in the 2024 elections. Rahul Gandhi must pull up his socks if he is serious about defeating the Bharatiya Janata Party in the next Lok Sabha elections. Parikshit Rana,New Delhi Grave situation Sir — It was shocking to read that India is currently ranked at 101 among 116 countries on the Global Hunger Index, far below neighbours like Nepal, Bhutan or Bangladesh (“Free fall”, Oct 19). India was already struggling with malnutrition, stunting and chronic hunger but the fight has been exacerbated by the outbreak of Covid-19. Paradoxically, India also has the dubious distinction of being one of the most obese nations in the world. The primary problem is the unequal distribution and improper storage of food. Every year, thousands of tonnes of rotten foodgrain need to be burnt because of poor storage. Unless the government recognizes the faults inherent in the system, there is no scope for improvement. H.N. Ramakrishna,Bangalore Sir — The Indian government’s dismissal of the findings of the GHI allegedly owing to faulty methodology is not convincing. Although the 2021 Global Hunger Index reported that India falls under ‘serious’ level of hunger at 27.5, the report also concedes that the country has made substantial progress in child nutrition since 2000. If India hopes to progress, it must accept both praise and criticism and take necessary measures to make up for its shortcomings. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
21-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: New world||Foreign policy is a shape-shifting entity. Its contours respond to transformations in global geo-strategic impulses. It is refreshing to note that India’s current foreign policy establishment remains responsive to external stimuli. This hypothesis is not being made without evidence. In Afghanistan, India has positioned itself firmly on the side of the Anglo-American camp that continues to watch the moves of the rival axis, the troika of China, Russia and Iran. Aligning with the United States of America and the United Kingdom renders diplomatic leverage to New Delhi, but it would be interesting to see how New Delhi recalibrates its traditional ties with Moscow and Tehran. A similar shift seems to be taking place in India’s diplomatic outreach in West Asia. A meeting of the foreign ministers of India, Israel, the United Arab Emirates and the US has led to the conception of a new bloc, much like the Quad that features New Delhi, Washington, Tokyo and Canberra, with the focus being on collaboration in technology, trade, maritime security and data. The ‘western Quad’ is, undoubtedly, a product of sweeping changes. The normalization of ties between Israel and the UAE and Bahrain under the aegis of the Abraham Accords has opened up space for accommodating other nations. New Delhi, which traditionally viewed its West Asia policy through such silos as Iran, Israel and the Sunni nation states in the Gulf, has, for once, moved in quickly. India’s assimilation would, hopefully, deepen existing areas of cooperation in defence technologies with Israel and energy security with the UAE. New areas of cooperation, such as a common agenda to fight climate change and the welfare of Indian citizens overseas, should be included in this converging vision. The flux in West Asia is also a testament to broader changes and new challenges. An increasingly insular — weakened? — US is unwilling to invest itself in both West Asia and the Indo-Pacific. It is, therefore, eager to maintain a footprint in these global theatres of conflict through regional associations featuring nations that share its values. The emergence of Quad and Aukus are indicators of the gradual withdrawal of the US. This is bound to create avenues of cooperation for New Delhi, but India must be mindful of dealing with the evolving platforms on the basis of its own interests without jettisoning older, time-tested partnerships. Bilateralism, evidently, is giving way to multilateral formats. Indian diplomacy must act accordingly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
21-10-2021||Opinion||Food for thought: Deficiencies||On August 15, during his Independence Day speech, the prime minister announced the mandatory fortification of rice. Although the Niti Aayog termed it as a “game changer”, it also admitted, “that every second woman is anaemic, every third child is stunted and malnourished and every fifth child is wasted. Further, over 70 per cent of the population consumes less than 50 per cent of the Recommended Dietary Allowance...” Why is it that despite recognizing lack of food as the root cause of the problem, the Centre is focusing on the lack of micronutrients to solve it? What is it that pushes the government to opt for fortification with micronutrients rather than investing in increasing the availability of diverse foods? India is facing another challenge: rising incidences of non-communicable diseases like obesity, diabetes and heart ailments. An important cause of this new epidemic is the aggressive marketing and the rising consumption of ultra-processed foods — usually high in salt, sugar or bad fats. The food industry continues to resist attempts to provide information about its unhealthy content. Two policies — the fortification and the marketing of ultra-processed food — have been brought into question. But vested interests infiltrate most of the discussions on influencing decisions. Yet, there is hardly any discussion on ethics and conflicts of interest among those entrusted with policy development. In 2002, The Wall Street Journal published “Gates Fights Malnutrition With Cheese, Ketchup and Other Fortified Food Items” that brought to light how the Gates Foundation set up the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition with a grant of $50 million. GAIN, in turn, signed up with major food companies for them to add nutrients like iron, folic acid, and Vitamin A to their food products for poor nations, offer technical assistance to governments and fund public campaigns for the governments to earn ‘Seal of approval’. GAIN was to help with   favourable tax policy and regulatory review. In 2015, Bill Gates and Ratan Tata penned an opinion piece where they recommended fortification as one of the most cost-effective solutions among others. The Food Safety and Standards Authority of India has set up a Food Fortification Resource Centre. As per the FSSAI’s website, it works with GAIN, Nutrition International, the World Food Programme, Tata Trusts, The India Nutrition Initiative and the Food Fortification Initiative. An examination of their partners and donors traced the links of these organizations to the food and the nutrients industry. It is evident that the interests of the food industry prevail. Incidentally, rice fortification with iron could consume 2,600 crore of taxpayers’ money. The FSSAI organized a ‘stakeholders’ meeting held on May 25, 2021, to discuss this policy. Twenty-two out of 28 participants were from the food industry or its associations. Aggressive marketing of unhealthy ultra-processed foods is responsible for their rise in consumption. There is growing evidence that the consumption of ultra-processed foods is associated with the rise in non-communicable disease. But then the food industry has its eye on the bottom-line. A BMJ publication recently suggested that businesses influence the policy on nutrition through narratives like ‘the body needs nutrients’ as well as ‘manipulation of nutrition science’ through the funding of experts. Given the negative impact of unhealthy food on human health, we believe that the food industry should not be partnering with India’s food and nutrition policymaking. In 2011, the Supreme Court observed conflict of interest in FSSAI panels and directed that scientific panels of the FSSAI should include independent experts instead of representatives from the industry. The same principle could be applied when it comes to constituting a group concerning food/nutrition policy development. Changing the narrative from single nutrient to dietary patterns may solve the problems of both under and over nourishment in India. Political will is the need of the hour. Arun Gupta is Convener, Nutrition Advocacy in Public Interest Navdeep Khaira is a nephrologist at Fortis Ludhiana and a member of the Alliance against Conflicts of Interest||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
21-10-2021||Opinion||Divine mirror||The evocative idol of Durga as a refugee being transported in a truck together with her children and her belongings is a far cry from Goddess Durga, all-powerful, astride a lion. But this is precisely how Barisha Club in a Calcutta suburb chose to represent her this year during Durga Puja. In a massive installation, ostensibly re-creating a scene at the Indo-Bangladesh border, the club depicted a hapless Durga and her family in no-man’s land. They were scantily clad, clearly having scrambled to put themselves and their meagre possessions into the back of a truck. One of these possessions was a tiny idol of Durga and her children, their last refuge when all else was seemingly lost. Perhaps it was to this idol that they prayed to prevent their fate from going the way of countless other ‘doubtful citizens’ whose pictures hung from the makeshift ceiling of their temporary enclosure. On the final day of the festivities, I went to Barisha and was struck by the sheer provocativeness of the concept. In relative silence, I took in an idol that unapologetically defied tradition. Having grown up with staple debates of whether the large, front-facing eyes of the idols sculpted by Mohan Banshi Rudra Pal were preferable to Ramesh Pal’s fierce, downward-facing ones, this was very far off-script. It was not Durga as I knew her. But I knew that this was also Durga as she could be, the mother in our midst holding up a mirror to our collective selves. For far too long, the conspicuous worship of nari shakti during Durga Puja has been in stark contrast to the quiet injustice suffered by women in the country. The child in Kathua, the physiotherapist in Delhi, the farm hand in Hathras, the vet in Hyderabad, the activist in Calcutta, amongst countless other unnamed women, were all brutally raped in the last few years alone. By visually depicting Durga as an ordinary woman in distress, Barisha signifies that we can no longer consistently worship Durga as a goddess while violating the many Durgas in our midst. This is ‘Beti Bachao’ and ‘Kanyashree’ represented together, cutting through our collective hypocrisy in one fell swoop. At Barisha, Durga, however, wasn’t ravaged by rapacious men or boisterous gangs. The pandal itself represented a detention camp, a concept squarely in public consciousness owing to the ongoing process of counting heads for the National Register of Citizens. Her condition, it was suggested, was a consequence of the politics of division — ‘bhaager ma’, the divided mother, as the pandal creators themselves called it. The inauguration of the pandal by the chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, perhaps the nation’s most strident political opponent of the CAA-NRC, and a subsequent award given to it by the West Bengal government only confirmed what the creators of the pandal would have known, or perhaps even desired — that their political depiction would serve party political purposes. Much of this is not new. Growing up in Calcutta in the early 1990s, politics was intrinsically intertwined with the Durga Puja. My immediate neighbourhood Puja was known to be organized by the local CPI(M) dadas who, it was rumoured, used part of the collections to fund their party activities. A little further down the road, the biggest Puja at the time in South Calcutta, Ekdalia Evergreen, was always referred to as ‘Subrata Mukherjee’s thakur (deity)’; Mukherjee then being a leading Congress politician. Further afield, it was widely known that Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose had been president of the Bagbazar Sarbojanin Durga Puja, the grand dame of North Calcutta, while also holding the presidency of the Indian National Congress. This was only the tip of the iceberg — the connections between the freedom movement, particularly Bengali extremists, and the Durga Puja are too numerous to recount. Let us not be under any illusion that the conflation of politics and the Durga Puja is a recent phenomenon. Still, one might arguably make the claim that in Barisha, politicizing the idol itself made political commentary the focal point of the Puja. Entering the pandal, my immediate reflex was not to bow my head and close my eyes in prayer, as I might have in a more traditional setting. Rather, I took in the scene and introspected, as one might at an art installation or any of the other more thought-provoking ‘theme Pujas’ in the city. To me, this wasn’t sacrilege, as some have claimed. Sacrilege assumes a single right way of being and doing things. Neither the Hindu faith nor the Durga Puja has ever subscribed to such a view. Some Durga idols are bedecked in jewellery, others prefer to be in pristine shola; some Asura idols are penitent, others appear vengeful, and while some pandals have Durga and her children huddled together, others give them their own space. Like there is no one way to god, there is no one way to depict god either. Barisha has added to this wondrous palimpsest. The five days of Durga Puja, despite being the highlight of Bengal’s calendar, have never promised an escape from its reality. After all, the most extraordinary pandals emerge at the most ordinary street corners and the same garbage-filled by-lanes that make us squirm are spruced up to become avenues for the goddess to reach her five-day abode. For these five days, dressed in our new clothes, we all try hard to be better versions of ourselves. As the crowds steadily built up at Barisha and it was time to leave, the refugee Durga spoke to me in the same way as a more conventionally maternal Durga might, urging me to try harder. That voice was not the product of my politics, it was the expression of my faith. Arghya Sengupta is Research Director, Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy. Views are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-16
21-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand cabinet nod to new bungalows for ministers||The Jharkhand cabinet, headed by chief minister Hemant Soren,  approved the construction of new  bungalows for all 11 state  ministers in the upcoming Ranchi Smart City at a cost of Rs 69 crore on Thursday. Executed by the state urban development department, the Ranchi Smart City project is coming up on 657 acre land in the  HEC area of which about 278.52 acres of land, bifurcated into 51 plots of various dimensions, are being auctioned off in phases. State urban development department is executing this project. The cabinet also approved around Rs 27.42 crore as the state's  share for construction of a World Trade Centre in the Smart City. The total cost of the project will be shared with the Union government. An official of the state urban development department said, “The idea of a world trade centre (WTC) is to provide a one-stop platform for international business and trading opportunities for various organisations in Ranchi. As per the plan, it will house offices for exports, currency exchange centres, among others.” The cabinet also approved a plan of the state social welfare department for setting up half-way homes exclusively for those who have  recovered from mental illness and disabilities. “In the first phase, three half-way homes with  30 beds each,  will come up in Ranchi, Dhanbad and East Singhbhum,” state cabinet coordination department secretary Vandana Dadel said. A total of 17 proposals were taken up by the state  cabinet on Thursday. It was also decided to free up seven iron ore mines from captive use criteria for state-owned companies and put them on auction. The government also fixed a minimum support price for this year’s paddy procurement at Rs 2,050 per quintal in the general grade category and Rs 2,070 for grade A category. “The paddy procurement rule has also been amended under which each farmer can sell up to 200 quintals of paddy. This is to ensure that farmers get maximum benefit of paddy procurement. A target of 8 lakh metric quintal procurement  has been fixed this year,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
21-10-2021||Jharkhand||Winter likely to arrive early in Jharkhand this year ||Weathermen have hinted at an early winter in Jharkhand this year. Met department officials said on Thursday that their conclusion was based on the observations of various weather models. "This year, rainfall activity in Jharkhand, both during pre-monsoon season and during the four- month monsoon that ended in September, have been normal and quite impressive in some of the districts.Temperatures this winter are likely to remain slightly above normal but the season is expected early in Jharkhand and several other states. The findings of South Asian Climate Outlook Forum (SASOF) also suggest early advent of winter in our country, " said a senior official of IMD-New Delhi. He, however, said that IMD would conduct further  analysis  and come up with a report on whether the coming winter season will be severe or not. A climate analyst at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre said that the wind pattern over the state is expected to change to north-westerly  in the first week of November, when people will start feeling a nip in the air. People usually get a feel of the  winter in Jharkhand around mid-November. After its advent it takes about a week or so for the complete onset of winter. But this year, the advent of the cold season is expected in early November. "The prevailing weather condition suggests winter will arrive early. The good monsoon rain resulted in good water in the soil, hence maximum fall in the temperature is likely to be observed, " said a duty officer at IMD's local observatory in Jamshedpur. During the past 24 hours, Jharkhand experienced light rain at isolated places, according to Met data.  The forecast indicates dry and clear weather in most parts of the state during the next 72 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
21-10-2021||Jharkhand||Saranda plans to use gadgets to stem man-animal conflicts ||The Jharkhand forest department plans to use electronics-based gadgets to try and prevent man-animal conflicts in the Saranda forests of West Singhbhum. Currently, an  Animal Intrusion Detection and Repellent System is being used as a pilot project in and around Asia's largest Sal forest reserve, spread over 820 sq km, where elephants often enter farmland, destroy crops and also wipe out food from homes. This leads to man-animal conflicts, sometimes leading to fatalities. The system would help in controlling this problem to a large extent, officials feel. The system can distinguish between humans and animals. The solar-powered machine gets automatically activated once an animal comes within its range. The sensor alarm also gets activated once animals come near farmlands or human settlements. This alerts villagers who can then take preventive measures. "This apart, infrared rays also get released from the machine. Elephants are very sensitive to infrared rays and change their direction after coming within its range. The machine also immediately informs foresters through a GSM network. It also has a camera which records movement of elephants," the forester said. The machine can also help identify elephant herds which will lead to effective and accurate population count too. According to research by World Wide Fund for Nature in India, the success rate of Animal Intrusion Detection and Repellent System is 86 per cent. Plans are afoot to install these machines in 18 villages in and around the Saranda forest division. Eight machines have already been installed as part of the pilot project at Gua and Sasangda forest ranges. Saranda divisional forest officer C.M.P. Sinha said the pilot project comes under Wildlife Management Plan and Tata Steel Long Products Limited is funding it. "The forest department was working towards installing an Animal Intrusion Detection and Repellent System for some time. Based on the results, more such machines would be installed in Saranda," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
21-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi airport to install latest in-line baggage screening for passengers ||Passengers travelling from the Birsa Munda Airport in Ranchi will no longer have to stand in long queues to get their luggage screened manually at the departure area as the airport authorities have decided to install the latest In-Line Baggage Screening (ILBS) system, which will automate the process  at the check-in counter with minimal manual intervention, airport officials said on Thursday. “Passengers will be able to directly move to the check-in counter without taking the trouble of passing their baggage through the X-Ray scanners once the ILBS system is installed,” said the director of Birsa Munda Airport, Vinod Sharma. “We have set a target of installing the ILBS system by November 15,” he added. According to Sharma, the latest ILBS system will not only help passengers save time, but also enhance security at the airport by detecting explosives and items prohibited in aircrafts with more efficiency. At present, passengers have to first fall in line at the baggage screening centre where their luggage is screened manually, and then move to the check-in counter. The process of getting baggage screened manually often becomes time-consuming during busy hours at the airport, inconveniencing passengers who are either running late or are unwell. The decision of installing ILBS system has been taken in compliance with the latest security norms of the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS), said airport officials, adding that the latest ILBS system is already operational in some of the busiest airports in India. The Ranchi airport will also get two new aerobridges, the moveable tunnels that connect airport buildings to the aircraft and help in hassle-free boarding or deboarding for passengers, Sharma said. At present, the airport has two aerobridges. The additional two aerobridges will help in easing flight movement. Currently, at least 20 flights connect Ranchi to New Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai, Kolkata, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad. The Birsa Munda Airport, which bagged the top position in Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) last year, at present has a 75 meter basic strip, which is the minimum length required for any airport. The basic strip is likely to be extended to 140 meter. Ranchi was likely to get more flights earlier this year, but the second wave of Covid-19 caused a delay in the process, officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
21-10-2021||Jharkhand||Human rights outfit ask for proper probe into Palamau gang-rape||The Jharkhand chapter of human rights outfit People’s Union for Civil Liberties has moved the Palamau superintendent of police seeking his intervention into the alleged unsatisfactory investigation into a gang-rape case and harassment of the Dalit victim by police personnel. In a letter addressed to Palamau SP Chandan Kumar Sinha on Tuesday, general secretary of the PUCL Jharkhand chapter Arvind Avinash said: “The victim has been constantly harassed by the investigating officer (IO) and the SC/ST police station in-charge of Palamau by not conducting the investigation as per the law in a serious case of gang rape, resulting in direct/indirect benefit to the accused persons. The victim, a pregnant lady coming from a low caste, has clearly stated in her FIR that she was gang-raped by accused Abhishek Kumar Chandravanshi and Dilip Kumar Chandravanshi in a brutal manner on the fateful night of August 4.” “The victim has also stated that on the previous occasion also she has been raped by the accused multiple times and once again on August 24, the accused raped her and hit her with sticks. When the victim was going to the Ramghar police station on August 25, she was threatened by the accused person to not file any case, after which she somehow managed to reach Medininagar SC/ST police station to lodge a case against them. However, despite there being a clear allegation of gang rape, the official at Medininagar SC/ST police station did not include Section 376D of the IPC which deals with allegations of gang rape,” the letter said. A case (SC/ST case no. 08/21) was registered in connection with the incident on August 27 under Sections 341, 323, 448, 504, 506, 354 and 34 of the IPC and under Sections 3 (1) and 3 (2) (VA) of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. It also alleges that the victim was not medically examined (mandatory according to the Code of Criminal Procedure) and according to the letter written by her to the Palamau deputy inspector-general of police, even her statement was not recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC. The PUCL letter also alleges that the woman was kept in police custody for nearly 24 hours when she went to lodge an FIR and no action has been taken against the accused so far. The letter requests that the victim should be immediately provided police protection as she is being constantly threatened by the accused persons who are pressuring her to withdraw/compromise the case and seeks adequate compensation to enable the victim to recover from the mental/physical trauma that she has suffered and that the case be transferred to the CID or the special branch for a fair probe. The PUCL has threatened to approach Jharkhand High Court if no response is received from the police within seven days of receipt of the letter. Copies of the letter have also been forwarded to Jharkhand DGP Neeraj Kumar Sinha and chief secretary Sukhdev Singh. Repeated attempts to contact the Palamau SP on his official mobile number failed to evince any response. Palamau DIG Raj Kumar Lakra said that he had received a request from the victim’s family. “I remember receiving a request in this case from the victim’s family and had asked the police station official concerned to do the needful. I will look into the status of the case and inform on Thursday,” said Lakra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
21-10-2021||Jharkhand||National junior women’s hockey championship begins at Simdega||The 11th national junior women’s hockey championship began at Astroturf Stadium in Jharkhand’s Simdega on Wednesday. “It’s really a pleasure to be present at the opening of two national hockey championships at the same venue in less than a year, that too during the pandemic,” said chief minister Hemant Soren, referring to the sub-junior national tourney that was held at the same venue earlier this year. “We sincerely want that Jharkhand is identified with sports the same way it is done with its minerals and natural beauty,” he further said after declaring the meet open. For promoting hockey in Simdega that is known as the nursery for the sport, “foundation was laid for another stadium of international standard here today”, said the chief minister who did the honours a while ago. Simdega is called the cradle of hockey as its children, despite facing poverty, pursued hockey sincerely and went on to play at national and international levels, including Olympics. The girl players also impressed equally. Salima Tete of the district represented the country in the Tokyo Olympics recently while three other girls are attending a national camp in Bangalore at present. “Over 500 players and officials from 26 states have assembled here for 10-day tourney that will conclude on October 29,” Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh informed when contacted in Simdega, adding “the matches were being telecast in 196 countries, courtesy World Hockey Federation”. The teams from 26 participating states have been placed in 8 different pools. The best teams of each of those pools, to be decided after 6 days of pool matches, will then vie for the title in the knockout stage, beginning October 26. “The national junior women’s team will also be selected during this championship,” informed Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi, adding the tourney became more important for the players due to this reason. Salima was first chosen for the national team when an edition of the same championship was organised in Ranchi in 2015 and she continued to represent the country even at the senior level and finally in the Olympics. The opening day of the tourney witnessed four matches where goals were showered by winning teams. The first match was played between the teams from Karnataka and Bengal when the latter conceded a defeat by 16-0. In the second, the Punjab team trounced the Puducherry team by 18-0 while Assam defeated Rajasthan by 5-0 in the third match. In the fourth and the last match of the day, the team from Tamil Nadu lost to the hosts Jharkhand by 1- 8. Tamil Nadu was, however, the only defeated team of the day that scored a solitary goal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
21-10-2021||Jharkhand||Newborn stolen from Dhanbad govt medical college hospital||A newborn was allegedly stolen from outside the labour room of a government medical college hospital in Jharkhand’s Dhanbad on Tuesday evening, police said. According to police officials, an unidentified woman carried away the baby girl, who was born a couple of hours ago, from the Shahid Nirmal Mahato Medical College and Hospital (formerly called Patliputra Medical College and Hospital) in Dhanbad on Tuesday evening. This is the third time that there has been an alleged breach of security at the hospital this year. In July, a mentally challenged woman was allegedly raped at the hospital while in September a youth attempted to molest a patient’s attendant. A source in Seraidhela police station said: “Gudia Devi, a resident of Bhuli township in Dhanbad, had delivered a baby girl at around 2pm on Tuesday. After delivery, when the mother was being administered with saline, the infant was given to her grandmother who was waiting outside the labour room following all protocols.” Another woman, who said she was pregnant and sitting outside the labour room for a long time, admired the baby and wanted to cuddle her, the source said. “The unidentified woman pestered the grandmother to take the child in her lap. Finally in the evening the grandmother relented and gave the infant to the woman who started cuddling the baby. The grandmother went to the nearby ward to bring her mobile phone. On returning she found that the woman had vanished with the infant. It was then that she raised an alarm and started searching for the baby,” said Seraidhela police station officer-in-charge Kishore Tirkey. The hospital administration informed the police and also scoured the CCTV footage to ascertain when the woman left the hospital with the baby. Dhanbad additional district magistrate (law and order) Kumar Tarachand blamed the infant’s grandmother for the theft of the baby. “After recent incidents, the hospital authority on the directive of the district administration has increased the number of CCTV cameras to over 36. There are nearly 30 security guards. We have also set up a police outpost in the campus of the hospital. What can anyone do if a family member hands over a few hours old baby to an unknown person?” questioned Tarachand. He, however, said that an FIR has been registered and the police are investigating the case and hoped the baby would be recovered soon and the culprits nabbed. Medical college superintendent Dr A.K. Barnwal refused to comment on the incident. “We have handed over the case to the police and it is their responsibility to investigate and nab the culprits. I cannot say anything more on the issue,” said Dr Barnwal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
