22-10-2021||Business||Sensex falls 102 points to close below 61,000||Equity benchmark Sensex declined 102 points on Friday, tracking losses in ITC, Maruti and Infosys amid mixed cues from global markets. The 30-share BSE index fell 101.88 points or 0.17 per cent to 60,821.62. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty shed 63.20 points or 0.35 per cent to close at 18,114.90. ITC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, slipping over 3 per cent, followed by Maruti, Infosys, NTPC, HCL Tech and Tata Steel. On the other hand, HDFC, Bajaj Auto, IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank, Titan and Axis Bank were among the gainers. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Seoul and Shanghai ended in the red, while Hong Kong and Tokyo settled with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, the rupee slipped 3 paise to close at 74.90 against the US dollar. International oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.52 per cent to USD 85.05 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market on Thursday, offloading shares worth Rs 2,818.90 crore, as per exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
22-10-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in opening trade on Friday, tracking gains in index heavyweights HDFC twins, Titan and Bajaj Auto amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 207.09 points or 0.34 per cent higher at 61,130.59 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty advanced 65.65 points or 0.36 per cent to 18,243.75. HDFC was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising about 2 per cent, followed by Titan, PowerGrid, Bajaj Auto, HDFC Bank and Bharti Airtel. On the other hand, NTPC, Infosys, HCL Tech, Tata Steel and Bajaj Finance were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 336.46 points or 0.55 per cent lower at 60,923.50, and Nifty dropped 88.50 points or 0.48 per cent to 18,178.10. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,818.90 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Hong Kong, Tokyo, Shanghai and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges on Wall Street ended on a mixed note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.54 per cent to USD 84.15 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
22-10-2021||Business||Sensex extends losses; Reliance Industries, Asian Paints slip||The benchmark Sensex on Thursday remained under pressure, falling more than 336 points, led by Reliance Industries and Asian Paints as investors grappled with concerns over hyper valuations and disappointing results. Over the past three sessions, the gauge has taken a hit of around 793 points and during intra-day trade on Thursday, it fell to a low of 60485.65 points — a drop of around 1230 points from the levels prevailing on Tuesday. Market circles feel that had it not been for some buying in financial stocks, the index would have settled deep in the red as well. While the markets have been cruising at record levels till early this week, results from Hindustan Unilever Ltd (HUL), which reflected the adverse impact of elevated commodity prices, have impacted sentiment. On Thursday, Asian Paints reported disappointing numbers because of high raw material prices. It posted a 28 per cent fall in consolidated net profits to Rs 596 crore for the quarter ended September 30, 2021, thus missing Street estimates. “Steep inflation seen in raw material prices since the beginning of this calendar year has been phenomenal and has impacted gross margins across all businesses in the quarter,’’ Amit Syngle, managing director & CEO of Asian Paints said while commenting on the results. On the BSE, shares of Asian Paints fell 5.21 per cent to Rs 3003.50 and it led the losers list in the Sensex. It was followed by RIL, which settled 2.85 per cent lower at Rs 2,623. The stock has also come under pressure recently due to apprehensions of expensive valuations. RIL will declare results on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
22-10-2021||Business||Reliance shareholders approve appointment of Aramco Chairman on board||Shareholders of Reliance Industries (RIL) backed the company’s proposal to appoint Saudi Aramco chairman Yasir al-Rumayyan as an independent director on its board. The development comes at a time a rise in shareholder activism has seen some crucial resolutions placed by other listed firms being rejected. The oil-to-telecom giant on Thursday said a resolution proposing al-Rumayyan’s appointment got the support of over 98 per cent of the votes polled. Earlier, the California State Teachers Retirement Fund (CalSTRS) had decided to vote against the resolution. Its decision was based on the recommendation of global proxy advisory firm Glass, Lewis & Co, which raised concerns about al-Rumayyan being designated as independent director. The voting to confirm al-Rumayyan’s appointment for a period of three years began on September 20 and ended on October 19. In a statement on Thursday, RIL said the resolution was passed with the requisite majority. A regulatory filing showed that 544,29,95,170 votes were polled in favour of the resolution, while 10,89,04,522 (1.96 per cent) were against the plan. While the proposal got the full support of the promoter and promoter group, among public institutions it was at 94.90 per cent or 202 42 65 266. Similarly, among the non-institutions segment, the votes polled in favour was 20 81 29 930 or 99.91 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
22-10-2021||Business||Amazon in Supreme Court to stall Future merger moves||US retail giant Amazon has filed a fresh petition in the Supreme Court seeking the top court’s intervention to set aside a September order by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) that allowed Future Retail Ltd (FRL) to hold a meeting of its shareholders and creditors for the proposed merger with Reliance. Amazon’s plea follows the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) stating that FRL is a party to the arbitration between Amazon and the Future group. The partial award on Wednesday had dismissed the jurisdictional objection application filed by FRL. FRL had contended before the SIAC it should be excluded from the arbitration proceedings because it was not a party to the the dispute between its promoter Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) and Amazon. Following this partial win from the SIAC, Amazon has filed an interim application in the apex court. In a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges on Thursday, FRL disclosed that Amazon has appealed to the Supreme Court to set aside the September 28 order of the NCLT which allowed FRL to convene a meeting of its shareholders and creditors. FRL had then announced it will hold the meeting with equity shareholders on November 10 and with the creditors on November 11. Reacting to the development, shares of Future Retail fell almost four per cent at the stock exchanges on Thursday. At the BSE, the FRL scrip settled 3.83 per cent lower at Rs 51.50. The NCLT has also allowed two Reliance group firms to seek creditors approval for the acquisition of Future group entities, brushing aside Amazon’s objections. Permission by the NCLT mean that while the companies can hold the meetings, the tribunal cannot give a final approval to the merger, till the Supreme Court gives its order. In October 2020, an interim award was passed by the emergency arbitrator of the SIAC in favour of Amazon. Later in August this year, the Supreme Court ruled in favour of Amazon by holding that the award by the emergency arbitrator was valid and enforceable under Indian laws. The SIAC has reportedly concluded hearing of the matter between Amazon and Future Group and has reserved its final order. After the Future group entered into a deal with Reliance Industries in August last year, the US retail giant had dragged the Kishore Biyani led group into arbitration at the SIAC. Early this month, Reliance Retail Ventures, the retail arm of Reliance Industries, for the second time extended the timeline for completing the Rs 24,713 crore deal with Future Group to March 31, 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
22-10-2021||Business||Centre rules out any proposal of fuel duty cut||The Modi government is not considering any proposal to cut the duties on petrol and diesel even as global crude prices hover around multi-year highs of $85 per barrel, finance ministry officials said. Ministry officials said revenue considerations far outweigh the benefits of an excise duty cut and any decision to slash duties will be politically driven. A one rupee cut in excise duty on fuel will cost the central exchequer almost Rs 14,000 crore annually, which the government cannot  afford at a time growth needs a push. Price hikes Petrol and diesel prices on Thursday were hiked for the third consecutive day that took pump rates across the country to record high levels. In Calcutta, a litre of petrol costs Rs 107.11, and diesel is sold at Rs 98.38 per litre While petrol has hit the Rs 100-a-litre mark or more in all major cities of the country, diesel has touched that level in over a dozen states. . Coal reserves Power Secretary Alok Kumar on Thursday stressed on the need to have strategic fuel reserves to insulate the nation from supply shocks for at least a month, in the backdrop of the ongoing coal shortage at power plants in the country. Addressing a Confederation of Indian Industry event, Kumar said the higher price of coal, especially imported, was the main reason for the coal crisis in the country. His comments assume significance in view of ongoing coal shortage at power plants in the country. Oil storage India has started selling crude oil from its strategic reserves to state refiners with a view to soften the blow from surging global crude prices, while also creating space for leasing out to private and international companies. “We have started selling to oil marketing companies. This will help to create space that we will then offer for leasing,” Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserves Ltd CEO H P S Ahuja said on Thursday. As much as 0.3 million tonnes of Upper Zakum crude stored at the Mangalore cavern has already been emptied and the remaining 0.45 million tonnes will be sold by the end of the year. ISPRL will lease out Mangalore cavern of 0.75 million tonnes capacity to state-owned Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd “MRPL has bought the crude the government had stored at Mangaluru at market rate,” he said adding that MRPL wants to store Saudi crude at Mangaluru SPR.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
22-10-2021||Business||JSW Steel posts sharp rise in profit and revenue in Q2||JSW Steel posted a 68 per cent rise in revenue from operations and a 350 per cent jump in net profit on a consolidated basis in the second quarter of the fiscal compared with the same period last year on the back of strong margins for the metal. The revenue of Rs 32,503 crore and profit of Rs 7,179 crore during July-September period was the highest ever achieved by the Sajjan Jindal led company. While the performance is comprehensively better than the same period of last fiscal when India was slowly coming out of a stringent lockdown, it is notably higher on a quarter-on-quarter basis, indicating the company managed to sequentially expand margin. The subsidiaries of the company, especially the previously loss making US operations, did well this quarter. JSW Steel Ohio Inc reported an EBIDTA of $48.28 million during Q2 compared with a loss of $10.52 million. The plate and pipe mill in Texas also made $13.16 million EBIDTA. The Italy operation, however, remained in loss. Saleable steel sales for the quarter on a consolidated basis stood at 3.83 million tonnes (mt) , an increase of 10 per cent quarter on quarter. JSW Steel, along with overseas subsidiaries and entities jointly controlled by the company viz. Bhushan Power & Steel Ltd (BPSL) reported 4.83 mt of sales. During the quarter, BPSL became an indirect step down subsidiary of JSW Steel where the company now holds a 83.28 per cent stake after the conversion of optional fully convertible debentures (OFCDs). The company also expanded the capacity of its Dolvi Works plant by commissioning a 5mt blast furnace at the unit in Maharashtra.During the quarter, JSW spent Rs 3,639 crore on capex. ICICI Securities said consolidated topline and EBIDTA were in-line with expectation while PAT came in higher than the estimate on higher than expected other income. JSW booked a Rs 702 crore fair valuation gain on remeasurement of OFCDs held by the company in one of the JVs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
22-10-2021||Business||India lost 35,000 HNIs during Modi regime: Amit Mitra||India may have lost 35,000 high net-worth individuals to other countries in the past six years during the regime of Narendra Modi, a troubling trend highlighted by Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra on Thursday. Mitra quoted multiple sources to arrive at the mind boggling number, which underlines the flight of capital, puncturing the chest-thumping claims of the Modi government that India has become one of the most sought after destinations for investors. The Bengal FM questioned if the departure is linked to “fear psychosis” which prompted the millionaires to look for greener pastures . “Under Modi govt 35,000 Indian Entrepreneurs of High Net Worth LEFT India between 2014-2020, as NRI/Immigrants. India RANKED No 1 IN EXODUS IN THE WORLD. WHY? ‘Fear psychosis’?? PM must place WHITE PAPER to Parliament on massive flight of entrepreneurs during his Regime,” tweeted Mitra. Continuing with the thread, Mitra wrote how some of the haloed names of India Inc came under severe criticism during a recent event of a business chamber. “Recall 19 minutes of TIRADE against Indian business by Piyush Goyal, reportedly saying business practices of INDIAN INDUSTRY WENT AGAINST NATIONAL INTEREST — short of calling them ANTI-NATIONAL. Breeds ‘fear psychosis’, motivating EXODUS? But, PM did not rebuke Goyal. Why?” Mitra tweeted.  During the CII event, Goyal chastised many, most notably the Tata group, drawing sharp criticism on social media. The video of the event was taken down from social media and it remains unavailable. Speaking to The Telegraph this afternoon, Mitra explained that an environment of fear has engulfed Indian entrepreneurs under the Modi regime and they are fearful of speaking up against the government . “I also hear tales of tax terrorism and demands being faced by the industry on various counts. Put together, many of them are relocating,” Mitra said. Industry sources said legal firms are receiving requests from clients to guide them through the transition to NRI status or taking up citizenship of other countries. The US, UAE, Canada, Australia and New Zealand are said to be the preferred destinations. India ranks 6th globally in the number of millionaires (individuals having wealth of over $1 million), according to New World Wealth. There were 330,000 millionaires in India and 120 billionaires with net assets over $1 billion. Some of the data quoted by Mitra is taken from the NWW study which it did for Mauritius based AfrAsia Bank. Even though the firm forecast an 80 per cent jump in the number of millionaires by 2030 to 600,000 in its latest report, it counted ongoing migration of HNIs amongst country risk.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
22-10-2021||Business||Merlin Group announces launch of residential township in Rajarhat||Calcutta-based realtor Merlin Group announced the formal launch of a residential township in Rajarhat, promising to add over 6 million square feet of built-up space over the next decade to the city’s landscape. The 45-acre township is going to be based on the theme of sports. The developer intends to build pitches for football and cricket apart from a swimming pool and indoor sports arena for the residents of 10,000 dwelling units which will come up there. Infrastructure cost of the project is going to be around Rs 250 crore, Saket Mohta, managing director of Merlin Group, said. Merlin is promising to hand over the first phase of 2,529 units in five years. The builder has priced the 2-BHK and 3-BHK apartments between Rs 29 lakh and Rs 40 lakh. Mohta said Merlin’s aim was to become a full-fledged real estate company having residential projects in the luxury and affordable segments, office space, mall and industrial parks. However, affordable housing will have the biggest pie.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
22-10-2021||Business||S&P Global upgrades ratings of five Tata group companies ||S&P Global on Thursday upgraded ratings of five companies of the Tata group, including Tata Steel, Tata Motors and Jaguar Land Rover (JLR), reflecting its reassessment of the ongoing influence and the potential for ‘extraordinary financial support’ from parent Tata Sons. Under the revised exercise, S&P Global said ratings on Tata Steel and its 100 per cent-owned financing subsidiary ABJA Investment Co Pte Ltd have been upgraded to ‘BBB-’ from ‘BB’ with stable outlook. Similarly, Tata Motors and its wholly-owned arm TML Holdings Pte Ltd have been upgraded to ‘BB-’ from ‘B’ ratings with stable outlook. Also, the ratings of the group’s British luxury vehicles maker Jaguar Land Rover Automotive PLC (JLR) has been revised upwards to ‘B+’ from ‘B’. The outlook is stable, S&P Global Ratings said in a statement. “The upgrades reflect our view that the credit profiles of the various Tata Group entities are strengthened by their importance to Tata Sons, with potential for financial support, if required,” the ratings agency said. It further said, “We also expect Tata Sons to have a positive influence on the long-term strategy, financial policies and funding access of its group entities. We regard the credit quality of Tata Sons to be strongly investment grade.” S&P said the incorporation of group support into the ratings followed a revision to its approach to treating Tata Sons as a conglomerate rather than as an investment holding company. “We have observed that Tata Sons and its subsidiaries and associates have become a more cohesive group in recent years,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
22-10-2021||Business||Zee directed to convene EGM to consider Punit Goenka’s removal and induction of 6 new directors||Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd (ZEEL) has been directed to convene an extraordinary general meeting to consider resolutions seeking to remove Punit Goenka as CEO and MD of the media giant and induct six new independent directors. The EGM has been sought by the company’s largest shareholder Invesco which holds roughly 18 per cent of the company’s equity — a move that sparked a raging legal battle with the Subhash Chandra family, the founders of Zee. Invesco has insisted that its move was motivated by weak corporate governance at Zee and plummeting shareholder returns. Last week, Punit Goenka — who has negotiated a non-binding merger agreement with Sony India that he hopes to close by the end of December — created a stir when he claimed that Invesco had been trying to negotiate a takeover of the company by the Reliance group without authorisation from the Zee board. On Thursday, a single judge bench of the Bombay high court asked the warring parties to suggest a neutral chairperson who would conduct the EGM and gave them the freedom to pick a retired judge, senior lawyer or anyone from the corporate world. At the hearing on Thursday, Gopal Subramanium, senior counsel for Zee, said he would seek instructions from the company and will inform the court on Friday morning about the date for the EGM. Earlier this month, Zee had moved the Bombay high court praying that the demand for an EGM made by Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund be declared “illegal and invalid”. Under company law, any shareholder holding more than 10 per cent of the equity can requisition an EGM. The judge said that if Invesco was denied the right to call an EGM, it would set a “ferocious precedent” that would spark a flurry of petitions in courts seeking to assert the democratic rights of the shareholder. The court observed that it was premature to presume that the resolutions would be passed. Even if they were, the judge said he would direct that the result would not be enforced for a week, giving the company time to file an appeal in the courts. “The order that Zee seeks is in the teeth of a statutory provision (of the Companies Act, 2013). I can’t see ... why I should presume that it (the resolution seeking to oust Goenka) will be passed,” Justice GS Patel said. He also suggested that even as the EGM is held, Zee’s right to contest the validity of the resolution after the meeting can be reserved. The two sides have also locked in battle before the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT). Recently, the tribunal had given Zee time till October 22 (Friday) to reply to Invesco’s plea to hold the EGM. This order was issued after the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) directed NCLT Mumbai to give the company reasonable opportunity to reply to Invesco’s petition insisting on an EGM. The NCLAT had observed that the tribunal had committed an error by failing to grant reasonable and sufficient time to Zee to file its reply. It added that this was in complete violation of Rule 37 of NCLT Rules, 2016 and the principles of natural justice. Invesco had submitted on September 11 its demand for an EGM which was rejected by the Zee board. It then sent out an open letter to Zee shareholders in which it argued that “weak governance and a permissive board” had perpetuated a situation where the affairs of Zee had become entangled with the “the financial distress of the founding family”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-29
22-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Minister's son remanded in police custody again||Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, arrested for his alleged role in the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, was on Friday remanded in police custody for two days. It was for the second time that he was remanded in police custody by Lakhimpur Kheri's Chief Judicial Magistrate Chinta Ram. Besides, Mishra, CJM Ram also sent three other accused in the case -- Ankit Das, Shekhar Bharti and Latif to police custody, acceding the prosecution's request for their police remand. The two-day police remand for the four, starting from 5 PM on Friday, will end at the same time on Sunday. After his arrest on October 9, the son of Union MoS (Home) was first remanded to police custody on October 11 with the remand period starting on October 12 and ending on October 15. After the expiry of his first remand period, he was sent back to the Lakhimpur Jail under judicial custody.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
22-10-2021||India||TMC MP Sushmita Dev's car vandalised in Tripura||Trinamul Congress MP Sushmita Dev's car was vandalised by some people in Tripura today, according to NDTV.com. Some employees of a private firm that is helping TMC in political campaigns were injured in the attack. Sushmita Dev, who is overseeing the Trinamool Congress's activities in Tripura, alleged the BJP was behind the attack. Dev was with employees of Indian Political Action Committee or I-PAC, a political public relations and consultancy firm, when the attack happened. Political strategist Prashant Kishor and I-PAC had worked with Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's party for the West Bengal assembly election earlier this year. Visuals show a blue SUV with the Trinamool Congress's election symbol and loudspeakers on the roof dented with multiple hits. “Today, when we just sat in our campaign car, four to five men suddenly came from behind, wearing Tilaks on their foreheads. They attacked our workers from behind," Dev was quoted as saying by news18.com after the incident. “The way they attacked us; it was clear that they were backed by the Bharatiya Janata Party, and the Police. They are scared, that’s why they are doing this. Police personnel were standing nearby and did nothing to avert the incident," she said. Abhishek Banerjee also attacked the saffron party in a tweet, saying “under @BjpBiplab’s #DuareGundaRaj, attack on political opponents is setting new records!" “Physically manhandling a sitting female Rajya Sabha MP, @SushmitaDevAITC is BEYOND SHAMEFUL & POLITICAL TERRORISM by @BJP4Tripura goons!" he said, adding that the people of Tripura would answer, as the “time was near". However, the BJP rubbished the reports. “Sushmita Dev is seeing the BJP attack everywhere. They do all these things in Bengal," said Bengal BJP MP Arjun Singh. The TMC is set to contest the upcoming civic body elections in Tripura. Dev is overseeing the party activities in the state, and had said on Thursday that a final strategy will be formulated once the elections are declared. Dev had announced that the party would on Friday launch a campaign — “Tripurar Jonno Trinamool" (TMC for Tripura) — to reach out to the people of the state. “The campaign will continue for 10-12 days, covering all 60 assembly constituencies in 58 blocks of eight districts. We will go to the people, interact with them and listen to their problems. Three teams have been formed for the campaign," she had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Harish Chaudhary appointed new AICC in-charge for Punjab||The Congress on Friday appointed Harish Chaudhary as the AICC in-charge for party affairs in Punjab relieving Harish Rawat. Chaudhary, who was the AICC secretary for Punjab, has also been made the in-charge for Chandigarh. The decision comes after Rawat had urged the party high-command to relieve him as general secretary in-charge for Punjab affairs in view of the upcoming assembly elections in Uttarakhand. "Congress president has appointed Harish Chaudhary as AICC in-charge of Punjab and Chandigarh with immediate effect.Harish Rawat is being relieved from his current responsibility as AICC general secretary in-charge of Punjab and Chandigarh," an official party statement said. Rawat shall, however, continue to be a member of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the highest decision making body of the party. "The party appreciates his contribution as general secretary," the statement further said. Rawat played a key role in bringing in Navjot Singh Sidhu as the Punjab Congress chief despite strong opposition from then chief minister Amarinder Singh. He later played a key role in replacing Amarinder Singh with Charanjit Singh Channi as chief minister of Punjab after Amarinder Singh resigned alleging humiliation at the hands of the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||What is 'conscious possession' of drugs, based on which Aryan was denied bail?  ||Senior lawyers have hit out at the government’s claim that Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan had “conscious possession” of drugs because his friend, Arbaaz Merchant, was carrying a small quantity with him when they were arrested. "What is conscious possession? There is nothing like that. This is all a play of words,” says senior well-known defence lawyer Rebecca Mammen John. The two friends were arrested at a terminal when they were about to go on a cruise ship party. Khan, Merchant, and several others were detained under laws “related to possession, consumption and sale of illegal substances.” The charges against Khan include purchase, possession and use of banned substances, the Narcotics Control Board (NCB) has said. A special court in Mumbai on Wednesday rejected Khan’s bail application after the NCB argued before the court that he was in “conscious possession” of illegal drugs, despite the fact that he had nothing on him when he was arrested. The NCB built its case on the fact that Merchant had charas in his shoe and that the accused allegedly admitted to investigators that they intended to use the drug for “consumption and enjoyment.” “There is no such thing as a vicarious liability in criminal law,” adds another lawyer, pointing out that the government would have to add the charge of criminal conspiracy under Section 120 of the Indian Penal Code. “Even for conspiracy, the law in India is that it must be based on verifiable, cogent evidence. You can’t have a fairytale and say, ‘This is a conspiracy,’” says John. “Although no possession is found from the accused number 1, 6gm of charas was found from accused number 2 (Merchant) of which Aryan had the knowledge and thus it can be said that it was in conscious possession of both the accused,” the judge said in a detailed order. The court also took note of WhatsApp messages between Khan and Merchant and said: “Perusal of Whatsapp chats reveals that there are chats of accused number 1 (Khan) about drugs with unknown persons.” The court extended the judicial custody of Khan, Merchant and another friend, Munmun Dhamecha, till October 30. The case was heard before the special court of sessions under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Act (NDPS Act). Aryan’s appeal to the Bombay High Court is scheduled to be heard on October 26. Earlier, the Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate R. M. Nerlikar had rejected the bail application by the three on the grounds that only the NDPS special court was authorised to hear the plea. The amount of charas allegedly involved is of a “minuscule quantity''. The Bombay High Court has just released somebody on bail who was in possession of something like 400gm. That is a reported judgement,” said Dushyant Dave, a senior lawyer. Normally any quantity of charas below 100 gm is considered a small quantity, lawyers said. “A grave injustice is being done,” Dave said. “You’re taking away this young boy’s liberty for the last 18 days for no reason whatsoever. Who can compensate for it?  How is his mind? How is his psyche? It’s really wrong. I really feel this is not the way we should function. Every constitutional right of this young man has been violated by the state,” he said. The lawyers said text messages may be considered as evidence during a trial but not in a bail hearing. “While opposing bail they have improved their story again and again. That’s not permissible,” one lawyer noted. “On the first day, the question is whether his arrest was legal or not. On the day he was arrested October 2, the arrest was absolutely unconstitutional, forget illegal,” the lawyer said. “Your liberty can be deprived under Article 21 only by following the procedure established by law. You can’t just pick up people. The magistrate the day he was produced should have released him straight away,” the lawyer said.  The magistrate should have said, “‘What is this? There is nothing on him. And he is not a criminal. He has never been involved in criminal activity in the past.’” the lawyer said. Khan’s lawyer noted in the initial bail application that the punishment for possession of such a small quantity of charas would be a maximum six months imprisonment or fine, and that section 64A of NDPS Act allows for immunity from prosecution and bail ought to be granted. The court on Wednesday said there was preliminary evidence to suggest that Khan was part of a “larger network” involving foreign nationals and drug dealers who appeared to be part of an international drug network and that granting bail would hamper the investigation. A team from the NCB went to Shah Rukh Khan’s Mumbai house on Thursday for what they told reporters was “paperwork”. The team told reporters their visit was “not a search or a raid”. Crucially, there’s no concept of ‘conscious possession’ in criminal law and even the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS Act) under which the case is being tried, does not mention it. But the courts have, in different judgements, in India found it necessary to look at the circumstances of each case, to figure out whether, if two or more people are together, a case of ‘conscious possession’ can be made out. For instance, if two or more people are in a car carrying a large quantity of drugs can all the people be said to have “conscious possession” of the narcotics or can only one person be charged? Section 35 of the NDPS Act says there can be a presumption of a “culpable mental state”. That then pushes the onus of proving his or her innocence onto the accused person. Crucially, however, Section 35 (2) adds firmly that, “A fact is said to be proved only when the court believes it to exist beyond a reasonable doubt.” It adds firmly: “And not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of probability.” In other words, the court can make a presumption but it must be shown to be backed by extremely strong evidence, “beyond a reasonable doubt”. “Although no possession is found from the accused number 1 (Khan), six gm of charas was found from accused number 2 (Merchant) of which Aryan had the knowledge and thus it can be said that it was in conscious possession of both the accused,” the judge said in the detailed order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Ananya Panday appears before NCB for second day||Bollywood actor Ananya Panday appeared before the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) here on Friday to record statement in connection with her alleged WhatsApp chats with Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, arrested in a drugs case, sources said on Friday. This is for the second day in a row that Ananya appeared before the central agency. Her actor-father Chunky Panday accompanied her to the NCB office as he had done on Thursday. The father-daughter duo arrived at the anti-drug agency's office located at Ballard Estate in South Mumbai in a car around 2.20 pm, the sources said. There was heavy deployment of police personnel at the office and barricades were put up there as large number of media persons gathered outside. The NCB is probing the cruise ship drugs case, in which Aryan Khan is arrested along with 19 others. During the investigation the NCB had found some WhatsApp chats between Aryan Khan and Ananya Panday, the sources said. The NCB officials want to get some more information about the chats, following which she was summoned to the office on Thursday. She was questioned by the agency officials for around two hours on Thursday, they said. The NCB had seized Ananya's laptop and mobile phone on Thursday. Meanwhile, a 24-year-old drug peddler was brought to the NCB office for questioning in the early hours of Friday, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Leenalove - a Musical Artist Who Has Honed Her Life With a Lot of Talents||Music is like a God. It gives a soul to the universe while giving wings to the mind. Meanwhile, singers are like an angel who sends the God's messages. So, today we will talk with an angel. What does it mean? As a music lover, this is the great time I have ever had. Because there is one of my favorite music artists in front of me, she is a popular and multitalented artist LeenaLove. Can you imagine how I feel? However, my happy celebration aside, I have to be mindful to do my job. Oh! Here we go. So, Leena Pedraza known as LeenaLove, according to the world, you are a talented music artist. But your fans like to know more than that. However, I know only you, and God knows who you are. Actually, what kind of person is LeenaLove? What kind of talents do you have? I am a simple girl. But I like to be my own boss and chase my dreams through learning and hardworking. I love music, so I am a music artist. Similarly, I am an entrepreneur and content writer. Not only that, you think I am crazy. But I am the one who always likes to do what I love. I loved posing in front of the camera. So, I started modeling for fun. But now I have learned it. Now I take my own modeling images using a tripod and self-timer. Also, I am a makeup artist. If I feel I have the talent, why am I hiring in other people's services? Basically, the smell is motivated us to buy the perfume. Similarly, we all need inspiration to do anything. It is the nature of human beings. So, what inspired you to do what you are doing now? I like to do anything that I love. How did I do this? I love to learn. I always learn, learn and learn. So, through this, I identify the things that I can do better. It inspires me to create new art with my work. Usually, a person is more talented for only one thing. But you are one of the persons who challenge the creation of God. Actually, you are multitalented. Can you reveal the future plans of your businesses? I like to tell; social media is the best platform for people who are passionate about success in any field. I have lots of fans who know me and my music via social media. So, I hope to enhance my fan base through my new creations, and then l plan to start my online business. I need to introduce original stylish T-shirts with my modeling image brand because I love to add more color to people's lives to be beautiful. The whole world will accept without a doubt that LeenaLove is a very talented music artist. So, I would like to know what your most remarkable achievement is in other fields? Yes. I won many awards. The award is like the heart of all souls who love to chase their dreams. So, those awards have been precious for my whole life. When I fall down due to any trouble, beautiful memories that come with these awards give energy to me to run for life. \ However, Prototype Magazine 2018, B.A.D.D. Magazine 2018, FaceFirst Magazine 2018, and B.A.D.D. Magazine 2020 is the greatest gift for my life. Finally, what do you tell for our future entrepreneurs? Always keep a positive mindset with a target goal. Face all "no," "thanks," rejections, failures, and heartbreaks with a smile, and this is ok. All ups and downs develop our lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Mandeep Singh And Mohammad Salman Khan Told Us What Helped Them To Succeed In The Acting World||Amongst the many things that have turned people’s heads and attention the most in the world, the rise of certain young professionals, as entrepreneurs, artists, musicians, singers, actors etc., have made the most headlines. People today are intrigued by the real success stories that youngsters have created all on their own. They want to know more about them, their journeys, struggles and what they aim to do in life to draw more inspiration from them. Mandeep Singh and Mohammad Salman Khan are two names that have made a lot of buzz as one such acting talent and now is stopping for none to get nearer his definition of success in the industry. Having a positive mindset: Mandeep Singh and Mohammad Salman Khan says that the journey in acting can test a person’s patience and pose many hurdles in the form of growing competition. However, he stayed calm throughout, focusing only on enhancing his acting talents with a positive mindset, which helped him achieve the momentum he enjoys today in the industry. Being passionate: Acting was the thing that always made him feel the most passionate. Following his passion, Mandeep Singh and Mohammad Salman Khan made incessant efforts to learn many new skills in acting, which helped increase his expertise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Being a catalyst of change in society- meet humanitarian Raunak Singh||Raunak Singh's organization "Sikh Aid" has now become a national organization, serving all those in need across different Indian cities. There are too many success stories in this world, who in ways, more than one go ahead in instilling more hope, positivity, and motivation in others through their work across industries. However, a few of them go ahead in inspiring young minds and others and igniting the fire in them to do the good and spread the good amongst others in society. These individuals work with a bigger aim in life, and that is to impact the lives of people and serve humankind, rising as humanitarians. We came across one such man, who has surrendered himself to the people in need and has emerged as a selfless soul; he is Raunak Singh. From a very early age, Raunak Singh confesses that he was fascinated by the idea of helping others in need and serving society as a whole. Hence, he jumped into doing "Seva" and now has been serving people all over India. Raunak Singh also helms his small initiative of service "Sikh Aid" to be of service to those in need, which has turned into a national organization. His NGO Sikh Aid has now been recognized as the national NGO, which has crossed boundaries in various humanitarian works aiding in disaster areas and civil conflict zones around India. Raunak Singh highlights that his organization is based on the Sikh principle of "Naam Japo, Kirat Karo, Vandh Chakho". He further says that the aim of Sikh Aid is to show the world that Sikhs are humanitarians, that they are driven by humanity and are what the Sikh means. From early 2020 to now, Sikh Aid, under the visions and passion of Raunak Singh, has become a national organization with chapters in Pune, Odisha, Kolkata, Mumbai, Punjab and Delhi. Amidst the trying times, Raunak Singh reveals how the team couldn't travel, but fortunately, the local voluntary groups and volunteers spread across various cities took forward their activities and carried on with Sikh Aid projects, constantly walking on their path to serving humanity. Raunak Singh and his NGO Sikh Aid have truly earned massive recognition and respect from people all over the country for the kind of work they have been doing and the commitment they have been showing to make a positive difference in the lives of others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Delhi court denies bail to JNU student Sharjeel Imam in 2019 Jamia rioting case||A Delhi court on Friday denied bail to JNU student Sharjeel Imam in connection with allegedly giving an inflammatory speech and inciting violence in 2019, saying that the speech was on communal lines and its content "tend to have a debilitating effect on the peace and harmony." According to police, Imam allegedly delivered a provocative speech on December 13, 2019, which resulted in riots two days later when a mob consisting of over 3,000 people attacked police personnel and torched several vehicles in the Jamia Nagar area. Denying bail to him, Additional Sessions Judge Anuj Agrawal said that cursory and plain reading of the speech showed that it was clearly on communal lines. "The tone and tenor of the incendiary speech tend to have a debilitating effect upon public tranquility, peace, and harmony of the society," he added. The judge, however, noted that the evidence in support of the allegations that the rioters got instigated by Imam's speech and thereafter indulged in the acts of rioting, mischief, attacking the police party, was scanty and sketchy. Besides this case, Imam is also accused of being the "mastermind" of the February 2020 northeast Delhi riots, which had left 53 people dead and over 700 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Wish to make it big on social media as an influencer? Abram Puttan explains how||It is amazing to see the growth of certain industries and fields, especially from the last few years, which prove how the digital wave immersed almost all of them. Experts had hinted at this growth and development before, but back then, they did not know that a certain pandemic would also trigger the adoption of digitalization and increased use of social media platforms. These developments today are a result of the modern-day strategies and ideas of youngsters and other passionate professionals and influencers who have completely changed the game of the digital space. Many new influencers rose to fame as social media content creators, and some of them went multiple steps ahead in gaining exponential fame and recognition across the world. Today, more and more people desire to become a part of this industry, for they know it can change their lives and careers and can give success like never before. Abram Puttan stands tall as one of such social media influencers, who dived deep into the field and now looks unstoppable. He has today come forward to share his views on what other budding talents must work around to attain their desired success and name in the social media world. The first thing he advises influencers is to be relatable. Puttan says that all the content that instantly connects audiences with are those that seem relatable. The second thing he believes people must workaround is being personable. He says an influencer must work around being personable and develop a personality that looks agreeable, pleasant and sociable. Creativity is at the core of any social media influencer's success, points out the man who himself has won hearts with his creative, entertaining and comedy content on social media. It is also imperative to understand the importance of being responsive to audiences believes the ace influencer, who says that whether the feedback is positive or negative, influencers must make sure to be responsive to their audiences for them to know that they are grateful for all their fans and followers. Lastly, he explains that passion for content creation can truly lead people to their desired success, even amidst competition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Amit Vishwakarma's astute business sense and his strategies with his digital company PowerHouse Media & Entertainment have earned him massive success||To understand an industry fully and to make it huge in the same, individuals need to get all in and learn as many things as possible each passing day, keep hustling, be resilient and go under the grind to reach their definition of success. The digital world is a world of its own, which so far has given rise to not just digital marketing and media companies, but many astute entrepreneurs and experts who have changed the social media game for the better. Today, most of the brands and businesses are aware of how important it is to stay relevant in their niches and have a dominant presence in online mediums. For that, they have been getting in touch with digital media companies like PowerHouse Media & Entertainment to keep up with the pace of the changing times and trends of their industries. The owner of PowerHouse Media & Entertainment, Amit Vishwakarma as a teenage digital entrepreneur, wants more and more youngsters in the industry to learn to utilize, optimize and capitalize on the tools that social media platforms offer to everyone. These tools and strategies help people and brands survive even the tough times and emerge as winners in their respective industries. As a company that offers a variety of services like digital marketing, influencer marketing, artist management, ad creation, content creation, music distribution, PR, and so much more, PowerHouse Media & Entertainment has raised the bar in management and marketing consultation. He also advises brands and people to focus on providing a personalized approach to each of their clients to cater to their individual needs and demands. This white-glove approach always works for companies, gaining them more trust from their clients and making them more authoritative in the industry. Amit Vishwakarma plans to bring about more innovations in the industry through his company's incredible digital solutions and services and plans to expand his business in the coming years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-97
22-10-2021||India||Govt indulging in doublespeak over 'Made in India' slogan, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused the government of doublespeak over the 'Made in India' slogan, which he dubbed as a mere 'jumla' (rhetoric). His remarks came after Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla expressed concern over the growing trade deficit with China as India's trade with it grew by 49 per cent in the first nine months of this year. "The Usual Doublespeak. #MadeInIndia #Jumla," he said in a tweet. He also tagged a media report that said the trade with China grew by 49 per cent with Shringla red-flagging the deficit. The report said in the first nine months of this year, India's trade with China touched USD 90 billion, an increase of 49 percent. The trade, however, remains unbalanced with a large trade balance in favour of China, Shringla had said. "Our trade deficit concerns are two-fold the first is the actual size of the deficit. The trade deficit for the nine months period stood at USD 47 billion. This is the largest trade deficit we have with any country. Second, is the fact that the imbalance has continuously been widening," the foreign secretary had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand CM meets affected people in Chamoli's rain-hit Dungri village||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Friday visited Dungri village in Chamoli district to meet the disaster-hit people who lost their kin in the landslides triggered by heavy rains in the state. Accompanied by Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj, State Disaster Management Minister Dhan Singh Rawat and officials, the Chief Minister trekked up the steep slippery slopes of the village with a stick in hand for support to do an on-the-spot assessment of the losses. Two persons of a family were buried in the rubble of a landslide in the village on October 19. Dhami met the surviving members of the family and promised them all help from the government. He asked officials to speed up relief and rescue efforts in the affected areas assuring them that they will not have to face any shortage of resources. "The affected families will get all support from the government. They have lost their kin and have little children. We will ensure that they are given good care," Dhami told reporters during a visit to the village. A total of 65 people were killed, 22 injured and two went missing during the recent spell of downpours in the hill state which also saw 60 houses being damaged. Many hectares of forest and agricultural land with standing paddy crop in them have also swept away in the rains with the Chief Minister pegging the losses as per an initial estimate at Rs 7,000 crore. Search and rescue operations continue in the upper areas of Kumaon and Garhwal regions to evacuate stranded people, including tourists, to safety.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||Fire breaks out in 60-storey Mumbai residential building||A 30-year-old security guard fell to death from the balcony of a flat located on the 19th floor of a 61-storey residential building in central Mumbai after a major fire broke out there on Friday, a fire brigade official said. The blaze erupted on the 19th floor of the One Avighna Park building on Currey Road shortly before noon, he said. "After the fire broke out, Arun Tiwari, a security guard of the building, rushed to the 19th floor. Soon he realised that he was trapped and in order to save himself from the blaze, he kept hanging from the balcony of the flat where the fire had erupted. He precariously clung to the railing of the balcony for several minutes before losing his grip and falling to death," the official said. After Tiwari fell to the ground, he was rushed to the civic-run KEM hospital, where he was declared dead, he added. The fire brigade declared it as a level-4 (major) fire. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar, who visited the building, said two persons were still trapped inside the building although most of the residents have been rescued. Talking to reporters, Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said the fire has been doused and the cooling operation is on. An inquiry will be carried out into the incident, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||Petrol, diesel prices hiked for third straight day||Petrol and diesel prices on Friday touched an all-time high across the country after rates were hiked for the third consecutive day by 35 paise per litre each. The price of petrol in Delhi rose to its highest-ever level of Rs 106.89 a litre and Rs 112.78 per litre in Mumbai, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In Mumbai, diesel now comes for Rs 103.63 a litre, while in Delhi, it costs Rs 95.62 per litre. This is the third consecutive day of the price hike. There was no change in rates on October 18 and 19, prior to which prices were hiked by 35 paise per litre each on four straight days. While petrol has already hit the Rs 100-a-litre mark or more in all major cities of the country, diesel has touched that level in over a dozen states and is treading towards that mark in places from Srinagar to Chennai. Diesel costs Rs 99.49 a litre in Srinagar, while it is priced at Rs 99.92 in Chennai. Prices differ from state to state, depending on the incidence of local taxes. Petrol price has been hiked on 19 occasions since September 28, when a three-week-long hiatus in rate revision ended. In all, prices have gone up by Rs 5.7 a litre. Diesel rates have been increased by Rs 7 per litre in 22 hikes since September 24. Prior to that, the petrol price was increased by Rs 11.44 a litre between May 4 and July 17. The diesel rate had gone up by Rs 9.14 per litre during this period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||1 billion jabs reflect image of a New India, notes Prime Minister ||A day after India crossed the milestone of 100 crore vaccine doses, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the country's vaccination programme was science-born, science-driven and science-based , and asserted that it had been ensured there was no "VIP culture" in the drive. In an address to the nation, the prime minister said there is confidence in the country today. From various strata of society to the economy, at every level and everywhere, there is "optimism, optimism and optimism", he said while also emphasising that people should not drop their guard during the festive season and continue with Covid appropriate behaviour such as masks. Experts, as well as national and international agencies, are very positive about India's economy with Indian companies not only getting record investments but employment generation also taking place, Modi said. Along with record investment in start-ups, record start-up unicorns are also being developed, he said. Modi said it is a matter of pride for all that India's vaccination programme has been science-born, science-driven and science-based". From the development of vaccines to inoculation, science and science-based approach have been involved in all processes, he asserted. Taking a dig at critics of his government, the prime minister recalled that some people had asked how the 'taali-thaali' initiative and lighting of 'diyas' at the start of the pandemic would help eradicate the virus. The initiatives, he stressed, were a reflection of people's participation and unity. Modi also talked about the apprehensions and doubts raised earlier on India's capacity to fight the pandemic. Pointing out that several questions were raised, such as will the people of India get the vaccines or not and will India be able to vaccinate enough people to stop the pandemic from spreading, he said the 100 crore vaccine dose milestone is the answer to every question. Modi said the milestone was not just about a number but a symbol of the country's capability and a picture of "new India". " it is the writing of a new chapter, a country that knows how to set difficult targets and achieve them. It is a picture of that new India that has the strength to strive for achieving its goals," the prime minister said. One impact of this milestone would be that the world would consider India safer from coronavirus, he said. At the beginning of the Covid pandemic, fears were expressed that it would be very difficult to fight the disease in a democracy like India. It was also asked how would there be the restraint and discipline required to combat the pandemic but for us democracy means 'Sabka Saath', Modi said. Taking everyone along, the country had started the campaign of 'Sabko Vaccine, Muft Vaccine', he noted. The country, he said, had only one mantra -- that if the disease does not discriminate, then there cannot be any discrimination in the vaccination. "That's why it was ensured that there is no VIP culture in the vaccination drive," he said. "No matter how big a post one holds, no matter how rich he or she is, they will get vaccination just as a common person will," Modi said. The prime minister urged people to keep following Covid protocol during the festival season and not drop their guard. "No matter how good the shield is, how modern it is, there may be a guarantee of protection from the shield, but weapons are not laid down till the battle is on," the prime minister said, urging people to continue wearing masks and follow Covid appropriate behaviour. In an opinion piece published on Friday to commemorate the landmark achievement of administering 100 crore Covid jabs, Modi noted that the feat was achieved in nine months despite many doubting the country's capability. “There was a lot of pressure from different interest groups to give preferential treatment to them in vaccination,” he said, while giving credit to Indian scientists and entrepreneurs for rising to the occasion to make the country aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) in producing vaccines. Outlining the enormity of the challenge, from producing the vaccine in plants of Pune and Hyderabad to ensuring last mile delivery across the country with seamless logistics, Modi said the drive has been an unprecedented effort in the history of independent India. “When everyone takes ownership, nothing is impossible. Our healthcare workers traversed hills and crossed rivers across difficult geographies to vaccinate people. Our youth, social workers, healthcare workers, social and religious leaders, all deserve credit for the fact that India faces minimal vaccine hesitancy when compared to even developed nations,” he wrote in the piece, ‘Team India-Responding to Adversity with Achievement’ . “Administering 100 crore doses of vaccines in just about nine months since the vaccination started has been a tremendous journey in dealing with the disease,” the prime minister said, noting that humanity was dealing with such a pandemic after 100 years and no one knew much about the virus following its outbreak in early 2020. “We remember how unpredictable the situation appeared then, as we were faced by an unknown and invisible enemy mutating rapidly. The journey from anxiety to assurance has happened and our nation has emerged stronger, thanks to the world's largest vaccination drive,” he said. “One of the reasons for the success of the campaign was the trust that people developed in the vaccine and the process followed, despite various efforts to create mistrust and panic,” he added. Describing the exercise as “bhagirath (gigantic)” effort involving multiple sections of society, he pointed out that if it is assumed that a healthcare worker took just two minutes for every vaccination then at this rate it took around 41 lakh man days or approximately 11 thousand man years of effort to reach this landmark of 100 crore doses. “There are some among us who only trust foreign brands, even for simply everyday necessities. However, when it came to something as crucial as the COVID-19 vaccine, the people of India unanimously trusted Made in India' vaccines. This is a significant paradigm shift,” he said. “India's vaccine drive,” Modi added, “is an example of what the country can achieve if the citizens and the government come together with a common goal in the spirit of Jan Bhagidari (people's participation).” Noting that only a handful of countries have developed their own vaccines so far, he said, “more than 180 countries are dependent on an extremely limited pool of producers and dozens of nations are still waiting for the supply of vaccines while India has crossed 100 crore doses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||India logs over 15,000 fresh Covid cases, 231 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 15,786 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 3,41,43,236, while the active cases have declined to 1,75,745, the lowest in 232 days, according to the Union health ministry's data updated on Friday. The death toll has climbed to 4,53,042 with 231 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 28 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 117 consecutive days now. The active cases have increased to 1,75,745 comprising 0.51 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.16 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A decrease of 3,086 cases has been recorded in the total active number of COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 13,24,263 tests were conducted on Thursday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 59,70,66,481. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.19 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for the last 53 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.31 per cent. It has been below three per cent for the last 119 days, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,35,14,449, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 100.59 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 231 new fatalities include 118 from Kerala and 39 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,53,042 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,925 from Maharashtra, 37,984 from Karnataka, 35,968 from Tamil Nadu, 27,202 from Kerala, 25,090 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,021 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||Prime Minister Modi to address nation at 10am on Friday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the nation at 10 AM on Friday, his office said. His address comes a day after the cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses crossed the landmark figure of 100 crore in India. The Prime Minister had hailed it as history being scripted and, in an opinion piece on Friday, described India's COVID-19 vaccination drive as a journey from "anxiety to assurance" that has made the country emerge stronger. He credited its success to people's trust in the vaccines despite "various efforts to create mistrust and panic". Shortly after the country reached the 100 crore vaccinations milestone mark before 10 AM on Thursday, PM Modi had congratulated the country's health care workers for helping the country achieve the feat. "The milestone is a triumph of Indian science, enterprise and  the collective spirit of 130 crore Indians," he said. Later, while speaking via video conferencing after inaugurating a new building at AIIMS Campus in New Delhi, PM Modi said, "This day of October 21, 2021, has been recorded in history. India has crossed the 100 crore vaccine doses mark sometime back. To combat the biggest pandemic in 100 years, the country now has a strong protective shield of 100 crore vaccine doses. This achievement belongs to India, every citizen of India."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||Dhaka artist’s Delhi show deferred||The Indian Council for Cultural Relations in Delhi has postponed a large retrospective exhibition of the works of Dhaka-based artist Rokeya Sultana. The postponement coincides with a furore led by the BJP in India over sectarian violence reported from Bangladesh during Durga Puja. But no one has yet directly linked the decision on the exhibition to the uproar. The event was being organised in collaboration with the Bengal Foundation, a Dhaka-based art trust founded in 1986. The show was to open at the Lalit Kala Akademi on October 23 and display 120 to 130 works. Amit Sahai Mathur, ICCR programme director, said the exhibition had been postponed for “logistical” reasons and that a new date would be announced “within a short while”. The sudden decision caused surprise and disappointment. “Why was the exhibition closed? It makes one feel uncomfortable,” Jogen Chowdhury said. “I cannot figure out the reason. I don’t know if the decision has anything to do with the incidents in Bangladesh. If it is so, then it is reason enough for worry.” Rokeya, however, said over the phone from Delhi that she was not disappointed. “I will continue to paint. I hope something will come through. I’m optimistic,” she said. Luva Choudhury, director-general, Bengal Foundation, chimed in with the artist. “This retrospective was to mark the 50th year of Bangladesh’s independence and 50 years of Bangladesh’s friendship with India. We hope to get new dates. I’m taking it on a positive note.” Ina Puri, art writer and curator based in Delhi, was “disappointed”. “I had written a monograph on Rokeya Sultana two years ago. That could not be launched earlier because of Covid, and this time owing to the postponement. I hope we shall hear back from the ICCR soon.” Born in 1956 in Chittagong, Rokeya was initially trained as an artist at the government art college in Dhaka. Her father was from Burdwan but moved to what was then East Pakistan after Partition. Rokeya did her MA and MPhil at Kala Bhavana, Visva-Bharati. Among her teachers were Somnath Hore, Lalu Prasad Shaw and Sanat Kar. Kar said over the phone from Santiniketan that Rokeya’s work was “marked by diversity”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||SC restores KCOCA charges on man accused of harbouring Gauri killers||A man accused of harbouring the killers of journalist Gauri Lankesh will face stringent charges of organised crime that Karnataka High Court had set aside, the Supreme Court ruled on Thursday. The high court order quashing the charges filed under the Karnataka Control of Organised Crime Act (KCOCA) against Mohan Nayak was “manifestly wrong and cannot be countenanced”, the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and C.T. Ravikumar said. Gauri, a trenchant critic of the BJP-RSS, was shot dead outside her Bangalore home in 2017 and the investigators have linked many of the suspects to the Sanatan Sanstha, a Right-wing outfit. Thursday’s verdict came on separate appeals filed by Gauri’s sister Kavita Lankesh and the Karnataka government challenging the quashing of KCOCA charges against Nayak. The BJP-led state government filed the separate appeal in the Supreme Court on July 26, some three weeks after Kavita filed her plea in the apex court and over three months after the high court pronounced its order. Apart from the charges of murder and conspiracy under the Indian Penal Code, all the 18 accused — one of them absconding — face charges also under the KCOCA. The 2000 act takes into account not just one specific offence but also other possible crimes committed by the accused or other members of the organised crime syndicate they allegedly belong to. The Bangalore police commissioner had in August 2018 sanctioned the invocation of the KCOCA against the Gauri murder accused. But the high court quashed these charges against Nayak on an appeal from him, ruling the material wasn’t strong enough. The high court had “completely glossed over the crucial fact” that sanction for the KCOCA charges had come from “the competent authority” (police commissioner) and that the trial court had taken cognisance of the “offence of organised crime committed by the members of organised crime syndicate including the writ petitioner (Nayak) — to which there was no challenge”, the apex court said. “Further, the high court has clearly exceeded its jurisdiction in quashing the chargesheet (against Nayak) for offences punishable under (various sections) of the 2000 Act.” The KCOCA sections mandate a jail term between five years and a life sentence. Nayak, arrested in July 2018, is at Bangalore central jail. The investigators have linked him to the Sanatan Sanstha and accused him of putting up the alleged killer, Parashuram Waghmare, in the run-up to the murder. Nayak, 53, ran an acupuncture clinic in Kumbalgodu on Bangalore’s outskirts, 12km from Gauri’s home. Writing the judgment, Justice Khanwilkar stressed that the police commissioner had rightly approved invocation of the KCOCA against Nayak and the other accused, focusing at that stage only on the commission of crimes by an organised crime syndicate and on being prima facie satisfied about the material on record. “Therefore, the specific role of the concerned accused is not required to be and is not so mentioned in the stated prior approval,” the judgment said. “That aspect would be unravelled during the investigation.... The high court, thus, examined the matter by applying erroneous scale. The observations made by the high court in the impugned judgment clearly reveal that it has glossed over the core and tangible facts.” Justice Khanwilkar stressed that the KCOCA can be invoked “if there is material to indicate that he (Nayak) happens to be a member of the organised crime syndicate who had committed the offences in question and it can be established that there is material about his nexus with the (other) accused who is a member of the organised crime syndicate”. But he added that Thursday’s judgment expressed no opinion on the merits of the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||Modi claims India didn't depend on any other country for vaccines||A “vaccine anthem” released by the Centre to mark India’s billionth Covid-19 vaccine dose is prefaced by an audio excerpt from a speech by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that says India did not have to depend on any other country for vaccines. The words heralding the anthem are strikingly similar to a part of Modi’s Independence Day speech this year. “It is due to the power of our entrepreneurs and scientists that the country is not dependent on anyone or any country for vaccines,” says the translated version of the August 15 speech, available on the website PMIndia. The Union health ministry released the three-minute anthem, produced by singer-composer Kailash Kher, at an event at the Red Fort on Thursday morning. It was part of nationwide celebrations to mark the Covid-19 vaccination campaign surpassing the billionth dose. But scientists say the campaign has largely hinged on Covishield, a UK-designed vaccine, and that the recipe for Covaxin, India’s home-grown vaccine, includes a key molecular ingredient developed in the US. India has approved six Covid-19 vaccines, but the campaign has almost entirely relied so far on two: Covishield, developed jointly by Oxford University researchers and AstraZeneca and produced in India by the Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin. Some say Modi’s words would be correct if they refer only to the vaccine production. Except for a relatively minuscule 1 million doses of Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine, all the others used have been produced in India. But such a defence would recall what Yudhishthir conveyed to Dronacharya through a mix of utterance and whisper during the Kurukshetra war in the Mahabharat: “Ashwatthama hata, iti narova kunjarova (Yes, Ashwatthama is dead. I don’t know if it’s a man or an elephant).” On Thursday, a vaccine science researcher familiar with the makeup of multiple Covid-19 vaccines said, requesting anonymity: “Anything made in India is made in India, but any suggestion that the Covid-19 vaccines are 100 per cent indigenous would be disingenuous.” But the scientist added that Modi’s words were probably an allusion to the critical role the Serum Institute had played in ensuring mass domestic production of Covishield, and the research by the Indian Council of Medical Research and Bharat Biotech to develop Covaxin. “The PM’s statements are not untrue — technology transfer (for Covishield) and domestic production also require significant research expertise,” the scientist said. Covishield accounted for nearly 884 million (88.4 per cent) of the billion doses administered across India until Thursday morning, while Covaxin accounted for 115 million doses. The campaign has also administered a million doses of the Russian-made Sputnik V vaccine. “Nearly nine in 10 people have received Covishield, which was designed and developed in the UK. It’s primarily Covishield that has helped India achieve what it has,” a public health specialist said. Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin uses an ingredient — called an adjuvant — discovered and developed by a company called ViroVax in Kansas, with support exclusively from the adjuvant development programme of America’s National Institutes of Health. Adjuvants are substances that boost a vaccine’s immune responses and enhance its effectiveness. The adjuvant in Covaxin travels to the lymph nodes where the molecule detaches from alum and activates cells that play a critical role in immune responses to viruses. Scientists familiar with vaccine development said Bharat Biotech’s use of the US-made adjuvant was in line with global practices to outsource the best ingredients needed from wherever available. Bharat Biotech’s pact with ViroVax — a biotech company founded by Sunil David, a former student of the Christian Medical College, Vellore — predates Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-98
22-10-2021||India||Army officer accuses Kashmiris of suffering from 'selective dementia'||A senior army officer on Thursday accused Kashmiris of suffering from “selective dementia” and wondered whether the word “Kashmiri” runs the risk of being treated as a pejorative similar to “Paki” if they do not condemn the killings of non-Muslims in the Valley. Lt Gen. K.J.S. Dhillon, director-general of the Defence Intelligence Agency and deputy chief of the Integrated Defence Staff, asked at an army seminar where Kashmir’s “silent majority” was when Kashmiri Pandits migrated. The general, who was also the Valley’s army chief, put the size of the “silent majority” at 85 per cent of the population of Kashmir, adding that the remaining are those who played an active role on the other side. “In this game, why is the silent majority silent? Why is the majority not exerting itself?” The general said: “We are a democratic country where we have a right to dissent, to express our feelings. We have the right to (have our own) feelings but whenever there is a killing by terrorists, selective dementia happens.” The officer asked Kashmiris to tell any person speaking against other atrocities that he has lost the right to speak. Lt Gen. Dhillon said “Paki” (Pakistani) was an abuse in the West, and he asked Kashmiris whether they wanted to become “a society like that”. “Where you are called a name… but it is an abuse. Are we heading that way? Do we need to go that way? We have a 5,000-year-plus rich history, which is peaceful co-existence, Kashmiriyat, insaniyat (humanity) and Sufiyat (Sufism),” he said. “Are we headed that way, when someone calls you (Kashmiri), you take it as an abuse? Do you want someone calling you a ‘Kashmiri’ (or asking) ‘are you a Kashmiri’? And it is an offence? So, please be very clear what is happening.” Kashmir High Court Bar Association spokesperson G.N. Shaheen said Kashmiris had always widely condemned the killings of members of the minority community. “The fact is it is the majority community (Muslims in Kashmir) that has suffered the worst. Around 99 per cent of the victims have been Kashmir Muslims, who die every single day. Despite that, Kashmiris have always condemned all civilian killings, no matter who the victim is,” Shaheen told The Telegraph. “We don’t celebrate deaths here but when we are killed, nobody (in the rest of India) cries,” Shaheen added. Lt Gen. Dhillon said the killings had to be condemned so that future generations were saved and there was an end to people’s sufferings. He said the perpetrators of attacks on innocent civilians were targeting the roots of the society and such people could never be friends of Kashmir. The officer headed the Srinagar-based 15 Corps during the 2019 Pulwama terror attack and the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. Soon after the attack, he had warned that anybody who picked up the gun in Kashmir would be eliminated unless he surrendered, which was seen as a declaration of a “take-no-prisoner policy” against militants. Many Kashmiris, including former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti, were jailed to prevent protests in the wake of the dilution of Article 370, with the army playing a key role in crushing dissent. The authorities continue to pursue zero tolerance against any dissent, even in cases in which civilians have died at the hands of security forces, during the past two years. Lt Gen. Dhillon said 66 per cent of the population of Kashmir was below 32 years of age and they could be referred to as “children of conflict”. He said there was a need to “understand their psychology”. “They were born and brought up during the gun culture, strikes, curfews and crackdowns. They have grown up with a scar on their psychology. They have grown through radicalisation and propaganda,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi ‘shock’ claim on Uttar Pradesh police||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has said the family of a Dalit man who died in police custody has told her that he had been mercilessly assaulted and also administered electric shock. Police in Agra denied the allegation, saying Arun Narwar, a sweeper, had died of heart attack on Tuesday night. Arun had been arrested on the charge of stealing Rs 25 lakh from the locker room of Agra’s Jagdishpura police station. Priyanka said after meeting Arun’s family at Lohamandi on Wednesday night: “The family members of Arun told me that the police picked up 17-18 people of the Valmiki community, took them to the police station and thrashed them mercilessly. His wife (Sonam) told me that she was also beaten up, not only by policewomen but male cops as well. They all have big injury marks. Her husband was beaten in front of her. His hands and legs were tied and he was given electric shock.” The Congress leader added: “The police wrote a complaint and forced the victim’s brother (Sonu) to sign it. He doesn’t even know how to read. Their house was ransacked.” Arun’s mother Kamla Devi said he had mentioned the names of “the police officers who had actually stolen the money and so the cops killed him”. Five policemen have been suspended and booked for murder. Muniraj G, senior superintendent of police of Agra, told reporters when asked about Priyanka’s allegation that Arun had been administered electric shock: “It is not true. He died of a heart attack when the police had taken him to his home to recover the stolen cash. However, every aspect will be investigated.” The officer conceded that there were four injury marks on Arun’s body.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||SC posers on EWS quota criteria in postgraduate medical seats||The Supreme Court on Thursday asked the Centre searching questions about the criteria it had adopted to fix the ceiling of Rs 8 lakh on annual family income for eligibility under the quota for economically weaker sections (EWS) in postgraduate medical seats. The court asked the government if it would want to “revisit” the policy. Although the EWS ceiling is Rs 8 lakh in all cases, the court restricted itself to the 10 per cent EWS reservation within the all-India quota in postgraduate medical seats filled up through the NEET. The all-India quota comprises 15 per cent of the total available undergraduate seats and 50 per cent of postgraduate seats in government medical colleges. The court pointed out that the annual family income limit to identify the creamy layer among Other Backward Classes was also Rs 8 lakh, reasoning that these OBCs were socially and educationally backward unlike their EWS peers. The creamy layer is excluded from quota benefits. At one point, the bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud, Vikram Nath and B.V. Nagarathna indicated that it could stay the notification for EWS quota in postgraduate medical education, but did not do so on the request of additional solicitor-general K.M. Natraj representing the Centre. “What was the criteria adopted by you (to fix the EWS income ceiling)? You must have some demographic or socio-economic data. It is not that you can pull out (the) 8-lakh figure from thin air? How did you arrive at this exact figure?… By this you are making unequals equals by applying your Rs 8-lakh limit,” Justice Chandrachud, heading the bench, remarked. “For determining the creamy layer in the Other Backward Classes (OBC) category, the limit was fixed as Rs 8 lakh annual income and they were considered progressed class among OBCs and… excluded from reservation benefits. Here, for the EWS category, the limit is the same Rs 8 lakh annual income, but it was for inclusion in the reservation benefits,” the bench said. “The EWS are not socially and educationally backward,” Justice Chandrachud remarked. The court clarified that though such matters were policy decisions, it could definitely seek answers from the government. The bench said: “Tell us if you want to revisit the criteria or not. If you want us to discharge our duties, then we are ready to do so. We are formulating questions, which you need to answer. We may stay the government notification fixing the Rs 8-lakh criteria for determining the EWS and you can keep filing affidavits.” Natraj, the government counsel, said the criteria had been fixed “after proper application of mind” and that it was a “pure policy matter” in which “the court should not interfere”. The Supreme Court was hearing a batch of petitions challenging the Centre’s and the Medical Counselling Committee’s July 29 notice providing for 10 per cent reservation for the EWS category in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). The petitions had been filed by Neil Aurelio, Yash Tekwani and other NEET candidates. The bench was dissatisfied with the government for not filing an affidavit despite an October 7 direction to do so within two weeks on the EWS quota ceiling. “You had two weeks to file an affidavit. But you haven’t done so. We can stay the notification and in the meanwhile you do something,” Justice Chandrachud said. Natraj pleaded that no such direction be passed and offered to file an affidavit “at the earliest”. Natraj defended the EWS quota, saying many people were not receiving the benefits and that there had been no legal challenge when this reservation had been introduced in the undergraduate medical courses in 2019 and at the time of its inception in postgraduate programmes in 2020. The court asked the following questions: ⚫ Has the Centre determined any criteria to implement the Rs 8-lakh ceiling for the EWS quota? ⚫ Had the 2010 report of the Major Gen. (retd) S.R. Sinho Commission been considered before ascertaining the criteria? The report has to be placed on record before the court. The commission, constituted by the UPA government, had recommended welfare measures for the EWS category. Natraj said the panel’s report had been taken into account. ⚫ Had the difference in rural and urban purchasing power been accounted for while deriving the income limit? ⚫ Were any criteria adopted for distinguishing between beneficiaries in metropolitan and non-metropolitan areas?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||Vaccine: Miles to go as a billion doses done||The government, industry associations and medical experts applauded India’s Covid-19 vaccination campaign on Thursday as it surpassed its billionth dose, but some cautioned that the celebratory mood shouldn’t obscure the challenges emanating from unmet goals. The Union health ministry announced on Thursday morning that India had surpassed the major milestone of a billion doses nine months since the start of the campaign aimed at administering over 1.8 billion doses to fully vaccinate an estimated 944 million adults. The health ministry released a “vaccine anthem” — a three-minute folk song by singer-composer Kailash Kher —  as part of the day’s celebrations. The Archaeological Survey of India illuminated 100 monuments across the country, including the Red Fort, Khajuraho complex, Sun temple in Konark and the Qutub Minar. Ships anchored on Indian ports were urged to hoot, and fully vaccinated people were offered free ropeway rides in Gujarat, Kerala and Uttarakhand. “India scripts history,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted. “We are witnessing the triumph of Indian science, enterprise and collective spirit of 130 crore Indians. Congrats India on crossing 100 crore vaccinations. Gratitude to our doctors, nurses and all those who worked to achieve this feat.” The feat drew congratulatory messages from the Association of Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Confederation of Indian Industry and the Federation of the Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, amid expectations that vaccinations would accelerate economic recovery. The world took notice too. US secretary of state Antony Blinken tweeted: “We congratulate India for the extraordinary accomplishment of administering one billion doses of the Covid-19 vaccines. I applaud India’s successes in fighting Covid-19 at home and for its efforts to help end the pandemic in the Indo-Pacific region and well beyond.” Australia, France, the Maldives and Sri Lanka also tweeted congratulatory notes. The Indian Medical Association, the country’s largest body of doctors, said it was “delighted to see the one billionth vaccination done”, but added that “we are yet miles and miles away to go, before we stand firm to say all our needed population are vaccinated”. Sections of medical experts echoed those concerns, saying that while completing a billion doses was a major milestone, tens of millions of people aged 45 years or older and at high risk of severe Covid-19 were yet to be fully vaccinated. Only about 87 million (41 per cent) of India’s estimated 210 million people aged between 45-59 years and 62 million (43 per cent) among an estimated 143 million people aged 60 years or older had been fully vaccinated till October 20, according to immunisation data. “People older than 45 were prioritised for vaccinations. If the public health goal was to minimise the risk of deaths, all above 45 should have been fully vaccinated,” said a health expert. “Under the initial goal, all such prioritised at-risk populations should have been fully vaccinated by August.” A public health specialist said India could have accomplished that initial goal had the Centre not opened the vaccination campaign to all adults — 18 years or older — in April without the sufficient quantum of vaccine doses to support the plan. Health officials had defended the policy tweak, asserting that many states and the public had demanded that the campaign be opened to all adults, but simultaneously pointed out that “science and public health dictated” that vaccines should be prioritised to high-risk groups. A vaccine science specialist said the task of getting vaccines to the remaining sections of the population was likely to get harder and harder as the number of vaccinated people grows in any country. “It is much easier to vaccinate the first 50 per cent of the population, and harder to vaccinate the last 20 per cent,” the researcher said. “Some people may be hard to reach or the campaign may encounter vaccine hesitancy.” Health experts also said the campaign’s current pace — an average of less than six million doses per day this month — was not enough to achieve the goal of fully vaccinating all adults by December 31. To accomplish that, the campaign would need to administer 12.3 million doses daily.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||UP Assembly polls 2022: Congress phone and scooty offer to girls||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has said the Congress, if voted to power in Uttar Pradesh, will give smartphones to girls who clear the Class XII exams and electric scooters to graduates. “I met some girl students yesterday (Wednesday). They said they needed smartphones for their education and safety. I am happy that the UP Congress has decided, with the consent of the declaration committee (of the party), to give smartphones to girls clearing the intermediate exams and electronic scooties to graduate girl students if the Congress forms the government,” Priyanka tweeted in Hindi on Thursday. On Wednesday, Priyanka had spoken to several school and college girls after police had stopped her on her way to Agra. “She asked about us. We told her that we didn’t have phones, which was needed for our safety,” one of the girls told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||Cong calls attention to images of death during Covid second wave||The Congress on Thursday called attention to the heart-rending images of death and devastation during the Covid second wave as the Narendra Modi government celebrated the administration of 1 billion vaccine doses, and demanded an independent commission to investigate the Centre’s “criminal role”. “Jashn se zakhm nahin bharte (Celebrations don’t heal wounds),” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. “How can we forget the tragedy of bodies lining up at crematoriums and strewn on riverbeds, the struggle and sufferings of millions who were abandoned by the government? How can we forget those who didn’t survive? The official figure puts the number of deaths (from Covid) at 4.53 lakh, but estimates by independent agencies fear over 50 lakh people died in India. Should there be no accountability for such a large number of deaths?” he said. “An independent commission should be constituted to investigate the Modi government’s criminal role. The commission can give suggestions for strengthening health infrastructure and how to be prepared for such crises in future. It can also undertake a survey on the number of deaths. The commission can include judges, health experts and other independent personalities,” the party spokesperson said. The Congress insisted it had no intention of crying down the government’s pleasures and that the Modi regime was free to use all available machinery, and the media, to hype up the 100-crore vaccination mark. The Opposition party, however, cautioned that the facts could not be buried for the government’s convenience. The Congress pointed to the lack of preparation to tackle the deadly second wave earlier this year, the oxygen crisis, the unavailability of hospital beds and medicines and the bungling in vaccine procurement. While congratulating doctors, nurses, health workers and scientists for combating the pandemic and administering 1 billion Covid vaccine doses, Surjewala said: “The time has come to seek accountability for (the government’s) incompetence, criminal negligence and the confused vaccination policy. The government should also answer by when the remaining population will be vaccinated as India stands at the 19th position among the top 20 countries in terms of the percentage of the total population inoculated.” He added: “Around 29 crore people have got both doses and 42 crore have received only one dose. This also means 32 crore adults haven’t received any dose. To complete the task by December 31, the government needs 151 lakh doses daily. Then our children are at great risk. Vaccines have been developed (for kids), why the delay in decision-making?” The Congress also raised issues such as the need for a booster dose, delay in clearance to vaccine manufacturers given approval to sell their products in India and the absence of recognition to the indigenous vaccine, Covaxin, by countries and global agencies. The party questioned the government’s propaganda on free vaccines, pointing out that several BJP leaders and ministers had themselves said petroleum products were being taxed steeply to pool resources for the vaccination drive. Surjewala said that while vaccinating the entire population would barely need Rs 20,600 crore, the government had earned lakhs of crores through enhanced taxes on petrol, diesel and cooking gas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||Farmers have a right to protest but cannot block roads: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday said farmers have a right to protest but cannot be allowed to block roads as other citizens have a right to unhindered passage on public roads. “The law is clear. You have a right to agitate but the roads cannot be blocked. Why the blockage has taken place, how it has taken place, has to be resolved,” Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul told senior advocate Dushyant Dave, who was appearing for certain farmers’ organisations. The bench of Justices Kaul and M.M. Sundresh was hearing a public interest plea from a Noida-based woman who has sought removal of the road blocks put up since last November on Delhi’s borders, where farmers have been protesting three central farm laws. Dave told the court the blockades were a result not of the farmers’ protest but of the police’s security measures. He said the blockades only suited the government’s interests. “The roads have been blocked due to the way Delhi police have made the arrangements. It suits them to allow a feeling that farmers are blocking the road,” Dave said. Justice Kaul said: “The law is laid down. There’s nothing more to be laid down. You can tell them that their cooperation will help in resolving the issue.” He was referring to an earlier apex court judgment that said protests can be held only at notified locations and should cause no inconvenience to citizens. Dave recalled that on December 17 last year, a three-judge bench headed by then Chief Justice S.A. Bobde had said it could not pass any order to remove the protesters. He said the bench had observed that the “right to protest is sacrosanct”. “We are not getting into (the) challenge to the (farm) law(s) and (the) protest. This is only about blocking of the road,” Justice Kaul said. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, argued that when the court made the December 17 observation, the issue before it was not the road blockades but the constitutional validity of the three farm laws. He said that of the 44 farmer organisations protesting on Delhi’s borders, just two had appeared before the court. “When this court took up the issue regarding the challenge to the (three) acts for the first time, these farm unions were also called. They refused to appear before the court,” Mehta said. “The court took the unprecedented step of staying the operation of a law. The agitation is for some other reasons.” Dave countered: “The agitation is for repeal of the farm laws. The SG is trying to attribute something to farmers.” He said the solution was to allow the farmers, massed on Delhi’s borders for 11 months, to enter the city and agitate on the Ramlila Maidan which, with Jantar Mantar, makes up two of the capital’s most prominent protest sites. “After stopping us, the BJP held a rally at Ramlila Maidan with 5 lakh people. Why is there this selective permission?” Dave asked. Mehta retorted at one point: “For some people, Ramlila Maidan should be the residence. They survive on Ramlila Maidan and Jantar Mantar.” The bench later clarified that the present matter mainly concerned the road blockades and not the farm laws. It said that if necessary, the matter would be tagged with the larger issue relating to the three laws that have been challenged by a bunch of petitions. The next hearing will be on December 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||Chidambaram points finger at government’s selective ‘pluralism’||Former finance minister and Congress veteran P. Chidambaram on Thursday said the Narendra Modi government subscribed to pluralism in the world but supported majoritarianism in India. Taking to Twitter, Chidambaram said: “The new Quad consists of four countries that reflect the pluralism of the world. US (secular, but mainly Christian), India (secular, but mainly Hindu), Israel (Jewish) and the UAE (Islamic). If pluralism can be harnessed for the good of the world, can it not be harnessed for the good of India? The Modi Government subscribes to pluralism in the world but supports majoritarianism in India!” While the Congress has consistently accused the RSS-BJP of subverting the constitutional scheme by executing a majoritarian agenda, India never attracted global attention for diminishing democracy as it has during the Modi regime. While independent agencies have described India as an electoral autocracy and referred to attacks on civil liberties and freedom of expression to buttress the charge of diminishing democracy, Modi had to digest sermons on democracy and Mahatma Gandhi’s philosophy during his last visit to the US. Modi and his ministers have always asserted at international forums that India was fully committed to democracy and Gandhian values but now the Opposition leaders are pointing at the dichotomy in the government’s attitude. While Modi hails Gandhi’s value system abroad, the RSS-BJP ecosystem has trended “Godse Zindabad”, hailing his killer, on both his birth and death anniversaries. Chidambaram had recently written about Modi’s apathy towards human rights violations, pointing out the Prime Minister’s silence on cases such as Bhima Koregan in which activists and intellectuals are in jail for over two years without trial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||BJP parliamentarian now cast glare on Harsh Goenka firm ||BJP parliamentarian Ananth Kumar Hegde has written to CEAT, the tyre maker and the flagship of RPG Enterprises headed by Harsh Goenka, claiming an advertisement against the bursting of crackers on streets had created “unrest” among Hindus and asking the company to also address the issues of Friday namaz on roads and azan over loudspeakers. Hegde’s letter to CEAT managing director and CEO Anant Vardhan Goenka refers to an ad in which actor Aamir Khan exhorts cricket fans against bursting crackers or lighting sparklers on streets, citing road safety. The ad, released in the run-up to the T20 World Cup and Diwali, does not mention the festival that features crackers and fireworks. The letter by Hegde, Lok Sabha member from Karnataka and former Union minister, says: “I request you to address one more problem faced by people on roads i.e. blocking roads in the name of namaz on Fridays and other important festive days by Muslims.” “At that time (during Friday prayers on streets), vehicles like ambulances and fire-fighter vehicles are also stuck in traffic causing grave losses,” the letter adds without citing evidence. It targets “anti-Hindu” actors, saying: “Nowadays, a group of anti-Hindu actors always hurt Hindu sentiments whereas they never try to expose the wrongdoings of their community.” Aamir had six years ago expressed alarm at the rising “intolerance” in the country. The ad shows Aamir dressed in the Indian cricket team’s colours and advising fans against bursting crackers on streets even if an Indian batter hits a six. A message from this newspaper to CEAT’s Twitter account, seeking the tyre maker’s reaction to Hegde’s letter and the boycott call, had brought no response till Thursday evening. Hegde’s letter, dated October 14, became widely known after the MP posted it on his Facebook page late on October 20. His personal website too carries a copy of the letter, which comes amid a social media call for boycotting CEAT products over two advertisements featuring Aamir. The second ad to raise Right-wing netizens’ hackles shows Aamir urging a wedding party to stay off the roads to make way for traffic. The critics’ grouse is that the wedding depicted is a Hindu one. Hegde’s letter, which mentions only the cricket-cracker ad, says: “I kindly request you to take cognisance of this particular incident where your company’s advertisement has created an unrest among the Hindus. I hope in future your organisation will respect the Hindu sentiment and will not hurt it directly or indirectly...” It adds: “As you are very keen and sensitive towards the problems faced by the general public and you also belong to the Hindu community, I am sure you can feel the discrimination done to the Hindus since centuries.” Hegde goes on to raise another topic that should have little to do with road safety or the ease of traffic flow. “I also request you to highlight the issue of noise pollution in your ads. Everyday loud noise is emitted from mikes arranged on top of mosques in our country when azan is given. That sound is beyond the permissible limits,” the letter says. “It is causing great inconvenience to people suffering from different ailments and taking rest, people working in different establishments and teachers teaching in classrooms.” Days earlier, Hegde’s fellow Karnataka MP and BJP Yuva Morcha president Tejasvi Surya had targeted homegrown apparels major Fabindia over an ad that described a line of clothing with an Urdu term, Jashn-e-Riwaaz (celebration of tradition). The ad did not mention Diwali but Surya tweeted that it was a “deliberate attempt of Abrahamisation of Hindu festivals”. Fabindia clarified that Jashn-e-Riwaaz was not its Diwali collection. But it withdrew the commercial. On October 21, Fabindia launched its Diwali collection, titled Jhilmil Si Diwali.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||NCB at Shah Rukh Khan's door after he visits Aryan in prison||Narcotics Control Bureau officers arrived at Shah Rukh Khan’s Bandra home on Thursday, soon after the superstar had visited his son Aryan in prison. Aryan, 23, was arrested by the NCB on October 3 during an operation on a Goa-bound cruise ship in which it claimed to have seized some drugs. No drugs were found on Aryan. Bombay High Court has listed his bail plea for hearing on October 26. An NCB officer said the visit to Mannat, Shah Rukh’s sea-facing mansion, was not a raid. A team from the Mumbai zonal unit had gone to seek certain materials related to the investigation into the case, the official said. In the morning, Shah Rukh met Aryan in jail for the first time since October 3. Physical visits were not allowed earlier because of Covid restrictions. A special court in the city had on Wednesday refused to grant bail to Aryan, while accepting that “no contraband had been found in his possession”. In its order, the court said Aryan’s friend Arbaaz Merchant was carrying 6 grams of charas and that Aryan was aware of this. It also cited his WhatsApp chats. Aryan has challenged the order in Bombay High Court. His advocate Satish Maneshinde on Thursday mentioned the plea before a single bench of Justice N.W. Sambre, seeking an urgent hearing on Friday. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB, however, sought time till next week. Justice Sambre then posted the plea for hearing on October 26. The special court extended Aryan’s judicial custody till October 30. Shah Rukh reached Arthur Road jail around 9am and left at 9.35am, officials said. The prison authorities checked the superstar’s Aadhaar card and other documents before letting him into the premises, the officials added. After the verification, a token was given to Shah Rukh and he was allowed to meet his son, who is lodged in the jail’s general cell as an undertrial. Shah Rukh spent around 15-20 minutes with Aryan, a prison official said, adding that there was a glass fencing between them and they spoke on the intercom. Four guards were present during their conversation, he said. The actor was allowed to meet his son as per the prison manual and no special treatment was given, the official said. A large number of mediapersons and local residents had gathered outside the prison when Shah Rukh arrived. Heavy police security had been deployed outside the jail premises. The NCB on Thursday also recorded the statement of actor Ananya Panday. Ananya’s father, actor Chunky Panday, accompanied her to the NCB office where they reached around 4 pm. After recording her statement, Ananya left around 6.15pm, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-99
22-10-2021||India||Ram Nath Kovind lauds Bihar’s liquor prohibition law||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday gave a thumbs-up to Bihar’s prohibition law, hailing the Nitish Kumar government for having accorded legal status to one of the Directive Principles of State Policy, which have been enshrined in the Constitution. Addressing a function organised here on the occasion of 100 years of the Bihar Vidhan Sabha Bhavan — the sprawling building that houses the two legislative bodies — Kovind recalled with pride that he was part of the exercise in his capacity as the then governor of Bihar. Fondly remembering his association with the state where his gubernatorial assignment was nearly two years long, the President made an oblique reference to the Emergency and hailed “the extraordinary leadership of Jayaprakash Narayan, a son of Bihar”, when there was an “assault on our democratic values 25 years after India became a republic”. He also saluted the contribution of the land towards establishing an egalitarian political order recalling that “Chandragupta Maurya, born to a poor woman, went on to become the emperor of Magadha” and late socialist Karpoori Thakur, who became the chief minister of Bihar in 1970, was considered an epitome of integrity and probity. Noting that the state has been making rapid economic growth in recent times, Kovind also pointed to the entrepreneurial energy exhibited by the Bihari diaspora who have made Chhath a “global festival, known from Nawada to New Jersey and from Begusarai to Boston”. “The Directive Principles of State Policy call for protecting public health through measures that prevent consumption of intoxicants. It is a Gandhian ideal. The Bihar Assembly took the important step of passing a bill based on this constitutional provision and I had the opportunity to give my assent (as governor) and pave way for its becoming a law,” the President said. The prohibition law was introduced in April, 2016 in line with an electoral promise by Nitish during the Assembly polls held the previous year. Kovind, who became the President in 2017, was appointed as the governor of Bihar in 2015 and held the post till he was chosen for election to the highest constitutional office. The President also recalled the important role played by the “luminaries of Bihar” in drafting the Constitution. “Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan had once pointed out that Sachchidanand Sinha, who was the first interim president of constituent assembly, and Rajendra Prasad, who headed the body 1946 onwards, were both from Bihar which is characterised by its mriduta (sweetness),” said Kovind. “The soil of Bihar is ratnagarbha (a treasure trove of jewels). I have always been moved by the affection showered by its people. And that is why a visit here always brings me delight,” said the President who has been here on a three-day tour since Wednesday. He urged all the legislators in the state to continue striving towards making Bihar a state known for its learning, culture and prosperity. Earlier, the President laid the foundation stone of a commemorative pillar, which is being constructed to mark the centenary of Bihar Vidhan Sabha Bhavan. He planted a Bodhi sapling, which was consecrated by Buddhist monks who had arrived from Bodh Gaya on the occasion. A host of dignitaries, including governor Phagu Chauhan, chief minister Nitish Kumar, Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha and acting chairman of Legislative Council Awadhesh Narayan Singh, addressed the gathering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
22-10-2021||India||Pressure on Naveen to sack minister of state for home mounts||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik is under pressure to sack minister of state for home Captain Dibya Shankar Mishra who is under attack from the Opposition for his alleged patronage to Gobinda Sahu, the main accused in the brutal murder of school teacher Mamita Meher in Kalahandi district. Mamita was killed for allegedly threatening to expose the extramarital affair of Sahu, who is the president of the school management committee where she was working. While the BJP on Thursday organised a “bandh” in Bolangir, the native district of Mamita, demanding the resignation of Mishra, who hails from Kalahandi and is said to be close to Sahu, National Commission for Women (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma urged Naveen to remove the minister whose name has surfaced in the criminal cases to ensure a fair probe. The commission will wait for 15 days for the response and then might send a team to Odisha for a review of the case. “We are awaiting a response from the Odisha government. We want the chief minister should take a note of the atrocities against women which is rising gradually in the state and a strong political will is required to put a check on such incidents,” Sharma said. The NCW has also shot off a letter Director General of Police (DGP) Abhay to immediately arrest all the accused involved in the Mamita murder case and provide safety to the family of the victim. BJP leaders met Odisha Human Rights Commission seeking action against Mishra and justice for the family of Mamita whose body was allegedly chopped off after murder and then an attempt was made to destroy evidence by burning the body parts. A public interest litigation was filed in the Orissa High Court seeking a probe by the CBI into the murder of Mamita whose half-charred body was exhumed from a stadium construction site of Sunshine English Medium School at Mahaling in Kalahandi district on October 19. She was a teacher in the school and Sahu the president of the school management committee. The PIL filed by social organisation, Bharatiya Bikash Parishad, has demanded a CBI probe into the case and sought Rs 50 lakh compensation for the next kin of the deceased. Preliminary investigation reveals that the 24-year teacher Mamita was murdered by Sahu. Sahu, who had escaped from the custody of Titlagarh police, was nabbed on October 19 from a sugarcane field where he had been reportedly hiding. Mamita’s family had earlier alleged that she had mysteriously disappeared after accompanying Sahu in his car to Bhawanipatna on October 8. Mamita had threatened Sahu to expose his extra-marital affairs and the sex racket he was running in the school. Sahu is believed to have eliminated her in a bid to seek revenge and hide his immoral activities. Odisha State Commission for Women has also served a notice to SPs of Balangir and Kalahandi districts asking them to submit probe reports in Mamita murder case within 15 days. However, ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) has urged the BJP and other parties to refrain from politicising the issue. “While political leaders are going to attend a meeting, many people click their photos with them. It does not indicate that the leaders are responsible for the crimes perpetrated by people seen in the photographs with them. Anyone committing a crime should be punished. Police have already arrested the accused and many more are likely to be arrested,” said BJD spokesperson and senior MLA Pramilla Mallick. She also rejected the demand for a CBI inquiry into the murder. “We also want justice for Mamita’s family but we have faith in our police. We will ensure the culprits are punished. When a BJP central minister’s son mowed down farmers in UP no action was taken against him for a long time. Police acted only after pressure mounted. Why did the BJP leaders not demand for a CBI probe into the Lakhimpur Kheri incident?” asked Pramila.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-100
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Closed bridge over Balason river hits Siliguri traffic||Thousands of people living in and around Siliguri and also those reaching the city on different errands had to bear the brunt of severe traffic congestion on Thursday because vehicular movement was reversed as the bridge over the Balason river remained closed for the second day. On Wednesday, the Siliguri Metropolitan Police had halted traffic movement (barring two-wheelers) through the bridge after one of its pillars tilted with the force of the swollen river and a portion of the bridge’s plank subsided. In Siliguri, vehicles heading to Bagdogra, other parts of Siliguri sub-division or southern parts of the state (towards North Dinajpur district and beyond), move through the north end of the city, and vice-versa. Passenger vehicles bound for districts located in the north of Siliguri (Alipurduar, Cooch Behar and Jalpaiguri) and northeastern states, also take this route. However, since Wednesday, the movement of these vehicles has been reversed. They are now moving out of the city through its southern end (Naukaghat More) to reach Bagdogra or other places. Also, vehicles entering the city from these places are returning through the same route as they cannot cross the Balason bridge. “These vehicles are taking Burdwan Road where a flyover is under construction. This is leading to severe traffic congestion, while Darjeeling More (the principal entry point to Siliguri in the north) area is almost vacant. It is taking almost an hour extra to reach Bagdogra airport which otherwise is a 30-minute ride from the city. We don’t know when the Balason bridge would be reopened, at least for light vehicles,” said Dibyendu Saha, an IT professional who commutes daily between Shivmandir and Siliguri. The vehicular load on Burdwan Road, which connects to Asian Highway II, has also led to traffic congestion in some parallel roads, which include the Hill Cart Road, Sevoke Road, Bidhan Road, the DBRCD flyover, as many light vehicles are taking these routes to reach the airport and other locations. Meanwhile, a three-member team from the state public works department and Union ministry of road transport and highways visited the bridge over Balason river. They then held a meeting with government engineers and officials of the district administration. “The team comprised officials from the central ministry and an official from the design and planning section of the NH division of state PWD. They reached here from Calcutta, went to the site and inspected the damaged pillar as well as the entire structure of the bridge,” said a PWD official. The team members also collected information about the intensity of traffic movement through the 50-year-old bridge, sources said. “It is good that the water level of Balason has receded as there has been no fresh rainfall since Wednesday evening. Even then, we are keeping a watch on the banks,” said Shribas Biswas, the block development officer of Matigara. Gautam Deb, chairman of the board of administrators of Siliguri Municipal Corporation, held a meeting with officials of the sub-divisional administration, the police and different state departments. “We took stock of the situation. The bridges and culverts located in the civic area have not been affected by the rain. I have asked officials of the state PWD to check the condition of the bridge over the Mahananda river which is on NH31,” Deb said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Social worker from Mirik bags Ford Global Fellowship||Juliana Lohar from Singbuli tea garden in Mirik has been selected for the prestigious Ford Global Fellowship, which is an initiative by one of the world’s largest foundations to supports young leaders from around the world who are advancing innovative solutions to end inequality. Juliana is currently based in Goa and is a coordinator with ARZ (Anyay Rahit Zindagi), a non-government organisation working towards combating sex trafficking in India. “The selection involved a rigorous process with interviews at the regional (involving India, Nepal and Sri Lanka) and global level,” Juliana told The Telegraph over the phone from Goa. Juliana has worked for the rescue of children and women from commercial sexual exploitation and eradication of the religious practice of dedicating girls as devadasis (victims of sex trafficking) in Vasco, Goa, apart from providing economic rehabilitation to victims. “In the past, ARZ started a laundry service in Goa to provide economic support to the victims. Recently, we have also started a knitting program with the same goal,” said Juliana, who played a key role in launching these projects. Nearly 900 people are attached to the laundry initiative in Goa. “I developed interest to work for the welfare of victims of sex trafficking when I was pursing my masters in social work in Mumbai in 2002. I believe that the fellowship will provide me an opportunity to learn from other cohorts and also exchange ideas to create a global platform to create a gender-equal society,” said Juliana, who is in her early 40s. The social worker also plans to replicate the learning from Goa, which is a major destination for sex trafficking in source areas, to prevent the crime. Smita Chakraburtty, founder, Prison Aid and Action Research (PAAR) and an independent prison researcher, who was commissioned by Patna High Court in 2015 to inspect all 58 prisons in Bihar and come up with recommendations for systemic change, is the other Indian to be selected for the fellowship. Each of the selected fellows will receive a stipend of $25,000 (around Rs 18.5 lakh) as part of the fellowship apart from support to help the fellows “work better, faster and deeper”. The US-based Ford Foundation, which started this fellowship last year, is looking to invest $50 million over the next 10 years to create a network of 240 fellows from across the globe who are working on pressing issues. In 2020, the foundation had selected 24 fellows while 48 were selected this year from across the world. The foundation’s website states that they are looking for “committed leaders who have demonstrated meaningful impact, but whose full potential has yet to be fully realised because of a lack of resources or access to a global network”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Gourikund: Downhill trek of 18km with ‘no help’||A 50-year-old resident of Hooghly, Biswajit Roy, his wife and teenage daughter who were stuck in Uttarkhand’s Kedarnath following heavy rains, had to trek 18km downhill to Gourikund on Wednesday night for 12 hours after the family was allegedly refused a chopper. The Roys accused the Uttarakhand government of not assisting them for past three days amid “disastrous weather” and despite “entreaties” from the Bengal government. “I have never witnessed such inhumane behaviour as was meted out to us by the Uttarakhand administration. Senior officials, including one attached to Bengal’s resident commissioner in Delhi, called me up and told me that the Bengal government had communicated with officials in Kedarnath. But no one came to our help, which is why I and my wife and daughter had to trek through the night risking our lives,” said Roy, who works with the Chandannagore Municipal Corporation. Sources said the Uttarakhand government had issued a red alert on October 18, following forecast of heavy rain and stopped at least 20,000 tourists from visiting Gouri Kund and Kedarnath. However, those like the Roys who had already reached Kedarnath, were stuck. Roy left home on October 11 with his wife Chumki, 45, and daughter Answesha, 19, for a tour of North India. When they reached Kedarnath on October 16, the weather had started turning bad. “We spent three days in biting cold with wet clothes, there were no shops to purchase food from,” he said. He and his family had queued up to board a chopper at the helipad but despite repeated chopper arrivals, they were not assigned seats, he alleged. “We queued up at 5am on Wednesday and were refused the chopper after being made to wait till around 5pm, which made us frustrated. My wife became very worried as we had been stuck amid a disaster for the past three days without any attention from the government. Finally, we took the risk and started walking down from Kedarnath to Gourikund—the 18 km stretch,” Roy added. The walk through the mountain road was risky. In a few places, the trio had to pass through a stretch barely 3 feet wide”, he said. “We faced many spots where the roads were completely damaged by landslides. We carefully crossed those areas. In many places, we had to cross through icy water at midnight. The threat to our lives was ever-present as animals could also have attacked. We did not have any option apart from this as the government in Uttarakhand was not ready to help,” said Roy. When the Roys had descended around 5km, a phone call from NDRF personnel asked where they were and whether they needed any help. “The NDRF officials also called me and asked how they could help the Roy family. But I said they were already on their way to Gouri Kund and it would be helpful if they could arrange a car so they could get to Guptkashi, where we were,” said Arijit Shil, a youth from Chandernagore who accompanied the Roy family on their trip but failed to reach Kedarnath himself. The Roy family had walked for around 12 hours after starting from Kedarnath, before they could reach Gouri Kund. “It was a very bad road and threats to our life were everywhere. So, we had to take a lot of time. However, the NDRF did not provide any car for us Gouri Kund. We hired a car so as to meet two of our friends there,” said Roy. “It was our good luck that we reached safely. Now, we will go to Hardwar as our train ticket is scheduled from Lucknow on October 24,” he added. In a similar incident, family members of seven youths, including a woman from Bankura’s Onda who had gone trekking in Uttarakhand, have sought help from the Bengal government after not being able to communicate with the youths over phone. Police said they had already communicated the families' concerns to Nabanna on Thursday. Sources said three tourists from East Burdwan’s Memari, including school teacher Sanjay Adhikari, are also stranded at an army base camp at Darma Valley in Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district because landslides have left roads blocked. With temperatures dropping fast, the tourists have pleaded with the Uttarakhand government to rescue them and arrange their return home.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee to visit BJP bastions at home, Goa||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has drawn up a plan to recast her focus on two BJP bastions, a region in her own state and a state in west India. On October 24, Mamata is set to arrive in north Bengal on a four-day trip and from here, fly to Goa, a state in which her party has initiated political activities along with  Tripura in recent months. After assuming office for the third time, this will be Mamata’s first visit to north Bengal, a region where the BJP has emerged as a major political force. “The Bhowanipore by-election had perhaps held back the chief minister as she planned a visit to north Bengal ahead of the Durga Puja but postponed it. Now that the bypoll is over and she is an elected MLA, it is clear she is all set to focus on the region,” said a political observer. He pointed out that along with other parts of Bengal, civic and rural elections would be held in north Bengal districts. Trinamul intends to revive its support base here before these local polls. “The idea is to try and prevent BJP from winning the Lok Sabha seats of north Bengal at the 2024 Lok Sabha polls for which Trinamul has major plans,” the observer added. Mamata, sources said, will attend a “Bijoya Sanmilani” (a post-Dussehra get-together) hosted by the Siliguri Metropolitan Police on October 24. The next day, she will attend a review meeting of Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri districts. On October 26, she will head to Kurseong to attend a similar review meeting of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts. She will stay in north Bengal on October 27 and is likely to leave for Goa the next day, said sources. Mamata’s visit, Trinamul insiders said, was significant as there have been new development in north Bengal. BJP legislator John Barla, who is also a Union minister of state, has renewed the demand for a north Bengal state, backed by a number of BJP leaders, including former state chief Dilip Ghosh. Last week, Union home minister Amit Shah chaired a tripartite meeting on a political solution for Gorkhas. A similar meeting may be held in November. “BJP leaders here  are trying to stoke the sentiments of people... The chief minister’s visit is important and we believe she will take steps so that strategies of the BJP do not work,” said a Trinamul leader. The Mamata government has met some demands of north Bengal, for example recognising the Rajbanshi language and and making it a medium of instruction in schools, constituting development and cultural boards for different communities, to mollify those raising the demand for statehood. Hundreds of former KLO militants, who had once left the mainstream on the same demand, have been inducted as home guards. Mamata is likely to fly from Bagdogra to Goa on October 28 and return to Bengal on November 1. Sources in the party said she was likely to oversee the induction of eminent personalities in Goa to Trinamul and hold meetings for a roadmap ahead of Assembly polls there in February. Focus on repair The absence of persistent rain across Sikkim and Darjeeling hills and north Bengal foothills since Wednesday late evening helped the administration and social organisations to focus on restoration work. But landslide-hit NH10, which connects Sikkim and Kalimpong with the rest of the country, was still closed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Bankura administration confirms Gangadhar’s name on poll roll||The Bankura district administration on Thursday confirmed Gangadhar Pramanik’s name on the electoral roll, the process completed within a month of the 33-year-old migrant labourer’s return home to Bankura’s Radhanagar village after spending over three years in a detention centre in Assam for those declared “foreigners”. “The person detained in Assam for over three years is now enrolled in the electoral roll of the district. His voter identity card (EPIC) will be issued after draft publishing of the roll. We will also arrange other documents he requires. After field verification, we started the work to get him the required documents within two days of his return to his village,” said K. Radhika Aiyar, the Bankura district magistrate. After Gangadhar returned home following an initiative by Citizens for Justice and Peace, a platform of human rights defenders, state government officials visited Radhanagar and checked land papers and other relevant documents of his family. They also visited the primary school where he studied till Class IV and confirmed that he is an Indian. Officials said they did all formalities, including submission of electoral forms along with voter identity cards of his parents and land papers. A field verification by a block level officer was also done. “The (electoral roll) registration is accepted only after all required documents are given online. It is really very surprising that this person was declared a foreigner in another Indian state,” said a senior official in Bankura. Gangadhar, 33, had left his remote village in Bankura in search of work around 10 years ago. He ended up spending over three years at a detention centre, officially called “transit camp”, in Assam’s Goalpara after he was declared a foreigner. As a migrant worker, Gangadhar had moved to Assam in search of work to help his poor family. In December 2017, while working at a roadside eatery on the outskirts of Guwahati, he was declared a foreigner and sent to the detention centre in Goalpara. After returning home, Gangadhar was desperate to find a job for his survival and his mother’s treatment. Government officials, with help of the local gram panchayat, got him a job at a sweet shop in Radhanagar. “I am very happy that my name has made it to the electoral roll. I also want my Aadhaar card to prove that I am not a foreigner,” said Gangadhar from Bankura. Bappa Layek, the owner of the sweetmeat shop, said Gangadhar had joined the job last month and it was helping him come out of the trauma. “The detention had traumatised him. He had stopped talking to anyone. But now he is better. I always request my customers to interact with him,” said Layek. The CJP officials were overwhelmed when told about Gangadhar’s inclusion on the electoral roll. The representative of the organisation not only helped the Bankura man get bail from the Assam tribunal but accompanied him to reach his home in Radhanagar village of Bankura. The CJP officials thanked the Bengal government for the initiative. “A month and three days after Gangadhar Pramanik returned home in Bankura with help of Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP), the Bengal district administration confirmed his registration on the electoral roll bringing more meaning to his renewed life at home. After being shorn off all rights and thrown into a detention camp in Assam for no crime at all, this action is prompt, humane, much deserved and appreciated by human rights organisations and most of all the hapless individuals and communities we represent,” said Teesta Setalvad, human rights activist and CJP secretary. “We hope it will send a strong message to the Assam police to stop such acts of discriminatory detention without any basis in fact or law,” she added. Officials in Bankura said once he receives the EPIC card, Gangadhar would be eligible to work under government schemes, if he wants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 833 new cases, 775 recoveries and 14 deaths||Bengal on Thursday logged 833 new Covid-19 cases, 775 recoveries and 14 deaths. Active cases rose by 44 to 7,535. A Bengal minister said that the new cases reported now are indicative of people who got infected in the October 12 to 16 (Mahasaptami to Ekadashi) window. “Despite the 15 days of rise in active cases since September 26, the total of active cases has actually fallen (between September 25 and Thursday) by 139. There is no cause for panic or pessimism yet,” he said. Calcutta reported 232 new infections and North 24-Parganas 143, being the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Nineteen districts reported zero deaths on Thursday. Calcutta reported five and North 24-Parganas seven. The state’s recovery rate is currently 98.32 per cent, while the national rate is 98.13. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.52 per cent on Thursday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state now has 4.37 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is sixth on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season, on September 26. Since then, in the past 26 days, the state recorded a rise in its total of active cases for 15 days, a fall for 10 days and no change for a day. Bengal now has more than 15.83 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.57 lakh recoveries and 19,021 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Bangladesh unrest fuels CAA chant by BJP MP agannath Sarkar||The BJP’s Ranaghat MP Jagannath Sarkar has written an appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to implement the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act in India in order to “protect the Hindus of the whole world”. His appeal, made in a letter dated October 17 in the context of the purported communal unrest in Bangladesh, is being viewed as an attempt to push for the implementation of the citizenship matrix as a core issue with the objective of polarisation ahead of the four bypolls in Bengal on October 30. “It is my humble request to you to implement the CAA in India at the earliest and protect the Hindus of the whole world... If correct and strict steps aren’t taken now then jihadi forces will be encouraged in Bengal and which may lead to their atrocities here as well,” Sarkar wrote. Sarkar urged Modi to stand beside the Hindus of Bangladesh, hailing him as the “saviour of all the Hindus of the world”. “I humbly submit before you to implement the CAA in India as early as possible and protect the Hindu across the globe. The entire Hindu (Sanatan) community today seeks your support in this regard,” wrote Sarkar. Bengal BJP has  planned to exploit the Bangladesh unrest for electoral gains in Bengal. Key leaders of the state unit have attacked chief minister Mamata Banerjee for her alleged silence on the issue, although her party and its mouthpiece Jaago Bangla have been repeatedly condemning the incidents. Modi, however, is yet to end his public silence on Bangladesh. Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP’s Nandigram MLA, has publicly said that events beyond the international border will help his party win the Santipur bypolls by a larger margin. Suvendu had also written to Modi on October 14, requesting urgent “steps” to protect the Hindus of Bangladesh. The CAA issue, in context of the Bangladesh violence was first ignited by the party’s chief spokesperson in the state, Samik Bhattacharya. Known as a relatively moderate voice in the party, he said the CAA must be implemented in India to safeguard the interests of victims of majoritarian attacks in Bangladesh. However, the Modi government has repeatedly deferred the implementation of the CAA which passed by Parliament on in December 2019. On July 27, the Union government sought extension till January 9 next year to complete the task of framing the rules of the Act. The objective of the act is to grant Indian citizenship to the religiously persecuted minorities — with elaborate mention of every major religion of south Asia other than Islam — from neighbouring (Muslim-majority) countries, such as Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Till Covid-19 forced a premature, inconclusive withdrawal, fierce protests from citizens across the nation had erupted against the divisive, discriminatory nature of the Act. It is widely deemed part of a trident — alongside the National Population Register and the National Register of Citizens — being used by the BJP-led Centre to further a divisive agenda and corner Muslims in India. Mamata and her party have been among those bitterly opposed to the implementation of the triad. Speaking to this newspaper, Sarkar claimed it was not an attempt to polarise, but acknowledged that his party has made it a by-election issue in Santipur and Dinhata, two Assembly seats located close to the Indo-Bangladesh border, which his party had won this summer even amid the Trinamul sweep across the state. “It is not for vote-bank consolidation, rather to remind about a legitimate demand, which has become more important for the Bangladeshi Hindus, in the wake of the recent attacks on them,” he claimed. In a bid to justify his appeal, Sarkar said: “Its implementation has become urgent since there would be a large number of Hindu people seeking refuge in India to escape the atrocities.” “If the Union government implements the CAA, they could freely come and settle here,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Hundreds of tourists recount landslide, rain ordeal in hills||Hundreds of tourists who have been to the hills descended to Siliguri on Thursday and narrated their harrowing experiences of spending the past 72 hours in different destinations of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Sikkim. While some spoke about how they got stuck in traffic owing to landslides and road cave-ins, others recounted how they spent a night at the houses of locals as they could not reach their destinations. Ashok Chowdhury, who is from Cooch Behar and was on his way to Lava — a tourist hotspot in Kalimpong district — on Tuesday said he witnessed boulders and trees descending from the hills. “By the time we left Kalimpong, it was raining heavily. Soon after we got out of the town, the downpour got intense and we saw trees and boulders rolling down. As we reached Sixth Mile, a landslide occurred and around 30 cars carrying tourists got stuck,” he said. It was around five in the evening and throughout the night, the entire group was stuck at the same location. At around 9.30am on Wednesday, they started walking. “We crossed the landslide with our luggage, walked for around five kilometres and then found some cars which took us to our place,” he added. Aparesh Dutta, a banker from Calcutta who had been to Sikkim, had a similar experience. On Tuesday afternoon, he and four of his friends had started from Gangtok and were supposed to reach Siliguri by evening. “We however, could not proceed beyond Melli (around 60km from Siliguri). There was a beeline of cars. It was raining consistently and we could often hear from drivers and locals about fresh landslides occurring in different places of Kalimpong district, standing in the dark,” said Dutta. It was then that one of the friends found a local who agreed to provide them accommodation and food. “We stayed together in a small room but it was like a boon to us. Otherwise, we would have had to sit in the car throughout the night,” he said. Dutta reached here on Thursday morning. On Wednesday morning, they went to Kalimpong, stayed there for a day and descended to Siliguri on Thursday. “We had Tuesday’s train tickets. Today, we somehow managed to get tickets of a private bus,” said Dutta. The sudden spate of rain followed by landslides across the hills have, however, not reduced the inflow of tourists to the region. Even on Thursday, hundreds of tourists reached the area. Those bound for Darjeeling and Dooars headed for their respective locations. “However, those who were supposed to go to Sikkim or Kalimpong, could not head for their destinations as NH10 is still closed. While a section of them preferred to wait in Siliguri for a day, some others went to alternative destinations like Darjeeling, Mirik and Dooars,” said Santanu Choudhury, who runs a travel house here. Those associated with the travel industry however, are hopeful that the disruption due to the downpour will not affect the movement of tourists. Most of the hotels and homestays have reservations till Diwali. “There has been no cancellation so far. Restoration work of the hill roads have started and we believe things will become normal in the next few days,” said Samrat Sanyal, secretary, Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Alipurduar: Male elephant found dead in drain of tea estate||The carcass of a sub-adult male elephant was found in the drain of a tea estate in Alipurduar district near the forests of Buxa Tiger Reserve on Thursday. Sources said some workers of the Nimti Jhora tea estate spotted the carcass while heading to the plantations on Thursday. Foresters, who were told, reached the spot and found footprints of elephants. “We suspect a herd entered the plantations and the sub-adult elephant fell in the drain and died. We can confirm the cause of death only after post-mortem,” said a forester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Absence of rainfall in hills leads to improvement of situation||The absence of persistent rainfall across the Sikkim and Darjeeling hills and north Bengal foothills since Wednesday late evening led to improvement of the situation on Thursday helping the administration and different social organisations to focus on restoration works. However, NH10, the principal highway that connects Sikkim and Kalimpong with the rest of the country, remained closed as the road cave-in at Birick Dara or 21th Mile — a stretch on the route — is yet to be repaired. “The NH division of state PWD has started road restoration work at the site through back-cutting (cutting the hillside to create a road for vehicles). We are keeping a watch over the situation but it would take at least four to five days to restore a single lane for goods vehicles,” said a senior police officer of Kalimpong district. According to administration sources, Kalimpong district has borne most of the damage during the past two days when an extremely heavy downpour occurred in the hills and in adjoining areas of the plains. “Altogether 46 landslides occurred across Kalimpong district. This clearly indicates the extent of damage,” said a source. Though NH10 continued to remain closed, sources said a caved-in road has been restored by the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) at Sherpagaon near Gorubathan through which goods vehicles can go to Sikkim. “Since certain stretches of the alternative roads are narrow, separate routes have been fixed for movements of goods vehicles,” the source added. However, on Thursday, no fresh landslide was reported in the hills. In Darjeeling district, most of the roads have been restored and repair works of damaged houses and other buildings have started, said administration officials. In the plains, water levels of rivers like Teesta, Torsha, Jaldhaka, Balason and Mahananda have receded, prompting people to start returning to their homes. Around 70,000 people, who stay along the banks of these rivers in the districts of Darjeeling, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar, had shifted to safer places as the rivers had swelled due to the intense downpour and had flooded their localities. Meanwhile, in Alipurduar district, bodies of two minor sisters of Chotomechiabusty in Jaigaon under Kalchini block, who had gone missing from the bank of the swollen Torsha river on Wednesday, were recovered on Thursday. “It is an unfortunate incident. We will hand over due compensation to the family. All assistance has been provided for their last rites,” said Prasanta Barman, the block development officer of Kalchini.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Two migrant workers jump off Farakka Express, injured||Two migrant workers sustained serious injuries as they jumped off the Malda bound Farakka Express while it was moving through Malda town on Thursday in a bid to catch a bus for home. Both were rushed to Malda Medical College and Hospital, one with the sole of his foot chopped off and another with a head injury. “The train was moving slowly through Krishnapally area. This seemed to encourage the duo to get off as they were in a hurry to catch a bus,” said a police officer of Englishbazar police station. Rehab centre death Mayukh Guha, 16, of Maynaguri, died at a private rehabilitation home in Jalpaiguri on Thursday. His mother alleged he was tortured. Sources said Mayukh had got addicted to cell phones and around three months back, his parents had put in him in the rehab home. On Thursday, his health suddenly deteriorated. Home authorities rushed him to the super-specialty hospital in Jalpaiguri where doctors pronounced him dead. His parents filed a complaint at Kotwali police station. “We suspect he was tortured,” the boy’s mother said. Home authorities have denied the charge. Police are probing the incident. Additional reporting by our Jalpaiguri correspondent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata government to appoint advisers in 30 departments ||The Mamata Banerjee government is all set to appoint advisers — most from the corporate world — in at least 30 departments in a bid to run them professionally. The move, senior officials said, is significant as this would be the first time when a state government is trying to bring in people from the corporate world to get fresh ideas to run the departments and the government as a whole. Sources in the Bengal government said there were some 100 special secretaries in various state departments. But advisers from the corporate world will be brought in only to ensure that the state departments get “out-of-the-box” ideas. “The process to recruit the advisers will start soon. The advisers are likely to be posted in the rank of special secretaries, which is a very senior post in the government,” said a senior official. The advisers would get a salary of about Rs 2 lakh a month, which is on a par with special secretaries already working with departments. The rank of special secretaries is considered to be a very senior position as a WBCS (executive) officer is elevated to this position after 25 to 28 years of service. A bureaucrat explained how these advisers would work within the government. “For example, an adviser with a personnel management degree working in the corporate world can be appointed in the labour department. He or she will have the liberty to bring in fresh ideas on how to improve the quality of life of labourers in organised or unorganised sectors and put forward his or her proposals to the secretary. A final decision will be taken by the top brass of the government,” the bureaucrat said. Similarly, sources said an adviser in the education department could inform the government about new courses that could be introduced in educational institutions considering the trends in the contemporary job market. “Many of the special secretaries do have management degrees but they are not aware of the latest ideas and practices in the corporate world as they attain this rank at the very end of their careers (as civil servants). There is no practice of regular communication between corporate and government officers,” said another official. These advisers will be incorporated through a lateral entry route, which the Centre has adopted. However, in Bengal, lateral entry to the state government is not new. The state government had appointed some professionals at the CM’s grievance redress cell at the joint secretary rank in 2019. A senior official explained that the idea to bring in professionals in the top tier of the state departments was initiated after the experiment of bringing in professionals through lateral entry at the chief minister’s grievance redress cell has produced desired results.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-41
22-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: First step||If more women contest the elections, it does not mean that they will all become legislators. But to go by the All India Congress Committee general secretary, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, women’s political empowerment may have more to do with access. If they do not win this time, they will win the next time round, seems to be her hope regarding the decision that 40 per cent of the Congress tickets for the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections would be given to women. The point would be the larger number of women candidates in the running, something that parties such as the Biju Janata Dal or Trinamul Congress ensured in earlier elections, but seldom the ‘national’ parties. The emphasis on the possibility of women’s empowerment, however, is important in a state known for violence against women. Besides, elections in UP traditionally centre on issues of caste and community; gender is invisible. Ms Vadra’s announcement, alternatively called historic and hypocritical, draws attention to a competing site of conflict and inequality. The issue of access is a pertinent one. A few remarkable women leaders apart, Indian women are scarce in decision-making positions in politics. Parliament at present has 14 per cent women members, and that is the highest percentage since Independence. This is in spite of the fact that the women’s reservation bill, ensuring for them 33 per cent of seats in Parliament and the assemblies, was passed in the Rajya Sabha in 2010 and is still pending in the Lok Sabha. Gender inequality in Indian society is quite frankly reflected in politicians’ reluctance to push through 33 per cent — far from 50 per cent — reservations for women in parliamentary and assembly seats. It is hardly surprising that the World Economic Forum’s Gender Gap Index 2021 ranks India at 140 among 156 countries in the representation of women in the political sphere. Yet the 33 per cent reservation has been carried through in local bodies or panchayati raj institutions. It suggests a desire to contain women’s empowerment at less visible levels. But it is undeniable that in the matter of approach and even local policies, the larger presence of women has made a difference in many places, often in spite of interference from men in the family. Such changes take time, but the first step is certainly access.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
22-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Priyanka proposes 40% seats for woem in UP||Move forward Sir — It is heartening to know that the Congress general secretary, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, has announced that 40 per cent of seats will be reserved for women in the upcoming Uttar Pradesh polls on the basis of merit and not caste, religion or nepotism (“A radical idea vs realpolitik”, Oct 20). This will go a long way in inspiring women in a country dominated by patriarchy. In a state where the condition of women is far from encouraging, greater representation of women in politics could well lead to a paradigm shift. It could also boost the Congress’s chances of regaining ground against the Yogi Adityanath government. However, true empowerment of women is only possible when their worth is acknowledged in all aspects of life. Janga Bahadur Sunuwar,Jalpaiguri Sir — The decision of the Congress in Uttar Pradesh to give 40 per cent of the total election tickets to women is unprecedented. The announcement has been welcomed by women. It is likely that they will vote for the women candidates fielded by the Congress. In the past, most political parties have exploited women for their selfish political gains. But Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has taken them into confidence and given them a greater chance of participating in the democratic process. This will surely bear fruit. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Making Priyanka Gandhi Vadra the face of the Congress in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh was a wise decision on the part of the Grand Old Party. Likewise, declaring that 40 per cent of the party’s tickets would go to women is a masterstroke. This could lead to change in politics at the national level. Rajanya Dey,Howrah Sir — Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has indeed taken a bold step. But progressive as it may be, there are chances of it backfiring. She has given women a chance to move forward, but does the political class in New India truly want that? There is another concern. If the Congress truly gives the tickets irrespective of caste and religion, will it really get votes in a state where these issues play a massive role? Abhinava Sarkar,Calcutta Face the fury Sir — From Uttarakhand in the north to Kerala in the south, nature has unleashed its fury. Mankind has irreversibly damaged nature in a mad rush for material profit. Now it cannot escape the consequences of its actions. What is more worrying is that this may be only the beginning of destruction. All construction activities in the hills must be carefully monitored and vetted by experts. Anthony Henriques,Mumbai Sir — Heavy rains in Kerala have caused horrifying flash floods and landslides. Many lives have been claimed, and hundreds have been evacuated. While the government responded quickly, questions arise on the lack of foresight and the failure to implement a long-time strategy to prevent the loss of life and property. Have lessons not been learnt from the devastating floods of previous years? The lack of political will and money power have led to encroachment of flood plains, building of resorts and human settlements on hills and river banks as well as exploitation of ecologically fragile areas. Illegal sand mining — ignoring the Gadgil committee report was a mistake — must also be stopped. Natural disasters in the state have become an annual phenomenon. Is there no end to this peril? The authorities must answer. M. Pradyu,Kannur Darkness within Sir — In a shocking incident, a 17-year-old girl in Karnataka allegedly poisoned four of her family members to death, upset over discrimination in the affection shown between her siblings and her. This is inexcusable. Such jealousy is not uncommon in families with more than one child. The incident demonstrates how resentment can fill young hearts in a way that they fail to differentiate between right and wrong. Parents should look out for warning signs of depression, listen to their children’s fears and take remedial action before it is too late. Kiran Agarwal,Calcutta  Pay attention Sir — Spain’s ‘Crying Room’ initiative must be welcomed as it is a giant step towards removing stigma associated with mental illness. The prejudice against mental illness in society is so deep and malicious that it is often treated like crime. The recent spate of suicides in Spain and India must draw attention towards the scale of the problem. The government must conduct awareness drives to curtail this menace before the crisis takes a more severe shape. Every citizen is entitled to live with dignity and as a society it is our responsibility to create a conducive environment for mental well-being. Kingsukh Som,Gurgaon||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
22-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Blank noise||The clash of self-congratulatory cymbals is being heard, once again, as India has crossed the mark of 100 crore administered doses of Covid-19 vaccine. The prime minister has stated that the nation has scripted history and the occasion is being marked by several events, including the unfurling of a khadi tri-colour from the Red Fort. This milestone in India’s inoculation campaign is, indeed, an achievement. The number of administered doses was a paltry 415 million only three months ago and has since gone beyond the 100-crore barrier. This can only mean that the campaign has gained momentum with the removal of bottlenecks in the production of indigenous vaccines as well as greater public receptivity towards vaccination. The Centre’s enthusiasm to mark the achievement is a bit strange though. The battle against the pandemic is a public responsibility of an elected government. There is no need for indulging in conceit especially as India has a long way to go in terms of achieving full immunity. Existing data should temper the brouhaha. The Centre has set itself the target of inoculating all adult Indians by the end of this year. This means that as of Wednesday, 892 million doses need to be given over the remaining 72 days. The worry is that there seems to be a perceptible lag in the pace of vaccination: the daily target to inoculate all adults by December end has risen from 8.9 million in July to 12.3 million. The causes behind this — inertia in the vaccination campaign, pace of production of vials and so on — must be identified and eliminated. Moreover, only 30 per cent of the total eligible population of recipients has received the mandatory two doses while nearly 70 million vulnerable adults are yet to receive even a single dose. Break-through infections are not unknown so the health infrastructure must stay alert for more upsurges in the future. The song and dance unveiled by the government can, clearly, wait. The reason for this pat-on-the-back exercise is clear. Several key assembly elections are on the horizon and the Bharatiya Janata Party is nervous about the outcome in some of these because of its inept handling of the second wave of Covid that had lashed India. The BJP is hoping that a public spectacle could divert attention from its monumental failures on several fronts, including health and economy. It remains to be seen whether the people choose to remain enchanted by diversion or take informed decisions based on a rather sorry reality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
22-10-2021||Opinion||Starved of support||On September 11, 2021, President Ram Nath Kovind laid the foundation stone of the Uttar Pradesh National Law University at Prayagraj. The total number of NLUs in India, including the UPNLU, is 24. These institutions were envisaged as a catalyst to set a new standard of legal education in the country. They have succeeded in this role to some extent. This reflects in the National Institutional Ranking Framework 2021. Six NLUs are among the top 10 institutions in law. However, there are numerous problems that confront these institutions. NLUs get abysmally low grants from their respective states. For the academic year, 2020-21, NLSIU’s funding was cut from Rs 2 crore to 50 lakh. Nalsar, Hyderabad receives state funding of about Rs 3.5-4 crore. However, this is followed by constant pressure to increase domicile reservation to an unacceptable 85 per cent from the current 20 per cent. The government grant for NUJS varies: there was no funding in 2011-12, 2013-14 and 2016-17. In 2015-16, it received Rs 40 lakh. NLU Jodhpur received Rs 50 lakh this academic year. It has since consented to a domicile reservation of 25 per cent, perhaps in the hope of receiving more capital grants. Only GNLU, Gandhinagar and NLU, Delhi are the outliers. GNLU received over Rs 10 crore, including grants from the UGC and other bodies. Similarly, NLUD got approximately Rs 10 crore from the Delhi government. NLUs have to rely on fees and funds collected during such entrance exams as CLAT and AILET. These funds are collected by the CLAT consortium and distributed among NLUs. Low income affects the quality of education. These institutions rely on contractual employment and cannot sustain a permanent faculty. In 2020, NLSIU invited applications for permanent faculty after 12 years. Both issues can be resolved, to some extent, if salaries and allowances are taken care of. In order to be self-sufficient NLUs charge high fees. The fee, approximately, is Rs 2.5 lakh per annum. This leads to the exclusion of students from socially and economically weaker sections. There is also the question of poor infrastructure. MNLU, Mumbai operated from the campus of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences for the first two years and now operates from the Centre for Excellence in Telecom Training and Management. Similarly, MPDNLU, Jabalpur and MNLU, Aurangabad function from campuses of other institutes. Around six NLUs witnessed protests: poor infrastructure formed a significant part of these protests. NLUs also lack disabled-friendly infrastructure and medical aid is substandard. The NLUs were formed to groom professionals with a commitment to social justice, strengthen the Bar and the judiciary, and lift the standards of legal education. There is a need for immediate reforms. However, these would not be possible unless the institutions are provided adequate budgets. State governments must consider allocating greater funds to sustain NLUs and improve their standards of independent research. Instead of opening new NLUs, bettering the quality of the existing institutions should be the priority of governments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
22-10-2021||Opinion||Crooked shapes||The term, ‘terraforming’, derived from the Latin, terra (‘earth’ or ‘land’), and formare (to shape or form) has long had currency in the vocabulary of science fiction in the sense of reshaping celestial bodies like planets, asteroids, moons and so on to resemble earth, thus rendering them fit for human habitation. It was coined by the noted science-fiction writer, John Stewart (‘Jack’) Williamson (1908 – 2006), and first used in his longish short story, “Collision Orbit”, published in the July 1942 edition of Astounding Science-Fiction. In “Collision Orbit”, which is credited to Will Stewart (one of Williamson’s pseudonyms), Obania is a terraformed asteroid, and the setting for a near-fatal meteor collision which is averted through the use of antimatter (which Williamson called “contraterrene”) manipulated by the hero of the story, the 60-year-old space engineer, Jim Drake. The word, ‘terraform’ and its variants — terraforming, terraformed, terraformers (referring to engineers who specialize in terraforming) — were eagerly embraced by science-fiction writers and became a staple of what might be called the larger imaginative universe of Sci-Fi. The term passed into actual scientific usage, with the astronomer, Carl Sagan (1934-1996), suggesting, in 1961, that Venus could be terraformed to support human life. In more recent times, the maverick entrepreneur, Elon Musk, has touted the idea of terraforming Mars in order to make human settlement possible on the red planet and transform humanity into a multi-planet species. The fourth chapter of Amitav Ghosh’s recently-published non-fiction book, The Nutmeg’s Curse: Parables for a Planet in Crisis, is titled “Terraforming”; in it Ghosh mixes personal reminiscence with historical accounts of various acts of terraforming, not on some distant planet but here in the world we call home. He begins the chapter by reminding his readers, “Renaming was one of the principal instruments with which colonists erased the prior meanings of conquered landscapes.” Not just renaming, colonists often transformed the very contours of the lands they conquered, depopulating areas that were once home to thriving communities, denuding forests and mountains, killing off local flora and fauna, and, in short, putting their mark on these conquered territories, often in unspeakably brutal ways (usually justified by invoking a god who had given them the ‘right’ to do so). “So many Amerindians perished in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries [as a consequence of European settler colonization] — estimates vary between 70 and 95 percent of the population of the two continents [North and South America] — that vast tracts of land that had once been used to grow food reverted to forest (which is why cities and temple complexes are still being discovered in the jungles of South and Central America).” In Sci-Fi, as in the ideas of scientists like Sagan, and the projected plans of Musk, one cannot help but notice the proliferation of notions that are inextricably linked with attempts to shape parts of our planet into what Ghosh calls “neo-Europes”. The rhetoric of colonization — settling the last frontier, colonizing space, conquering new worlds and so on — looms large over these fictional and real narratives. In almost every case, they embody dreams of remaking the newly discovered or conquered world in the image of one’s own — something that indigenous and so-called primitive people and the spaces they inhabited were subjected to during the long centuries of colonization, a process that has by no means come to an end in our own times. Only now, it is often the newly-anointed political elites, usually with a distinctly authoritarian bent, who are engaged in such terraforming — including the renaming of places, the transformation of spaces, and the removal or relocation of people from certain regions; all in the name of the greater glory of the nation. Recent events in our own country bear testament to such impulses, with the construction of gigantic statues or vast central vistas transforming the landscape; new, properly ‘Hindu’ names being foisted on cities and regions; and many millions of Indians being asked to vacate the lands they have lived on, or farmed, or worshipped, either because they are standing in the way of progress, or because they have not proved to be ‘Indian’ enough. Each such instance may have its own specificities, but taken together they display the same steely resolve manifested by the European colonialists of yore who went about their task of remaking the world in their own image, and to their own satisfaction, to serve very clear ideological purposes. The moral justification for such remaking derived not just from a belief in the divinely-ordained right of the conqueror to carry out such transformation, but also from placing both the land and those who lived on it on a supposedly neutral, scientific scale and finding both land and people insufficiently developed, eligible for transformation, including elimination, if so deemed necessary. Thus, the original inhabitants of regions were often classified as ‘childlike’ or ‘primitive’ or ‘barbaric’ or ‘savage’ before being eliminated or relocated or forced into adapting the manners and mores of their conquerors. In similar fashion, land was often labelled ‘barren’ or ‘unproductive’ or ‘hostile’ to human habitation before being transformed, using a variety of tools and techniques, including the elimination of indigenous species of flora and fauna, the introduction of exotic non-native species, and the actual reshaping of geographical features, through the construction of dams, linking of rivers, and so on and so forth. Examples abound, both of the historical variety — as documented so vividly in The Nutmeg’s Curse — as well as closer to our lives and times, and no useful purpose is served by belabouring the point by citing incidents and instances. We all know what they are. Used in the extended sense, the concept of terraforming, which should include the ways in which the inhabitants of the terra are also formed, can be a useful way of trying to understand how power seeks to perpetuate itself by leaving its seal on the regions and the peoples it brings within its grasp. To see it either as a quaint notion from science fiction, or as a marker of that long-past historical process called settler colonization, will be to miss its potential to identify the ways in which it is still being practised, almost invariably in order to serve narrow economic and political interests. At the local level, such transformation can take the form of, for example, filling up of water-bodies to construct skyscrapers, or the building of energy-wasteful steel and glass buildings in tropical regions, not to speak of the wholesale destruction of traditional, sustainable ways of living in harmony with the earth’s rhythms. At a global level, toxic dumping, wars over fossil fuel-rich lands, wanton destruction of rainforests, unchecked carbon emissions, as also the large-scale migrations set into motion by such acts that we are now witnessing, to cite but a few examples, bear testament that humanity’s attempts to transform the globe can have dire effects. The ongoing global pandemic ought to serve as a grim reminder that we can no longer take the earth’s resources for granted, and that any future plans that are made should take into account those places and peoples who will be most directly affected by the meddlesome ways of the global corporate elite. Not to do so is a recipe for imminent disaster. Samantak Das is professor of Comparative Literature and pro-vice-chancellor, Jadavpur University. Views expressed are personal||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
22-10-2021||Jharkhand||Meet Covid warrior Ravi, he offered free auto rides during the 2nd wave||An auto-rickshaw driver from Ranchi is among a handful of Covid warriors who have received  salutations from the Union government for going out of their way to  help scores of people during the brutal second wave of the pandemic. As India achieved the historic feat of having administered 100 crore Covid-19 vaccinations on Wednesday, the Union Ministry of Steel  released a 3.07-minute documentary (biopic) on Ravi Agarwal (21) as a thank you gesture for his efforts to save several lives in Ranchi by offering free auto rides to Covid patients. “I am deeply humbled by this gesture of the Union government. I have been flooded by phone calls since last night about the video that was released on the   ministry's  twitter handle. But honestly, whatever I did was only with the intention of  helping the helpless,” remarked Ravi, who lives in Kokar and is currently pursuing his B.Com final year from Ram Lakhan Singh Yadav College while also working as a newspaper hawker. Ravi is younger of  two siblings. His elder brother is currently searching for a job. Their parents are aged. “My father used to sell vegetables to run the family. But a few years ago, I asked him to stop, saying we would do the earning from now," said Ravi. During the first wave of the pandemic, Ravi said he offered to distribute food free, buy and deliver ration to the needy and also supply medicines. “I did all that to do my bit for society at a time when everyone was stressed with the pandemic,” he said. During the second wave of the pandemic, Ravi recalled, even Covid patients were finding it difficult to reach hospitals. “It was because ambulances were scarce, or not willing to ferry people. All ambulance services were fleecing people by charging  exorbitant rates. That was when I decided to offer free rides to the medically hapless. I mentioned my number and pasted it on the auto and also posted it on my social media account,” he recalled. Soon he was swamped with requests from all across Ranchi. "My intention was only to help people in and around my locality but I started getting calls from as far as 40-50km. I never declined  anyone," he said adding that even though he would get 350-400 calls he could help about 10 per cent of them, given his financial and logistical limitations. The steel ministry also released a similar 3.22- min video on veteran doctor and Padmashree Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, a renowned name of Ranchi, who since he started  practising in 1966,  has been offering medical consultation to people only at Rs 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
22-10-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel announces sports scholarships for children of staff||Tata Steel has come up with sports scholarships for children of its permanent employees.  The scholarship scheme is for unemployed children of employees who have participated or have won medals in national or international competitions. Applicants can apply under two categories – under 20 and under 25 years of age. The last date for submitting applications is December 1. According to the scholarship scheme, selected candidates who have represented India internationally will be given a sum of Rs 10,000 per month, while those who have won medals at the national level will get a monthly stipend of Rs 6,000.  The scholarship will be given to general sportspersons (male and female) for sports recognised by the Indian Olympic Association (IOA). The disciplines recognised by IOA includes - aquatics, archery, athletics, badminton, basketball, billiards and snooker, bowling, boxing, cycling, equestrian, fencing, football, golf, gymnastics, handball, hockey, judo, kabaddi, karate, kayaking and canoeing, kho-kho, modern pentathlon, netball, rowing, rugby, sailing, shooting, squash, table tennis, taekwondo, tennis, triathlon, volleyball, weightlifting, wrestling, and wushu.  Apart from general category, specially-abled sportspersons (male and female) can also benefit from the scholarship scheme. Five males and females falling under the intellectually/physically/visually challenged and hearing impaired categories will be considered for this category.  Applications can be filled and sent to the company’s sports department at JRD Tata Sports Complex.  “Applications can be sent to office.headsports@tatasteel.com or anand.m@tatasteel.com,” an official of the company's sports wing informed. The 5-member committee will go through the applications and finalise the successful candidates.  Tata Steel’s contribution to sports is well-known. Besides setting up four sports academies for football, hockey, archery and sport climbing, the company also runs training centres for athletics, handball, archery, basketball, golf, swimming, table tennis, boxing, chess and karate. The company also boasts of having a dedicated sports department that employs former and current international sportspersons.  Several children of Tata employees hone their skills under experienced hands at training centres which operate from JRD Tata Sports Complex.  The steel giant has, in the past, produced international sportspersons, including archers Deepika Kumari, Jayanta Talukdar, Komalika Bari, Ankita Bhakat and athlete Sinimol Paulose to name a few.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
22-10-2021||Jharkhand||Thief in PPE steals Rs 50-lakh jewellery in Garhwa of Jharkhand||A thief wearing a PPE kit stole jewellery worth Rs 50 lakh from a shop in Garhwa of Jharkhand early on Thursday, police said. Police sources said Lal Mohan Soni, owner of Kittu Pari Jewellers in Rocky Mohalla under Garhwa Sadar police station area, lodged a complaint about an unidentified person stealing jewellery from his locked shop. “During our investigation of the CCTV footage, we found one person wearing PPE kit and carrying a bag leaving the shop. “The thief had not broken the shutters to enter the shop which is on the ground floor while the owner stays on the first floor. “The owner suspects that a thatched hut situated adjacent to the building might have been used to reach the roof and enter the house. “At the moment we are investigating the case and cannot say how many persons were involved in the crime,” said Garhwa superintendent of police Anjani Kumar Jha. Police said the CCTV footage shows a person wearing a PPE (personal protective equipment) kit and face covered with a cloth to escape identification leaving the shop with a bag on his back around 3am. “We suspect that the incident took place between 2 and 3am early on Thursday. We suspect that someone who is close to the family or who knows where the key of the almirah where jewellery is kept might have committed the act,” said a senior district police official. The shop owner has in his complaint stated that all family members had gone to sleep on Wednesday night on the second floor. The complaint stated that the key of the almirah was kept near the bed on the first floor from where the thief must have got access to it, opened the almirah, took the jewellery and escaped from the house. Police found that no shutter or lock had been broken in the house. Garhwa is around 250km from Jharkhand capital Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
22-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government bid to reduce ration weight complaints ||The Jharkhand government is planning to make it mandatory for ration shop dealers to use electronic weighing machines linked to electronic point of sale devices (ePoS) in a bid to reduce complaints of beneficiaries allegedly being cheated by some dealers. Addressing a workshop organised by civil society organisations and the state chapter of Right to Food Campaign on Thursday, minister for food, consumer affairs and public distribution Rameshwar Oraon said the step is part of an effort to make Jharkhand a “zero hunger state”. “We do get complaints of PDS (public distribution system) dealers giving less quantity of food grains to illiterate rural beneficiaries while noting down correct entries in the ePoS machines. “The department has already given its proposal for the integration of ePoS devices with electronic weighing machines. The proposal will get a nod from the state cabinet soon. We hope to make it functional across all PDS shops before December-end,” said Oraon, a retired IPS officer who had also served as chairman of the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes. Oraon, a Congress leader, further said that this would bring transparency in the distribution of food grains. “We do get records of sales registered in ePoS machines. If there is any attempt by a PDS dealer to distribute less amount of food grains by weighing less, it would be recorded immediately in the ePoS machines and will expose the ration dealers to punitive action,” said Oraon. The Union government had in June this year had asked states to promote the use of electronic weighing machines and their integration with ePoS devices. Under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), the Centre provides 5kg of wheat and rice (food grains) per month per person to around 80 crore people at a subsidised rate of Rs 2-3 per kg. “The department of food and public distribution issued a notification in June 2021 to ensure right quantity to beneficiaries in distribution of subsidised food grains as per their entitlement under the NFSA 2013,” a state government official said. “While distribution through ePoS devices ensures that subsidised food grains are provided to the rightful beneficiary through biometric authentication, integration of such devices with electronic weighing scales would ensure that the beneficiary is given the right quantity of food grains by the fair price shop dealer as per his/her entitlement,” the official added. Oraon told The Telegraph that to tide over mobile network problems cropping up in shadow areas, the base transmission station (BTS) in such places are being upgraded to 4G standard so that ePoS devices function properly. “Apart from up-gradation of mobile network, we also have plans to install boosters for those PDS shops having problems which would enable proper coverage. “The government will not shy away from technological intervention to ensure seamless and transparent distribution of food grains for all beneficiaries,” said Oraon. According to the NFSA 2013 data, there are over 2.64 crore beneficiaries in Jharkhand while the state government under its own green card scheme has set a target of reaching out to 15 lakh people. There are nearly 25,500 PDS dealers across the state. “We have covered over 12 lakh beneficiaries as part of the state government green ration card schemes,” said an official in the food and consumer affairs department. Balram Jo from the Right to Food campaign suggested the opening of public service centres at all blocks, opening of a training centre for ICDS personnel and increasing coverage of food security schemes in the state. Johnson Topno, the regional programme head of Phia Foundation, delivered the welcome address. Jharkhand State Food Commission chairman Himanshu Shekhar delved on the importance of government departments working in tandem with it and civil society organisations to ensure that beneficiaries get proper food grains. There were presentations on the status of various government initiatives to improve food and nutrition security in Jharkhand, the status of women and child nutrition in the state and the promotion and preservation of the local food system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-20
