23-10-2021||Business||Zee digs in for a fight, stalls on EGM||Punit Goenka-run Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd (ZEEL) is digging its heels in for a bruising legal battle with institutional shareholder Invesco. On Friday, ZEEL stuck to its guns and maintained that Invesco’s requisition for an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) of shareholders was illegal and invalid, effectively spurning the Bombay High Court’s directive yesterday to call a shareholders’ meeting. Invesco plans to move a resolution seeking to oust CEO and MD Goenka and induct six new independent directors — a move that the Subhash Chandra family, the founders of Zee, believe is a ploy to push for a takeover of the media house by the Reliance group. Zee has already struck a non-binding agreement with Sony India for a merger of the two entities that it hopes to close by the end of December. Goenka had informed the Zee board about 10 days ago that Invesco had been trying to bring in the Reliance group as a strategic partner and made its first overture in February. The Bombay High Court has reserved its order on Zee’s petition till Tuesday. ZEEL has argued that Invesco’s demand for an EGM is not compliant with rules and regulations governing media companies made by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting (MIB), Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and also some clauses of the Companies Act. On Thursday, Justice GS Patel of the Bombay High court had asked the board of Zee to look into the requisition notice made by Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund. Zee’s senior counsel Gopal Subramanium had said that he would seek instructions from the company and inform the court about the date of the EGM on Friday morning. At the hearing on Friday, Subramanium reiterated the Zee board’s concerns, indicating that the company was not prepared to call the EGM. Subramanium said prior permission must be taken from the I&B ministry before trying to effect any changes to Zee’s board. Counsel for Zee said a certain procedure needs to be followed when it comes to the appointment of independent directors. While the nomination and remuneration committee proposes the names of independent directors to the Board, the latter then takes a view on whether or not they should be appointed. He averred that the proposal to induct six new independent directors into the board tantamounts to a change in control and, if this happens, then a open offer has to be made. He further observed that a board of a company should have a optimum mix of executive and non-executive directors. Kapil Sibal, who appeared for Punit Goenka, said Invesco was seeking the appointment of six independent directors and the removal of Goenka. However, a listed company cannot have a board without a managing director and the CEO. Janak Dwarkadas, who appeared on behalf of Invesco, said the shareholders have the right to seek an EGM as they hold more than 10 per cent in the company. He also did not agree with the view that the Invesco move would lead to a change in control since this is a proposal that may or may not be accepted by the shareholders. Early this month, Zee had claimed that it had sought legal opinion from a wide range of legal eagles, including retired Supreme Court judges who endorsed the view that Invesco’s notice seeking the convening of an EGM was illegal and invalid.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
23-10-2021||Business||Tata Consumer Products reports 4.62% rise in consolidated net profit||Tata Consumer Products Ltd (TCPL) on Thursday reported a 4.62 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 285.80 crore for the September quarter, helped by growth in domestic beverages and food businesses. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 273.18 crore in the July-September period a year ago, TCPL, earlier known as Tata Global Beverages Ltd, said in a BSE filing. Revenue from operations increased 9.05 per cent to Rs 3,033.12 crore against Rs 2,781.34 crore a year ago. Total expenses of the Tata Group’s FMCG arm were at Rs 2,708.91 crore, up 10.02 per cent from Rs 2,462.20 crore in the second quarter of FY2021. Biocon net dips Biocon on Friday said its consolidated net profit declined  18 per cent to Rs 138 crore for the September quarter from Rs 169 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations, however, increased by 5 per cent in the second quarter to Rs 1,840 crore from Rs 1,750 crore in the year-ago period, Biocon Ltd said in a statement. Hind Zinc profit up Vedanta group firm Hindustan Zinc Ltd (HZL) has reported a 3.9 per cent rise in its net profit at Rs 2,017 crore for the  September quarter, on the back of higher revenue from operations.  The company had posted net profit of Rs 1,940 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations in the July-September quarter increased to Rs 5,958 crore, from Rs 5,533 crore in the year-ago period, the filing said. The total expenses of the company during the quarter increased to Rs 3,571 crore  against Rs 3,428 crore in the year-ago period. Federal Bank Federal Bank’s net profit jumped 55 per cent to Rs 488 crore for the second quarter of this fiscal ended September 30.   The bank had posted a net profit of Rs 315.70 crore in the year-ago period. Total income (consolidated)  however, was down at Rs 4,013.46 crore against Rs 4,071.35 crore in the same period of 2020-21. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
23-10-2021||Business||Reserve Bank remains focused on bringing back retail inflation to 4%||The Reserve Bank remains focused on bringing back retail inflation to 4 per cent over a period of time in a non-disruptive manner, governor Shaktikanta Das stressed while voting for status quo in interest rates, according to  minutes of the October policy meeting released on Friday. The central bank has been mandated by the government to ensure the Consumer Price Index (CPI) based inflation is at 4 per cent, with a band of 2 per cent on either side. Retail inflation, which was above 6 per cent during May and June, has started moving down and stood at 4.35 per cent in September. According to the minutes of the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting held during October 6 to 8, Das said in its August 2021 meeting, the panel was faced with the challenges posed by headline inflation exceeding the upper tolerance threshold for the second successive month. The actual inflation outcomes for July-August have vindicated the MPC’s outlook and monetary policy stance, he noted. The more-than-expected softening of inflation in July and August this year was underpinned by the significant lowering in food price momentum, especially in August. Going forward, the governor said if there are no spells of unseasonal rains, food inflation is likely to register significant moderation in the immediate term, aided by record kharif production, more than adequate food stocks, supply-side measures and favourable base effects. “Volatile crude prices, particularly the resurgence since mid-September, is pushing pump prices to new highs, raising risk of spillover of high transportation cost into retail prices of goods and services.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
23-10-2021||Business||Short shrift to Play Store relief||Google’s decision to slash Play Store fee for developers selling subscription service has come in for a strong reaction from digital startup associations, which  term it as nothing but a reduced ‘lagaan‘ (tax). Google has announced that it is lowering its app store fees for all subscription-based services to 15 per cent from the existing 30 per cent starting January 1, 2022. However, the Alliance of Digital India Foundation (ADIF) says the tech firm is trying to “deflect and distract" from what developers have been asking for so far. This move only addresses the issue of high prices charged from app developers while the bigger issue of anti-competitive practices still remains unaddressed. “What developers are asking for is fairness and not benevolence in the form of ‘reduced’ commission percentages. It has never been about the percentages. Price discovery should be left to the market forces. As long as Google gets to unilaterally dictate prices and people don’t have choices, it’s still a lagaan—be it 30, 15 or even 2, the percentages do not matter,” Sijo Kuruvilla George, executive director, ADIF, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
23-10-2021||Business||HDFC Life heads into second half of fiscal with EMR of Rs 204 crore||HDFC Life Insurance is heading into the second half of the fiscal year with an excess mortality reserve (EMR) of Rs 204 crore to cover for claims from the Covid pandemic. The insurer said it will monitor the adequacy of the reserve during the period. The life insurer had allotted Rs 700 crore as mortality reserve at the end of June, while it utilised Rs 556 crore of the reserve from July to September. HDFC Life added Rs 60 crore to the reserves, leaving it with Rs 204 crore at the beginning of the second half of the fiscal. The additional provisions have impacted the bottomline of HDFC Life Insurance which fell 15.93 per cent to Rs 275.91 crore in the second quarter from Rs 327.83 crore a year ago, though profit was higher by around 2 per cent on a sequential basis from Rs 269.55 crore in the first quarter. “We settled around 2 lakh claims in the first half of 2021-22. Gross and net claims amounted to Rs 3,640 crore and Rs 2,466 crore respectively. While individual claims have tapered off, group claim intimations were high in the second quarter,” said Vibha Padalkar, MD & CEO of HDFC Life Insurance, at the earnings call. With awareness around insurance at a high in the pandemic, the life insurer continued to grow its business. “Our business performance remains strong with 22 per cent growth in new business premium and private market share of 16.2 per cent in terms of individual weighted received premium in the first half,” said Padalkar. She said the life insurer is awaiting final approval from the IRDAI and CCI for the acquisition of the Exide Life Insurance business and is in discussions with the authorities having received  shareholder approval in September. The HDFC Life share was down 0.61 per cent on Friday at the Bombay Stock Exchange.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
23-10-2021||Business||SIAC rejects Future Retail plea to lift interim stay on Reliance deal||The Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) has rejected a plea of Future Retail Ltd (FRL) to lift the interim stay on its proposed deal with Reliance, in yet another setback for the Kishore Biyani-company. Earlier this week, the arbitrator said FRL is a party to the current arbitration between Amazon and the Future group. Following the partial award, Amazon approached the Supreme Court urging the order of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) on September 28 be set aside. The tribunal had permitted FRL to hold meetings of its shareholders and creditors for the Rs 24,713cr deal with Reliance. In a communication to the stock exchanges on Friday, FRL said it has received SIAC’s decision dated October 21, 2021 with regard to its plea on vacating the interim award of  Emergency Arbitrator (EA) given on October 25 last year. Pointing out that the arbitration tribunal has passed a decision dismissing its application, FRL while quoting parts of the order, said “the tribunal is satisfied that the orders set out in the EA Award were correctly granted, and have not been vitiated by any subsequent events or proceedings. Further or alternatively, the respondents have not demonstrated that circumstances have materially changed to justify any change to the EA Award’’. “The tribunal’s decision to reject the application to vacate the EA Award has re-affirmed the grounds of the EA in specifically injuncting any application by FRL (and the other respondents) from taking any steps in relation to the impugned transaction including the filing and pursuing of any application before the NCLT,’’ the filing said. FRL added that it would be deciding on its future course of action based on the legal advice and available remedies in law. Shares of the company on Friday extended losses as it fell  2.62 per cent to Rs 50.15 on the BSE.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
23-10-2021||Business||Yes Bank reports 74.30% jump in net profit for quarter ended Sep 30||Lower provisions helped Yes Bank report a 74.30 per cent jump in net profit for the quarter ended September 30. The private sector lender posted a net profit of Rs 225.50 crore against Rs 129.37 crore a year ago. Ahead of its numbers, there were wide variance in analyst estimates with brokerages such as Anand Rathi forecasting that its bottomline would spike by 247 per cent to Rs 448.4 crore, while others expected it to come between Rs 150 crore and Rs 200 crore. Some analysts had also pencilled in a loss for the period. For Yes Bank, the rise came on account of a sharp fall in provisions. The lender said that provisions came down to Rs 377.37 crore from Rs 1,078 crore in the year ago period. Asset quality of the bank also improved with gross non-performing assets (NPAs) coming at Rs 28,740.59 crore against Rs 28,505.95 crore in the preceding three months and Rs 32,344.36 crore in the year ago period. The percentage of gross NPAs declined to 14.97 per cent from 15.60 per cent on a sequential basis, while the net NPA ratio stood at 5.55 per cent from 5.78 per cent in the April-June quarter. Fresh slippages were lower compared with the preceding quarter at Rs 1,783 crore, of which corporate slippages stood at Rs 750 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
23-10-2021||Business||Paytm IPO gets Sebi approval||The decks have been cleared for the country’s largest initial public offering (IPO) — with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) on Friday giving its approval  for the share float of One97 Communications, the parent of digital financial services firm Paytm. The country’s second most valuable start-up after Byju’s is set to make an initial public offer of Rs 16,600 crore. The company which is backed by SoftBank and Alibaba’s Ant Financial is likely to hit the markets by the end of this month. One97 Communications had filed its draft prospectus with the market regulator in July. The IPO will be a fresh issue aggregating to Rs 8,300 crore and an offer for sale of a similar amount by the existing shareholders. While filing for the share sale, the company had said it retains the option in discussion with book running lead managers to undertake a pre IPO placement of Rs 2,000 crore However, it is now learnt that Paytm is unlikely to go ahead with this pre IPO placement. Market circles expect interest in Paytm to remain high though the secondary markets have come under pressure over the past few sessions because of concerns over valuations and rising  input prices Since Zomato’s share float in July, new age tech companies are tapping the primary market. Zomato’s IPO which had come in the price band of Rs 72-76 per share was subscribed over 38 times. Recently, hospitality firm OYO filed preliminary papers with Sebi to raise Rs 8,430 crore through an initial share-sale. Some of the others that are set to raise funds include Policybazaar, Nykaa and Mobikwik Systems. The top five shareholders of One97 Communications are ANT Financial through Antfin (Netherlands) Holding B.V with 29.6 per cent stake. SVF India Holdings (Cayman) Ltd or SoftBank Vision Fund holds 18.3 per cent and SAIF III Mauritius Company Ltd, 12.1 per cent. Founder Vijay Shekhar Sharma holds 9.6 per cent stake and Alibaba.com Singapore E-Commerce Pvt Ltd has a 7.2 per cent stake. Sharma, ANT Financial, Alibaba, SoftBank and SAIF are expected to sell some their shares. Paytm was launched in 2009 as a digital platform to enable cashless payments, starting with assistance in bill payments and offering mobile top ups. It then set up the “Paytm Wallet” in 2014 and built a payments platform. According to the company, it has the country’s largest payments platform based on the number of consumers and merchants, number of consumer-to-merchant transactions and revenues as of March 31, 2021. The previous record for India’s largest IPO was held by Coal India which mobilised Rs 15,000 crore, more than a decade ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
23-10-2021||Business||Reliance Industries posts 43 per cent jump in net profit||Reliance Industries silenced its doubters to post a 43 per cent jump in net profit to Rs 13,680 crore in the second quarter of the fiscal against Rs 9,567 crore a year ago, much ahead of analyst estimates of profits of around Rs 12,500 crore. The oil-to-telecom (O2C) and the retail businesses drove profit growth even as telecom reported lower net  subscriber additions. Reliance’s topline at over Rs 1.74 lakh crore for the quarter also beat estimates. Concerns have been raised  among analysts over  the steep valuation of the Reliance stock. The scrip was a laggard over the past few trading sessions after outperforming the broader indices this year. The O2C business stole the show with a 58 per cent leap in revenues to Rs 120,475 crore compared with Rs 76,184 crore a year ago. In telecom, average revenue per user (ARPU) at Rs 143.6 beat estimates of Rs 140 per user but there was some disappointment in additions. RIL said it added 23.8 million subscribers (net) in the quarter to raise its user base to 429.5 million by the end of the second quarter, much lower than the 42.3 million added in the preceding quarter. Digital services business Jio Platforms posted a 15.2 per cent growth in gross revenues at Rs 23,222 crore in the second quarter against Rs 21,708 crore a year ago. Net profit stood at Rs 3,728 crore  against Rs 3,019 crore a year ago, with the share of Jio Infocomm at Rs 3,528 crore an increase of 24.05 per cent. It was the O2C business which was the star of the show reporting a nearly 44 per cent rise in earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation (EBITDA) to Rs 12,720 crore. The sharp rise in revenues was largely because of improved realisation on the back of an increase in oil prices and higher volumes. However, higher feedstock prices affected the margins of some items. Reliance said it benefited from the rise in the prices of  polypropylene by 30 per cent, polyethylene by 26 per cent and poly vinyl chloride (PVC), 54 per cent. But on a sequential basis, their margins softened because of a rise in feedstock prices. The retail business also contributed to the good performance by clocking a 10.5 per cent growth in revenues to Rs 45,426 crore compared with Rs 41,100 crore a year ago. Net profits of the business grew 74 per cent to Rs 1,695 crore. According to RIL, revenues in retail are higher than the pre-Covid period. With the relaxation of restrictions, business recorded higher store operating days at 89 per cent compared with 61 per cent last quarter even as footfalls recovered to 78 per cent of pre-Covid levels compared with 46 per cent in the preceding three months. Retail witnessed  a strong growth across all consumption baskets following a revival in sentiments amid festivities, lesser curbs and a rise in the pace of vaccinations. Reliance saw growth momentum getting re-established in fashion & lifestyle with sales closing above pre-Covid levels. Further, consumer electronics and grocery maintained strong growth momentum. Meanwhile, RIL continued to be net debt free. While the outstanding debt as on September 30, 2021 was Rs 255,891 crore, the cash and cash equivalents were higher at Rs 259,476 crore. “I am pleased that Reliance has posted a strong performance in the second quarter of 2021-22. Our operational and financial performance reflects sharp recovery in the retail segment and sustained growth in O2C and digital services business,’’ Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of Reliance, said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-28
23-10-2021||India||Amit Shah reiterates 'roadmap' for polls and statehood restoration in Jammu and Kashmir||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday sought the support of the youth of Kashmir in realising Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "vision of a peaceful and developed" J-K, while reiterating that assembly election will be held in the union territory after delimitation and restoration of statehood will follow.  The government will not allow anyone to create hurdles in the path of peace and development in Kashmir, Shah, who is on his first visit to Jammu and Kashmir since Article 370 was revoked in August 2019, said during an interaction with the members of youth clubs of the union territory.  I have come here to forge a friendship with the youth of Kashmir. Join hands with Modi ji and the Government of India and become partners in the journey to take Kashmir forward, he said.  The Union Home Minister said the youths of Kashmir should take advantage of the various opportunities being created by the administration for their progress.  God has made Kashmir as heaven with its natural beauty, but Modi ji wants to see peace, prosperity and development here as well. For that, I have come here to seek support from the youth of Kashmir.  The administration has lent a hand of friendship, youth clubs have been created, you have been given a platform, an opportunity, so come forward and take this opportunity. Make democracy stronger here, let the youths respond to the elements who try to make people go astray, he said.  Shah asserted the government's commitment to bringing peace and development in Jammu and Kashmir.  "Rest assured, the developmental journey in Kashmir will not stop, and no one will stop J-K from becoming an ideal state with respect to development, peace, infrastructure and prosperity, he added.  Shah said he has made a promise in Parliament that the statehood of J-K would be restored and it would be done after the assembly elections.  Elections will happen. (Politicians from Kashmir want that the) Delimitation be stopped. Why? Because it hurts their politics. Now, such things will not stop in Kashmir.  "The youth of Kashmir will get opportunities, so a right delimitation will be done, which will be followed by elections and then the status of the statehood will be restored. I have said this in the country's Parliament and this is the roadmap, he said.  Shah said he felt pleased after his interaction with the members of the youth clubs as the youth of Kashmir has now "set out on the right path and become a shareholder in the journey of development".  I wish you all the very best. Keep moving forward and take benefit from this opportunity of youth clubs and support the administration, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||Go First starts direct passenger service from Srinagar to Sharjah||Wadia group-run airline Go First on Saturday commenced its direct passenger services to Sharjah in the UAE from Srinagar, becoming the first domestic carrier to provide direct international connectivity from the summer capital of Jammu & Kashmir.  Operated by an Airbus A320neo, the airline's maiden flight G8 1595 departed from Srinagar's Sheikh ul-Alam International Airport around 6.30 pm on Saturday, a release said.  Go First will operate four flights every week between Srinagar and Sharjah.  The introduction of the direct flight on the new route, which will be operated four times a week, will boost trade and tourism between Srinagar and the UAE, besides meeting demand for convenient travel options for the two cities, which are popular tourist destinations as well, Go First said.  The new services will also support growing trade and investment links with both Srinagar and Sharjah, it added. The direct flights from Sharjah will offer seamless connections to Srinagar and beyond to Chandigarh, Delhi, Jammu, Leh and Mumbai and vice-versa, the airline said.  "Having been in operations here for over 15 years, the airline shares a special relationship with the region and is committed to its growth. We are delighted to be the first airline to connect Jammu & Kashmir with the UAE and it bears testimony to our commitment to the region, said Kaushik Khona, Chief Executive Officer, Go First.  The airline said it has taken initiatives for the development of air travel and cargo movement from Srinagar, Jammu and Leh, adding that it is the only airline appointed for the cargo movement of horticultural perishable and agricultural produce of J&K Horticulture Products the state owned company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||Complainant gone missing: Uddhav Thackeray's dig at former Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh||In an apparent dig at former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday said there is a case in the state where the complainant has gone missing.  Thackeray made the statement at the inauguration of two wings of the annexe building at the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court. Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, Union Law Minister Kiren Rijuju, Supreme Court judge Justice D Y Chandrachud and others were present on the occasion.  "Justice D Y Chandrachud pointed out (during his address at the event) that a case is pending in Maharashtra since 1958 as the accused is absconding. But today we have a case where the complainant is missing," Thackeray said.  "He gave a complaint making serious allegations, but is now missing. We do not know where he is. This is something that also needs to be looked into," he added.  Although the chief minister did not name anyone, his remarks were apparently targeted at the senior IPS officer, who had levelled allegations of corruption against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.  A few days ago, during a hearing of a plea pertaining to Singh, the Maharashtra government had told the Bombay High Court that his whereabouts were not known.  Days after he was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner, Singh had claimed in a letter to the chief minister earlier this year that Deshmukh used to ask the police officers to collect money from restaurants and bars in Mumbai. Deshmukh, an NCP leader, resigned as a minister in April this year, although he has denied the allegations against him.  The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) are probing the allegations made against Deshmukh by Singh.  During his address, the chief minister added that the state government is now planning to launch a project wherein a new high court complex will be built in Mumbai.  "I would like to extend my invitation to Chief Justice of India N V Ramana right now to come to the function as and when it happens. I will try to ensure that the foundation laying of the new building complex and its inauguration are both done by my government," he said.  His statement was apparently in response to minister Rijiju's remark that the foundation for this building (Aurangabad bench) was laid by former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, while Thackeray has come for its inauguration.  Thackeray added that dispensing justice is a teamwork involving all the four pillars of democracy.  "We all have to work as a team to ensure that none of the pillars collapses," he added.  Thackeray said that when Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar was framing the Constitution, he was asked about the rights of the central and the state governments, and he answered that the except for a few rights to the Centre, the state will be equally sovereign.  "Dr Ambedkar had made it clear that the state is equally sovereign, except for a few powers to the central government. But are these rights of the states being exercised today? We should check," he said.  India has completed 75 years of Independence, he said, adding, "If we think that we should not lose our independence, I request that all the judges should guide the country about the meaning of independence."  Occupying a certain position doesn't mean that your wish is your authority. Wishes and rights are two different things, someone should tell this, Thackeray said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||UP govt to rename Faizabad railway station as Ayodhya Cantt ||The Uttar Pradesh government has decided to rename the Faizabad railway station, a tweet by the office of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Saturday.  It will be called the Ayodhya Cantt railway station, the tweet said, adding that the decision was taken by the chief minister.  In another tweet, the CM's office said the Centre too has granted its consent to the decision and Adityanath has given green signal to issue a notification in this regard.  Earlier in 2018, the Yogi Adityanath government had renamed Faizabad as Ayodhya.  The BJP government had also changed the name of Allahabad to Prayagraj and Mughalsarai railway junction as Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay junction.  Meanwhile, the opposition dubbed the move as an attempt to "play with Hindu sentiments" for political benefits.  The chief minister, however, justified renaming, saying it is part of efforts to "restore the rich historical and cultural identity" of the place.  Opened in 1874, the Faizabad railway station comes under the Northern Railway zone. It falls under the Lucknow-Varanasi section.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||Modi meets seven Covid vaccine manufacturers after billion-dose milestone||Prime Minister Narendra Modi met seven Indian COVID-19 vaccine manufacturers today, a meeting that comes in the wake of the country achieving the landmark of administering 100 crore doses of the jabs, official sources said. Representatives from seven vaccine makers - Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech, Dr Reddy's Laboratories, Zydus Cadila, Biological E, Gennova Biopharma and Panacea Biotech - attended the meeting with PM Modi. PM Modi was likely to emphasise on ways to vaccinate eligible people in India as quickly as possible and also help other countries in inoculating their population as part of the mantra "vaccine for all", an official source had told news agency Press Trust of India. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and Union Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar were present in the meeting as well. The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 101.30 crore, according to the Health Ministry data updated at 7 am. India on October 21 achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against COVID-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark, resulting in celebratory events across various parts. More than 75 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, with nine states and union territories administering the first dose to all eligible people. Over 31 per cent of the country's around 93 crore adults have been administered both the doses, according to health ministry officials. So far, all adult population in nine states and union territories - Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Dadra and Nagar Haveli - have received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||Three more arrested in Lakhimpur Kheri violence case||Three more arrests were made on Saturday in connection with the Tikonia violence here which had left eight people, including four farmers, dead during a protest by farmers on October 3, officials said Saturday. This takes to 13 the total number of arrests made so far, also including Union minister Ajay Mishra's son Ashish, in connection with the violence. A senior police officer identified those arrested Saturday as Mohit Trivedi of Singahi town, Ranku Rana of Barsola Kalan and Dharmendra of Chimma Tanda both under Tikonia kotwali limits. The arrests were made after their names emerged during the interrogation of other accused in police custody, the officer added. All the three accused would be produced in the court later in the day and the investigators would request for their 14 days police remand for further interrogation,he said. Ashish was arrested on October 9 and is presently in police custody. The nine other arrested accused include BJP ward member Sumit Jaiswal, Ankit Das, Latif alias Kale, Shekhar Bharti, Shishu Pal, Satya Prakash Tripathi alias Satyam, Nandan Singh Bisht, Ashish Pandey and Lavkush Rana. Barring Ashish Pandey and Lavkush Rana, all other seven are in police custody for interrogation. An FIR was lodged at the Tikonia police station on October 3. The next day, a counter-FIR was lodged at the same police station on the basis of a complaint by Sumit Jaiswal, who has now been arrested. The SIT constituted by the state police is probing the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||CJI Ramana rues 'unplanned' improvement and maintenance of judicial infrastructure||Judicial infrastructure is important for improving access to justice, but it is baffling to note that its improvement and maintenance was being carried out in an ad-hoc and unplanned manner in the country, Chief Justice of India N V Ramana said on Saturday. Noting that an effective judiciary can help in the growth of the economy, the CJI said courts are extremely essential for any society that is governed by rule of law. CJI Ramana was speaking at the inauguration of two wings of the annexe building at the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court. The CJI said today's success should not blind us to the issues that exist. "We are faced with certain hard facts like several courts do not have proper facilities. Some courts function out of dilapidated buildings. Judicial infrastructure is important for improving access to justice," he said. "It is baffling to note that the improvement and maintenance of judicial infrastructure is still being carried out in an ad-hoc and unplanned manner," CJI Ramana added. He further said that the building that was inaugurated at Aurangabad on Saturday was envisioned in 2011. "That it has taken 10 years for this vision to be implemented is extremely worrisome. This is a deeper problem that has plugged our judicial infrastructure planning in our country since the Independence," the CJI said. "An effective judiciary can aid in the effective growth of the economy," he said. The CJI said he has sent a proposal for the establishment of the National Judicial Infrastructural Authority to the Union Minister of Law and Justice, and added that he was hoping for a positive response and the issue be taken up during the upcoming winter session of the Parliament. CJI Ramana said many ideas of social revolution that have resulted in the freedom and liberty that we all take for granted today have been born out of this fertile and progressive land. "Be it the extraordinary Savitri Phule or the pioneering feminist Jyotirao Phule or the legendary Dr Bhimrao Babasaheb Ambedkar. They always aspired for an egalitarian society where every individual's right to dignity is honoured. Together they have set in motion an irreversible social change which has finally evolved in our Constitution," CJI Ramana said. He added that it is a common notion that only criminals and victims approach court and people take pride in stating that they have never visited or seen a court building in their lifetime. "But it is high time we take the efforts to remove this taboo for the affirmation of a citizen's rights. The common man deals with multiple legal issues during his lifetime. One must never hesitate to approach the courts. After all, people's faith in the judiciary is one the biggest strength of democracy," the CJI said. He added that courts are extremely essential for any society that is governed by rule of law as they actively assure the constitutional right to justice. Courts in India have always stood up whenever an individual or society is at the receiving end of executive excess, he said. "It is an assurance that an individual, howsoever weak, need not worry about the might of a state," CJI Ramana said. Also speaking at the function, Supreme Court Justice D Y Chandrachud said the flipside of their work is they are confronted with the extent of justice and injustice faced by citizens across the nation. Justice Chandrachud added that while the judiciary is celebrating the inauguration of the building but at the same there has to be introspection from the judiciary on how to address the issue of pending cases in the state and country. "As on date, there are over 48 lakh cases pending in Maharashtra with around 21,000 cases being more than three decades old. These are some of the problems we have to face. This calls for some introspection," Justice Chandrachud said. Justice Chandrachud said the building at Aurangabad is a landmark in the history of Maharashtra. "This building is a symbol of the ethos of Maharashtra. It represents the value of diversity, tolerance and plurality of culture in this state," Justice Chandrachud said. He also emphasized the need to have virtual courts so that every citizen across the nation can have access to court proceedings. "Our citizens are entitled to know how court proceedings are being held, how long judges sit, and why some cases get adjourned. This is their right to know," Justice Chandrachud said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||Modi calls for continuation of 'double engine' govt to make Goa self-sufficient||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called for the need to have continuation of "double engine" government in order to realise the vision of making Goa self-sufficient. He said this while interacting with the beneficiaries and stakeholders of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Swayampurna Goa programme' via video-conferencing. His 'double engine' reference was to the BJP governments at the Centre as well as in the state. The Assembly polls in Goa, which is currently ruled by the saffron party, are due in February next year. "Goa can become 'swayampurna' (self-sufficient) only when it makes cent per cent use of the developmental avenues and possibilities," Modi said, adding that 'Swayampurna Goa' is a means to fulfil the aspirations of common people. "Swayampurna Goa is an assurance of well-being and health of our mothers and sisters. Swayampurna Goa will provide employment and self-employment opportunities to youths and unemployed people," he added. Modi said that it is not just a programme of five months or five years, but it is a first phase of the vision for next 25 years. Each one from Goa will have to contribute to achieve the goal, he added. "That is why, Goa needs continuation of development by double engine government. Goa needs clear policies like the way they are today and a stable government," he said. The prime minister said that the coastal state needs "energetic leadership like today". "With the blessings of entire Goa, we can make the state swayampurna," he said. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant welcomed the prime minister during the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||Shah Rukh Khan's manager visits NCB office||Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan's manager Pooja Dadlani visited the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) office here on Saturday morning, sources said. Dadlani arrived at the anti-drug agency's office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai around 10 am, carrying an envelope in her hand, they said. While stepping out of the office over an hour later, the media persons waiting outside tried to seek her comment, but she left the place without speaking to them. Aryan Khan (23), son of Shah Rukh Khan, was arrested by the NCB on October 3 following a raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. On Thursday, an NCB team had visited the actor's residence 'Mannat' in suburban Bandra seeking some documents related to the investigation of the alleged drug seizure case. On Friday evening, the Shah Rukh Khan's bodyguard had visited the NCB office and handed over some documents in a sealed envelope on the actor's behalf.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
23-10-2021||India||Shah grills officials on killings, terror threat in Kashmir ||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday reviewed the security situation and steps taken to combat terrorism in Kashmir Valley in the wake of a spate of attacks on civilians, particularly non-local labourers and minorities. Prolonged encounters with terrorists, the growing threat of radicalisation, the killing of civilians, and an increase in cross-border infiltration were some of the key issues discussed at the high-level meeting held at the Raj Bhawan, reported ndtv com The meet was attended by top civil administration officials, including Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, and senior security officials from the Army, CRPF, police and other agencies. NDTV.com quoted a ministry official as saying: "The narrative of the centre is that J&K is safe for everyone… but these killings prove minorities and outsiders are not safe. This is a big concern for government… so a strategy to further reassure people was discussed." Shah also sought explanations on prolonged encounters and anti-terror operations. The home minister was briefed about the steps taken to eliminate terrorism from Jammu and Kashmir and counter-infiltration measures taken by the forces, the officials said. Shah's visit to Kashmir comes in the backdrop of 11 civilian killings in the valley in October alone. Five of those killed were labourers from Bihar, while three, including two teachers, belonged to minority communities in Kashmir. Earlier, upon arriving, Shah was received at the Srinagar airport by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha where other senior officials of the Jammu and Kashmir administration were also present, officials said. After landing the Home Minister visited the family of J&K police officer Inspector Parvez Ahmad, who was killed by terrorists this month. Shah has offered Mr Ahmad's wife a government job, reported ndtv.com. After the Raj Bhawan meeting, the home minister is also likely to interact with members of a youth club here. This is Shah's first visit to Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir state into two Union Territories on August 5, 2019. Security was beefed up across Kashmir ahead of Shah's visit to the valley. Additional deployment of security forces has been made across the valley, the officials said. They said the security apparatus has been beefed up, especially in the city here. Official sources said 50 companies of additional paramilitary forces are being inducted into the valley in the wake of the recent spate of civilian killings. Bunkers manned by CRPF forces have come up in several areas of the city as well in other parts of the Kashmir valley, the officials said. On Sunday, he will travel to Jammu to address a public rally, and on Monday, he is likely to meet village heads to address their concerns before flying back to Delhi. The civilian killings have prompted extra precautions for Shah's visit, with fortifications in a 20 km radius around Raj Bhavan (where he will stay) on Srinagar's Gupkar Road. Drones were spotted Friday to keep track of suspicious movement and the CRPF monitored activity on Dal Lake and parts of the Jhelum River that flows through the interior of the city. "Regular area domination exercises are being carried out. Also, flash nakas are being organised," CRPG's Deputy Inspector General (Operations) Mathew A John told NDTV.com. "Snipers and sharpshooters have been deployed at strategic places. Vehicles are being checked and pedestrians are frisked. Not to harass the public but for their safety too," he added. The killing of civilians has been linked to Pakistan-backed outfits like the Lashkar-e-Taiba; an outfit called The Resistance Front, blamed for some of the deaths has been linked to Lashkar. This week J&K police said four Lashkar terrorists linked to the deaths of civilians - three migrant workers - had been killed after encounters in Shopian and Kulgam districts. Last week two other terrorists - involved in the killing of a civilian and a cop - were killed in back-to-back encounters in Srinagar and Pulwama. According to police, one of those killed was involved in the death of Mohammad Shafi in Srinagar on October 2. 17 terrorists have been killed during 11 encounters in the last two weeks, according to Vijay Kumar, Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Kashmir. The attacks on civilians have come at a time when the Army is engaged in one of the longest and toughest anti-terror ops in recent times.. Yesterday there was heavy firing in the Poonch sector as the Army hunted down terrorists hiding in the forests there for the past 12 days. Army and police sources have said the fierceness of the fighting has led to speculation the terrorists may have been trained by Pak commandos. Nine soldiers have been killed in action so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||Court rejects Kangana's plea in defamation case||The additional chief metropolitan magistrate court here has held that the Andheri metropolitan magistrate, which is presiding over the defamation case filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar against Kangana Ranaut, has acted "judiciously" and did not show any bias against the actor. Just because the court proceeds with the case by following the procedure of law, it does not mean that it is biased against the applicant, additional chief metropolitan magistrate S T Dande said in her order in which she rejected Ranaut's plea that sought transfer of the case to some other court. The additional chief metropolitan magistrate had rejected Ranaut's petition on October 21, but its detailed order was made available on Saturday. The actor had filed the transfer petition last month, saying that she had "lost faith" in the Andheri metropolitan magistrate's court as it indirectly threatened her of issuing a warrant if she failed to appear before it in a bailable offence. The petition also alleged that the court was biased against her. However, Dande, in her order, ruled that the metropolitan magistrate, 10th court, Andheri, has given a fair opportunity to the accused to remain absent by granting all her exemption applications. "I have perused all the orders passed by the Metropolitan Magistrate, Andheri. He has passed the orders judiciously," she said. Moreover, the order passed by the Andheri court was confirmed by the sessions court. Further, the high court had dismissed Ranaut's plea seeking quashing of the criminal defamation proceedings initiated against her by the magistrate, the court said. "It shows that Metropolitan Magistrate, Andheri, has acted judiciously and is not biased against the applicant," the CMM court said. "Merely because the court proceeds with the case by following the procedure of law, it does not mean that court is biased against the applicant/accused," it added. It further held that the case cannot be transferred from one court to another on the basis of mere "apprehension". The court said it was of the view that Ranaut has failed to make out a positive, concrete case to show that her apprehension is reasonable. "Unless some positive, concrete case is made out showing that there is reasonable apprehension of not getting a fair trial or fair justice from the concerned court, the proceedings cannot be transferred from one court to another on mere vague and general allegations," it said. "If on the basis of false allegation, the matter is transferred, it will affect the morale of the presiding officer," it added. The court ruled that there are no grounds made out for transfer of the case from the metropolitan magistrate's court, Andheri, to any other court. Akhtar (76) had filed the complaint in the Andheri court in November last year, claiming that Ranaut had made defamatory statements against him in a television interview, which allegedly damaged his reputation. In his complaint, Akhtar claimed that Ms. Ranaut dragged his name during an interview while referring to a 'coterie' existing in Bollywood, following the alleged suicide by actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year. Ranaut has also moved a counter-complaint in the Andheri court against Akhtar for alleged "extortion and criminal intimidation" before the metropolitan magistrate court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||Modi to meet seven Indian Covid vaccine manufacturers today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet seven Indian COVID-19 vaccine manufacturers on Saturday, a meeting that comes in the wake of the country achieving the landmark of administering 100 crore doses of the jabs, official sources said. Representatives from seven vaccine makers -- Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech, Dr Reddy's Laboratories, Zydus Cadila, Biological E, Gennova Biopharma and Panacea Biotech -- will be participating in the meeting. Modi is likely to emphasise on ways to vaccinate eligible people in India as quickly as possible and also help other countries in inoculating their population as part of the mantra "vaccine for all", an official source said. The cumulative COVID-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has exceeded 101.30 crore, according to the health ministry data updated at 7 am. India on October 21 achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against COVID-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark, resulting in celebratory events across various parts. More than 75 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, with nine states and union territories administering the first dose to all eligible people. Over 31 per cent of the country's around 93 crore adults have been administered both the doses, according to health ministry officials. So far, all adult population in nine states and union territories -- Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Uttarakhand and Dadra and Nagar Haveli -- have received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine. Three vaccines -- Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Sputnik V -- are currently being used in the country's Covid vaccination drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||India logs over 16,000 fresh Covid cases, 666 casualties in a day||India saw a single-day rise of 16,326 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 3,41,59,562, while the active cases have declined to 1,73,728, the lowest in 233 days, according to the Union health ministry's data updated on Saturday. The death toll has climbed to 4,53,708 with 666 daily fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. Kerala has reconciled 292 fatalities on Saturday from the previous period. Hence, the death toll is higher, officials said, adding that 99 deaths have been reported from Kerala in the last 24 hours. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 29 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 118 consecutive days now. The active cases have decreased to 1,73,728 comprising 0.51 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.16 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the health ministry said. A decrease of 2,017 cases has been recorded in the total active number of COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 13,64,681 tests were conducted on Friday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 59,84,31,162. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.20 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.24 per cent, according to the health ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,35,32,126, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 101.30 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 666 new fatalities include 563 from Kerala and 40 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,53,708 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,965 from Maharashtra, 37,995 from Karnataka, 35,987 from Tamil Nadu, 27,765 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,033 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee to visit Goa on October 28||Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said she would be on a maiden visit to Goa on October 28, and appealed to political parties and individuals to join her party in defeating the ruling BJP in the state, where Assembly polls are due early next year. The West Bengal Chief Minister's party has already announced its decision to contest the Assembly elections in Goa. "As I prepare for my maiden visit to Goa on 28th, I call upon all individuals, organizations and political parties to join forces to defeat the BJP and their divisive agenda. The people of Goa have suffered enough over the last 10 years," Banerjee said on Twitter. "Together, we will usher in a new dawn for Goa by forming a new govt that will truly be a govt of the people of Goa and committed to realizing their aspirations! #GoenchiNaviSakal," she added. The party had earlier announced that Banerjee would be visiting the state by the end of this month. On Friday, the TMC had appointed Goa's former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro as its vice president less than a month of his joining the party. The party has been inducting several local leaders in its fold ever since it announced its intention to contest the Goa Assembly polls. Several Congress leaders from Goa have joined the TMC over the last few days, while Independent MLA Prasad Gaonkar has also extended his support to the party. Elections to the 40-member House in the state are due in February.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||Modi seeks to project widespread euphoria over billion jabs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday sought to bask in the afterglow of India administering 1 billion Covid-19 jabs, portraying this in an address to the nation as an achievement of the “new India” being built on his watch. While acknowledging the collective effort behind the feat, the Prime Minister said the milestone was not just a number but “a new chapter” and a “picture of that new India” that knew how to set and achieve difficult goals. Sections of health experts said Modi’s speech appeared to reflect his government’s penchant for engaging in “image building” at every available opportunity while disregarding the planning and response failures that cost lives and limited the pace of the vaccination campaign. In his 17-minute speech, Modi said the billion doses administered were a fitting reply to the questions raised about India’s ability to meet the challenges posed by Covid-19 and the scale of the vaccination campaign. He made no mention of the lives lost during the country’s second Covid-19 wave, which many experts believe could have been less brutal had the Centre curbed mass gatherings by mid-February and arranged for more oxygen cylinders, hospital beds and medicines. “Public health milestones should not be political spectacles,” said R. Ramakumar, professor of developmental studies at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, and one of the experts to have criticised the Centre for not planning adequately for the vaccination campaign. Health experts also flagged Modi’s assertion during his speech that “India has given 100 crore vaccine doses to its citizens, that too free”. “This is a government’s duty -- in almost all countries, rich and poor, Covid-19 vaccines worldwide are free,” said Rijo John, a health economist at the Rajagiri College of Social Sciences, Kochi. “Our own country’s universal immunisation programme has been free for decades. It is paid from taxpayers’ money.” While the government has offered free Covid-19 jabs to all, it has also kept open the private sector channel for those opting to pay for the vaccination. “Jagadguru of Jhoot excelled himself today rewriting history, twisting facts, distorting reality, making meaningless comparisons, beating his own chest — in short, being himself. While he forgot those who suffered loss of lives and livelihoods from Covid-19 due to his Govt’s failures,” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted. CPM leader Sitaram Yechury, who lost his son to Covid-19 during the second wave, had on Thursday questioned the billionth-dose celebrations. “A billion vaccinations is a landmark. But celebrations? Modi government has abandoned its own target of fully vaccinating all adults by year end,” he had tweeted. Modi sought to project a widespread euphoria over the billion vaccinations, asserting that “there is optimism all around in every section from society to economy”. Claiming that many agencies in India and abroad were positive about India’s economy, he said: “With record investments, start-ups are becoming unicorns. New energy is also visible in the housing sector. The various reforms and initiatives undertaken in the last few months -- from GatiShakti to the new drone policy – will play an important role in helping India’s economy grow faster.” Advocating the use of “Made in India” products, he repeated his “vocal for local” slogan and projected the vaccine milestone as a “ray of hope” for shopkeepers, entrepreneurs and street vendors ahead of Diwali. But experts say the billionth-dose celebrations shouldn’t overshadow the vaccination campaign’s unmet targets. The campaign had initially aimed at fully vaccinating all the priority populations, 45 years or older, by August-end. “India has failed to meet this goal,” said John, who estimates that India has nearly 30 million people aged 60 or older who are yet to get their first dose, and 75 million waiting for their second dose. A public health specialist who requested not to be named said that throughout the pandemic, the Centre had through the health ministry used numbers and statistics to portray achievements. The health ministry described the billionth dose on Thursday as a “major milestone”. But, the specialist said, it had also described as a “landmark milestone” the 420 millionth dose on July 23, the 540 millionth dose on August 14, the 750 millionth dose on September 13, the 840 millionth dose on September 23, the 910 millionth dose on October 4, and the 980 millionth dose on October 18. Target worry Going by health ministry figures, India needs to administer 12.3 million Covid-19 vaccine doses every day from now on to fully vaccinate its entire estimated adult population of 944 million. But the average this month so far has been less than 6 million daily doses. Some 230 million adults are yet to get even a single dose, Reuters said. One of the hurdles to meeting the December 31 target is the unusually large gap the government has stipulated between the doses of the most widely used vaccine, Covishield. Another is the growing complacency as cases fall. Covishield has a 12-to-16-week gap between doses in contrast to the 8-to-12-week gap recommended by the World Health Organisation. Based on current trends, this dosage gap means more than 200 million people will be eligible for their second dose only in mid-January even if all of them were to get their first shot on Friday. Also, people are growing increasingly complacent about getting inoculated with infections and deaths falling sharply in the past month. In September, the country recorded an average 7.8 million jabs a day, which plunged below 6 million a day in October. “It is likely that the (December 31 target) may be missed by several weeks,” said Rajib Dasgupta, head of the Centre of Social Medicine and Community Health at JNU. “Reducing the Covishield dosage interval is certainly a possibility to consider.” While the health ministry did not respond to Reuters’ requests for comment on Friday, it had told the agency on Monday that its immunisation experts were “actively considering the matter of dose interval between Covishield doses”. However, health experts are not too worried about many people not getting their second doses in 2021, though they say it would be safer for the population to be fully inoculated as soon as possible. A government study in July estimated that more than two-thirds of Indians already had Covid-fighting antibodies, mainly through natural infection. That gives them substantial protection even with one dose unless more infectious variants emerge. About 75 per cent of India’s adult population have received at least one Covid-19 dose, while 31 per cent are fully vaccinated, according to government data. “At least one dose we should be able to give to most of the adults by the end of the year,” N.K. Arora, who leads a government group on immunisations, told NDTV news channel late on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||SC: Ramana agrees to allow hybrid hearing in exceptional cases||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana is learnt to have turned down a plea from some senior lawyers against making physical hearings mandatory but agreed to allow the hybrid option in exceptional cases if the bench concerned so decided. In the hybrid mode, lawyers have the option of appearing either physically or over video. The CJI is understood to have indicated at a meeting with several Bar members, including attorney-general K.K. Venugopal and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, that physical hearings, which had been suspended since March last year because of the pandemic, would be restored in full. The resumption is expected to be completed gradually after the Diwali vacation, which ends on November 6. At the meeting on Thursday evening, the CJI apparently refused a plea from senior lawyers Kapil Sibal, Mukul Rohatgi, Abhishek Manu Singhvi and others to reconsider the decision to resume physical hearings on all non-miscellaneous days (Wednesdays and Thursdays) from October 21. Old matters or partially heard matters are taken up during the non-miscellaneous days. Mondays and Fridays are treated as miscellaneous days when only fresh cases are taken up for hearing. Spillovers from Mondays as well as old matters are heard on Tuesdays. The senior lawyers’ alternative plea that hearings be held in the hybrid mode has been partly accepted. The discretion has now been conferred on the respective benches to consider requests for virtual or hybrid hearings on Wednesdays and Thursdays. The CJI is understood to have consulted some of his senior colleagues, who agreed that physical hearings ought to be restored at the earliest in line with the wishes of the majority of lawyers. The decision has the support of Supreme Court Bar Association president Vikas Singh and Bar Council of India chairperson Mannan Kumar Mishra. The Bar had been vertically split on the resumption of physical hearings. While several prominent lawyers and law firms are keen on continuing with the virtual mode, many others want physical hearings restored, mainly because many lawyers have been financially crippled by the pandemic. Under the system of virtual hearings, the most sought after lawyers were able to appear in different courts of the country on the same day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||Journalist accused of being Maoist sympathiser acquitted after 9 years||A journalist in Karnataka and his father were acquitted in a terror case on Thursday, nine years after they were arrested and accused of being Maoist sympathisers for possessing a book on Bhagat Singh and newspaper clippings. Additional district and sessions judge B.B. Jakati dismissed all the charges against 32-year-old Vittala Malekudiya, who works for Kannada newspaper Prajavani in Bangalore, and his father Lingappa, 60, who makes a living by foraging for forest produce. The two tribal men had been booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act’s Sections 19 (harbouring terrorists) and 20 (punishment for being member of a terrorist organisation), and the Indian Penal Code’s Sections 121 (waging, attempting or abetting war against the State) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). Vittala, who was a member of CPM youth wing DYFI, and Lingappa had participated in protests against a government plan to evict tribal families from their hamlet in Kudremukh National Park that had been their home for several generations. But they had all along denied any Maoist links. “It took so many years to clear our names,” Vittala told The Telegraph on Friday. Vittala was a second-semester student of MA journalism in Mangalore University when he was arrested. On March 2, 2012, the state police’s Anti-Naxal Force had raided the forest village of Kuthloor in Dakshina Kannada district and assaulted Lingappa, allegedly fracturing his leg. Vittala rushed home from the university the next day and was arrested with his father. They spent four months in judicial custody, securing bail in July 2012. The police had seized a Kannada translation of journalist Kuldip Nayar’s book on Bhagat Singh from their home along with what the prosecution called “Maoist literature” but turned out to be newspaper clippings. The court ruled that it isn’t illegal to possess a book on Bhagat Singh or newspaper clippings even if there is “instigative publication in the newspaper”. Nor did it find anything wrong with Vittala’s handwritten appeal urging his people to boycott a Lok Sabha by-election in protest against the government’s failure to meet their longstanding demand for basic amenities. “From such writings one cannot find out that the accused No. 6 and 7 (Vittala and Lingappa) are engaged in Naxal activities or they were concealing or harbouring accused No. 1 to 5,” the court said. Accused number 1 to 5 are still in hiding, and include Maoist leader Vikram Gowda. Pictures of a handcuffed Vittala being escorted to write his second semester exams had sparked outrage. The university eventually withheld his results because of inadequate attendance, the fallout of his being in jail. “I did the second semester again after being released on bail, and eventually completed my master’s in 2014,” Vittala said. The chargesheet was filed in January 2015, a year and a half after the Congress administration of P.C. Siddaramaiah had replaced the BJP government of D.V. Sadananda Gowda. “The Congress had raised our arrests in the Assembly when the BJP was in power. But their own government chargesheeted us,” Vittala said. Then CPM general secretary Prakash Karat and M.B. Rajesh, then a Lok Sabha member and now Speaker of the Kerala Assembly, had visited Vittala in Mangalore jail. Rajesh had raised the issue in the Lok Sabha. CPM politburo member Brinda Karat had led a team to Gowda on behalf of Vittala and Lingappa. Vittala, whose family is one of 30 living in a forest hamlet of 180 people, unsuccessfully contested the panchayat polls in 2015 and 2020.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||Gujarat: Rahul meets senior leaders on choosing next state president||Rahul Gandhi on Friday met senior Congress leaders from Gujarat to elicit their opinion on the next state president who would lead the party in the Assembly polls next year. Such wide consultations on the choice of state president are rare but Rahul wants to evolve a consensus on the next Gujarat chief, given the strong opposition to his favourite Hardik Patel. The majority of leaders believe a senior leader should be given the mantle and Hardik can assist him as working president. They feel 28-year-old Hardik is too young to lead the party in a complex state from where both Narendra Modi and Amit Shah hail. The high command had invited 15 leaders for discussion on Friday. Rahul held one-on-one conversations with everybody. Though it is not known what transpired at the meetings, the majority of senior leaders are said to be in favour of either Shaktisinh Gohil or Naresh Rawal to lead the party. There is an assessment that the Patidar movement has weakened considerably and the BJP has regained control over the community, reducing Hardik’s clout in the state. Majority of leaders now want the Congress to create a rainbow coalition of castes with a focus on OBCs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||Srinagar overrun by security forces ahead of Amit Shah's visit||Srinagar was on Friday overrun by security forces, a day before Union home minister Amit Shah’s trip. The city looked like a fortress, with people being frisked and checked at almost every corner. The heightened security has served as a reminder of how the government continues to rely on jackboot tactics to keep the Valley calm. The two-day trip will be BJP leader Shah’s first visit to the Valley since the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in 2019. Kashmir has been battling another ordeal after a spate of civilian killings this month. Security forces have over the past fortnight arrested hundreds and seized scores of two-wheelers. Many in Kashmir have linked the security beef-up to Shah’s visit, although Valley police chief Vijay Kumar said the measures had nothing to do with the home minister’s trip and was “purely” related to “terror violence”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-95
23-10-2021||India||Anti-CAA protests: Delhi court denies bail to Sharjeel Imam||A Delhi court on Friday denied bail to JNU student Sharjeel Imam in a sedition case lodged against him during the anti-CAA protests although it acknowledged that the evidence was scanty and sketchy. Additional sessions judge Anuj Agrawal observed that free speech could not be exercised at the cost of communal peace and harmony. Sharjeel was arrested on the charge of delivering an inflammatory speech against the new citizenship regime at an event on December 13, 2019, that instigated a “particular religious community”. The police say the speech triggered violence two days later with a group of over 3,000 people attacking cops and torching vehicles in the Jamia Nagar area of south Delhi. While rejecting Sharjeel’s bail plea, Judge Agrawal, however, noted that the evidence in support of the allegations that the people had got instigated by the activist’s speech was scanty and sketchy. “The tone and tenor of the incendiary speech tend to have a debilitating effect upon public tranquillity, peace and harmony of the society,” the judge said. “It is no gainsaying that the fundamental right of ‘freedom of speech and expression’ cannot be exercised at the cost of communal peace and harmony of the society.” On evidence, the court said: “Neither has any eyewitness been cited by the prosecution nor is there any other evidence on record to suggest that the co-accused got instigated and committed the alleged act of rioting upon hearing the speech of Sharjeel Imam.” The court said there was no evidence corroborating the version of the prosecution that alleged the mob was a part of the audience addressed by Sharjeel. It said the essential link between the speech and the subsequent acts was conspicuously missing. “Once the legally impermissible foundation of imaginative thinking and disclosure statement of accused are removed, the prosecution version… appears to be crumbling like a house of cards,” the court observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||India||RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh opposes ‘sale of public assets’||The RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) on Friday termed the Centre’s National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP) a “sale of public assets” and threatened a movement against the aggressive  plan. BMS general secretary Girishchandra Arya told reporters here on Friday that the trade union would hold demonstrations on October 28 against the NMP through which the government plans to raise Rs 6 lakh crore in the next four years by monetising assets such as highways, passenger trains, airports, railway stations, stadiums and warehousing facilities. “We want the government to stop this sale of public assets. If this does not stop, we will launch a public movement,” Arya said. He said the BMS was not against the idea of raising money to boost infrastructure spending but was opposed to divestment as a method of monetisation. “The government is moving aggressively towards divestment. The government should discuss these issues with stakeholders and find a solution instead of divestment. Otherwise, we will protest. The BMS has created a platform — the public sector coordination committee — to fight against this sale,” he said. Arya argued that there was some merit in the divestment of loss-making organisations such as Air India, but no logic behind privatising Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL), which gave Rs 3,000 crore dividend to the government every year. He said the NMP had not been discussed thoroughly. It is an idea mooted by some Harvard economists who have no knowledge about the ground situation, Arya said, adding that privatisation would promote contractualisation and exploitation of workers. “If the government does not listen to our protest, we will expand our agitation to include people like vendors and transporters and others who benefit from the operations of the public sector undertakings that are being proposed to be privatised,” Arya said. On whether the BMS found any parallels between its agitation over the NMP and the peasants’ protests, Arya said the farm laws were in the interest of small farmers. “The agitation of the farmers does not have the support of all farmers,” he added. The BMS criticised the Left trade unions, saying they were driven by political motives. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the ownership of the assets would stay with the government and would come back to it after the end of the lease period. Ten central trade unions, including the CPM-backed Centre of Indian Trade Unions, the CPI-supported All India Trade Union Congress and the Congress-backed Indian National Trade Union Congress, are separately holding protests against the NMP, fearing price rise and loss of jobs.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand rains: Death count rises to 75 ||The death count in Uttarakhand rose to 75 on Friday as rescue workers found more bodies and also brought to safety score of stranded people after the rains that recently lashed the state.  State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) men rescued 65 trekkers, including six foreigners, stranded near Bageshwar's Pindari and Kafni glaciers. Twenty-three people were rescued from from Darma Valley of Pithoragarh.  The official death toll in the state now is 68, including the five bodies of members of a team of 11 people who were trekking from Uttarakhand's Uttarkashi to Chitkul in neighbouring Himachal Pradesh.  The figure, however, does not include two others member of the Chitkul trek reported dead.  Five people feared dead in Bageshwar are also not included in the official count.  Rains battered Uttarakhand for nearly three days, beginning Sunday night, with the Kumaon division bearing the brunt of it.  An official said Kumaon suffered a loss of Rs 2,000 crore, out of Rs 7,000 croe damage statewide estimated by the Uttarakhand government.  "SDRF teams have rescued 42 tourists, including six foreigners, from Dwali near the Pindari glacier and 23 from the Kafni glacier," Bageshwar DM Vineet Kumar told PTI.  Meanwhile, two Cheetah helicopters, which were to make sorties in search of 10 members of a trekking team stranded in Sundardhunga, could not take off due to cloudy weather, he said.  "But four members of the team have returned safe. We suspect that there may have been some casualties too. The helicopters will make another attempt early on Saturday morning in search of the missing members of the trekking team," Kumar said.  Besides, 15 people who had gone missing in Sarmool, the point of origin of the Saryu river, have also been found safe, he said.  Twenty-one tourists and two ailing locals were rescued from Darma Valley of Pithoragarh district, DM Ashish Chauhan said.  Two surviving members of a trekking team have already been rescued while the search for two missing is on, officials in Uttarkashi said.  Kumaon Divisional Commissioner Sushil Kumar said, "Kumaon division bore the brunt of the unseasonal spell of record rains which damaged crops and property worth Rs 2,000 crore besides accounting for the highest number of deaths and large scale destruction of houses," the official said.  Fifty-nine deaths were reported from Kumaon alone with Nainital reporting the maximum 35 deaths followed by 11 in Champawat, six in Almora, one in Bageshwar and three each in Pithoragarh and Udham Singh Nagar districts.  Uttarakhand Chief Minister Pushkar Singh Dhami on Friday visited Dungri village in Chamoli district to meet the disaster-hit people.  Accompanied by Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj, state Disaster Management Minister Dhan Singh Rawat and officials, Dhami trekked up the steep slippery slopes of the village with a stick in hand for an on-the-spot assessment of the losses.  Two persons of a family were buried in the rubble of a landslide in the village on October 19. Dhami met the surviving members of the family and promised them all help.  He asked officials to speed up relief and rescue efforts in the affected areas assuring them that they will not have to face any shortage of resources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||India||Bihar: Congress announces exit from Opposition Grand Alliance||The Congress on Friday announced its exit from the Opposition Grand Alliance in Bihar and vowed to go solo in future elections, accusing the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) of causing the tie-up to fall apart over a bypoll seat. “The Congress is no longer a part of the Grand Alliance in Bihar. The RJD forced us to leave by deciding to contest the Kusheshwar Asthan seat in the (October 30) bypoll. We gave the RJD a chance to withdraw their candidate but it didn’t do so,” AICC Bihar in-charge Bhakta Charan Das said. Das asserted that the Congress would now decide its own course in Bihar and prepare to “contest all 40 Lok Sabha seats in the 2024 general election”. However, Das said the Congress would welcome all like-minded socialist, democratic and secular parties in its effort to counter the NDA. The Congress is the fourth largest party in Bihar with 19 MLAs. The Grand Alliance led by Lalu Prasad’s RJD has 110 MLAs. The bypolls to the Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur Assembly seats are scheduled on October 30. Both seats were won by the JDU in the 2020 Assembly elections but fell vacant after the deaths of their representatives. The RJD unilaterally announced its candidates for the two seats despite the fact that the Congress had contested Kusheshwar Asthan in the 2020 Assembly elections. The Congress considers the area its stronghold. The RJD reacted sharply to the Congress’s decision to quit the Grand Alliance. “Congress leaders do not realise the ground reality in Bihar. They should not shoot their mouth off without understanding the situation. Leaders like Das are responsible for the poor condition of the Congress,” RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwary said. The Pappu Yadav-led Jan Adhikar Party on Friday said it would support the Congress in the bypolls and also in future elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||India||NGOs have no fundamental right to receive foreign donations: Centre||The Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court that NGOs had no fundamental right to receive foreign donations. The government defended its 2020 amendments to the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act as a move to curb illegal funds transfer from foreign donors and non-State actors to influence the country’s political and social discourse. “The Act is a sovereignty and integrity legislation where the overriding purpose is to ensure that foreign money does not dominate public life as well as political and social discourse in India. This becomes even more imperative in view of the fact that some foreign powers and foreign state and non-state actors continue to take up activities that amount to interference in the internal polity of the country with ulterior designs,” the government said in an affidavit filed through Sumant Singh, joint secretary (foreigners) in the home ministry. “The restrictions on transfer aim to prevent and counter such acts of ulterior motives. Therefore, for effective monitoring and for ensuring the accountability of the recipient association, the transfer of foreign contribution has been prohibited. It is expected that NGOs would grow on the strength of their own genuine work undertaken for fulfilling specific needs of society,” the affidavit added. Section 7 of the amended act restricts transfer of foreign contributions from one NGO or individual to another. Section 12 empowers the government to obtain the Aadhaar details of key functionaries of NGOs. Section 17 (1A) makes it mandatory for every NGO to open a dedicated FCRA account with the State Bank of India, New Delhi. The Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Act, 2020, has been challenged by some NGOs as being violative of their fundamental rights to equality (Article 14), form associations or unions (19(1)(c), practise any profession, occupation, trade or business (19(1)(g), and life and liberty (21). The Narendra Modi government’s affidavit says: “It is submitted that at the outset… the petitioners have claimed fundamental rights under Article 14, 21 and Article 19(1)(c) and Article 19(1)(g). It is unequivocally submitted that there exists no fundamental right to receive unbridled foreign contributions without any regulation. “…In fact, there exists no fundamental right under which any right, legal or otherwise, can be said to include the purported right to receive foreign contributions. It is submitted that Parliament, representing the will of the people, has enacted the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010, thereby laying down a clear legislative policy of strict controls over foreign contributions for certain activities in the country. “…There exists no right to receive any foreign contribution outside the framework designed by Parliament and implemented by the executive. It is submitted that no part of any purported right to receive foreign contributions can be said to be a part of the fundamental rights granted to citizens…. “There is no question of fundamental rights being violated through controls of acceptance of foreign contribution by certain type of organisations as the said organisations or individuals are always open to operate with locally secured funds….”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||India||PLA reinforces posts along LAC in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tawang||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army is said to have reinforced its posts in large numbers and increased the scale of its training exercises by deploying military assets along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tawang, sources in the Indian security establishment have said. “It is a matter of concern that the PLA troops have moved heavy reinforcements along the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh and have established temporary camps. The PLA has also increased the scale of its training exercises by bringing in additional military assets along the undemarcated frontier in the eastern sector,” a security official attached to the Union home ministry told The Telegraph. The Indian Army troops, the official said, have been keeping a close watch on the development. “Considering the aggressive patrolling by the PLA troops and reinforcement of their posts in the eastern sector, it seems they are planning incursions like they did last May in eastern Ladakh,” the security official said. Of the 3,488km undemarcated LAC, 1,346km falls in the eastern sector. The Tawang sector alone has a 270km border with China. China claims 90,000sqkm of territory, practically the whole of Arunachal Pradesh. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff in Ladakh since May last year and the PLA is estimated to have taken over nearly 1,000 sq km of India-claimed territory. In an attempt to guard against possible PLA transgressions, the Indian Army is deploying additional cameras and using satellite imagery to monitor the deployment of Chinese troops along the LAC in the eastern sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Uttar Pradesh govt shifts cop heading SIT probe ||The Uttar Pradesh government on Friday transferred the police officer heading the special investigation team probing the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre of farmers but said he would continue to supervise the inquiry. The Uttar Pradesh police headquarters made it clear that the transfer of deputy inspector-general Upendra Kumar Agarwal to Gonda district, 180km from Lakhimpur Kheri, was a routine exercise. A Thar jeep belonging to Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni and with his son Ashis in it had run over and killed four farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. Ashis was arrested after a week in the aftermath of the Supreme Court expressing dissatisfaction with the probe. Agarwal is a 2005-batch IPS officer of the Uttar Pradesh cadre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||India||Odisha Congress working president resigns from party||Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee (OPCC) working president and former MP Pradeep Majhi resigned from the party’s primary membership on Friday. Speculations are rife that he may join the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) soon. A prominent tribal leader, who represented Nabarangpur Lok Sabha seat from 2009 to 2014, has sent his resignation letter to Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi. In the letter, Majhi cited how he had joined the Congress with utmost enthusiasm with a view to serve the needy people, and the party had also provided ample opportunity and placed him in a good position without any demand from his side. Majhi enjoys strong clout among tribals in southern Odisha. “The organisation of the party was extremely well managed by your dynamic leadership which gradually declined due to recalcitrant persons occupying pivotal posts at different levels, and now the party has almost lost its credibility which may take a long time to revive,” he pointed out in the letter. Majhi said he would work hard to serve the people in the future. “I have a great desire to serve my people at whatever position I am, which is now lacking in the Congress party. As such I am painfully quitting the party for which I may kindly be excused. I shall however perform my duties as per your ideology and serve the people with utmost satisfaction,” he wrote. Following his resignation, Odisha Congress leaders said Majhi betrayed the party and questioned what prevented him from serving the people. “It’s the Congress party which had given him an identity. It was Rahul Gandhi who had given him ample opportunity and made him a state leader by giving him a chance to contest the Lok Sabha seat. But later, he failed to garner public support.  That’s the reason why he lost two Lok Sabha elections in 2014 and 2019 consecutively,” said Congress MLA Tara Prasad Bahinipati. Bahinipati said: “The party had almost decided to suspend him. Getting a hint about it, he quit the party to avoid the blot of suspension. ” Saying that his resignation won’t affect the party, senior Congress MLA Suresh Kumar Routray said: “The party has a long history. Here people come and remain in the party till their ambitions are fulfilled. After reaping the benefit, they ditch the party. But such people have never affected Congress. ”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||India||Congress calls out Narendra Modi’s ‘half-truths’ ||The Congress on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should have addressed the nation on the several serious problems the country was grappling with but he went on a credit-hunting spree for vaccination on the basis of half-truths and plain lies. Arguing that the Prime Minister insulted India’s scientists and health professionals by claiming that the Covid-19 vaccine was the first to be manufactured in India, Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said: “India is known as the vaccine hub of the world. India has run several successful vaccination drives since the 60s but no Prime Minister turned it into an image-building event for himself. They didn’t orchestrate ‘thank-you’ campaigns to refurbish their own image. They didn’t cry free-free because such drives are conducted with national resources.” Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh said in an acerbic tweet: “Jagadguru of Jhoot (global leader of lies) excelled himself today rewriting history, twisting facts, distorting reality, making meaningless comparisons, beating his own chest — in short, being himself. While he forgot those who suffered loss of lives and livelihoods from COVID19 due to his Govt’s failures.” The Congress on Friday reiterated the need for a judicial commission to investigate Covid mismanagement and lamented that the Prime Minister didn’t tender an apology. Rahul Gandhi also hinted at the Prime Minister’s tendency to mislead the nation by tweeting, “the usual doublespeak”. He was referring to Modi’s claim that there was a time when goods made in other countries were purchased during Diwali but now the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ mission had ensured people bought local stuff. This was a clear reference to China, a country he was very fond of, but avoids naming after the intrusion in Ladakh. Rahul posted a news item that reported imports from China had increased by 49 per cent over the last year. The Congress has repeatedly pointed out that trade with China was increasing despite the bluster against the hostile neighbour. Vallabh said the Prime Minister was not a knowledgeable person and his expertise lay elsewhere but the officials should not make him rely on wrong facts. He expressed shock at the Prime Minister addressing the nation without a single word of condolence on the death of lakhs of people, selective killings in Kashmir, inflation, petrol-diesel prices and other pressing problems. Vallabh said the vaccines would have been free if Modi bought them from the money he got through electoral bonds, adding: “This government collected lakhs of crore by taxing petrol, and if that money is being used to fund the vaccination drive, photograph of a common man filling petrol in his vehicle should be there on the vaccine certificate, not the Prime Minister.” He also busted the false propaganda that no other country achieved such a feat, saying: “China gave over 200 doses in September itself. Over 80 per cent of their population have got two doses. Do we need celebrations for fully vaccinating 21 per cent of population?” Wondering why should the nation thank the Prime Minister for gross mismanagement leading to the deaths of over 40-50 lakh people, Vallabh said: “When there was not enough vaccine in the country, Modi exported vaccines to other countries. When the big countries were placing orders for vaccines, the Prime Minister was asking us to do thaali-taali. And when millions of families are mourning the loss of the their dear ones, the scars of second wave have not been forgotten, the government is celebrating.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-96
23-10-2021||West Bengal||With more Durga Pujas this year, Bengal's fav fest pips state growth rate||Bengal’s favourite festival is growing at a rate of 9.61 per cent, higher than the growth rate of the state as announced recently by the Centre’s Niti Aayog despite the economic slowdown amidst a global pandemic. The growth indicator came from figures released by the state-run power utility, West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited. "W. Bengal ranked no. 1 state by RBI on Net PerCapita Income Growth in 2020-2021. Bravo! WB’s growth + 7.16 per cent while India average – 3.99,” tweeted an ecstatic finance minister of Bengal Amit Mitra on October 1, days before festivities began in the state. In the last fiscal, according to  Niti Aayog CEO Amitabha Kant, only West Bengal, Tripura, Sikkim and Bihar have shown positive growth. Compared to the previous year,  3,521 new Durga Puja venues were recorded in the state in 2021. WBSEDCL had in 2020 provided temporary power connections to 36,603 Puja pandals across the state, which in 2021 rose substantially to 40,124. The Bengal government’s cash rollout of Rs 50,000 to each Durga Puja committee is believed to be one of the reasons behind the spike in the number of Puja organisers this year. Mamata Banerjee had announced a policy of giving cash to Durga Puja organisers which despite many a legal wrangling over  past seasons has remained in the government’s budget allocation. “Initially the scheme was for small clubs which could not raise the desired funds for the festival. Now it has been extended to all clubs. We expect the numbers will go up in the coming years as Rs 50,000 is guaranteed,” said a senior official in the power department. Besides cash, free electricity is another incentive for the organisers, though they have to submit a security deposit. The state had this year raised Rs 9.36 crore as a security deposit. “If that Rs 50,000 is seen as the capital, then investing that into organising the festival, the committee can raise funds through advertisements, renting space for stalls etc,” said an official. Mamata’s policy of loosening the purse strings has helped her tighten the political grip across the state, the dividend that her party has reaped in successive state elections.“It is an easy way to get government money. Being associated with a religious festival nobody will raise any questions. There should be an audit to find out in which constituencies the number has increased significantly,” said a CPM leader. In some districts like Murshidabad, which still has a Congress presence, organisers were allegedly discouraged from inviting party leaders to inaugurate Durga Puja in their constituencies. Mamata’s insistence on cash transfers to beneficiaries is largely what John Maynard Keynes had famously advised in his Keynesian multiplier model:  increased government spending during a recession year will eventually lead to more spending. This model was also advocated by several economists, including Nobel winner Abhijit Banerjee, during the early stages of the pandemic. Most of the welfare schemes that the Bengal government is running are cash-based, which has helped  beneficiaries mostly from the lowest economic strata stay afloat despite lack of jobs and employment opportunities. A study commissioned by the tourism department pegs the total economic worth of  creative industries at Rs 32,377 crore, about 2.58 per cent of Bengal’s GDP. This calculation was made before the pandemic and obviously excludes the additional 3,521 Durga Pujas that came up this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Merlin Group announces the launch of A Mega Sports Township in Kolkata||Calcutta-based realtor Merlin Group announced the formal launch of a residential township called RISE in Rajarhat, promising to add over 6 million square feet of built-up space over the next decade to the city’s landscape. The 45-acre township is going to be based on the theme of sports with an approximate population density of 35000 at Rajarhat Chowmatha on the 6 lane express highway connecting New town.The proposed township is 20.9 km  from the central  business district of Kolkata and 7.5 km from Bengal Silicon Valley.  The developer intends to build pitches for football and cricket apart from a swimming pool and indoor sports arena for the residents of 10,000 dwelling units which will come up there. This theme based Greenfield Township Project will generate 7000 direct and 25000 indirect local employment opportunities. Infrastructure cost of the project is going to be around Rs 250 crore, Saket Mohta, Managing Director of Merlin Group, said. Merlin is promising to hand over the first phase of 2,529 units in five years. The builder has priced the 2-BHK and 3-BHK apartments between Rs 29 lakh and Rs 40 lakh. “Kolkata property market has remained resilient during the pandemic. There had been a major revival in sales of residential real estate projects in the 2nd quarter of 2020-21 riding on the back  of resilient economy and vaccination drive by  the Govt. People living in standalone houses, realized the need for shifting to apartments in gated community with all amenities required for modern living.  Our sports  city will be a self-sufficient  township  where people will  get  all  ingredients to live on  their own terms. We are in talks with leading hospital brands and Schools of international repute. Covid has brought a paradigm shift in lifestyle.  People have grasped the importance of owing a spacious apartment with more rooms for online classes for the children and work from home facilities. Thus, the sales of spacious flats in a gated community are anticipated to continue this quarter and beyond. We are quite hopeful about  the grand success of  the sports city where people can elevate their  lifestyle and fulfill  their  dream in sports", signed off Saket Mohta As part of its marketing initiative, Merlin Group has launched  a corporate football league christened RPL – RISE PREMIER LEAGUE to be played at the football ground on 23rd and 24th October under the mentorship  of veteran footballers namely Manash Bhattacharya, Biswajit Bhattacharya, Prasanta Banerjee and Krishnendu Roy. Teams from 16 corporates namely TCS, Genpact, Wipro, Cognizant, HSBC, HDFC, British Telecom, PWC, FIIOB, Red FM, Big FM, Friends FM, Fever FM, Nuvoco Vista Corporate Ltd., Woodlands Hospital  and the Merlin Group itself will participate in the two day football tournament followed by 2 exhibition matches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP leaders dishonoured people's verdict by quitting as MLAs, says Abhishek||TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Saturday slammed the BJP for "thrusting by-election" on two of the four assembly seats in the state that will go to polls on October 30. Addressing a rally at Gosaba in South 24 Parganas, Banerjee pointed out that bypoll was necessitated here and in Khardah following the death of two TMC candidates, but the circumstances under which elections are being held in Shantipur and Dinhata are different. "Winning BJP candidates Jagannath Sarkar and Nisith Pramanik resigned as MLAs even after being elected by people. They dishonoured the verdict of people to retain parliamentary berths. The BJP is seeking votes again in those two seats. They will be rejected by people," he claimed. The senior TMC leader also asserted that his party will make a "4-0 sweep" in the by-elections. Taking a dig at Amit Shah, he said, "The former BJP national president and the current home minister had promised to dole out Rs 2 lakh crore for the development of Sunderbans and carve out a separate district during his campaigns for assembly polls some months ago. "They are still holding power in Delhi but you won't hear about any follow-up initiatives from them." The Diamond Harbour MP further noted that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, in contrast, "kept her promises and rolled out schemes such as Lakshmir Bhandar".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Five arrested with drugs in Siliguri ||The special operation group (SOG) of the Siliguri Metropolitan Police and a team of Bhaktinagar police, arrested five persons with  narcotics in two separate raids in Siliguri on Wednesday night. Police sources said four persons were intercepted with 300 grams of brown sugar, worth around Rs 30 lakh from Jhankar More. In another raid, the police arrested another man and recovered 5kg of cannabis from him. They have been booked under the NDPS Act. Rehab death, 2 held Two persons were arrested on Thursday night following the death of a teenaged boy who was staying at a private psychological rehab centre at Pandapara in Jalpaiguri. On Thursday, the boy fell ill and he was shifted to a hospital where doctors pronounced him dead. Later, the boy’s parents filed a police complaint alleging that their son had been tortured. Cops then arrested Saikat Mondal, who ran the centre, and his father Sushanta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Protest against assault on tribal teacher in Malda||Hundreds of people under the banner of eight tribal outfits hit the streets in Malda on Friday protesting the alleged assault of a tribal schoolteacher by a local Trinamul leader after accusing him of theft a week back. The protesters marched on NH12 shouting slogans and demanding immediate arrest of the accused leader who has allegedly gone into hiding after the incident. On October 15, Sudip Tudu, a teacher of Manikora High School in Habibpur block of the district, was returning home after visiting a relative in Krishnapally here. Suddenly a group of youths led by Trinamul leader and former councillor Paritosh Choudhury intercepted him. They accused him of stealing a bicycle and started assaulting him. Even though Tudu said he was a teacher, the group did not stop. Eventually, the teacher’s relatives came to his rescue. He was admitted to Malda Medical College and Hospital for treatment and was recently released. After the incident came to light, resentment arose among the tribal population in Malda and in the neighbouring districts of North and South Dinajpur. On Friday, hundreds of them gathered in Gayeshpur area here and took out the protest march which disrupted traffic along NH12. “We want the police to arrest the accused within 72 hours. Such unprovoked attacks should stop,” said Nirmal Soren, a leader of an organisation representing tribal teachers. As the protesters headed for Rathbari crossing, a large police contingent posted there stopped them. Senior police officers came forward and spoke to the leaders, who said they intend to meet Alok Rajoria, the district police chief, and submit a memorandum. They were, however, told that only a small delegation can go to the SP’s office. Though initially reluctant, the tribal leaders eventually agreed and met Amit Kumar Shaw, additional superintendent of police (headquarters). They were told that two persons have already been arrested in connection with the incident. Shaw told reporters that they are trying to trace the Trinamul leader. “A case under different sections of the Indian Penal Code as well as the SC/ST Act has been registered. All possible steps are being taken to arrest the main accused,” the police official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||TMC slams Tripura CM for attack on Sushmita Dev||Trinamul Congress on Friday accused Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb and the BJP of “political terrorism” in the northeastern state, alleging that Rajya Sabha member Sushmita Dev had sustained injuries from an attack at Amtali, where she was leading a campaign for Mamata Banerjee’s party. “Under @BjpBiplab’s #DuareGundaRaj, attack on political opponents is setting new records!” tweeted Trinamul’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee. The party’s fledgling Tripura unit issued a statement condemning the BJP for the alleged attack on Trinamul MP Dev while she was launching a political programme titled Tripura’r Jonyo Trinamul (Trinamul for Tripura). The vehicle Dev was in was allegedly vandalised in the incident. Trinamul’s Tripura unit said Dev was taken to a private hospital for treatment. Faleiro post Former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro, who joined Trinamul from the Congress last month, was on Friday appointed a national vice-president of his new party by Mamata, days ahead of her visit to the western state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Quartet held with narcotics in Siliguri ||The special operation group (SOG) of the Siliguri Metropolitan Police and a team of Bhaktinagar police, arrested five persons with narcotics in two separate raids in Siliguri on Wednesday night. Police sources said four persons were intercepted with 300 grams of brown sugar, a derivative of heroin, worth around Rs 30 lakh from Jhankar More. The arrested youths have been identified as Sourav Roy, Raju Muhammad, Koustav Talapatra and Ali, all residents of Siliguri. In another raid, the police arrested Ashik Biswas, a resident of Shastrinagar here, and recovered five kilos of cannabis from him. The quartet have been booked under the NDPS Act, police sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Bisons found dead in riverbed in Jalpaiguri||The carcasses of two gaurs (Indian bison) were found lying in the bed of the Jaldhaka river in Maynaguri block of Jalpaiguri district on Friday. After being informed by some locals, a team of the wildlife squad of the forest department posted in Ramsai reached the spot and recovered the carcasses. It may be mentioned that in the past five days, this is the second time that dead gaurs have been spotted in the area. Earlier, on October 18, carcasses of a female adult gaur and a calf were found in the same spot. “There are no external injury marks and also, no one has taken away the meat from any of the carcasses. We are waiting for autopsy reports,” said a senior forest officer. The foresters suspect that the animals might have strayed into the area from the adjacent Gorumara National Park in search of fodder. Youth found dead A youth residing in Manjha tea estate of Naxalbari block in Siliguri sub-division, was found dead near the India-Nepal border on Friday morning. Police said Amar Kisan, 21, was found dead with his throat slit and a probe was on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Funds plea to Brahmaputra river board for flood-protection||The Bengal irrigation department has submitted project proposals worth Rs 110 crore to the Brahmaputra Board for carrying out flood-protection and anti-erosion works along the banks of five prominent rivers flowing through the districts of Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar and Cooch Behar. The board, which is headquartered in Guwahati, works under the Union ministry of water resources. “The rivers of these three districts of Bengal are considered to be part of the Brahmaputra basin. At a meeting of the board held earlier this month, we had mentioned that funds should be allocated for carrying out different protection works on the banks of these rivers. Those present at the meeting had asked for project proposals from us. Accordingly, we have submitted the proposals with an estimated cost of around Rs 110 crore,” said Subhankar Chakraborty, the chief engineer (north-east) of state irrigation department. Though these three northern districts of Bengal come under the board, time and again questions have been raised by the state government as to why funds are not being allocated for protection of the banks of rivers like Teesta, Torsha, Jaldhaka, Raidak, Mansai and Kaljani which flow through them. According to sources, among the projects which have been submitted before the board, include flood protection works — construction of embankment and allied works — along a stretch of 9.1 kilometres on the left bank of Teesta near Joyee bridge that connects Haldibari and Mekhliganj. There are also proposals for embankment repair works on the right bank of Mansai river in Mathabhanga-I block and similar work on the left bank of the Mansai in Dinhata-I block and Mathabhanga-II block, all located in Cooch Behar district. Proposals for construction of an embankment along a 500-metre stretch of the Raidak-II river in Cooch Behar and same work along a stretch of 410m on the right bank of Sankosh — the river that divides Bengal and Assam — have been also put before the board. “We have also found that flood protection works are necessary along a stretch of 2.18km on the left side of the Torsha river bridge off NH31. This is another project which we have submitted before the board seeking allocation of funds,” said an official of the irrigation department. A senior officer of the state government, when asked about the projects, said the Centre provides funds through the board to carry out such works. “Funds should be allocated for all rivers of the Brahmaputra basin. However, we have found that funds are provided only for rivers located in northeastern states and not for the rivers flowing through these districts of north Bengal,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Glare on Centre apathy in building parallel bridges in north Bengal||The precarious condition of two bridges along National Highway 31 — the Coronation Bridge at Sevoke and Balason river bridge — has raised questions over the Centre’s alleged apathy in building parallel bridges which are required to keep connectivity intact in north Bengal following the damage to road infrastructure due to inclement weather in the region. “These two bridges are in precarious condition for years. We have been hearing that the Centre would strengthen them and also construct new bridges running parallel to these.… But the promises have remained only on paper,” said a prominent businessman of Siliguri, who did not wish to be named. The 70-year-old Coronation Bridge at Sevoke (located around 20km from here), developed cracks almost 10 years back, prompting the state PWD to restrict movement of vehicles weighing beyond 10 tonnes. The bridge connects Siliguri with Dooars. Now, movement of all vehicles barring two-wheelers has been halted for the past three days over the 50-year-old Balason river bridge, which is located on the northwest end of Siliguri, after one of its pillars bent with the force of the swollen river and a portion of the bridge’s plank subsided. “Both the bridges are on the national highway. Thus, the onus is on the central government (to repair them). We fail to understand why there has been such a delay in taking up these projects,” said Soumen Nag, a social researcher based in Siliguri. “For almost a decade, most of the heavy vehicles (weighing above 10 tonnes), be it trucks carrying consignments of teas from the Dooars or vehicles of defence forces (there are a number of defence installations in the Dooars that shares border with Bhutan), have been taking roundabout routes and moving via Jalpaiguri. We often hear that decks have been cleared for the new bridge but till date, construction has not yet commenced,” said Chandan Roy, secretary, Dooars Forum for Social Reforms. Similar is the case of the Balason river bridge. Though there has been an unprecedented growth in the local and regional traffic during the past 50 years, no initiative was taken to build a second bridge parallel to it. “The central government is entirely responsible for the delay. There is a long-pending proposal to widen the stretch of NH31 from Balason to Sevoke and make it a four-lane highway (it is two-lane now). Land is not at all an issue,” said Alok Chakraborty, the chairman of Darjeeling (plains) district Trinamul.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Puja effect begins to show on Bengal Covid figures||Bengal on Friday reported 846 new Covid-19 infections, 792 recoveries and 12 deaths. Active cases rose by 42 to 7,577. A Bengal minister said the new cases reported now is indicative of people who got infected in the October 13 to 17 (Mahashtami to Dwadoshi) window. Calcutta reported 242 new infections, while North 24-Parganas reported 116, being the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Six districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday. Calcutta reported three, while North 24-Parganas reported four. The state now has 4.47 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is sixth on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. The state’s recovery rate is currently 98.32 per cent, while the national rate is 98.14. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.1 per cent on Friday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has more than 15.84 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.58 lakh recoveries and 19,033 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Sikkim highway repairs continue after Tuesday cave-in||National Highway 10, the principal highway that connects Sikkim and Kalimpong with the rest of the country, remained closed for traffic even on Friday. Officials of the state PWD (NH X division) engaged earthmovers to cut down the rock to create space for building an interim stretch of road at Birick Dara, located around 40km from here under Kalimpong district, throughout the day. A stretch of the highway has caved in at the site due to incessant rainfall on Tuesday, leaving little space for vehicles to move. “The work is in progress and we expect to open it soon, at least for light vehicles,” said a source in the state PWD. In Siliguri, officials of the state PWD (NH IX division) said on Friday that they are planning to install a Bailey bridge along the damaged portion of the bridge over the Balason river so that vehicular movement can be restored along the route.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Nabanna phone tower shift for VVIP security risk||The PWD has started relocating mobile phone towers of two private telecom service providers from the rooftop of Nabanna, the 14- storey state secretariat, considering these could be a security hazard for the VVIPs. The initiative was taken after an incident of fire in one of the towers on October 12 during repair work on the roof carried out by the PWD. “The experts recommended that these mobile towers could be hazardous particularly when the VVIPs like the chief minister and the chief secretary have offices in the 14th and 13th floors. These towers would now be installed somewhere at the ground level of the building,” said a senior official. “Though the flames were doused immediately, the incident exposed the vulnerability of the offices of the VVIPs. So the enquiry committee recommended relocating the mobile towers,” said a senior government official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Santiniketan land grab allegation by Baul maestro||Baul maestro Purna Das Baul and his sons on Friday alleged that 1.3 acres the musician had purchased in late 1970s on the outskirts of Santiniketan have allegedly been encroached upon by a few locals recently. The artiste, along with one of his three sons Dibyendu Das, came to Kamarpara at Illambazar near Bolpur on Friday to attend an inspection by land department officials to inquire how much of his land had been encroached upon. “I had purchased four bighas (1.3 acres) of land in 1978 for my three sons. Now, I have come to know that the land has been encroached upon and construction has been done by some unknown people. I have requested the government to help me get back my land,” said the 88-year-old musician. Sources said Dibyendu had lodged a complaint with the police, block land department and the subdivisional officer of Bolpur accusing a few local persons of encroaching the land his father had bought in the 70s. “We live in Calcutta and could not visit Santiniketan in the past two years because of the pandemic. During my visit last month, I found at least four structures constructed by encroaching on our land. I also brought my father here for an inspection by the government,” said Dibyendu. One of the persons, who has built a shop allegedly on the land owned by Purna Das, said: “The land where I have my shop is owned by me and does not belong to the musician.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
23-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP brawl greets new & old Bengal chiefs||Two factions of Bengal BJP got involved in a brawl in front of the party’s new state chief Sukanta Majumdar and his predecessor Dilip Ghosh during a felicitation ceremony organised for the two leaders in East Burdwan’s Katwa on Friday. Sources within the saffron camp said before the arrival of Majumdar and Ghosh at the venue, a group of party workers from BJP’s Katwa organisational district had started to raise slogans demanding removal of party district chief Krishna Ghosh. The sloganeering began to grow louder and soon turned into an ugly scuffle as supporters of Krishna took on those demanding his removal. The two factions exchanged punches, threw chairs at each other and fought with sticks. The clash left several BJP leaders, including Krishna, injured. Ghosh reportedly told the agitators to lodge complaints within the party structure if they had any complaint against any leader and then asked the dissenters to leave the hall and threatened to ask police to lathicharge them. This further aggravated the situation, prompting the security personnel of Ghosh to escort him and Majumdar out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
23-10-2021||West Bengal||Earthmovers become political tools in the hills||In this season of rains and landslides, earthmovers have become the most sought-after equipment for politicians to win over hearts in the hills. Ajoy Edwards, who has publicly announced his decision to float a new political party, was the first to envision the importance of this equipment when he started to use earthmovers even before monsoon set in this year. With the equipment’s impact being felt strongly across the hills, Anit Thapa, president of the fledgling Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM), Bimal Gurung, president, Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) and Binay Tamang, who is also planning to start the “third chapter” of his political career, have followed suit in recent days. “We are deploying three earthmovers right now. We have bought two and have hired one,” said Edwards. On Friday, Tamang deployed an earthmover to clear a roadblock at Risheehat area in Darjeeling. “In the last few days, we have cleared road blockades in six locations,” said Tamang. The Thapa camp claims they, too, are working non-stop in the past few days. “We have cleared more than 20 spots using JCBs,” said Keshav Raj Pokhrel, spokesman, BGPM. “Of course, we have pressed earthmovers into service,” said Roshan Giri, general secretary, GJM. A district official said that any help for public convenience was always welcome.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-40
23-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Room with a view||Men don’t cry. Neither do women, if crying lays bare their innermost fears and pains amid society. The world, especially the West, seems fairly convinced about this, although public weeping by women in the case of death is allowed in many cultures — the lack of tears may then become a problem. There are also ceremonial structures to mourn the dead with wailing and prayers. But grieving a death is different from weeping in anxiety and fear, or crying for help when teetering on the edge of a mental abyss. Society is still disconcerted by the public airing of mental health issues, even though suicides of both the young and the elderly have become one of the biggest causes of death in more than one country. The Spanish government’s decision to open a ‘crying room’ in the middle of Madrid to make mental health a visible issue is a reassuring move in this context. The Spanish prime minister also announced a 100-million euro package for a mental health drive and the opening of a 24-hour suicide hotline on World Mental Health Day. Men and women can come to cry, or ask for help through the numbers listed for mental health experts at the telephone stationed there. The name is a defiant reversal of the Spanish saying that sends people with problems to go cry in the ‘crying room’ instead of making their anxieties and fears public. Nothing could better emphasize the hollowness of the stigma attached to mental health problems. The invitation at the entrance to come and cry, with another motto suggesting that anxieties are shared by many, break down gendered notions through the open acknowledgment of the universality of unhappiness and mental fragility. The traditional expectation of stiff-upper-lipped men is of great disadvantage to the mental health profession. Spain’s crying room is for everybody. This is particularly apt in and after the pandemic — there are thousands of men, women and children who need to cry, whose terrors and anxieties need to be palliated, who need help to readjust in a society ravaged by disease and absences. Deaths of loved ones, tremendous economic stress, acute uncertainty about the future are enough to bring about psychological problems by themselves. This is apart from the exacerbation of existing illnesses — depression being one of the most common. Then again, caregivers of differently abled children or of elderly people needing constant care are themselves at risk mentally with schools closed and no help at home. Spain has set an example, although the crying room is more about removing stigma and bringing mental health issues into public discussion. But it is still a creative effort to build a social safety net around people who desperately need it. In the context of the pandemic, this example can be built upon elsewhere, in smaller localities and village clusters, because societies must relearn ways to connect, protect and hold on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
23-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Time to  start inoculation drive for under-18s ||Baseless Sir — It seems that yet another advertisement has hurt the fragile sensibilities of the Hindu right. A member of parliament from the Bharatiya Janata Party has objected to an ad by the tyre company, CEAT Ltd, featuring Aamir Khan, which points out the problems caused by bursting crackers on the streets by arguing that the company should also address the inconveniences caused by noise emitted during azaan. The MP went so far as to say that the ad has caused “unrest among the Hindus”. This is blatantly untrue and is an attempt by Hindutva forces to stir up trouble. We must promptly speak up to ensure that such statements do not spark off violent altercations. Aproova Singhvi,New Delhi Momentous feat Sir — India has successfully administered one billion Covid vaccine doses. This is a remarkable feat and the Indian government must be congratulated. However, there is a long way to go before the fight is over (“Miles to go as a billion doses done”, Oct 22). Most experts believe that the drive will hit a ceiling at around 75-80 per cent. This is because a substantial number of people are still hesitant to take the shots. The immediate task before the government is to start a dedicated campaign to create awareness among masses to overcome vaccine hesitancy. It is also time for policymakers to start the inoculation drive for those under 18 and arrange booster shots for the most vulnerable. The government must ensure that India does not experience another devastating wave of infections. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore Sir — It is impressive that India has administered over 100 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses in 279 days. According to data from the CoWIN portal, 75 per cent of the total population of the country has received a single dose and 31 per cent has been fully vaccinated. Had the gap between two doses — it was set at 84-112 days — been shorter, a higher percentage of people could have been fully inoculated. We must keep up the pace of vaccination. K.V. Seetharamaiah,Bangalore Troubling tendency Sir — The Narcotics Control Bureau seems to be hell-bent on capturing all those potentially guilty of drug use in Bollywood. The furore and publicity generated by the arrests and investigations of celebrities — Ananya Panday is the latest to be summoned by the NCB for questioning — may have captured the attention of the citizens for now, but it is evident to all that Bollywood has become a scapegoat in the Centre’s attempts to divert attention from the political, social and economic troubles that are plaguing the country. It is high time that the Centre focused on addressing the real problems faced by the country. The economy is in utter ruins and the government’s treatment of the agitating farmers as well as its lack of response towards attacks on minorities are matters of concern. The government and its many agencies must redirect their focus on issues of immediate importance. Anwar Saeed,Calcutta Sir — It may be clear to some of us that the summoning of Ananya Panday by the NCB is part of the attempt to shake up Bollywood. But a perfunctory glance at social media will reveal that many believe that this will put an end to the immorality rampant within the film industry, a narrative that cropped up after the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. The magnitude of the loss of rational thinking is truly alarming. Sarmistha Mazumder,Calcutta Parting Shot Sir — The recent deluges in Kerala and Uttarakhand have raised the issue of disaster management, particularly in light of climate change. The National Disaster Management Authority should adapt new methods and technologies if it hopes to successfully deal with such crises. Early detection and preventive measures will be crucial in minimizing loss of lives and property. Rajat Jain,Ujjain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
23-10-2021||Opinion||Why Squid Game topped Halloween searches on Google||Here, there, everywhere When you’re not talking about how you binge-watched Netflix’s Squid Game, you’re probably discussing how to turn it into a Halloween costume this year. The Korean thriller drama has been firmly placed at number one on the Netflix Top 10 list since it was released. It is the first-ever Korean TV series to be number one in the United States of America. It has permeated social media through memes, recipes and more. First off, Netflix is partnering with Walmart to sell Squid Game merchandise online. Sellers on Etsy are also gearing up with Squid Game costumes, masks, cookie cutters and other merchandise. According to Google, Squid Game topped in Halloween searches earlier this month. Amazon, too, is cashing in on the trend with hundreds of products, while TikTok users have been posting videos on how to create the show’s trademark ‘worker’ mask. DIY versions and direct purchase options are also available for a creepy doll that plays a prominent role in the show. There is also a social media challenge — the ‘cookie challenge’ — racking up millions of views on TikTok and Instagram, taking after a Dalgona hard candy, made of sugar and baking soda but shaped like a cookie, that plays a critical role in the show (not to give away spoilers). Earlier last year, there was a Dalgona trend on TikTok that involved a frothy coffee drink with sugar. Race for the stars We can debate all day long over who will win the race to space — Jeff Bezos or Elon Musk. But for now the winner is the 90-year old William Shatner of Star Trek fame who just took his first flight into outer space with Bezos on the latter’s ‘Blue Origin’ spaceship. They were in a tightly packed capsule and the flight was just over 10 minutes long. “This was the voyage of the RSS First Step today,” Blue Origin wrote in a Twitter video description. “Its mission: encounter Earth from incredible views at apogee.” This was the second-ever flight for the Blue Origin and so far Shatner is the oldest person in space. After the rocket returned, Shatner could be seen at an intimate press conference moved to tears, grasping for words. Many late night show hosts took a jab at his loss for words as he cried while Bezos was popping champagne. “You’re looking into blackness, into black ugliness... There is Mother Earth and comfort, and there is — is there death? I don’t know. Is that death? Is that the way death is? It was so moving, this experience.” Shatner was heard saying. His co-passengers included the former Nasa engineer, Chris Boshuizen, the healthcare entrepreneur, Glen de Vries, and Blue Origin’s vice-president of mission and flight operations, Audrey Powers. Bezos himself has been criticized for these space rides, often called the ‘billionaire space race’ — just a fun trip for the ultra rich while his own employees at Amazon continue working in unsuitable conditions in warehouses. Easily done The 3D printing market has been growing remarkably over the last few years across a variety of industries, including health tech, manufacturing, fitness trackers, bridges and even homes. Teaching 3D printing has also begun in STEM classes in schools and colleges with students exploring engineering and design by replicated items such as fossil fuels. A new pop-up at Chelsea Market on the West Side of Manhattan will allow you to do a full 3D body scan and then receive an actual 3D version of yourself. The company, called Dopl, takes a 360 degree image and then creates mini doppelgangers in its Brooklyn lab. The pop-up will be open for another five months. Honda is also partnering with a 3D developer to create a motorcycle based on 3D printed design. Usually the company uses clay models to design the bikes; but it takes a long time. Now, the 3D printer will do most of the work. Last year, BMW also brought its 3D printer at the BMW WorldSBK, a professional racing event. It printed parts for its bikes on the side of the tracks. The parts were quick-release components that could be added on to the bikes easily. And if you think bikes are not cool enough, Relativity Space Inc announced that it has completed the first stage of testing its 3D printed space rocket. It had raised $1.2 billion for this. Apparently its customer wait list includes both Nasa and the US defence department. Crooked minds As if times were not hard enough, some people are monetizing our woes. A group was recently caught after its $400,000 hotel booking scam went bust. New York City has a ‘Covid 19 Hotel Program’ designed to help people quarantine safely inside a hotel during the pandemic. This free programme allows people to quarantine upto 14 days if they meet certain criteria, of which being healthcare workers is one. But four conspirators hatched a scheme to divert some of these rooms into a side business and pocketed cash from customers who, of course, did not meet the criteria. NYC paid the hotels for the rooms, advertised for as low as $150 a week. The ring leader of this operation, Chanette Lewis, booked 28 nights for herself. Lewis’s job was to book quarantine rooms for the city. So she had access to doctor IDs and private medical information and falsified information in the system. It wasn’t until July that the City caught on and launched an investigation. Lewis was charged with wire fraud, conspiracy and identity theft. Footnote A giant Super Mario corn maze in New Jersey has just opened up. It coincided with Mario’s 35th anniversary and the corn mazes that come with Fall and Halloween. It is located at the Happy Day Farm, which conducted customer surveys to pick the Mario theme. It was recently voted as a top 10 corn maze in the country. Five years ago, a 10-acre Mario maze was designed in Chicago next to an apple orchard and pumpkin patch, featuring more Mario characters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
23-10-2021||Opinion||Big bother||The report of the States Reorganization Commission, submitted to the Government of India in September 1955, is remembered above all for recommending that provincial boundaries be redrawn on linguistic lines. States such as Karnataka, where I live, came into existence because of the implementation of the SRC report, whereby Kannada-speakers spread across four distinct administrative domains were brought together in a unified province. The SRC had three members: the jurist, S. Fazl Ali (who also acted as chair), the social worker, H.N. Kunzru, and the historian, K.M. Panikkar. In a fascinating note printed as an appendix to the main report, Panikkar suggested that, apart from creating consolidated states of Kannada-speakers, Tamil-speakers, Odia-speakers and so on, the SRC should recommend the break-up of India’s largest state, Uttar Pradesh. As things stood, in terms of population, UP was as large as several other states combined. This gave it a disproportionate influence on national politics which the historian thought had dark portents for the future of Indian unity. In his note, Panikkar argued that it was “essential for the successful working of a federation, that the units should be fairly evenly balanced. Too great a disparity is likely to create not only suspicion and resentment but generate forces likely to undermine the federal structure itself and thereby be a danger to the unity of the country”. Pannikar further remarked: “If one were realistic and took into consideration the manner in which governments functioned all over the world, it would be easy to see that this preponderant influence which would accrue to a very large unit could be abused, and would in any case be resented by all the other constituent units. Modern governments are controlled, to a greater or lesser extent, by party-machines, within which the voting power of a numerically strong group goes a very long way.” Hence, said the historian, the question before the federation was “whether it is desirable to place any unit in a position to exercise an unduly large measure of political influence”. Panikkar’s note was pragmatic as well as prescient. Already, in 1955, the historian from Kerala was arguing that “the consequence of the present imbalance, caused by the denial of the federal principle of equality of units, has been to create feelings of distrust and resentment in all the States outside Uttar Pradesh. Not only in the southern States but also in the Punjab, Bengal and elsewhere the view was generally expressed before the Commission that the present structure of government led to the dominance of Uttar Pradesh in all-India matters.” How could this imbalance be redressed? Panikkar offered the example of Germany in the time of Bismarck, when the state of Prussia, dominant in population and in economic strength, was given less than proportionate representation in the national legislature, so as to reassure smaller populous states that a unified Germany would not be excessively Prussianized. Panikkar could also have mentioned the case of the United States of America, where every state regardless of size has two seats in the Senate, likewise to offset excessive dominance by populous states like California. However, these precedents had been foreclosed by the Indian Constitution, which had made representation in the Lok Sabha proportionate to population. By this principle, in the year 1955, UP accounted for as many as 86 out of 499 MPs (after the creation of Uttarakhand in the year 2000, this has become 80 seats out of 543). In view of the dominant influence of the Lok Sabha on governance and decision-making, Panikkar said that “the only remedy open to us is to reconstitute the overgrown state, in such a manner as to lessen the differences — in short to partition the state. This seems to me an obvious proposition.” He suggested that the state be broken up into two, with the creation of a new “Agra State” consisting of the Meerut, Agra, Rohilkhand and Jhansi divisions. However, while the compelling need to partition Uttar Pradesh was ‘obvious’ to Panikkar, it was less so to the other members of the Commission. And it was still less obvious to the ruling Congress Party, whose prime minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, was from Uttar Pradesh. UP had been an epicentre of the Congress-led freedom struggle and in the year, 1955, the party still massively dominated the politics of the state. An early reader of the report of the SRC was B.R. Ambedkar. He summarized his response in an insightful pamphlet, which was published in the last week of December 1955. Here, Ambedkar quoted approvingly from Panikkar’s note on UP, endorsing his view that “this disparity in the population and power between the States is sure to plague the country.” Ambedkar felt that “to provide a remedy against [the disparity] is most essential”. He proposed that UP become three distinct states, not merely two as suggested by Panikkar. These would have as their capitals Meerut, Kanpur and Allahabad, respectively. Ambedkar’s proposal was also met by an icy silence from the Union government. Five-and-a-half decades after Panikkar and Ambedkar suggested that UP be broken up, a new proposal to that effect was made by Mayawati. In 2011, when she was chief minister of the state, Mayawati had a resolution passed in the assembly urging that the existing state be carved out into four smaller states — to be called Purvanchal, Bundelkhand, Awadh Pradesh and Paschim Pradesh, respectively. The proposal was bitterly opposed within UP by the Samajwadi Party, while the Congress, then in power at the Centre, saw no merit in it either. First made by K.M. Panikkar in 1955, the case for the break-up of Uttar Pradesh remains persuasive. Originally, the argument was principally political, to the effect that that one excessively large unit exercised a hegemonic influence, undermining the collaborative nature of the Indian federation. More recently, the case for dividing UP has been consolidated by the imperative of good governance. UP is clearly too unwieldy, too spread out, and far too populous to be efficiently administered by a single chief minister operating from a single seat of government. On most development indicators, UP ranks very poorly among Indian states. It is backward, economically as well as socially. One reason for this backwardness is that, in recent decades, the political culture of the state has been oriented towards promoting majoritarian pride. A second reason is that the state is extremely patriarchal. But a third reason for UP’s relative backwardness is surely its population size. With more than two hundred million inhabitants, it has more humans within its borders than all but five countries in the world. In February 2017, shortly before the last assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh, I published a column in the Hindustan Times stating afresh the case for the break-up of the state. I wrote: “The ‘U’ in UP is said to stand for ‘Uttar’. This is a misnomer, for there are several states of the Union that lie further north of it. What the ‘U’ in UP really stands for is ‘Ungovernable’. And that status will not materially change whoever wins this current Assembly election. For the sick state of UP to become healthy at last, it must first be divided into three or four self-governing parts.” For the good of India, for the good of its own residents, Uttar Pradesh needs to be divided into three, perhaps four, separate and distinct states, each with its own assembly and council of ministers. Tragically, there is little chance of this happening.  For Narendra Modi and his party, the capture and retention of power have always mattered much more than good governance. In the general elections of 2014 and 2019, the Bharatiya Janata Party won 71 and 62 seats from UP, respectively, these playing a critical part in helping it gain an overall majority. The Modi government may hope that its failures in managing the economy and in containing the pandemic will be forgotten by 2024, and that an aggressive Hindutva agenda, based on the construction of the Ram Temple and fears of Muslim demographic expansion, shall polarize Hindu opinion in their favour and, once again, secure to the BJP a majority of the 80 seats in the Lok Sabha from UP. And so an undivided Uttar Pradesh will continue to suffer and stagnate, casting a negative shadow on the rest of the country as well. The future of the state, and of India itself, is currently being held hostage to the political ambitions of one man and his party. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
23-10-2021||Jharkhand||Elephants run amok in Chakulia; attack villagers, destroy standing crops ||Elephants from Bengal are damaging standing crops and targeting villagers at Chakulia block of East Singhbhum, 90 km from Jamshedpur, and Jharkhand foresters cite a trench dug along the Bengal border as the root cause of the problem. A herd of 26 elephants is anchored in the jungles of Chakulia, not very far from human settlements, and is unable to move back into Bengal because of the trench, Jharkhand foresters claim. An elephant attacked a woman near a jungle in Chakulia while she was going to work at a cowshed late on Friday afternoon. The elephant lifted Salge Hembrom of Bhatkunda village with its trunk and flung her across a distance of around 20 metres. The 25-year-old  suffered a fracture in one of her legs. In another attack, one Budheswar Sabar of Badaichatti village also broke one of his legs earlier this month. The herd is also damaging standing crops in several villages of Chakulia block and wiping out food stocks from homes. Petrified villagers remain holed up in their homes in the evenings. The herd also damaged a statue of martyr Rantu Murmu in Amlagora on the Bengal border. Chakulia range officer Digvijaya Singh said the trench dug by Bengal foresters forced elephants to remain anchored in Jharkhand. "We are helpless and cannot drive away the elephants. The trench has been dug on the elephant corridor," he said. Speaking over the phone from Chakulia, the range officer said they have communicated the problem to senior forest officers and requested them to initiate talks with their Bengal counterparts. A forester said the situation in Chakuklia forest range was not good as one never knows when he or she will come across the herd. "There is unrest among villagers who are being targeted by elephants. They are also angry since they are losing their standing crops. Elephants will not leave Chakulia till the trench issue is resolved," he added. Foresters and village youths are keeping a watch over the movement of the herd from Bengal. "Food and water are not scarce, and the elephants are enjoying their time. Some jumbos usually remain in a belligerent mood and often move out from the herd to chase and attack humans. Man-animal conflict is taking a serious turn," another forester said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
23-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand ready with 'Back to School Campus'  to ramp up attendance||Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) has prepared a proposal to run an extensive campaign aimed at improving the attendance in schools by rebuilding trust among parents that schools are safe and incorporating activities for students to renew their interest in attending in-person classes, officials said on Saturday. The proposal, "Back to School Campus", has been sent to the State Disaster Management Department, and it will be implemented in campaign mode to increase attendance of students at schools once the department gives its go-ahead, said Abhinav Kumar, the coordinator of quality education at JEPC. “The enrollment percentage is still the same at schools after lockdown. However, the attendance has dropped drastically,” said Kumar, adding that only about 50 per cent of the enrolled students were actually attending in-person classes after the schools reopened, and a campaign was needed to encourage the daily presence of students at schools. As per government data, there are over 42 lakh students studying in classes 1 to 12 in about 35,000 government schools across the state. While about 50 per cent of students above class 6 were attending school,  attendance was lower in the junior classes. The campaign, Kumar said, has been divided in three steps. The first one is to ensure enrollment of such children who stopped going to school after the lockdown, while the second step is to build trust in parents that it was safe for their children to attend in-person classes at schools. In the third step, the JEPC plans to run fun activities at schools to ensure that children develop an interest in going to schools and do not feel that it is forced upon them. A JEPC source said the mandate of getting a consent form signed by students' guardians stating that they were willing to send their children to school had become one of the lacunaes in the system. “Parents are already apprehensive about sending their children to school. Asking them to sign a consent form in such a situation reduces their trust in the school administration,” he said. Schools across Jharkhand remained closed from March 2020 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. While most students attended virtual classes during this period, in-person classes resumed only for a brief period between the first and the second wave of the pandemic. The Jharkhand government resumed in-person classes for students of class 6 to  10 last month amid strict adherence to Covid protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
23-10-2021||Jharkhand||Howrah to Shalimar terminal change for 8 passenger trains||As many as eight South Eastern Railway trains, some of them going  through Tatanagar and other stations of Chakradharpur division, will have a new address of origin  soon. SER has decided to shift the starting station, from Howrah to Shalimar, of  passenger trains that stop at Santragachi (in both Up and Dn directions).The move is to ease the  load on Howrah station – the busiest railway junction of the eastern region. According to SER's Garden Reach (Calcutta) headquarters  on Saturday, the  Howrah-LTT Special, which goes via Tatanagar, will start from Shalimar from November 4. While returning, it will end it's journey at Shalimar from  November 2. Similarly, Shalimar will be the originating and terminating station for: Officials at the SER headquarters said there will be no change in arrival and departure timings at Shalimar and at other enroute stations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
23-10-2021||Jharkhand||Students body to congratulate Modi on hitting century over fuel prices||A federation of students is planning to congratulate the Narendra Modi government on completing a century. Not over the 100 crore Covid jabs the government is tom-tomming but over fuel prices crossing Rs 100 a litre in Jharkhand. Deciding that sarcasm is the best form of protest, the All India Sikh Student Federation (AISSF), Jharkhand-Bihar unit, began a WhatsApp drive around Friday noon to encourage people to write congratulatory messages to Modi for achieving the feat of “fuel prices crossing 100”. The messages are to be written with pen and paper and submitted at local AISSF offices, to be couriered in bulk to the Prime Minister’s Office along with the student body’s covering letter. Satnam Singh “Gambhir”, president of the AISSF, Jharkhand-Bihar, told The Telegraph that the federation, which has about 1,000 members in Jharkhand alone, was expecting to send at least 5,000 letters, packed in 10 boxes. On Thursday, petrol prices reached Rs 101.23 a litre and diesel prices Rs 100.9 a litre in Ranchi. “Within a few hours, we had collected nearly 500 congratulatory messages (till 4.30pm) in Hindi,” Gambhir said. “The messages are to be written on A4-size paper with a red sketch pen. Along with a covering letter on our (AISSF) letter pad, we will be couriering the messages --- 500 per packet – to the PMO from Saturday.” The AISSF’s covering letter says: “Petrol diesel ki shatak lagane se Bharat ki janata mehngai ki mar se trahi-trahi kar rahi hai jisme apka sahyog saraniya hai. Iss nek karya ke liye Jharkhand ki janta apko badhai sandesh bhej rahi hai. Kripya swikar kare.” Translated, it means: With petrol and diesel hitting centuries, India’s people are reeling under inflation. Your contribution to this has been significant. Jharkhand’s people are sending you congratulatory messages for this noble deed. Please accept them. The sender is “apke prashanshak (your admirer)”. “We have a target of collecting 5,000 messages, which we will be sending to the PMO within a week,” Gambhir said. One of the messages the AISSF has received reads: “Petrol diesel per shatak lagan ke liye Pradhan Mantriji to bohut bohut badhai (Congratulations to the Prime Minister for scoring a century on petrol and diesel).” Another says: “Mahangai dayan khai jat hai (The inflation witch is devouring us).” The AISSF had earlier too launched a programme of ridicule against the Centre, holding a series of interest-free petrol "loan melas" in February when petrol prices crossed Rs 95 in Jharkhand. People needed to make down payments of Rs 10 at AISSF counters and hand in a post-dated cheque for the rest of the amount, depending on the volume of petrol they planned to buy. The AISSF issued them a slip against which the petrol stations sold them petrol. The student body later reimbursed the petrol pumps. Pramod Kumar, spokesperson for the Jharkhand Petroleum Dealers Association and proprietor of the Ranchi-based Shambhavi Fuels, said the Centre had ignored fuel dealers' demand for a rollback of VAT. "We shall request the Jharkhand government to reduce the state VAT by five per cent and make up the loss through increased sales of fuel," he said. "We are witnessing a more than 30 per cent decrease in fuel sales. If prices are reduced in Jharkhand, the bulk purchasers who are now buying fuel from neighbouring states will resume buying it from Jharkhand." State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon ruled out any slash in VAT, arguing such a step would make it "difficult for the government to sustain its development activities". "We are continuing with the 22 per cent VAT of the erstwhile BJP government," he said. "Since the imposition of the GST, the states have been left with hardly any avenue to earn taxes. It's the Centre that should slash VAT."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
23-10-2021||Jharkhand||Row over Hemant Soren cabinet's nod for ministers’ bungalows ||Jharkhand’s two major political parties started squabbling over the construction of bungalows after its approval by the Hemant Soren cabinet. The ministers have been residing in renovated old quarters belonging to either state government or Heavy Engineering Corporation (HEC) for the past 21 years since the state was carved out from erstwhile Bihar in November 2000 and no new accommodation was ever built for them. The Soren government, for the first time in the state’s brief history, approved during a cabinet meeting on Thursday evening a proposal for constructing bungalows for 11 ministers within the proposed Ranchi smart city area, indicating the chief minister would continue to live in CM House, the present official residence located on Kanke Road. The cabinet also sanctioned Rs 69.91 crore for the construction after a detailed project report have already been prepared by a Delhi-based agency. The BJP that never misses an opportunity to criticise the present government was prompt in expressing its resentment over the proposal. “The state government that always grumble over its thin coffers should have instead used the amount for developing infrastructure at hospitals,” said BJP spokesperson Pratul Nath Shahdeo. “Not only that, the said plot of land was actually earmarked for setting up a skill development park that would help provide livelihood and employment opportunities to scores of job aspirants,” he added while speaking to The Telegraph. The Congress, a major constituent of the ruling combine in the state, was also not in a mood to take it lying down and, as expected, reacted without delay. “The Soren government took up something that should have been done by the BJP that was in power for maximum duration in the state,” Congress leader and immediate past spokesperson Alok Kumar Dubey said on Friday, adding the party did not take any initiative for solving the problem though the state Assembly and secretariat continued to run from and the ministers lived in hired buildings of the HEC. “Let alone constructing new residential buildings for the ministers, some BJP leaders are still occupying the government accommodations they were allotted earlier and should have vacated later,” Dubey alleged. The quality of construction of the Assembly and high court buildings that the BJP leaders took up when they were in power during the past two decades was really poor and invited criticism, he further alleged, adding the BJP should have learnt from the progress made during the period by Chhattisgarh and Uttarakhand, the two other states that were also born at the same time with Jharkhand. The Soren government didn’t spend huge amount of money on installing tall statues but instead took certain pro-people initiatives like enhancing wages of MGNREGA workers, Dubey argued in favour of the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
23-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand government gears up for sweeping fill-up of vacancies ||The Jharkhand government is gearing up for a sweeping fill-up of vacancies in the state-owned sectors as part of its electoral plank of completing recruitment in government departments within two years of governance. The beginning would be made in the education sector with the recruitment of almost one lakh teachers in two phases. Jharkhand education minister Jagarnath Mahato, speaking to reporters in Bokaro on Thursday had announced that 97,000 teachers would be appointed in government schools. “In the first phase, there will be the recruitment of 26,000 teachers out of which 13,000 would be para-teachers and 13,000 would be teachers eligibility test (TET) qualified candidates. The examinations would be conducted through the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC),” said Mahato. The minister added that thereafter another 71,000 teachers would be appointed in the second phase. “There would be a windfall of opportunities in the education sector and youths should start preparing for it. There is a massive shortage of teachers in Jharkhand. In such a situation, the teaching work is also affected. In view of this, the state government has decided to recruit teachers on a large scale. I have already given my nod to the recruitment process,” said Mahato. Sources in the Jharkhand Education Project Council (JEPC) said that the recruitment process for the first phase of 26,000 posts would be completed by January 2022 while the second phase of 71,000 teachers would be completed by March-April next year. “This would be the first such occasion after the creation of Jharkhand that such large scale recruitment of teachers would be taking place. In fact, the last JPSC examination for teachers was held way back in 2016,” said a source in JEPC. Chief minister Hemant Soren had in a meeting of the department of personnel, administrative reforms and Rajbhasa on Thursday directed to expedite the appointment process. “Even the Jharkhand Staff Selection Commission (JSSC) and JPSC should expedite the recruitment process by establishing better coordination with government departments. Recruitment should not be allowed to remain pending from any department,” Soren had said in the meeting. He also asked the government departments to remove all the obstacles and discrepancies in the recruitment policy, service conditions and publish the advertisement for appointments in different departments by this month end. Soren said all the departments should ensure that the changes which have been made in appointment policy in category three and four jobs by the Personnel Administrative Reforms and Rajbhasa department should be followed by all the other departments “There are nearly 5.25 lakh government posts out of which only 1.95 lakh have been filled so far. The maximum number of vacancies lies in the school education department (1,04,000) followed by home, jail and disaster management department (nearly 74,000), 35,000 in the health department, 4,036 in the legal department, 3,500 in agriculture, 3,464 in drinking water and sanitation and water resources department and 2,000 post in the road construction department. Significantly, youths in certain parts of the state had got restless and started a social media campaign ‘Jharkhand Yuva Mange Rojgar’ from June 21 reminding the ruling dispensation about the promise of providing jobs in their election manifesto during the 2019 Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
