24-10-2021||Business||Govt announces new rules to ease power sector woes||The ministry of power on Saturday announced new rules to sustain economic viability of the sector, ease financial stress of various stakeholders and ensure timely recovery of costs involved in electricity generation. The ministry notified rules for the sustainability of the electricity sector and promotion of clean energy to meet India’s commitment towards climate change, a statement said. Investors and other stakeholders in the power sector had been concerned about the timely recovery of the costs because of change in law, curtailment of renewable power and other related matters. The rules notified by the ministry of power under the Electricity Act, 2003 are in the interest of the electricity consumers and stakeholders, it added. “At present, the pass through under change of law takes time. This impacts the viability of the sector and the developers get financially stressed. The rules would help in creating an investment friendly environment in the country,” it stated. “The energy transition is happening across the globe. India has also made commitments to bring about energy transition. India has also announced international commitment to set up 175 GW of RE capacity by 2022 and 450 GW by 2030,” the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
24-10-2021||Business||Mercedes Benz opts for direct sales||India is the fourth country after South Africa, Sweden, and Austria where Mercedes Benz India is rolling out its new retail format called the Retail of the Future The new retail format, where the German company will sell cars directly to its customers instead of through dealerships, has improved customer satisfaction in the markets where implemented. That in turn was leveraged to  increase sales. Mercedes Benz India processed 1,700 orders in the last couple of weeks in this new retail format, said Martin Schwenk, MD and CEO of Mercedes Benz India Ltd at the launch on Friday. “The retail format was first launched in South Africa about four years ago. Thereafter, it was introduced in Sweden. India is the first country with CKD production which will have the new retail structure. So whenever we face difficulties, we can fall back on the experience of our counterparts in these two countries,” said Schwenk. When asked what were the tangible benefits of the new way of selling cars, Schwenk said: “It improved the financial position of Mercedes Benz. With customers directly purchasing from the company, a lot of incidental charges like handling charges are done away with. “The customer can see the entire stock position and there is complete transparancy in the sales process. Mercedes-Benz India will retain the ownership of the entire stock of cars and retail them via appointed Franchise Partners, by invoicing them directly to the customers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
24-10-2021||Business||Jio conducts 5G trials, explores partnerships with global integrators||Reliance Jio is conducting trials for 5G and exploring partnerships with global system integrators. It has also entered into partnerships with leading automobile OEMs to provide automotive solutions designed to deliver an array of consumer and enterprise services. Jio 5G field trials have started at various locations with competitive positions and capabilities comparable with global Tier 1 vendors. Jio 5G is a comprehensive homegrown 5G stack for both Radio (5G NR) and Core Network (5G CN) compliant to latest standards. Jio reported a 23.5 per cent growth in net profit at Rs 3,728 crore as telecom user revenue grew Rs 143.6 per month in the second quarter. It was Rs 138.4/month in the previous quarter. Reliance said it is working with Google to launch the low-priced smartphone JioPhone Next, to be available around Diwali. Reliance Jio has also entered into partnerships with “leading automobile OEMs in both the two-wheeler and four-wheeler segments” to provide automotive solutions designed to deliver an array of consumer and enterprise services. “Jio’s new-age connected vehicle solution is a combination of hardware, software and connectivity that will enable users to access trending infotainment and real time telematics on the go as it brings the benefits of digital life to a vehicle and to people on the move,” the company said. Gas production Natural gas production from the MJ field in the KG basin is expected to start flowing from the third quarter of 2022-23, RIL has said. “MJ development project is on track for first gas by 3QFY23. The construction activities at various locations are progressing on schedule with the second offshore campaign expected to commence in 3QFY22,” RIL said in its second quarter earnings presentation. The MJ-1 gas find is located about 2,000 metres directly below the Dhirubhai-1 and 3 (D1 and D3) fields — the first and the largest fields in KG-D6 block. MJ-1 is estimated to hold a minimum of 0.988 Trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of contingent resources. The field also has oil deposits which would be produced using a floating system called FPSO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
24-10-2021||Business||ICICI Bank posts a 30 per cent growth in net profits||ICICI Bank on Saturday beat analyst estimates as it posted a 30 per cent growth in net profits on higher core income even as provisions declined. The private lender posted a standalone net profit of Rs 5,511 crore against Rs 4,251 crore in the same period of the previous year. Ahead of the results, the Street was expecting ICICI Bank to report a net profit in the region of Rs 5,300 crore. This growth in its bottomline came as the net interest income (NII-interest earned minus interest expended) gained 25 per cent over the corresponding previous period to Rs 11,690 crore. Non-interest income, excluding treasury income, showed a rise of 26 per cent to Rs 4,400 crore from Rs 3,486 crore in the same period of the previous year. The asset quality of the bank also improved with the percentage of gross non-performing assets (NPAs) falling to 4.82 per cent from 5.15 per cent in the April-June period. The net NPA ratio fell below the 1 per cent mark to 0.99 per cent which is a seven- year low. It stood at 1.16 per cent in the preceding quarter. In value terms, the amount of gross NPAs stood at Rs 41,437.41 crore compared with Rs 43,148.28 crore in the preceding three months. Provisions at the bank declined to Rs 2,713.48 crore from Rs 2,851.69 crore on a sequential basis. ICICI Bank disclosed that it restructured loans worth Rs 3,737.66 crore in terms of the RBI’s resolution framework for Covid-19 related stress announced in August last year. Of this, Rs 61.22 crore slipped into NPAs in the first half. Similarly, under the RBI’s second such package announced in May 2021, it recast loans worth Rs 840 crore of which Rs 601 crore were from the retail segment. Speaking to reporters on Saturday, Sandeep Batra, executive director, ICICI Bank said the lender is optimistic about the growth of the Indian economy on the back of increased vaccination and the deleveraging of corporate India. He added that ICICI Bank is not risk averse in terms of lending to any sector. ICICI Bank said with the increase in economic activity, disbursements across all retail products increased sequentially during the quarter. Mortgage disbursements were close to the level seen in the quarter ended March 31, 2021, reflecting the increase in demand coupled with its seamless customer onboarding experience through pre-approved offers and digitisation. Disbursements of personal loans and auto loans were also close to the levels prevailing in the quarter ended March 31, 2021. In credit cards too, the bank continued its strong performance with the value of spends rising 47 per cent sequentially. During the period, its retail loan portfolio grew 20 per cent over the previous year and comprised 62 per cent of the total loan portfolio as on September 30, 2021. Similarly, the SME business, which includes borrowers with a turnover of less than Rs 250 crore, grew 42 per cent over the year-ago period. Growth in the domestic wholesale banking portfolio was 14 per cent over the previous year period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
24-10-2021||India||Prakash Jha roughed up, face smeared with ink by Bajrang Dal ||Filmmaker Prakash Jha was roughed up, his face smeared with ink on Sunday when a group of Bajrang Dal members went on a rampage on the set of his web series being shot in Bhopal, the police said. Videos shot by witnesses on cellphones showed Bajrang Dal members chasing down crew members, managing to catch at least one of them and beating him mercilessly with a metal light stand. Members of the right-wing group said Prakash Jha's web series 'Ashram' starring Bobby Deol was an assault on Hinduism and they will not allow its filming till the title was changed. Jha, who has not filed a complaint in the matter yet, has assured that he will change the name of the series, a Bajrang Dal leader said. A mob of Bajrang Dal members attacked the set in the evening, shouting slogans like "Prakash Jha Murdabad", "Bobby Deol Murdabad" and "Jai Shri Ram". "They made Ashram 1, Ashram 2 and were shooting Ashram 3 here. Prakash Jha showed in Ashram that the guru was abusing women. Does he have the guts to make such a film on a church or madrasa? Who does he think he is?" Bajrang Dal leader Sushil Sudeley said. "Bajrang Dal challenges him, we won't let him make this film. So far we have just blackened Prakash Jha's face. We are looking for Bobby Deol. He should learn something from his brother (Sunny Deol). He made such patriotic movies," he added. The police have said that even though no one from Jha's team has pressed charges, those involved will be identified and arrested. "Action will be taken against those who disrupted the shooting and vandalised property today itself. They will be arrested," senior police officer Irshad Wali said. "Anti-social elements ransacked vehicles created trouble. Crew members of Ashram will be given fill security and it will be ensured this does not happen again," he added. 2017, another right-wing group Karni Sena had attacked the sets of the Deepika Padukone starrer Padmaavat, assaulting director Sanjay Leela Bhansali and other crew members and forcing the movie to modify scenes and change its name from Padmaavati. Earlier this year, Amazon had to issue an apology and make changes to its Saif Ali Khan starrer web series Tandav after it faced objections from some Hindu groups and the producers were threatened with arrest by the Uttar Pradesh government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
24-10-2021||India||Witness alleges NCB official demanded pay-off from Shah Rukh Khan; agency denies claim||An independent witness in the cruise drugs seizure case on Sunday claimed that an official of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and some other persons demanded Rs 25 crore from Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan to release his son Aryan Khan in the case.  Prabhakar Sail, a witness in the case, told mediapersons that NCB officials also asked him to sign nine to ten blank papers.  However, a senior NCB official denied the allegations, terming them as "completely false and malicious".  NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede earlier this month led the agency's 'drug bust' on a cruise ship following which Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3. He is currently lodged in the Arthur Road jail here.  Recently, the Pune police issued a lookout circular against K P Gosavi, another independent witness of the NCB in the cruise drugs case who used to offer people jobs abroad, in a 2018 cheating case.  On Sunday, Sail alleged that an official of the NCB, Gosavi and another person, named Sam D'Souza, had demanded Rs 25 crore from Shah Rukh Khan to release his son.  Sail, who is the personal bodyguard of Gosavi and accompanied him on the night of the raid, said after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office, Gosavi met D'Souza.  Sail claimed he heard Gosavi telling D'Souza over phone about a demand of Rs 25 crore and to settle at Rs 18 crore as they "have to give Rs eight crore to Sameer Wankhede".  The NCB, while stating that Wankhede has categorically denied the allegations, also said that as the matter is sub judice, Sail should have submitted his prayer to the court if he had anything to say.  Mumbai NCB's Deputy Director General (DDG) Mutha Ashok Jain issued a statement saying that he came to know through social media that Sail is a witness in the case.  "As he (Sail) is a witness in the case and the case is before the honourable court and is sub judice, he needs to submit his prayer to the court rather than through social media if he has anything to say," the statement said.  In addition, there are certain vigilance-related allegations against certain persons in the affidavit, which are based on overhearing by Prabhakar Sail, it said.  "Zonal Director of Mumbai NCB Sameer Wankhede has categorically denied these allegations. As some of the contents of the affidavit are related to vigilance matter, we are hereby forwarding the affidavit to the Director General (DG) NCB and requesting him for further necessary action," the statement added.  Meanwhile, Maharashtra minister and NCP spokesman Nawab Malik, who has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs bust case as "fake", said Sail's claims were "very serious" and demanded a probe into it by a Special Investigation Team (SIT).  Talking to reporters in Beed, Malik reiterated his allegation that Wankhede was involved in "extortion and terrorising the Mumbai film industry", and said he will meet the chief minister and home minister on Monday in Mumbai seeking a SIT probe into Sail's claims.  Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut in a tweet said, "Witness in AryanKhan case made to sign on blank paper by NCB is shocking. Also there are reports that there was demnd of huge money. CM UddhavThackeray said that these cases are made to defame Maharashtra. This seems to be coming true. Police should take suo moto cognizance."  Maharashtra Congress spokesman Atul Londhe said Sail's allegation substantiated the party's charge that central agencies were being against the opposition parties. He demanded that the Supreme Court take appropriate action against the misuse of agencies politically.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
24-10-2021||India||Nobody will be allowed to disrupt peace and development in J&K: Amit Shah||Asserting that the government is aiming to wipe out terrorism from Jammu and Kashmir and put an end to civilian killings, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said nobody would be allowed to disrupt peace and development in the union territory, which has a place in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's heart.  He said Rs 12,000 crore worth of investment has already come to the union territory and the government aims at a total of Rs 51,000 crore by the end of 2022 to provide five lakh jobs to the local youth.  Shah is on a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, his first after the Centre revoked the erstwhile state's special status and bifurcated it into two union territories of J&K and Ladakh on August 5, 2019.  Addressing a public rally at Bhagwati Nagar here, Shah without naming the Congress, National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said the three families are answerable to the people for their failure to develop Jammu and Kashmir over the past seven decades.  "The new phase of development under the leadership of Modi has started in J&K but attempts are being made by inimical elements to create a hurdle. I have come here to assure you that nobody will be able to create a hurdle and disrupt peace and development," Shah, who arrived at the well-attended rally amid thunderous applause and sloganeering by people, said.  In an apparent reference to the killing of 11 civilians by terrorists in targeted attacks across Kashmir this month, he said some people are raising questions about the prevailing security situation in the UT but "I want to answer them with facts and figures".  "Between 2004 and 2014, a total of 2,081 civilians were killed with average deaths of 239 annually. From 2014 till September this year, 239 civilians unfortunately lost their lives which accounted 30 deaths per year. The figures are down but we are not satisfied," the home minister said, adding We want to build such an atmosphere that not a single person loses his life and the terrorism is wiped out."  He said a new phase of development has started which cannot be stopped by anyone.  "Jammu and Kashmir is placed in the heart of the prime minister and under his government, there will be no injustice, discrimination or appeasement, he said.  Shah said the time for sidelining the people of Jammu has come to an end and now both Kashmir and Jammu will be developed together.  "Jammu has borne the brunt of discrimination for years together. Now there will be no injustice with anyone and both Kashmir and Jammu will be developed together and the developed J&K will strengthen India, he said.  Listing various steps taken by the government since the formation of the BJP government at the Centre, he said five lakh jobs are being created in Jammu and Kashmir, while 25,000 people have been provided government jobs in the past two years through service selection board.  "The three families used to say who will come and invest in J&K.... Till date, we have got an investment of Rs 7,000 crore in Jammu and Rs 5,000 crore in Kashmir. And when we came out with a new industrial policy, the three families who have deprived the people of J&K of various benefits, started raising questions.  "We have had Rs 12,000 crore investment due to the efforts of the prime minister and are looking forward to an investment of Rs 51,000 crore by the end of 2022, he said.  Targeting the three families, he said they were asking what the government is going to give to J&K. "We have a long list of what we have given to J&K and the people know it very well but the people of J&K are demanding an answer from them as to what they have given to J&K despite ruling the erstwhile state for the past seven decades. Have you thought of anyone else other than your own family members.  He said soon after Modi became the prime minister, he released a Rs 55,000-crore financial package, of which Rs 33,000 crore has already been spent on various developmental projects.  "Today I have laid the foundation of various projects worth Rs 15,000 crore. These three families together have not done so much development during their entire rule, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
24-10-2021||India||Punjab must focus on real issues, says Sidhu; never saw such anarchy in Punjab Cong, says Tewari||Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday said the state must concentrate on real issues that concern every Punjabi even as MP Manish Tewari said he never saw "such chaos and anarchy" being played out in the party's state unit.  Critical of the infighting in the Punjab Congress, Tewari tweeted that party leaders are "squabbling publicly with each other like children", using "guttural language" that "even fish wives would not use".  The statements by both leaders have come amid the ongoing war of words between Congress leaders and former chief minister Amarinder Singh over his friendship with Pakistani journalist Aroosa Alam, just months before the state Assembly polls.  Amarinder was replaced by Charanjit Singh Channi as the state chief minister after a power tussle with Sidhu and had said he will form a new party.  "Punjab must come back to its real issues that concern every Punjabi and our future generations. How will we counter the financial emergency that stares upon us? I will stick to the real issues and not let them take a backseat!,"Sidhu tweeted earlier in the day.  Sidhu said,"The choice is clear between irreparable damage and the last chance for damage control. Who will bring back state's resources to the state's coffers, instead of them going to private pockets? Who will lead the initiative for resurrection our great state to prosperity!!"  "Let the mist clear, reality shine like the sun upon the roadmap for revival of Punjab, shunning those who protect the selfish vested interests and focus only on the path that will lead to Jittega Punjab, Jittegi Punjabiyat and Jittega Har Punjabi," he added in another tweet.  Meanwhile, Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari expressed his dismay over the ongoing developments in the Punjab Congress and asked whether the party thought the people were not disgusted by the "daily soap opera".  He never saw such "chaos and anarchy as what is playing out" in the Punjab Congress, Tewari said, adding that the "guttural language was used against each other that "even fish wives would not use".  In a series of tweets, Tewari also questioned the progress on issues like the 2015 desecration incidents, drug menace and power purchase pacts.  The Anandpur Sahib MP was reacting to his reference by Congress general secretary Harish Rawat in an interview to a media house.  "Since you referred to me in this interview I also have great regard & respect for you going back to days when I headed @nsui & you @CongressSevadal. However in my 40 years plus in @INCIndia I have never seen such chaos & anarchy as what is playing out in @INCPunjab today.  Repeated open defiance of AICC by a PCC President, colleagues squabbling publicly with each other like children. Guttural language against each other that even fish wives would not use. For the past 5 months it is @INCPunjab vs @INCPunjab. Do we think that people of Punjab are not disgusted by this daily soap opera," tweeted Tewari.  Tewari also called the Mallikarjun Kharge-led three-member panel formed by the party earlier to end factionalism in the Punjab Congress as a serious error of judgment .  "Irony is that those who complained loudest of transgressions & aberrations were unfortunately & continue to be worst offenders themselves. History would record that the appointment of the Committee that ostensibly heard perceived & real grievances was a serious error of judgment," he said.  "Where is progress on the issues that agitated these MLA's & other eminences--Bargari,drugs, power PPAs, illegal sand mining. Has there been any movement forward," asked Tewari.  During his meeting with Congress senior leaders K C Venugopal and Harish Rawat in Delhi recently, Sidhu too had raised his concerns over the 18-point agenda taken up by the leadership on which actions are pending.  These included action against those involved in the sacrilege issue and the drugs mafia.  Sidhu had written a letter to party chief Sonia Gandhi on October 15, flagging the issues which the government "must deliver upon" and saying it is the poll-bound state's "last chance for resurrection and redemption".  Sidhu had pitched for a Punjab model with a 13-point agenda to be part of the Congress manifesto for the 2022 Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
24-10-2021||India||AAP and TMC will be 'marginal players' in 2022 Goa assembly polls, says P Chidambaram||The Aam Aadmi Party and the TMC will be "marginal players" in the Goa assembly polls and the Congress is best positioned to defeat the BJP and form the next government, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Sunday.  Chidambaram, who is the Congress' senior election observer for the assembly polls next year, asserted that the Trinamool Congress' entry into Goa "appears to be an imposition from the top that is based in West Bengal" and said he does not know the Mamata Banerjee-led party's motive in trying to start a unit in Goa by "encouraging defections" from other parties.  In an interview with PTI, Chidambaram said any alliance with smaller parties for the Goa assembly polls is only possible if a party accepts that the Congress will be the pivot of the non-BJP formation.  "Goa is one of the five states going to elections early next year. All states are equally important and, in that sense, Goa is important. Congress and the people of Goa have had a long and special bond. Congress understands that Goa, Goans and Goa's way of life are unique," the Rajya Sabha member said.  "We enter the election arena with the intention of winning the election and forming a Congress government in 2022," he said, adding that the party's preparations are "methodical and strong".  Noting that the two major parties in Goa are the Congress and the BJP, Chidambaram said any alliance with smaller parties can only be possible if a party accepts that the Congress will be the pivot of the non-BJP formation.  "I suppose it may be possible to accommodate smaller parties in a few seats if they are so inclined. I cannot speculate about any party," he said.  Asked how he sees the AAP and TMC's Goa election bid, Chidambaram said, "In our assessment, AAP and TMC will be marginal players in the 2022 Goa election."  He said that while AAP tested the waters in 2017 but did not make an impact, TMC entered Goa in September 2021 and there were no local, grassroots workers who sowed the seeds of the party in Goa.  "TMC's entry appears to be an imposition from the top that is based in West Bengal. I do not know the TMC's motive in trying to start a unit in Goa by encouraging defections from other parties," he said.  "As far as the Congress is concerned, we consider the Congress is best positioned to defeat the BJP and form a government. Smaller parties can help if they are so inclined," Chidambaram said.  On whether the Congress will announce a chief ministerial face ahead of polls, he said the time to decide whether the party should name a CM face or not is after it has announced the full list of candidates.  "We will take a decision at the appropriate time," he added.  Asked about former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro quitting the Congress and joining the TMC, Chidambaram said defections have been the bane of Goa politics and the people of state resent defectors more than anything else.  "I was sorry to see Mr Luizinho Faleiro join the band of defectors. The people, especially the voters in his Assembly constituency, resent his defection. Hence, his defection has not dented our worker-base in the constituency.  Congress will field a strong candidate in that Assembly constituency," he said.  Asked whether the party was better prepared for a 2017-like situation when it emerged the single largest party but failed to form the government, Chidambaram said there is "huge anti-incumbency" against the BJP government in Goa and the 2022 elections will not throw up a hung assembly.  "We are confident that the people will give a clear verdict in favour of the Congress. They nearly did in 2017...but we failed to stop defections," he said.  Alleging that the current BJP government in Goa is a "government of defectors", Chidambaram said in 2022, "we will make sure there are no defections from the Congress".  There are ways to ensure there are no defections, and the Congress will live by its promise that there will be no defections from it, he asserted.  The Congress had won the highest 17 seats in the 40-member House in the 2017 Goa Assembly elections, restricting the main opponent BJP to 13. But the saffron party moved to ally with regional parties and came to power under the leadership of Manohar Parrikar, now deceased. The Congress had accused the BJP of "stealing" the mandate, a charge the saffron party rejected.  Over the years, the Congress's strength in the Legislative Assembly dwindled to four after many of its MLAs switched sides and joined the ruling BJP.  The ruling BJP, opposition Congress, Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP, TMC, Shiv Sena and regional parties like the Goa Forward Party (GFP) and the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party are all in the poll fray with not much clarity yet on forging of alliances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
24-10-2021||India||G-20 summit: Modi expected to pitch for united approach to deal with Afghan crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to pitch for a united global approach in dealing with the situation in Afghanistan and combating challenges of climate change and the coronavirus pandemic at the two-day G-20 Summit in Italy beginning October 30, people familiar with the development said on Sunday.  The prime minister will be travelling to Rome and Glasgow from October 29 to November 2 to attend the 16th G-20 Summit and the World Leaders' Summit of COP-26 respectively, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said.  It said Modi will be participating in the 16th G-20 Summit in Rome from October 30-31 at the invitation of Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. Italy has been holding the presidency of the G-20 since December last year.  The G-20 is a leading global forum that brings together the world's major economies. Its members account for more than 80 per cent of the global GDP, 75 per cent of global trade and 60 per cent of the population of the planet.  The forum has met every year since 1999 and includes, since 2008, a yearly summit, with the participation of the respective heads of state and government.  The MEA said India is scheduled to host the G-20 summit in 2023 for the first time.  The Rome summit will be attended by heads of state and government of G-20 member countries, the European Union, and other invited countries and several international organisations.  The G-20 leaders are expected to deliberate on a number of key challenges such as recovering from the coronavirus pandemic, addressing climate change and overcoming poverty and inequality in various parts of the world.  The situation in Afghanistan is expected to figure prominently at the summit, said one of the people cited above.  Prime Minister Modi is likely to present India's perspective to combat the key challenges facing the globe and is expected to call for a united approach to the situation in Afghanistan as well to deal with the pandemic and climate change, they said.  It will be the eighth G-20 summit Modi would be attending. The G-20 has emerged as the premier global forum for international economic cooperation.  The forthcoming summit will be centred around the theme 'People, Planet, Prosperity', focussing on areas of recovery from the pandemic and strengthening of global health governance.  It will also focus on economic recovery and resilience, climate change and energy transition, and sustainable development and food security, the MEA said in a statement.  The prime minister will also hold several bilateral meetings, including with Draghi.  From Rome, Modi will travel to Glasgow to attend the World Leader's summit of the 26th Conference of Parties (COP-26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), the MEA said.  The prime minister is attending the climate summit at the invitation of his British counterpart Boris Johnson.  The COP-26 is being held from October 31 to November 12 under the presidency of the UK which is partnering with Italy for the event.  The MEA said the high-level segment of COP-26, titled the World Leaders' Summit (WLS), will be held on November 1 to 2. The summit will be attended by heads of state and government of more than 120 countries.  "The UNFCCC embodies the global will and vision to combat climate change. The periodic Conference of Parties to this Convention have emerged as global climate summits, providing an opportunity for stocktaking and for charting the way forward," the MEA said.  The prime minister last attended the COP-21 in Paris in 2015, when the Paris Agreement was concluded, and whose implementation commences this year.  "At COP-26, the parties will work to achieve the completion of Paris Agreement implementation guidelines; the mobilisation of climate finance; actions to strengthen climate adaptation, technology development and transfer; and keeping in reach the Paris Agreement goals of limiting the rise in global temperatures," it said.  The MEA said Modi will hold numerous bilateral meetings on the sidelines of COP-26, including with Johnson.  The COP-26 summit is being billed as one of the biggest ever congregations of world leaders and experts in combating climate change.  On Thursday, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, highlighting India's climate action in meeting its Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) related to the Paris climate agreement, said that New Delhi intends to go in with a strong message with full commitment to COP26.  "We are perhaps the only G-20 country to have fulfilled our NDCs and outperformed them," Shringla said in a virtual address at the India Global Forum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
24-10-2021||India||Covid vaccination drive's success shows India's capability: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the success of India's Covid vaccination drive shows its capability and noted that the country is moving ahead with new energy after crossing the 100 crore vaccine doses milestone.  In his monthly Mann Ki Baat broadcast, Modi hailed healthcare workers for the vaccine milestone and said he knew that they would leave no stone unturned to vaccinate the people of the country.  The success of our vaccination drive shows India's capability and the strength of 'sabka prayas' (collective effort) mantra, he said.  Modi said the country is moving ahead with new energy and enthusiasm after crossing the 100 crore Covid vaccine doses milestone.  On October 21, India achieved a major milestone in its vaccination programme against COVID-19 as the cumulative vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed the 100-crore mark.  In his Mann Ki Baat radio programme, Modi also said India has always worked for world peace and this is seen in the country's contribution to the UN Peacekeeping forces.  India is also working to make Yoga and traditional methods of wellness more popular, he said.  The prime minister also praised the rise in number of women police personnel and noted that it has jumped to over 2.15 lakh from 1.05 lakh in 2014.  Referring to the 'vocal for local' campaign, the prime minister urged people to buy local products in the festival season.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
24-10-2021||India||Union minister's son arrested in Lakhimpur Kheri violence contracts dengue||Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, arrested in connection with Lakhimpur Kheri violence, has contracted dengue and shifted to the district hospital, an official said on Sunday.  Ashish, who was taken in police remand, was sent to the district jail Saturday evening for treatment at its healthcare facility, Additional Superintendent of Police (ASP) Arun Kumar Singh said.  Ashish, along with three others, was taken in two-day police custody on Friday evening for further interrogation in the case.  Chief Medical Officer of Lakhimpur Kheri, Shailendra Bhatnagar along with his team examined Ashish.  "The samples (of Ashish Mishra) collected Saturday night tested positive for dengue. His sugar levels were found to be critical. Some changes were also observed in the ECG. This demands treatment under observation by expert doctors at the district hospital, he told reporters on Sunday.  Eight people, including four farmers, were killed in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 in violence that erupted during a farmers' protest.  Thirteen people, including Mishra, have so far been arrested in connection with the incident.  Three accused arrested on Saturday -- Mohit Trivedi, Rinku Rana and Dharmendra -- were produced before a magistrate. The investigators moved an application for their 14-day police custody remand. The hearing on the application will take place on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
24-10-2021||India||Modi govt created records in 'giving trouble' to people: Priyanka Gandhi slams Centre over rising fuel prices||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday attacked the Centre over rising prices of petrol and diesel, alleging that the Modi government has created records in "giving trouble" to people.  Taking to Twitter, the Congress general secretary tagged a media report which said that this year petrol prices have increased by a record Rs 23.53.  "Modi ji's government has made big records in giving trouble to the public. Highest unemployment: in Modi government. Government properties being sold: in Modi government. Petrol rates increased the most in a year: in Modi government," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also took a dig at the government by tagging the same media report and tweeting, "Achche Din" (good days).  Petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday by 35 paise per litre, pushing the total increase in rates on petrol to Rs 36 per litre and on diesel to Rs 26.58 since early May 2020 when taxes on the two fuels were raised to record levels.  Petrol in Delhi now costs Rs 107.24 a litre and diesel comes for Rs 95.97, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
24-10-2021||India||Government likely to introduce 2 key financial sector bills in winter session||The government may introduce two key financial sector bills, including the proposed law for facilitating privatisation of public sector banks as announced by the finance minister in the Budget.  The government is also likely to table amendments to the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) Act, 2013, to enable separation of the National Pension System Trust (NPS) from the PFRDA for ensuring universal pension coverage.  The government is likely to table amendments in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, during the forthcoming Winter Session of Parliament, sources said.  Apart from this, amendments would be needed in the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970, and the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980, for privatisation of banks, sources said.  These Acts led to the nationalisation of banks in two phases and provisions of these laws have to be changed for the privatisation of banks, they said.  A month-long winter session of Parliament is expected to start by the end of the next month. The second batch of Supplementary Demands for Grants, allowing the government to undertake additional expenditure other than the Finance Bill, would also be introduced for approval.  Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman while presenting the Budget for 2021-22 had announced the privatisation of public sector banks (PSBs) as part of disinvestment drive to garner Rs 1.75 lakh crore.  "Other than IDBI Bank, we propose to take up the privatization of two Public Sector Banks and one General Insurance company in the year 2021-22," she had said.  For ensuring privatisation of a general insurance company, the government has already received approval from Parliament for the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, in the monsoon session ended in August 2021.  With the amendment in the PFRDA Act, sources said, powers, functions and duties of NPS Trust, which are currently laid down under PFRDA (National Pension System Trust) Regulations 2015, may come under a charitable Trust or the Companies Act.  The intent behind this is to keep NPS Trust separate from the pension regulator and managed by a competent board of 15 members. Out of this, the majority of members are likely to be from the government as they, including states, are the biggest contributor to the corpus.  The Trust was established by PFRDA for taking care of the assets and funds under NPS. The proposal to separate the two job roles has been under consideration for the last couple of years.  The PFRDA was established for promoting and ensuring the orderly growth of the pension sector with sufficient powers over pension funds, the central record keeping agency and other intermediaries. It also safeguards the interest of members.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
24-10-2021||India||J&K: Heavy snowfall kills 2 in Anantnag, death toll climbs to 5||Two people died while as many were rescued after they were trapped in snowfall in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Sunday, taking the death toll due to inclement weather to five.  Last night, stranded persons at Sinthan Pass in south Kashmir district were rescued, they said.  The rescue team of civil, police army and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) officials traversed 30 km through snow-covered and foggy terrain, aided by machinery and walked for 8 km to reach the location, the officials said.  "At 0500 hours on October 24, one body was located on the spot, while another person died during the trip back," they said.  Two people survived and are being treated for hypothermia and shock, the officials added.  Parts of the valley, especially the higher reaches in south Kashmir, received moderate to heavy snowfall on Saturday.  The snowfall and rains, which started late on Friday night, triggered a mudslide that hit a tent set up by nomads in Noorpora in Tral area of Pulwama district, leaving three people, including two women dead, and one critically injured, they said.  The nomads belonged to Reasi district in the Jammu Division, the officials added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
24-10-2021||India||Three security personnel, Pakistani terrorist injured in fresh firing by militants in J&K's Poonch||Three security personnel and an arrested Pakistani terrorist were injured on Sunday when militants opened fire on a joint search party of the Army and police inside a forest in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said.  Heavy firing and explosions were reported from Bhatta Durrian forest of Mendhar which along with nearby forest areas adjoining Surankote (Poonch) and Thanamandi in Rajouri district is witnessing a massive search operation, the officials said.  The operation, which saw nine Army personnel losing their lives in separate ambushes in Surankote and Mendhar on October 11 and 14, entered the 14th day on Sunday.  A police spokesperson said two policemen and an Army jawan along with a prisoner Zia Mustafa, a Pakistani terrorist affiliated with the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) were injured in fresh firing by terrorists in Bhatta Durrian forest this morning.  Detenue Mustafa was taken to Bhatadurian for identification of terrorist hideout during the ongoing operation in which three Army jawans and a JCO were martyred (on October 14).  "During the search when the team approached the hideout, terrorists again opened fire on the joint team of police and Army personnel in which two policemen and an Army jawan sustained injuries, the spokesperson said.  The police said Mustafa also sustained injuries and he could not be taken out from the site due to heavy fire.  Injured personnel are under treatment at the nearby health facility. A fresh attempt will be made with reinforcements (to neutralise terrorists and retrieve the injured Mustafa, the spokesperson said, adding that an operation at the site is still going on.  Officials said Mustafa, a resident of Rawalakot in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, was lodged in Kot Bhalwal jail for the last 14 years and was shifted to Mendhar on police remand after investigation revealed his link with the hiding terrorists.  Mustafa had sneaked into this side from the same route before he was arrested from south Kashmir, the officials said.  The operation in the forest areas in the twin border districts commenced on October 11 when terrorists ambushed a search party killing five soldiers including a Junior Commissioned Officer (JCO) in Surankote forest of Poonch before another gunfight in nearby Thanamandi on the same day.  On October 14, the terrorists struck again and killed four soldiers including a JCO in Nar Khas forest in Mendhar as the security forces extended the cordon and search operation to neutralise the fleeing terrorists.  Drones and helicopters were pressed into service to assist the marching troops, which included para-commandos, in the jungle spread over nearly 8 kmX2 km area at a distance of four km from the Line of Control (LoC), the officials said.  Ten persons, including two women, were detained for questioning after it came to light that they allegedly provided logistic support including food and shelter to the terrorists, the officials said.  An Army official said on Saturday that a major part of the forest was cleared and now the search area is restricted to a location housing a number of natural caves.  There was no contact with the terrorist after the initial gunfights on October 11 and October 14. The search area was expanded in search of the terrorists, the official had said, hoping to conclude the operation with the clearance of the natural caves within a day or two depending on the weather conditions.  Traffic between Mendhar and Thanamandi along the Jammu-Rajouri highway remained suspended as a precautionary measure for the ninth day on Sunday in the wake of the ongoing operation.  Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-92
24-10-2021||India||Covid-19: India logs 15,906 new cases, active cases decline to 1,72,594||India added 15,906 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total tally to 3,41,75,468, while the active cases declined to 1,72,594, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.  The death toll climbed to 4,54,269 with 561 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.  Kerala has reconciled 399 fatalities from the previous period. Hence, the death toll is higher, officials said, adding that 65 deaths have been reported from Kerala in the last 24 hours.  The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 30 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 119 consecutive days now.  The active cases comprise 0.51 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.17 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said.  A decrease of 1,134 cases has been recorded in the total active number of COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours.  Also, 13,40,158 tests were conducted on Saturday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 59,97,71,320.  The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.19 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.23 per cent, according to the ministry.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,35,48,605, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 102.10 crore.  India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  The 561 new fatalities include 464 from Kerala and 33 from Maharashtra.  A total of 4,54,269 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,39,998 from Maharashtra, 38,002 from Karnataka, 36,004 from Tamil Nadu, 28,229 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19045 from West Bengal.  The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.  "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
24-10-2021||India||CJI Ramana wishes for judicial financial autonomy||Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana on Saturday advocated financial autonomy for the judiciary, and cited research that said the failure to deliver timely justice to people had cost the country financial losses amounting to 9 per cent of its GDP. Courts now depend on the executive for all their fiscal requirements. Justice Ramana regretted that many courts in the country lacked adequate court halls, toilets or seating arrangements, which he said was affecting the justice delivery system. Justice Ramana, who was speaking after inaugurating a new wing at the Aurangabad Bench of Bombay High Court, cited figures to underline the lack of adequate infrastructure at India’s courts: ⚫ The sanctioned strength of judicial officers in the country is 24,280 while the number of functioning court halls is 20,143 (including 620 rented halls). ⚫ Some 26 per cent court complexes lack toilets for women and 16 per cent lack even men’s toilets. ⚫ Only 54 per cent of court complexes receive purified drinking water; just 5 per cent have basic medical facilities; only 51 per cent have a library. ⚫ Only 32 per cent of courtrooms have separate record rooms; just 27 per cent have computers on the judge’s dais with videoconferencing facilities. Justice Ramana said: “A good judicial infrastructure for courts in India has always been an afterthought. It’s because of this mindset that courts in India still operate from dilapidated structures, making it difficult to effectively perform their function.” “An effective judiciary can aid in the effective growth of the economy. According to international research published in 2018, failure to deliver timely justice cost the country as much as 9 per cent of annual GDP,” he said. Cases relating to commercial disputes, land acquisition and compensation are among those that have major financial implications. “Moreover, the impact of an under-supported judiciary is also seen on foreign investments. Without adequate infrastructure we cannot aspire to fill this gap,” Justice Ramana said. “If we want a different outcome from the judicial system, we cannot continue to work in these circumstances. An integral aspect, in this regard, is financial autonomy of the judiciary.” The audience included Supreme Court judges such as Justices U.U. Lalit, D.Y. Chandrachud, B.R. Gavai and A.S. Oka, Bombay High Court Chief Justice Dipankar Dutta, Union law minister Kiren Rijiju, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and several legal luminaries. “Judicial infrastructure is important for improving access to justice and to meet the growing demands of the public, (which) is more aware of its rights and is developing economically, socially and culturally,” Justice Ramana said. “It is baffling to note that the improvement and maintenance of judicial infrastructure is still being carried out in an ad hoc and unplanned manner.” He cited the example of the new wing he had just inaugurated. “The need for an additional court complex at the Aurangabad Bench was identified as early as 2011.... That it has taken more than 10 years for this vision to be implemented is extremely worrisome,” he said. “This is not the fault of any institution or organ of the State but is emblematic of a deeper structural problem that has plagued judicial infrastructure development in our country since Independence. Today’s success should not, therefore, blind us to the issues that exist.” Justice Ramana said he had sent a proposal to the law ministry for the establishment of a National Judicial Infrastructure Authority, and urged the minister to take up the necessary legislative measures during the winter session of Parliament. He said courts were important for any society “governed by the rule of law” and court buildings therefore ensured “the constitutional guarantee of the right to justice”. Justice Ramana said India’s courts had repeatedly upheld the rights and freedoms of individuals when they were at the receiving end of executive excesses, providing an assurance that seekers of justice, however weak, need not worry about the might of the State. “It’s a common notion that only criminals or victims of crime approach the court. People take pride in stating, ‘We have never seen a court building in our lifetime’. But it’s high time that we make efforts to remove the taboo associated with approaching courts for the affirmation of (people’s) rights,” Justice Ramana said. “The common man deals with multiple legal issues during his lifetime. One must never feel hesitant to approach courts. After all, people’s faith in the judiciary is the biggest strength of democracy.” Justice Ramana lauded Maharashtra’s contribution towards an egalitarian society, paying tributes to “the extraordinary Savitribai Phule or the pioneering feminist Jyotirao Phule, or the legendary Dr Ambedkar”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
24-10-2021||India||BJP leader warns UP women not to visit police stations after sunset||A senior BJP leader has warned the women of Uttar Pradesh not to visit police stations after sunset. “Although a woman officer and a (woman) sub-inspector sit (at police stations), you should never go to a police station after 5pm, after it becomes dark,” Baby Rani Maurya, BJP national vice-president and former Uttarakhand governor, said on Friday. “If necessary, you can go the next morning with your brother, husband or father.” Maurya, an Agra-based Dalit politician whose star seems to be rising in state politics, did not mention any incidents. But in July, a minor gang-rape complainant was allegedly slapped and kicked by two policewomen inside a police station in Saharanpur, prompting her to cry out she would “never go to a police station again in this life”. Uttar Pradesh police have repeatedly been accused of ill-treating women. The state police have faced allegations of refusing to register women’s complaints and trying to protect men accused of sex crimes. Women cannot be called to a police station after sunset. If unavoidable, women police personnel will have to be present or the police must be able to justify before a court the summons. Women can go to a police station anytime to file a complaint. But if it is after sundown and a woman fears for her safety, the police are expected to go to her place and record the complaint. “You (women) must write to the district magistrate, the chief minister and the Prime Minister if you face problems. The government has done a lot of work for women and their situation has improved,” Maurya said. Her comments came at a BJP event at the Valmiki (Dalit) Basti in Varanasi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency. A senior BJP leader said Maurya’s comments seemed aimed at proving her credentials as an honest politician who wouldn’t spare even her own party’s government in matters of the public good. Also, Maurya seemed to be trying to deflect blame for the poor governance to the lower rungs, as suggested by her next comment. “Government officers mislead us (politicians). A farmer called me for fertilisers, and I asked officers to look after the matter,” she said. “An officer assured me the farmer would get fertilisers, but later refused to give them to the farmer. This kind of mischief is being played at the lower levels (of officialdom).” There’s speculation within the BJP that Maurya might be given a senior post in the state government if the party wins the Assembly elections, due in March. “She is a woman and a Dalit. She suits the party in Uttar Pradesh. It was with this plan that she was asked last month to resign as governor and brought back to active politics in Uttar Pradesh,” the senior BJP leader, who didn’t want to be named, said. He said Maurya’s comments might help the party politically, for voters appreciate self-criticism. “But what she said in Varanasi also reflects poorly on law and order in the state and highlights the high-handedness of officials under Yogi Adityanath’s rule.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
24-10-2021||India||Amit Shah appeals to Kashmir’s youth to weed out terrorism||Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday appealed to Kashmir’s youth to weed out terrorism, saying the government would not be able to do it, and at one point acknowledged that the Centre had indeed imposed a “curfew” in the Valley in 2019 and that it may have “hurt” people. Addressing a gathering of youths in Srinagar on his first visit since Jammu and Kashmir’s special status was revoked, Shah said: “Friends, more than 40,000 people — militants, security forces and civilians — have lost their lives. Do we have to end it (militancy) or not? Is it possible to have terrorism and development at the same time? Can it happen? You tell me. It can never happen. The first condition for development is that there should be peace here.” The home minister added: “Who will weed it (militancy) out? Can the government do it? Na bhai na (No, brother, no). The government can only make an effort. The job of stamping out terrorism has to be done by the 45,000 members of the youth clubs who are standing in front of me. You have to become ambassadors of peace and take the message to all youths of Jammu and Kashmir that this is not the road to take our journey forward. It can never be.” He was referring to the 45,000 youths who are members of various sports and other clubs across Jammu and Kashmir. While some were present at the gathering, many others attended the event online. Shah’s overture to Kashmiris suggests a realisation that the government’s iron-fist policy to curb militancy may not have worked. There has been a spate in violence and civilian killings in the Valley, although one of the stated objectives of the dilution of Article 370 in 2019 had been to counter militancy. The home minister claimed the “curfew” and the “Internet shutdown” imposed in 2019 after the scrapping of the special status was meant to save lives, trying to address the anger over the unprecedented clampdown that lasted months. This is the first time the government has acknowledged a curfew, claiming all along that only restrictions had been in place. “Despite that, if someone is hurt…,” Shah said and put his hand on his chest. If the gesture was seen as a precursor to an apology, it did not come at this venue. He continued: “I want to tell you all that for the long-term good you were given a short pain. Just as for malaria, doctors recommend a bitter medicine. This was that kind of pain which saved your kids.” Shah said some people had cried themselves hoarse after the 2019 clampdown. “At that time (2019) there were attempts to ignite emotions. There was a conspiracy and some foreign powers were also involved. Had we not imposed a curfew, we do not know how many elderly parents would have had to lift the coffins of their children. Who was saved through the imposition of the curfew, can somebody tell me? It’s the Kashmiri youth,” Shah said. The home minister iterated the Centre’s position on the restoration of statehood, saying it would be done only after the delimitation and Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
24-10-2021||India||Lalu Prasad set to return to Patna after three years||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) president Lalu Prasad is expected to return to Patna on Sunday after a gap of over three years. His wife Rabri Devi and daughter Misa Bharti will accompany him on the flight from Delhi. The imminent arrival at the time of bypolls to two Assembly seats has heated up politics in the state. According to RJD sources, the doctors have granted Lalu permission to travel to Patna and flight tickets have been booked. The RJD chief is suffering from severe diabetes, kidney and heart ailments. He has been mostly under treatment at various hospitals in Ranchi, Mumbai and Delhi after being convicted and incarcerated in the fodder scam cases. He was granted bail in April, but was stuck in Delhi for health reasons. “There is a strong possibility of our party chief coming to Patna in a day or two. Let him come. We will inform you,” Lalu’s confidant, advocate and RJD national general secretary Bhola Yadav told The Telegraph. Bhola added that the possibility of Lalu campaigning for the bypolls to the Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan constituencies was slim but the final decision would be taken after his arrival. “One thing is for sure, Laluji will not opt for digital campaigning in the bypolls. At present, his son and RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is spearheading the campaign,” Bhola said. The RJD chief’s return is being considered crucial at this juncture for two reasons. The Congress has quit the Opposition Grand Alliance, has fielded candidates for the two seats and has fielded young and dynamic leaders such as Kanhaiya Kumar, Hardik Patel and Jignesh Mevani to campaign in the bypolls. They are being seen as a threat to Tejashwi. The second reason is that Lalu’s eldest son and Hasanpur MLA Tej Pratap Yadav, in his struggle for power with Tejashwi, is continuously rebelling against the party. Lalu’s presence in Bihar, even if he does not campaign physically in the bypolls, will boost the RJD’s chances in both the seats. Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan were won by chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United and fell vacant when their representatives passed away earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
24-10-2021||India||Uttarakhand: Two trekkers missing, bodies of two recovered||The bodies of two more trekkers of an 11-member team that had gone missing in rain-wracked Uttarakhand were recovered on Saturday by ITBP personnel from near the Himachal Pradesh border. They were identified as Richard Mandal, 30, of Calcutta and Upendra Singh, 37, from Purola in Uttarkashi, district disaster management officer Devendra Patwal said. The bodies found near the Lamkhaga pass are being brought to Sangla from where they will be taken to Uttarkashi, district magistrate Mayur Dikshit said. The bodies had been spotted on Friday but could be recovered after rescue operations resumed on Saturday, he added. The bodies of five more trekkers had been brought down on Friday. Two are still missing while two surviving members of the team that was bound for Chitkul via Harsil are under treatment in Harsil and Uttarkashi. The search operation for the missing trekkers has been halted due to bad weather at a height of 12,000ft, DM Dikshit said, adding that it would be resumed as soon as the weather permits. The missing have been identified as Calcutta resident Suken Manjhi, 43, and Purola resident Gyan Chand, 33.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
24-10-2021||India||Kerala: Young mother forces govt to act to get back her child||A young mother began a hunger strike outside the Kerala secretariat on Saturday morning seeking help to get back her child, whom she said her parents had forcibly given away for adoption a year ago to protect their “honour” since she was unwed. Anupama S. Chandran, 22, called off her protest after an embarrassed state government — the woman’s parents happen to be CPM leaders — applied to a court to halt what it said was the baby’s still-to-be-completed adoption process. A senior lawyer, however, told The Telegraph that unless the state could prove irregularities in the adoption process, it could be a long legal battle without a known precedent. Anupama, a former member of CPM student arm SFI, had delivered a boy on October 19 last year. She had been in a relationship with Ajith Kumar, a married man and a member of CPM youth wing DYFI. Anupama says her parents — local CPM leaders P.S. Jayachandran and Smitha James — forcibly gave the baby away for adoption through a government channel on October 21 last year. The boy is now in “foster care” — a stage prior to full-fledged adoption — with the would-be adoptive parents, state minister for health and family welfare Veena George told a news conference. Anupama has been living with Ajith since March after he divorced his wife Naziya. After letters to the state government and the CPM brought no results, Anupama launched her pavement protest. Jayachandran claims he had written consent from Anupama to give the baby away for adoption. But the mother denies the document’s legal validity, alleging she was forced to sign some papers under duress before being hospitalised for the delivery. “The baby was taken away on the third day after delivery and I was locked up at home until I managed to escape in March and move in with Ajith,” Anupama said. Her police complaint, lodged on April 19, saw no action till October 18, when an FIR was registered naming her parents, elder sister, brother-in-law and two friends of her father. They have been booked under penal code sections 361 (kidnapping from lawful guardianship), 343 (wrongful confinement), 471 (fraudulently using forged documents) and 34 (common intention). Minister George said her department’s principal secretary had been told to investigate any lapses in the adoption process, and promised punishment if any official had erred. “The state adoption agency filed a petition in a Thiruvananthapuram court this afternoon stating the demands of Anupama and (requesting) that the baby be returned to her,” George told the news conference. She conceded that the legal process could be “arduous”. Advocate K.R. Subhash Chandran said: “If there were any errors or oversight in the adoption process it would not be valid and the court can interfere. In that case it will be easy for the mother to get the baby back. “If not, it will be a purely legal issue. Then the court will have to deal with the matter without any known precedent.” Ajith’s ex-wife, Naziya, has accused Anupama of lying. “She is lying. I have seen her signing the documents,” she told reporters on Saturday in her first public comments on the subject. Anupama dismissed the allegation and said Naziya was not present when she was forced to sign the document. “She is only repeating what my father has been telling everyone.” Over the past couple of days, several leaders of a cornered CPM have come out to express support for Anupama’s cause. “I didn’t get their support when I needed it. Now they are extending support while my parents continue to hold party positions,” Anupama told reporters. “So I find it difficult to trust them. Let the party act against my parents to prove its sincerity.” The Opposition has used the issue to attack the CPM. “The party is taking the law into its own hands. That’s why a CPM leader’s daughter is forced to protest outside the secretariat seeking her own child,” leader of the Opposition V.D. Satheesan of the Congress said on Saturday morning. “This is a clear example of the way the party and its government has been handling issues related to women’s rights.” CPM politburo member Brinda Karat described the matter as a “tragedy of immense proportions”. “As far as rights and morality are concerned, there is no doubt that what happened is totally wrong and Anupama must get her baby back,” she told reporters in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
24-10-2021||India||Priyanka promises to waive UP farm loans if Cong voted to power ||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra has pledged to waive all farm loans and halve electricity bills if the Congress is voted to power in Uttar Pradesh next year. Addressing a gathering in Barabanki on Saturday after flagging off the Congress’s Pratigya Yatra, Priyanka also announced that the minimum support prices of wheat, paddy and sugarcane would be raised. “We have taken some pledges for you. We call on women to come forward and contest (the Assembly) elections as we want to reserve 40 per cent tickets for them. We have also decided to give smartphones to Class XII passouts and scooties to girls who become graduates. These are meant to empower them,” the Congress general secretary said. “We will waive the loans of farmers and reduce electricity bills of people by half. Labourers who have been financially affected by the pandemic will be given Rs 25,000 each,” Priyanka added. The minimum support price of paddy and wheat will be raised to Rs 2,500 per quintal and that of sugarcane to Rs 400 per quintal. The current MSP for paddy and wheat range between Rs 1,400 and Rs 1,940 per quintal, depending on the quality of the grain. The sugarcane MSP is Rs 250 per quintal Priyanka promised to regularise the employment of those recruited by the state government on an ad hoc basis, including teachers. She also pledged to generate 20 lakh new government jobs in Uttar Pradesh. The Congress leader said the party would release an election manifesto specifically for women in addition to the general manifesto. The Pratigya Yatra will take three different routes —Barabanki to Bundelkhand, Saharanpur to Mathura and Varanasi to Rae Bareli — from October 23 to November 1 with the slogan “Hum vachan nibhayenge (We will fulfil our pledge)”. Priyanka said the way the Narendra Modi government was “protecting” Ajay Mishra Teni, the Union minister of state for home whose car ran over and killed four farmers and a journalist in Lakhimpur Kheri district on October 3, was proof that the BJP government didn’t treat farmers as humans. Teni’s son Ashis Mishra, who was allegedly in the Thar jeep, was arrested only after the Supreme Court intervened. “The minister’s son brutally killed farmers by crushing them under his vehicle. Initially, the government delayed his arrest and now it doesn’t want to suspend the minister. It is enough proof that the government doesn’t treat farmers as humans,” Priyanka said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
24-10-2021||India||Centre asks schools to get children to do gallantry project||The Union government has asked central school boards and state authorities to get schoolchildren to do projects on the country’s gallantry award winners under a month-long “Veer Gatha Project”. An education ministry notification on Wednesday said schoolchildren should, between October 21 and November 21, write poems and essays or do paintings that highlight these heroes’ bravery and sacrifice. Academics welcomed the move, saying that doing projects gave children a better idea of a subject — and influenced their lives and personalities — than just reading up about it from a textbook. School activities and projects on government-prescribed topics have increased in recent years, with national board CBSE having earlier written to schools to have their pupils celebrate Yoga Day, National Integration Day and Swachhata Divas. Some education activists have suggested that big-picture projects — such as “What is swachhata and how we can practise it” — can help the students more by forcing them to exercise their minds. The notification said the Veer Gatha programme “shall be open for all schools in all states and Union Territories as well as all schools affiliated to CBSE”. The defence ministry will arrange, through its field organisations or the three services, one-hour programmes for schoolchildren across the country to create awareness about the gallantry award winners. These can be virtual or face-to-face programmes. Educationist N.K. Ambasht, former chairman of the National Institute of Open Schooling, welcomed the initiative. “Doing a project helps the student understand the concept and reflect on it. It brings in behavioural changes,” Ambasht said. He suggested that schools prescribe projects on all kinds of topics. Prince Gajendra Babu, general secretary of the State Platform for Common Schooling System, a civil society watchdog in Tamil Nadu, agreed that having children do projects is a better way of teaching them about a topic. Babu suggested that the topics for projects be “open-ended”, dealing with ideas rather than merely “glorifying” something. “Having a close-ended topic limits the scope for analysis. School boards should prescribe open-ended topics, whether on contemporary issues or historical ones,” he said. “Students can be asked to write on topics such as the problems facing the country, and suggest solutions.” The CBSE has written to all its affiliated schools to get their students to participate in the Veer Gatha programme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
24-10-2021||India||‘In Bangladesh, we are all equal citizens’||The Bangladesh Awami League, since its inception in the late 1940s, started practising non-communal politics in the subcontinent. Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the Father of the Nation who led the liberation struggle of Bangladesh, took the initiative to secularise the Awami League and the erstwhile socio-political culture of this land. One of the core principles of Bangabandhu’s liberation struggle was that of secularism and non-communalism. After the independence of Bangladesh, Bangabandhu adopted secularism as one of the four fundamental principles of state policy. After the assassination of the Father of the Nation along with his family members, the extra-constitutional government of General Ziaur Rahman unconstitutionally dismantled the principle of secularism from the constitution and incorporated provisions allowing religious politics in the country, amending Article 38 for their narrow political gains. Subsequently, in line with General Zia’s philosophy, another extra-constitutional regime of General Ershad also continued to bring religion in state affairs for their narrow political gain and to perpetuate their rule. The BNP-Jamat’s two government tenures led by Begum Khaleda Zia carried on the legacies of the extra-constitutional military regimes in terms of supporting communal policies at all levels. During this period, the religious minorities, especially a significant number of the Hindu population, were subjected to oppression and repression. The daughter of the Father of the Nation, Sheikh Hasina, after returning to Bangladesh in May 1981 started to lead a historic movement for restoration of democracy and rule of law in the country. Protection of the rights of the people belonging to the religious minorities was an important feature of her movements. Her movements for establishing fundamental rights continued till she took state power by winning the general election in 1996 and even beyond. Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina adopted a zero-tolerance policy towards terrorism and violence against people belonging to religious minorities. “Dhormo jaar jaar, utsob shobar (Religion as per one’s own, but festivals common to all)” is not only a slogan adopted by the Awami League but is also a depiction of religious harmony in Bengali society and culture for hundreds of years. Our government always provides adequate protection during the festivals of religious minorities. This year, about 35,000 Durga Puja mandaps were set up across the country and the festivities went off peacefully except for some undesired and heinous incidents in Cumilla, Chandpur, Noakhali, Feni and Rangpur. The total number of Durga Puja mandaps rose from 30,000 in 2017, which signifies the fact that the government has been adequately providing security and other facilities to them. On October 13, 2021, the first attack at a local temple in Cumilla town was reported, arising out of an unexpected incident that is deemed to be a part of a conspiracy to start communal terrorism. On the directive of the Prime Minister, the government took serious cognisance instantly and started initiating all the necessary actions. The Prime Minister has directed all concerned in the government to take immediate steps to identify and arrest the criminals, bring them to justice and take preventive measures in order to protect the religious minorities, especially the Hindu population. Prime Minister Hasina also ordered to provide adequate compensation speedily to the affected people. The government deployed the Border Guard Bangladesh in 22 districts following tensions over the Cumilla incident. But several incidents of attacks on Hindu temples occurred in the next few days in Chandpur, Noakhali, Feni and Rangpur, the most serious of them in Noakhali. Prime Minister Hasina has urged Awami League leaders and activists to step out and resist the attacks on Hindu mandirs and houses and properties belonging to the religious minorities. Starting with the Cumilla incident till date, 71 criminal cases have been lodged and about 500 people arrested all over the country on charges of communal attacks and violence. More cases are being processed. The police and the other law-enforcing agencies are working hard and conducting operations to arrest the accused. Prime Minister Hasina has dismantled the regime of impunity in Bangladesh and established the rule of law. Her government has responded instantly to every incident of communal violence in the country by way of bringing the criminals to justice, while the other governments had actively indulged to this kind of heinous acts. After the attack on a Buddhist temple in Ramu in 2012, 300 people were arrested within seven days, including the Upazilla chairman of Naikhongchhari, Tofael Ahmed, a Jamat leader who was suspended from his position. The trials of the accused are continuing in the regular criminal courts and the government has been working hard as prosecution to ensure they are punished. In the Nasir Nagar violence of 2016, 53 suspected were arrested and sent to jail within the first two days. The government did not exempt anyone from the prosecution. The trial is going on in the regular courts. Because of the number of courts in comparison with the population, trials in Bangladesh generally take a considerable period of time for disposal. Even the trial of the killers of the Father of the Nation and his family members continued for many years. Prime Minister Hasina has given a stern warning to perpetrators of communal violence. “Nobody will be spared. It does not matter which religion they belong to. They will be hunted down and punished,” she has said. Prime Minister Hasina, who truly believes in secular and non-communal politics, has said: “The Bangladesh Awami League does not use the term minority as a nomenclature for religious minorities in Bangladesh. We all are citizens of Bangladesh standing on equal footing and our constitution, laws of the land and the culture and heritage do not discriminate among our citizens on the grounds of religion, caste, creed, gender, etc.” There is information that some political parties are trying to take recourse to communal terrorism in order to dismantle the current political and economic stability of the country and tarnish the image of Bangladesh before the outside world. It is substantially clear who could be the potential beneficiary. A number of authentic reports indicate a political motive to destabilise the government through the recent communal violence. The reports have clearly indicated that the BNP and its allies and their activists and supporters have actively participated in the communal violence. After the first incident in Cumilla, many BNP leaders, through their social media handles, had instigated or indulged the common people to engage in communal violence. In the past 10 years, the BNP and its allies have used several methods of campaign to try to destabilise the government. Having failed in every method, they have taken recourse to communal violence. Given the sensitivity of the socio-political-cultural ethos of South Asia, playing the communal card was an easy task for them. However, because of the staunch and stringent position of Prime Minister Hasina’s government in dealing with and addressing the issue, the situation is under control. The government has taken effective and adequate measures, both preventive and punitive, for the protection and welfare of the people belonging to religious minorities as well as for rendering justice to the victims and their families. ⚫ The author is the information and research secretary of the Bangladesh Awami League||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-93
24-10-2021||India||Puri temple administration implements dress code for servitors||The Puri Shree Jagannath Temple administration has implemented a dress code for its servitors who have to enter the sanctum sanctorum for performing rituals. All these servitors will be required to wear traditional clothes like dhoti, gamuchha and patta. No one will be allowed to enter the sanctum sanctorum of the temple in modern clothing like shirt and trousers. “Earlier, we had servitors with no ritual duties in the sanctum sanctorum entering the area wearing shirts and trousers. This makes a bad impression on the devotees who are unable to differentiate between the public and temple servitors,” said Jitendra Sahu, administrator (rituals) of the temple. He added: “The servitors themselves have been demanding a dress code. This will help identify servitors who will also be conscious about their duties.” Senior servitor Rama Krushna Das Mohapatra told The Telegraph: “Since ages our forefathers have been entering the temple in traditional clothes. But now we are noticing a deviation in the new generation. We have even noticed a few are entering the shrine wearing half-pants and even in jeans. “We have no objection to wearing modern clothes but they should be worn outside the temple. This will help maintain the sanctity of the shrine and devotees coming from far and wide will be able to easily identify servitors. It’s a win-win situation both for the devotees and the servitors.” The temple administration has also decided to implement the dress code for its employees from November 5, the day after Diwali. The Jagannath temple police and other staff who need to enter the sanctum sanctorum and its periphery areas within 10 metres will have to wear traditional clothes. However, the police and other staff are allowed to wear their official uniform in other parts of the temple. The temple is spread over a huge area and there are many small temples within its premises. “The temple police will help the devotees if they need their assistance. There will be cameras keeping an eye on what is happening inside the temple,” an official said. However, the temple administration is yet to take a call on whether they would implement any dress code for devotees entering the shrine. “Though it has been implemented in many temples, including Sabarimala in Kerala, we are yet to take a call on the issue. Before taking any such decision, we will have discussions with various stakeholders, including public servants,” said another official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-94
24-10-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta Metro discontinues non-AC coaches||The Metro Railway, Calcutta, on Sunday formally bade farewell to non-AC rakes, some of which have been in service since its inception as the country's first underground railway in 1984.  The Calcutta Metro, which started operations on this day in 1984, organised an exhibition 'Down the Memory Lane' at Mahanayak Uttam Kumar station to mark the departure of the non-AC rakes.  "As part of the farewell, we have organised a photo exhibition that will depict the past, present and future of Metro Railway," General Manager Manoj Joshi told reporters.  He said it is an opportunity to relive the moments that the city has shared with the Metro Railway, which have become an integral part of people's lives.  "Several expansion works are underway, and in two to three years, new corridors will start functioning," Joshi said.  The last non-AC Metro rake was ceremonially sent off to Noapara carshed from Mahanayak Uttam Kumar station by Joshi.  The Metro Railway, Calcutta, which started services 37 years ago between Esplanade and Bhowanipore (at present Netaji Bhavan station), a distance of 3.40 km, now covers 31.3 km.  Construction work is underway in the New Garia-Airport, Joka-BBD Bag routes apart from the East West Metro, a part of which is already operational.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
24-10-2021||West Bengal||Call for early weather warning system in hills||Torrential rain and landslides in North Bengal have swivelled the spotlight on the need to augment early warning systems for the fragile hills of Darjeeling. Amar Singh Rai, vice-chairman of Siliguri Jalpaiguri Development Authority (SJDA) and a former Darjeeling MLA, on Saturday wrote to chief minister Mamata Banerjee seeking specific intervention that found resonance among experts working on disaster management. Rai has requested the installation of a doppler weather radar (DWR) station and automatic weather stations (AWS) in all major urban centres and at the block level. “A DWR would be able to give more precise warnings on the quickly changing mountain weather and enable accurate nowcasts to be issued.  The earning warning would go a long way in saving lives,” Rai has written. Nowcasting is weather forecast in a very short period of up to two hours. The Darjeeling hills do not have a meteorological station. The nearby stations are located in Gangtok and Jalpaiguri and experts believe that public dissemination of information is slow. Doppler weather radar sends pulses of electromagnetic energy into the atmosphere to find precipitation, determine its motion and intensity, and identify the precipitation type such as rain, snow or hail. “DWR system would give early warnings and this would be extremely helpful for nowcasting in the fast-changing mountain system,” said Wing Commander (retd) Praful Rao, founder, Save The Hills, a group formed by experts on disaster management. “We welcome the points raised by Amar Singh Rai, as in the past we have seen that people are only after funds instead of setting up tangible assets.” Rai has also raised the issue of establishing a state-level research centre on landslide hazards. “The centre could be co-located with an existing institute of higher learning and should include officials from GSI (Geological Survey of India),” said Rai. According to GSI, about 0.42 million sq km of land in India is prone to landslides out of which 0.18 million sq km falls in the northeast Himalayas, including Darjeeling and Sikkim. “Our hills experience every type of landslide and it makes sense to have a centre here to study and look toward mitigating such disasters instead of having experts coming from other regions and lecturing us,” Rao said. The need to upgrade drainage systems in the hills and to check the stability of major structures in Darjeeling and Kalimpong has also been requested by Rai, who is also a former chairman of Darjeeling municipality. During the past few days, the hills witnessed numerous landslides triggered by torrential rains on October 19 and 20. The IMD on Saturday said the southwest monsoon had completely withdrawn from Bengal. Darjeeling witnessed a sharp drop in the weather. The AWS at St Paul’s School, Darjeeling recorded a minimum temperature of 8°C at 1.45pm on Saturday while the maximum temperature in the hill town was 12°C at 9.45am. The maximum and minimum temperature in Darjeeling for the month of October has been recorded as 19°C and 11.6°C, respectively, as per the District Survey Report of Darjeeling. Body recovered The body of Suman Thapa, 59, a home guard, who had gone missing after a landslide hit Vauxhall, the official residence of Darjeeling SDO on October 19, was retrieved from the debris on Saturday morning. “The bereaved family will be sanctioned Rs 2 lakh as ex-gratia as per government norms,” said a senior district official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
24-10-2021||West Bengal||Howrah trader killed at Burdwan home||A 44-year-old trader from Howrah’s Shibpur, who used to deal in tarpaulins in Calcutta’s Burrabazar, was allegedly killed by unidentified persons in his ancestral home in East Burdwan’s Raina on Friday night. Police sources said Sabyasachi Mondal had come to his ancestral home at Dariyapur village on Friday with one of his friends, a driver and an aide. Sabysachi’s father, Deb Kumar Mondal, 68, has lodged a complaint with the Raina police accusing his brother and nephews of the murder. Sources said Sabyasachi’s friend Rajveer Singh, 42, was alerted by his screams around 9pm. “I found at least four persons stabbing Sabyasachi with sharp weapons. They left the place after killing my friend.” “We own a tarpaulin business in Burrabazar that my son used to run. There has been a long-running conflict over property and ancestral business with my brother and his sons. We want punishment for those behind the murder,” said Deb Kumar. “We have started a probe,” said Aminul Islam Khan, SDPO, Burdwan south.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
24-10-2021||West Bengal||Diesel crosses Rs 100-mark in six  Bengal districts||Diesel prices broke the psychological barrier of Rs 100 a litre in at least six Bengal districts, the hike triggering panic among farmers, traders and tour operators who demanded central intervention to soften the blow. A litre of diesel is now selling for Rs 100.08 in Cooch Behar, Rs 100.17 in Alipurduar, Rs 100.29 in Darjeeling, Rs 100.14 in Purulia, Rs 100.16 in Nadia and Rs 100.03 in Murshidabad: "The hike in diesel price will push inflation at a time people are bearing the brunt of the pandemic-induced loss of income,” said a member of West Bengal Petroleum Dealers' Association. The price of petrol had crossed three digits in July. Sources in the association said diesel price crossed Rs 100 for the first time in Purulia’s Jhalda on Friday. Till Saturday evening, it was over Rs 100 in five more districts, Cooch Behar, Alipurduar, Darjeeling, Nadia and Murshidabad. “Fuel price includes freight charges plus other taxes levied by the Centre and states, hence price of petro products is higher in remote and interior areas. It is a matter of time before the Rs 100-plus diesel reaches Calcutta,” said another member of the association. . Sources said farmers will be the hardest hit as power tillers, crop harvesters and vehicles used to carry yields run on diesel. “In addition to our movement against the three farm laws, we now request people from all sections of society to raise their voice against the Centre’s decision to hike the price of diesel. It is a question of our survival,” said Amal Haldar, state secretary of the All-India Kisan Sabha. Private tour operators as well as public transporters are also worried about making ends meet. “Now that diesel price is up, we have to bear losses as we can’t ask clients to pay extra as the rates are fixed at the time of booking,” said Subrata Majumdar, a transporter in Siliguri. Some public transport operators hoped the state government would now hike bus fares. “The number of passengers has gone down since the pandemic began. Now, if the state does not hike fares, it would be impossible for us to run buses,” said a bus owner in Birbhum. Tourists also complained of being overcharged. Nisith Ghosh of Barrackpore in North 24-Parganas, who arrived in Siliguri by bus on Saturday morning with his family, said he had to part with Rs 6,000 to reach Darjeeling. “The rise in price of diesel has pushed our travel budget to an extreme,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
24-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 1,000 new Covid-19 infections in 24-hour cycle||Bengal on Saturday came close to reporting 1,000 new Covid-19 infections in the 24-hour cycle, clocking the highest such figure in over three months at 974 cases. Calcutta and neighbouring North 24-Parganas accounted for the bulk of the cases, whose numbers were expected to rise after the Durga Puja celebrations. The last time the state had recorded such a large number of cases was 105 days ago on July 10, when 997 new infections had been counted. On Saturday, Calcutta reported 268 new infections and North 24-Parganas 147. These are the only two Bengal districts to have been registering three-digit figures. Hospital admissions have been on the rise. On Saturday, Bengal reported 12 Covid deaths. The number of active cases rose by 154 to reach 7,731. The government is planning to set up containment zones in the worst-affected areas. A minister said Saturday’s figures included people who got infected in the October 14-18 (Navami to Troyodoshi) window. Lakhs had flooded Calcutta’s streets during the Puja. “The situation outside Calcutta and its immediate neighbourhood is under control at the moment. The city and surrounding areas witnessed the worst disregard for Covid safety protocols by revellers during the peak of the festival, so some degree of spike was expected,” the minister said. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 710, or 73 per cent, of the fresh daily infections on Saturday. Bengal now has 4.61 per cent of the nationwide total of active cases, and is sixth on the list of states with the highest number of Covid-19 patients. Bengal’s recovery rate has been 98.31 per cent against a national average of 98.14 per cent. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave earlier this year, was 2.26 per cent on Saturday. A positivity rate of up to 5 per cent is considered tolerable. The Covid mortality rate in Bengal stands at 1.2 per cent against a national average of 1.33 per cent. Bengal has now clocked more than 15.85 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was recorded in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.59 lakh recoveries and 19,045 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
24-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata tweets maiden Goa agenda ||Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee on Saturday took to Twitter to formally announce her maiden trip to Goa later this month and called upon “individuals, organisations and political parties” to join her and oust the BJP from the western state. “As I prepare for my maiden visit to Goa on 28th, I call upon all individuals, organisations and political parties to join forces to defeat the BJP and their divisive agenda. The people of Goa have suffered enough over the last 10 years,” Mamata tweeted. She added: “Together, we will usher in a new dawn for Goa by forming a new govt that will truly be a govt of the people of Goa and committed to realising their aspirations!” Her tweet had a hashtag “GoenchiNaviSakal”, or “a new dawn for Goa”. Trinamul had earlier announced it would contest the Goa Assembly polls scheduled for February 2022. Party MP Derek O’ Brien, poll strategist Prashant Kishor and other leaders are already preparing the ground for it. Mamata’s call to political and apolitical forces to join hands with her and overpower the BJP in Goa is being seen as the latest of the many attempts on her part to bring together the Opposition before LOk Sabha polls in 2024. “The language of the tweet is important... it indicates she wants to bring all anti-Modi forces under one umbrella for a brute Opposition,” a party source said. On Friday, Mamata appointed Luizinho Faleiro, Goa’s former Congress chief minister, as a vice-president of Trinamul. Faleiro has been instrumental in encouraging and convincing people from several walks of life and fellow Congress leaders to join Trinamul in Goa. Prasad Gaonkar, an Independent MLA of Goa, has also extended his support to Trinamul. The party has, however, been accused of forcing defections from the Congress, the biggest national force against the BJP, and thereby strengthening the saffron camp. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, MP and Bengal Congress chief has repeatedly levelled such allegations against Trinamul. Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya took to sarcasm to comment on Mamata and her decision to visit Goa. “She is such a talented person. Why should her prowess be limited within the country? It must be used at the international level to combat the Covid-19 virus,” remarked Bhattacharya.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
24-10-2021||West Bengal||Bailey bridge to Balason’s rescue in Siliguri||The Bailey bridge installed at Majerhat in Calcutta after the old one collapsed in 2018 will now be installed over the damaged bridge on Balason river at the northwest end of Siliguri on NH31, officials of state PWD (NH–IX division) said here on Saturday, a day Darjeling MP  Raju Bista visited the site and accused the state government of neglecting the bridge. Since Wednesday, traffic on the bridge, barring two-wheelers, has been banned by the Siliguri Metropolitan Police as one of its pillars got titled and a stretch of its concrete plank sank to an extent owing to the force of the swollen Balason river. “We will bring the dismantled iron parts of the Bailey bridge installed in Majerhat. Once these parts reach the site, our engineers will install the Bailey bridge here, most likely from the first week of November. We hope  traffic is restored on this vital route by the end of next month,” said an official of the state PWD. Bista, the BJP MP, visited the site and “doubted” if the state PWD, tasked to maintain the bridge, did any maintenance work. He asserted again that the Union ministry of road transport and highways would build a new bridge parallel to the old one. “The ministry will build a new bridge, which will have three lanes, parallel to this bridge. Once the new bridge becomes operational, this one will be dismantled and a similar three-lane bridge built. This means we will have two bridges, each three-lane, over the Balason river in due course,” said Bista. He said it was part of the central project to widen the stretch of NH31 between Balason and Sevoke. This August, the MP said the Centre  had allotted Rs 1,150 crore for the project. Countering this, Alok Chakraborty, the chairman of Trinamul’s Darjeeling (plains) district committee, said: “Since 2011, BJP candidates have won from the Darjeeling Lok Sabha seat but have hardly taken any initiative to develop the infrastructure of the region. Now they are again making tall talks...” He added: “We doubt when this so-called project will begin. The state has cleared land-related issues for it around two years back.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
24-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt asks districts to tame post-Puja Covid spurt||The Bengal government has decided to emphasise on setting up containment zones again as Covid-19 cases have shown a spurt in some districts after Durga Puja. Chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi on Saturday held a videoconference with district magistrates and Calcutta Municipal Corporation officials where he stressed on containment zones to prevent rapid spread of the Covid-19 virus. “The chief secretary told us we have to go back to basics, identify areas from where positive cases are being reported and set up containment zones to prevent the spread of the virus,” said a district magistrate who attended the meeting. The chief secretary also asked authorities to ensure people wore masks while going out. He instructed districts to carry out vaccinations properly and keep all Covid-19 hospitals ready for patients. Officials in Nabanna said that till August this year, districts had been setting up containment zones. But once positive cases started going down across Bengal, the practice of setting up of containment zones was done away with. “The district authorities have been allowed to take decisions on identifying areas where containment zones will be set up. But the instruction from the top is that the district authorities have to consider setting up containment zones in case infections rise in a specific area,” said an official. The government has reasons to be worried as positive cases have started rising alarmingly in Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, and to a lesser extent in South 24-Parganas in the past few days. Of Bengal’s 974 new Covid infections on Saturday, Calcutta accounted for 268, North 24-Parganas 147 and South 24-Parganas 79. Calcutta and North 24-Parganas have been reporting over 100 new cases daily for a while. “The cause of concern is that infection figures were 145 for Calcutta and 109 for North 24-Parganas on October 11 (Sashthi). It is clear that the uncontrolled rush to puja pandals left a serious impact on Covid-19 graph in these three districts. If strict measures are not initiated immediately, the situation could spiral out of control,” said a health department official. Some officials said many currently Covid positive persons are asymptomatic and asserted that only an increase in daily tests would reveal the real picture on the ground. “We may not get the true picture of infections at this moment as fewer number of people are coming up for tests (less than 50,000 a day). Once the number of tests touch 65,000, we may get a true picture of the ground reality,” said an official. The state government has asked districts to scale up the number of tests within the next few days. Aggressive tests are needed for Calcutta and North 24-Parganas that are showing signs of rapid spread of the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-39
24-10-2021||North East||Opposition Congress in Assam seeks bar on Sarma poll campaign||The Opposition Congress in Assam on Saturday urged the state’s chief electoral officer to bar chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma from campaigning for the October 30 by-elections, alleging that he violated the model code of conduct (MCC) by promising development projects in poll-bound constituencies. The party also claimed that the chief minister has “lowered the prestige of Indian parliamentary system, the election system and the Constitution” during the campaigning for candidates of the BJP and its allies. In a memorandum to chief electoral officer Nitin Khade, the Congress accused Sarma of “repeatedly making statements that for the development of any Legislative Assembly Constituency (LAC), it is important for an MLA to belong to the ruling party”. “He also announced that if any sitting Opposition party MLA joins the BJP, he will give Rs 2,000 crore worth development projects in his constituency,” it said. Quoting Sarma’s speech during campaigning in Thowra where he had allegedly said it would now be easier for BJP candidate Sushanta Borgohain to ensure development as he had left the Congress to join the saffron camp, the Opposition party also said: “This is a shocking violation of the tenets of the Constitution. Every MLA whether in ruling or Opposition is entitled to get his development fund.” Borgohain had won the Thowra seat as a Congress candidate in the March-April Assembly elections, but later resigned from the Assembly and switched over to the saffron camp. He is now seeking re-election from the constituency as the BJP nominee. The Congress accused the chief minister of “openly patronising a system of governance where development will not be possible if the MLA is not from the ruling party”. “Such a dangerous mindset has been unleashed upon the public that in future there will be no space left for any opposition force in Indian democracy. Such a mindset to finish opposition can only lead to a dictatorship and this will have far-reaching effects for democracy to survive in India,” the memorandum, signed by Assam PCC president Bhupen Kumar Borah, said. The party cited several instances during the by-election campaign when Sarma had allegedly “made announcements for voters, violating the provisions of the MCC”. The memorandum said: “... in Mariani constituency, Sarma made a slew of announcements for tea gardens of the area, including a package of Rs 1 crore for roads in each estate, incorporating each garden into the Jal Jeevan Mission and new schools in the gardens.” Debabrata Saikia, leader of the Opposition in the Assam Assembly, had on Friday appealed to Khade to debar Sarma from campaigning for allegedly violating the model code of conduct by offering assistance under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana scheme to voters in election rallies. “He clearly wanted to give the impression that as a CM, his is the last word, and if he wants he can give a house to anybody and gain people’s faith by luring them with such announcements, which are a brazen violation of the model code of conduct,” the memorandum said. It also alleged that the chief minister announced setting up a medical college and building two bridges in Thowra in violation of the MCC. “The APCC hopes that the much respected Election Commission, being an independent and autonomous body, would take necessary action and ensure and embolden constitutional tenets to safeguard democratic values that India proudly stands for,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
24-10-2021||Opinion||Who joined the dots?||And all of a sudden we are offended because the bindis have gone missing. So much outrage, but not for the continuing Covid-19, not for Lakhimpur Kheri, not for Captain’s manoeuvres. And though the same might not be said of the Aryan Khan case, still, so much outrage and all because some bindis went missing. You might call it a hashtag or by some other name, but “No Bindi No Business” assumed a ring of a primeval whoop and war cry. Innocent words once strung together lose innocence, assume new meaning and power. These ones now worked much like Moses’ staff at the Red Sea. And social media parted, though not quite down the middle, into those who wore the bindi to make a statement and those who didn’t but also to pass a certain sort of judgement. Burp Camp 1 was belligerent. The missing bindis of the five models --- one of them a man --- featuring in an ad for an apparel brand’s Diwali collection had threatened their ancient religion. Camp members held that the bindi stood for all things cultural and Hindu, auspicious and aesthetic. There were also claims that it was what completed a woman. One denizen went so far as to say, “A woman’s forehead without bindi is like Mysorepak without ghee or sambar without drumstick”. Digest that. Bindiarchy Others claimed the bindi bestowed spiritual benefits, worked as the third eye, and is a matter of pride, worn with pride. Camp 2 held the bindi impasse as an attack on secularism. But instead of putting forth cogent arguments took out their outrage on the beleaguered dot. Suddenly, in the dot they could see all that they opposed, oligarchy, patriarchy, and for this reason No Bindi — as opposed to No Bindi No Business — became a lesser chant. Other divisions revealed themselves --- South and North, brand and brand. At the end of it all, indeed something was missing from the pre-Diwali sparkle — and it was not the bindi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
24-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Next time you squash a spider, think ||Shared lives Sir — The moment we sense the pitter-patter of their eight tiny feet across the living room floor they are likely to end up squashed, poisoned, vacuumed up or simply flushed away from our homes. But why do many of us kill spiders so casually? Humans routinely kill animals when it is convenient — be it for farming or laboratory experiments — but arachnicide is often described in oddly victorious terms. Perhaps next time we try to squash a spider we should consider that we share similar organs and body parts as well as brain chemicals like dopamine and adrenaline. S. Banerjee, Calcutta Links uncoiled Sir — A recent study has revealed that the species, Ophiophagus hannah, aka the king cobra, actually represents four different lineages spread over extensive tracts in parts of India, China and several Southeast Asian countries (“The king is not one but four species”, Oct 18). Long geographic separation causing lineage splitting is common in evolution. But it is intriguing that the species designated as CS1 — inhabiting the Western Ghats — is considered separate and not just a subspecies of CS2 from the Eastern Ghats. CS1 may thus represent a different mode of species formation through the splitting of a peripheral population. The study presents a fascinating view of evolution of land species in a close cluster. Tapes Chandra Lahiri, Calcutta Wrong track Sir — It was worrying to learn that a strict crackdown on cattle smuggling across the Indo-Bangladesh border has resulted in a spike in the smuggling of wildlife. The Border Security Force and forest department officials have also raised concerns that merit greater attention. Foreign species that are seized from smugglers — straw-necked Ibis from Australia was the latest rescue — are already struggling to survive in Indian conditions. What makes it worse is that the guards and forest officials are not trained to recognize the species or their needs. They depend on the internet to determine what to feed the rescued animals. This kind of trial and error leads to fatalities. It is time countries raised a corps of personnel specifically trained in identifying species irrespective of their origin. There is more to stopping illegal trade in wildlife than just nabbing smugglers. Debashis Chatterjee, Calcutta Strained ties Sir — The deferment of a retrospective exhibition of the works of the Dhaka-based artist, Rokeya Sultana, by the Indian Council for Cultural Relations in Delhi is unfortunate. It will lead to unnecessary speculation about this being retaliation for what happened in Bangladesh during Durga Puja. It is in the interest of bilateral relations that the event be rescheduled immediately to quell the apprehensions in the minds of people in both countries. K. Nehru Patnaik, Visakhapatnam Shift focus Sir — The coal shortage in several parts of India is an opportunity to invest in renewable sources of energy. The coal crisis will affect economic activities and probably increase the cost of power production. The only long-term solution, thus, is reduced dependence on fossil fuels to generate power. Somya Agrawal, Ujjain Easily done Sir — Mamata Banerjee should be lauded for allotting land to the Aditya Birla Group within days of receiving its application for setting up a paint manufacturing unit in Kharagpur; this will create many employment opportunities in the state. This sends the message that Banerjee was serious when she invited corporate houses to invest in West Bengal, assuring them that land acquisition will not be a problem and efforts will be made to develop infrastructures conducive to the growth of industries. Arun Gupta, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
24-10-2021||Opinion||Book of thoughts ||Contradictions scar life in India. Contrasts mar any satisfaction we may derive from our achievements, our strengths, things we can take pride in. This is a sad truth. It is also an old truth. Can that — the old age of our contradictions — mitigate our sadness over them? Does the fact that the ironic mismatches in our culture enjoy antiquity make them less of a moral dilemma? No. On the contrary, they become all the more glaring, all the more in need of expiation, reform. Mahavira and the Buddha, who knew from their inner lights the ugliness of violence, the vileness of selfish living, taught us new paths to a more balanced life. Nearer our time, Gandhi attempted to do the same. None of them had it easy. Gandhi, showing us the path of ahimsa or non-violence, took violence’s blow on his chest. “It is in the midst of violence that non-violence acquires its deepest meaning.” That quietly stirring sentence comes from the eminent historian of ancient India, Upinder Singh, in her fascinatingly written new book, Ancient India: Culture of Contradictions. The work shows how the contradictions India lives with have been there, right there, amidst us, from — to use that old cliché — time immemorial. And have been a trouble to the sensitive among us, to those who have active consciences, from the same ‘time immemorial’. But not to all. Many more have not been troubled by them. They continue to be untroubled by them — another contradiction. This is a historical verity. She lists, among the contradictions, the following between: i. The ancient celebration, in art and literature, of sensual love or ‘desire’ and the equally old idealization of detachment. What is to be sought — maithuna (sexual intercourse) and Kamasutra, Khajuraho and Konarak, or brahmacharya (celibacy)? ii. The extolling, in scripture, epic tracts and art, of goddesses and of women who have wielded political influence or power on the one hand and the systematic immiseration of women by the male population of India on the other. Who are ‘real’ — Kali, UgraTara, the enraged Kaikeyi, the outraged Draupadi or the Sita-like daughter, wife and daughter-in-law? iii. The holding up of non-violence or ahimsa as a virtue and an ideal and the unceasing presence of appalling violence in our society, accompanied by the valorization of war. Are the battles fought by Rama and by Arjuna, the latter overcoming his doubts on its futility, the true guides for us or is that to be found in the way out of battles and butchery and into a life of balance as taught by Asoka? Are those braveheart patriots who hurled bombs or sent bullets into British officials and were hanged for their acts our real role models or the non-violent, heroic satyagrahis who followed Gandhi in their thousands into jail and suffering? iv. The stubborn presence in our society of inequality from times as old as the Indus Valley Civilization’s cities “sustained”, as Upinder Singh says, “by countless workers who built the structures cleaned the drains and sewers and provided labour and services to keep the cities going”. What is the reality about us — the tacit and complicit acceptance of inequality by victimizer and victim or the refusal to accept this inequality, most strikingly exemplified, in our times, by the vision of Sree Narayana Guru, the ‘Harijan work’ of Gandhi, Babasaheb Ambedkar’s defiant role challenging varna, caste and untouchability and by the Dravidian movement led by Periyar E.V. Ramasamy? v. The simultaneous presence of orthodoxies and accommodations in the faith traditions of India, with intolerance and tolerance, illiberal and liberal sentiments, at concurrent, if not equally-matched, play. Who is the true Hindu — the caste-affirming sanatani or the caste-excoriating Vivekananda? Who is the true Hindu — the Muslim-hating and Christian-baiting fundamentalist or the believer in the same goal of all religions? This book is about ancient and contemporary contradictions in India, about the past and the present, with their shadows extending into the future and, so, turning its pages and seeing its staggering illustrations drawn from museological collections and kitsch art, I could not but think about other contradictions that make life in India so impossibly complicated, frustrating and, for those directly affected, so tormenting. I can straightaway think of five. i. Our national motto, ‘Satyameva Jayate’, drawn from the Mundaka Upanishad, tells us, crisply, categorically, ‘Truth Alone Triumphs’. This is both an affirmation and an assurance. But ask any undertrial in India’s prisons if she or he finds this to be convincing and if she or he believes that truth will triumph. Ask any honest candidate in any of our elections, who has been defeated by white lies, black money and vote-bank politics, especially the religious vote-bank, if truth alone triumphs. Their wordless expression will give you the answer. ii. Our Constitution, under its Article 25, says “all persons are equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right to freely profess, practice, and propagate religion subject to public order, morality and health.” But ask any Kashmiri Pandit obliged to leave the valley where his or her home is and to start from a painful scratch elsewhere, ask the kin of the honest-to-goodness and trusting teacher and principal of a school in Srinagar shot dead by terrorists in the name of Islam, the grieving relatives of the Sikh auto driver charred to death in his vehicle in the Delhi of 1984, ask the widow of the Australian missionary and mother of their children burnt alive in Orissa in 1999, if they think India treats all religions equally. Ask the Muslim lynched because he is found herding cattle, his co-religionist being beaten black and blue into saying ‘Jai Shri Ram’. Their answer may be, if they can summon wit to aid pain, ‘He Ram’. iii. Our great national song —  “Vande Mataram” — sings upliftingly of su-jalaam, su-phalaam, malayaja-sheetalaam... But are purity, succulence, safety of water, air and environment the reality of life in our cities and towns? Who pollutes the rivers of India, who lets noxious substances into them, who buries toxins in the soils of India? Who is cutting down forests, even road-side trees that are a hundred years old to widen or fatten roads? In whose name and for what cause? If the answer is ‘Development’, then what is being developed, who is growing? iv. Atithi Devo Bhava — The Visitor is God — is not an official proclamation but has been adopted by our tourism department as its unofficial motto. If this is about five-star hotels greeting the paying customer at the foyer with a tilak, then we are being true to it. But who or when or why is a distinction drawn between a visitor and a refugee and, within the category of refugees, between a refugee of one ethnicity and another of a different kind? v. Swachh Bharat is a programme I have welcomed and responded to with gratefulness because goodness knows, as does hygiene, that god and cleanliness, said to be close allies, require such a programme in our country. But how is the country — how are we — responding? By paying a cess, yes. But what about the thingness of it? Is manual scavenging truly over? Is open defecation truly now a thing of the past? They are not. Mainly because caste is not about the past. We litter, we throw, as we always have been doing. We spit and do worse on the soil we say is sacred. Writing to debunk or to extol, to demolish or to justify, is common. Writing to critique one section of society or to ‘take on’ the State is common. Asking society to introspect is not common. And to do so with history as witness is wholly uncommon. Upinder Singh’s new book is about history. But it is also about sociology, policy and, above all, about civilization. Our civilization. It is about us. It is us.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
24-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Unbroken spell ||Two weeks before Halloween — a night full of mystery and magic — may not be the best time to incur the wrath of a wizard. But the Christchurch city council in New Zealand has decided to take the risk. The official Wizard of New Zealand, perhaps the only State-appointed magician in the world, has been struck off the public payroll, ending a spell cast 23 years ago. The wizard, who goes by the name, Ian Brackenbury Channell, had been contracted to promote the city through “acts of wizardry”, such as rain dancing during droughts. The reason for his dismissal is suggestive of efforts to transform the image of the metropolis: Christchurch is embarking on a new — promotional — direction to “showcase a vibrant, diverse, modern city that is attractive to residents, domestic and international visitors, new businesses, and skilled migrant workers”. A wizard, the city council seems to think, will stick out like a sore thumb in this tryst with modernity. Witchcraft, wizardry and magic are often presented as relics of the past, as irrational residues of a primitive sensibility from which modern man needs to distance himself. This claim, however, requires examination: for magic remains deeply rooted in modern life and cannot be exorcized easily. In societies on the cusp of rapid, unsettling transformations, magic can be an effective source of fortitude and reflection, allaying fears and anxieties of the collective in the course of a violent uncoupling with all that is familiar. Anthropologists working with animist societies like the Sora tribe in India or with Siberia’s Reindeer People have shown how shamans can ease passage into modernity while maintaining a reassuring link with the past. That witches, wizards and druids can be vested with a therapeutic gift is unlikely to go down well with the rationalist enterprise. Indeed, some of the concerns of this constituency merit serious introspection. In India, with its patchy record in the spheres of education and health, psychological afflictions are often explained away — and even punished — as possessions. Witch-hunts are still a reality in parts of the country. These dark arts notwithstanding, the conflation of magic with an anti-modern ethic stems from specific prejudices. European colonialism was instrumental in chastising Oriental beliefs in and traditions of wizardry. Yet, magical beliefs and practices did not simply survive but, on occasions, developed and grew in the form of resistance against the imposition of colonial modernity. Traditional beliefs in protective magic and spirit possession were deployed in the context of postcolonial independence movements and mobilizations in a number of colonies, including India. Even the post-modern — West and East — remains enchanted: what else explains the stupendous cultural and commercial success of Harry Potter and his friends? Magic’s endurance — New Zealand’s health ministry still promotes Rongoa Maori, a traditional healing practice — is a reminder that the human mind can be receptive to the world of reason as well as to that nebulous sphere that challenges rationality.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
24-10-2021||Opinion||Will vipassana cure lazy govt officials? Nitish thinks so||Cannot keep calm The chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, announced 15 days of leave for state government officials and employees if they opt for a vipassana (a Buddhist method of meditation and self-awareness) retreat at the Buddha Smriti Park in Patna. While it spread cheer among government workers, it also rang alarm bells among the public. The general sentiment was that a majority of government employees either do not work or work half-heartedly already, and they get months of holidays every year as it is, and yet Kumar was heaping more on them. “I am just wondering how vipassana will help the senior and junior employees! Will they become honest and responsible? First they need to inculcate the qualities of non-violence, truth, and non-stealing before opting for higher yogic practices. Nitish should go for a massive crackdown on corruption in the state before offering such sops to the government servants,” said one of the people who attended the function at which the CM made the announcement. Great leveller The sangh parivar certainly has an issue with Urdu, Arabic, Persian or anything considered to do remotely with Islam. But there are exceptions. Although the Bangalore South Lok Sabha member, Tejasvi Surya, forced the desi apparel maker, Fabindia, to withdraw a Diwali advertisement with the tagline, “Jashn-E-Riwaaz” — the firm clarified later that the ad was not just for the festival of lights — BJP-ruled Karnataka has been at the forefront of luring in investments from the Arab world. The sharia-compliant, UAE-based Gulf Islamic Investments is to open an office in Bangalore and invest Rs 3,500 crore in the country. The state sent a delegation comprising industries minister Murugesh Nirani and  information technology minister CN Ashwath Narayana to pitch for this contract at the Dubai Expo 2020, underway in the snazzy Gulf emirate. Money, of course, is a great leveller. Peace reigns President Ram Nath Kovind expressed his desire to visit Takht Sri Harmandir Ji Sahib, popularly known as Patna Sahib, the birthplace of Guru Gobind Singh, the 10th guru of the Sikhs. But this brought on an anxiety attack for many top secret service, security and administrative officials. A few days ago, Sikh leaders connected to the management of the pious seat in Bihar and their supporters had had a fierce clash among themselves over petty issues; they had even drawn out swords to threaten one another. The officials were apprehensive after the incident and wondered what they would do in case of a repeat of such an incident during the president’s visit. “We worried about the groups clashing in or around Patna Sahib during the dignitary’s visit. It would have projected such a bad image of us across the globe,” a senior official said. However, better sense prevailed and no untoward incident happened. Kovind came, prayed and returned peacefully. Health is wealth The Biju Swasthya Kalyan Yojana health smart cards have become a potent political weapon in the hands of the ruling Biju Janata Dal in Odisha, which is gearing up for panchayat and municipal elections early next year. The CM, Naveen Patnaik, who has been resisting the Centre’s attempts to impose the Ayushman Bharat scheme on the state, appears convinced that BSKY health cards are better and will help his party to further consolidate its position in the state where it has been in power for the last 21 years. The cards, which guarantee free treatment of up to Rs 5 lakh per family for men and Rs 10 lakh for women, are in high demand and Patnaik has made it a point to distribute them to people himself at programmes organized by the government but attended in large numbers by BJD workers and office bearers. He recently handed out health smart cards to people at Baripada, the headquarters of the tribal-dominated Mayurbhanj district where the Bharatiya Janata Party, the principal political rival of the BJD, had done well in the last panchayat as well as assembly and Lok Sabha polls. One wonders if health will become wealth for the BJD. Footnote There is no doubt that Basavaraj Bommai is the CM of Karnataka. But the manner in which the BJP has been relying on BS Yediyurappa to draw crowds at the campaigns for assembly bypolls raises questions about whether the party has a viable alternative for the 78-year-old Lingayat strongman. In both Hanagal and Sindagi, Yediyurappa is the fulcrum of the BJP’s campaign. Bommai only comes a distant second. The veteran is in no mood to give up; his target is the 2023 state polls for which he is embarking on a statewide tour soon. It looks like the BJP has no clue on how to contain him in a state considered the sangh parivar’s laboratory in the South.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-15
24-10-2021||Jharkhand|| Hosts Jharkhand beat Kerala 10-0 for a quarter-final berth||Hosts Jharkhand cemented their spot in the quarter-finals of the ongoing 11th national hockey women's (junior) championship in Simdega by thrashing Kerala 10-0 on Sunday. As the game began, Jharkhand’s Deepika Soren led the charge by scoring in the 3rd minute. Seven minutes later, Rajni Kerketta hit scored another. Goals rained at regular intervals as Jharkhand players breached Kerala's porous defence at ease. Rajni and Mahima Tete scored three goals each while Deepika netted two goals. Alin Dungung and Amrita Minj too joined the party by scoring  one goal each. “The team played like  champions,” remarked Manoj Konbegi, president of Hockey Simdega, elated after the quarter final berth. He added that the entire team was on a positive frame of mind after winning both the matches played so far. A total of five matches were played on Sunday which marked the fifth day of the tournament. At the time of filing this report, Haryana beat Assam by 23 goals, Punjab thrashed Delhi 6-1, and Karnataka won over Pudduchery 12-1. Haryana and Maharashtra too ensured quarter final berths. Simdega district administration started allowing spectators at the  Astroturf stadium from Saturday but number of people were  restricted, said deputy commissioner Sushant Gaurav. He said  about 350 fully vaccinated people were given entry tickets per day. “In order to prevent any chances of Covid-19 infections, only a handful of fans per day are being allowed for the matches. Entry tickets are on a first-come-first-serve basis only to those who are fully vaccinated,” he told reporters. The Simdega administration has also roped in five LED vans which is touring various  parts of the district to beam the  matches live. The action is being relayed through the state hockey federation’s social media page and Jhargov.tv, a state government run web-television.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
24-10-2021||Jharkhand||Pollution board ready to monitor noise, air quality during Diwali||The regional office of Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) in Adityapur  will monitor noise pollution in as many as 13 places, two more than last year,  and ambient air quality in three places two days before and on the day of Diwali on November 4. The regional office, located in neighbouring Seraikela-Kharsawan district,  has started  groundwork for the survey after receiving a formal  circular from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), New Delhi, on Saturday. A board official, S.K. Goswami, said that the decibel survey would be carried out in 13 residential, commercial and silence zones while air quality will be monitored at Bistupur, Adityapur and Golmuri. "Two new points near Tatanagar railway station at Telco have been added this year for the  survey, " he said. According to the official, three teams would be constituted for carrying out surveys before and on the day of Diwali. The pollution watchdog would monitor ambient air quality by using respirable dust samplers that  help in monitoring total suspended particles in the air apart from other pollutant gases like sulphur-dioxide and nitrogen-dioxide. Some of the major places where the decibel check will be carried out include Sakchi, Bistupur, Golmuri, Sonari, Kadma, Adityapur, including Tata Main Hospital (in Bistupur) , near St Joseph's Cathedral in Golmuri and the new civil court premises at Bhuiyandih. Two portable noise meters would be used for monitoring the noise pollution. Last year's survey revealed that Sakchi roundabout, a crowded commercial centre,  topped the noise chart with 125 decibels (dB) on Diwali night while respirable suspended particulate matter (RSPM)  at  Golmuri was recorded 209 microgram per cubic metre (µg/m3). Under CPCB norms, the permissible noise level in a commercial zone is 55dB between 10pm and 6am and the prescribed Respirable Suspended Particulate Matter ( RSPM) in ambient air is 100µg/m3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
24-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Covid-19 dashboard not updated since October 8 ||The Covid-19 dashboard of the official website of Government of Jharkhand has not been updated since October 8 owing to the ongoing strike of contractual workers in National Health Mission (NHM), who are responsible for compiling data and sharing it with the concerned departments every day. “Since contractual workers in  districts have also joined the strike, the process of compilation and sharing of Covid-19 related data has been hindered,” said a contractual worker at NHM involved in data management. While the state’s website is still reflecting stale Covid figures, the official website of Government of India showed updated figures on Sunday. Government of India’s website showed an active Covid caseload of 202 in Jharkhand, while Jharkhand’s Covid dashboard reflected an active caseload of 112. “Mostly NHM workers are involved in data management, so the delay in updating Covid data on Jharkhand government’s website could be due to their strike,” said state epidemiologist Dr Praveen Kumar Karn. “However, we have been sending updated data to the Centre regularly,” he added. NHM contract workers went on an indefinite strike on October 10 to demand reinstatement of state programme manager Jwala Prasad, who was terminated on charges of alleged financial irregularities. Under the banner of Jharkhand Health Employee Welfare Association (JHEWA), contractual healthcare workers including data managers, Ayush doctors and other medical staff have joined the strike also demanding the implementation of an HR policy and introduction of paid leave in exchange of extra work done on Saturdays and Sundays during the Covid-19 crisis. The strike entered its 14th day on Sunday, and continued to hamper several other activities run under NHM across the state. According to the striking healthcare workers, all the routine immunisation programmes and the various campaigns run for women and children in the state have been hit because of the strike. The striking contractual workers have also accused senior NHM officials of misbehaving with them and not paying salary to some of the workers for months. Meanwhile, some Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANM) associations have extended their support to the striking contractual workers, a development that is likely to affect the ongoing immunisation drive against Covid-19 in the state. “If NHM authorities do not agree to our demands, then ANMs will also join us in a day or two,” said another striking contractual worker, adding that many contractual healthcare workers who work on the field have not received payment for several months. However, NHM authorities have decided not to reinstate the terminated state programme manager at any cost. They have verbally agreed to other demands of the striking contractual workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
24-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand govt urged not to exclude Odia language from teachers training course||A delegation of Odia community leaders met Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday and requested him to roll back the decision to exclude Odia as a regional language for the primary teacher training course. The delegation under the aegis of Odia Bhasa Bikash Parishad (language development council) was led by a member of the Seraikela royal family, Aditya Pratap Singhdeo, and accompanied by Chakradharpur JMM legislator Sukhram Oraon. “There are over 15 lakh Odia speaking people in Jharkhand. We expressed our dismay at the recent decision of the Jharkhand Academic Council in its advertisement published in September on the primary teacher training exam in which Odia language has been excluded from the seventh paper (regional languages). We strongly demanded that the decision should be rolled back,” said Saroj Pradhan, president of the West Singhbhum unit of the Parishad. Other demands included the appointment of Odia teachers in all Odia medium schools of Jharkhand (most of which have been merged with Hindi medium schools), providing Odia subject textbooks for Classes I to X in Odia medium schools and payment of honorarium to 160 teachers appointed for the education of Odia language by the Utkal Sammelani (a socio-cultural organisation of Odisha). “We also expressed concern before the chief minister on the posting of Odia teachers in Hindi medium schools by the education department,” said Pradhan. Members of the delegation claimed that the chief minister gave them a patient hearing and assured them that their complaints would be discussed with officials concerned and their problems would be resolved soon. The Biju Janata Dal (BJD), the ruling party in Odisha, BJP and the Congress have already started exerting pressure on the Jharkhand government to roll back the decision. Even Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who hails from Odisha, had written to the Jharkhand chief minister in this connection. Pradhan had written to Soren on October 1 seeking intervention into the issue of non-supply of Odia textbooks to Odia students and appointment of Hindi-speaking teachers in Odia medium schools in bordering villages and “securing” Odia language education for its Odia speaking population. Odisha school and mass education minister and senior BJD leader S.R. Dash in a letter to his Jharkhand counterpart Jagarnath Mahato earlier this month had said that exclusion of Odia language from the teacher training course by the Jharkhand government has created an “atmosphere of dissent, distrust and discomfort fanning controversies among the Odia speaking people in Jharkhand and border districts”. Dash urged Mahato not to exclude Odia language from the curriculum of the teacher training course meant for primary teachers in the neighbouring state. The advertisement published by the Jharkhand Academic Council on September 20 for primary teacher training exam had excluded Odia language from the seventh paper while languages like Sanskrit, Bengali, Urdu, Ho, Mundari, Sanathali and Kudmali were included. A delegation of Utkal Sammelani led by state president and advocate Rabindra Nath Satpathy will also meet Soren on Sunday to discuss the same issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-19
