25-10-2021||Business||Air India: Govt signs share purchase agreement with Tata Sons for Rs 18,000-crore||The government on Monday signed a share purchase agreement with Tata Sons for sale of national carrier Air India for Rs 18,000 crore. Earlier this month, the government had accepted an offer by Talace Pvt Ltd, a unit of the holding company of the salt-to-software conglomerate, to pay Rs 2,700 crore cash and take over Rs 15,300 crore of the airline's debt. Following that, on October 11 a Letter of Intent (LoI) was issued to the Tata Group confirming the government's willingness to sell its 100 per cent stake in the airline. "Share Purchase Agreement signed today by Government with Tata Sons for strategic disinvestment of Air India," Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. The deal also includes the sale of Air India Express and ground handling arm AISATS. Tatas beat the Rs 15,100-crore offer by a consortium led by SpiceJet promoter Ajay Singh and the reserve price of Rs 12,906 crore set by the government for the sale of its 100 per cent stake in the loss-making carrier. While this will be the first privatisation since 2003-04, Air India will be the third airline brand in the Tatas' stable -- it holds a majority interest in AirAsia India and Vistara, a joint venture with Singapore Airlines Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||Sensex rises 145 points to close just below 61,000 mark||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped 145 points on Monday, tracking gains in index majors ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and SBI amid a largely positive trend in global markets. After a choppy session, the 30-share index ended 145.43 points or 0.24 per cent higher at 60,967.05. Similarly, the NSE Nifty advanced 10.50 points or 0.06 per cent to 18,125.40. ICICI Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, soaring nearly 11 per cent, followed by Axis Bank, Dr Reddy's, SBI, M&M and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, Bajaj Auto, HCL Tech, Asian Paints and Maruti were among the laggards. Indian markets opened lower following mixed Asian cues as global investors track inflation and supply chain bottlenecks converge, sending euro zone inflation to multi-year high in September and raising concerns of earlier than expected rise in policy rates, said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi. "During the afternoon session markets bounced from lows and traded in green on sustained buying by funds and investors," he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with gains, while Tokyo was in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading largely positive in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.73 per cent to USD 85.26 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex opened on a choppy note on Monday and dropped over 100 points tracking losses in index majors Infosys, HDFC Bank and Kotak Bank, despite a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index opened on a positive note but soon pared the gains and was trading 114.93 points or 0.19 per cent lower at 60,706.69 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty declined 58.55 points or 0.32 per cent to 18,056.35. Asian Paints was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 3 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, HCL Tech, Bharti Airtel, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Auto. On the other hand, ICICI Bank zoomed 8 per cent on strong earnings. Axis Bank, M&M and NTPC were among the other gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index fell 101.88 points or 0.17 per cent to 60,821.62, and broader NSE Nifty shed 63.20 points or 0.35 per cent to close at 18,114.90. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,697.70 crore on Friday, as per exchange data. Domestic equities look to be muted as of now, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "High input costs have adversely impacted margins and profitability of select consumer and manufacturing companies despite steady volume and sales growth. "This essentially raises concerns about the sustainability of earnings rebound in subsequent quarters, which has weighed on sentiments. However, despite that overall performance so far has been good with sharp growth in revenue aiding double-digit growth in earnings," he said. In his view, the market may remain volatile with downward bias in the near-term and investors will track pricing power of the industries. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Tokyo was in the red. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.79 per cent to USD 85.31 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||JSW plans big expansion, banks on cash flow to limit debt||JSW Steel is on the cusp of a major expansion, aiming to double capacity to 36.5 million tonnes a year. Basking in the after-glow of record-breaking profits, the company says it may not need to take on any more debt if it continues to generate at the current run rate. The company joint managing director & CFO Seshagiri Rao tells The Telegraph that there is no way JSW will slip into the red even if steel cycle turns. Rao also spoke about cost pressure and floated the idea of levying a surcharge to cover spiralling coking coal prices. JSW Steel’s EBIDTA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) has gone up in absolute terms but EBIDTA per tonne has come down in n Can you explain? Our blended sales realisation has gone up by 5 per cent while cost has gone up by 19 per cent. Coking coal prices trebled; from $110-120 a tonne, it went up to $400 a tonne. Iron ore prices came down globally but it did not come off to the same extent in India. Every other input cost, power, ferro alloy etc, has gone up. As a result, EBIDTA per tonne went down by about Rs 2,500 a tonne. However, sales volume was up which contributed to absolute EBIDTA going up. The same story will continue in thefuture as the new 5 MT expansion at Dolvi will come into production. Absolute EBIDTA will go up (this year). How much production are you guiding for in 2021-22? Our production will be 22.9 million tonnes (mt), which includes 18.5mt  from JSW Steel, 2.8mt from BPSL, 0.6mt from Monnet and 1mt from the US operation. The sales guidance stands at 21.6mt. The second half will be better due to the Dolvi expansion and BSPL integration. Why did JSW integrate BPSL even though it was not planned at the time of the acquisition? BPSL did extremely well. It made an EBIDTA of Rs 2,020 crore in Q2. There was a debt of Rs 13,300 crore at the time of the acquisition. We have repaid Rs 3,300 crore from the cash flow already, plus there is a Rs 2,000 crore cash balance. The net debt is Rs 8,000 crore which means almost a 1:1 debt to annualised EBIDTA. So, the need to have a separate structure does not make sense. JSW now holds about 87 per cent in BPSL. Will it be merged in future? We keep a company separate till the turnaround. In the case of BPSL, a case is going on in the Supreme Court. Till the judgment comes, it will remain separate. JSW is considering a raw material surcharge to mitigate cost pressures. Can you walk us through the proposal? We have to devise a way to manage volatility. Globally, the surcharge is there in the US where steel prices are linked to scrap prices. In Europe, a major producer announced a $50 a tonne energy surcharge. But this is new in India. The success of the idea is contingent on customers accepting it. We will discuss it with them. Are you only looking at the OEM customers who are in long term contracts for the surcharge? Yes, but not in the retail or exports market. (OEM is 50 per cent of JSW’s sales). What will be the impact on account of coking coal in Q3? It will be a cost pressure of $ 100 a tonne as compared with $30 a tonne which we had absorbed. For the surcharge, we will take a base price as on July 1. Then we (the supplier and the buyers) have to agree on what will be the impact of any increase over the base price on per tonne of steel. Iron ore prices are coming off. Will JSW benefit from it? Iron ore prices have halved from the high of $230 a tonne to $110-120 a tonne globally. In India, prices have come down from Rs 6,500 a tonne by Rs 1,800 a tonne, this will be reflected in Q3. How is the demand scenario expected to play out over the next two quarters? Pick-up in the demand in Q2 was not good. But we are very optimistic of the pick-up in the second half. Solar, appliances, packaging will do well and construction is picking up. We expect robust steel demand from transition to renewable energy globally. What is the roadmap for JSW over the next three years? We will go up to 36.5mt by 2024 from 18mt. The Vijaynagar operation will be 19.5mt from 12mt, Dolvi is doubling to 10mt. At Bhushan, capacity is going up to 5mt. This means JSW will not be able to bring down debt... I don’t look at it that way. If the company makes annual EBIDTA of Rs 50,000 crore, (it did close to Rs 24,000 crore in Q1), the cash flow will be enough to fund the expansion, after factoring in dividend, interest and tax. Debt is not going up. But what if the steel prices fall from this historic level? JSW’s annual interest and depreciation cost is Rs 5,000 crore. Our Ebidta was Rs 26,000 a tonne. This company is never going to tumble into the red even if steel prices come down. If we consider the last 7 years average EBIDTA, factor in the structural changes made during the period in terms of increasing the share of value added product in sales, and cost reduction programmes, JSW is a solid proof company. JSW still may have to take on debt for expansion if prices come off? Our net debt to EBIDTA is 1.58 times as on September 30, 2021 but our commitment is not to go beyond 2.75 times. So, there is enough headroom for us (in the event cash generation comes down or if it takes on fresh debt). Total cost of expansion (from 18mt to 36mt) will be Rs 51,500 crore while net debt will be Rs 65,000 crore (assuming no fresh borrowing). This is very competitive. There is no way this company can falter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||RIL makes wave of partnerships to shape green energy business||Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries Ltd has made a wave of partnerships to give shape to its green energy business that spans solar, battery and hydrogen investments and could contribute almost 10 per cent of the company’s pre-tax profits in five years, a report said. The company announced a wave of partnerships with REC, NexWafe, Sterling and Wilson, Stiesal and Ambri for total costs of $ 1.2 billion. “With these investments, Reliance has acquired the expertise and technology portfolio to start to build a fully integrated end-to-end renewables energy ecosystem through solar, batteries and hydrogen,” brokerage Bernstein said in a report. “Reliance will commercialise the acquired technologies and set up manufacturing plants in India.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||Smartworks eyes ambitious expansion plans in the country||Smartworks — the managed and flexible office space provider — is eyeing ambitious expansion plans in the country, with the strategy to tap large companies paying off  for the firm. Amid an upsurge in demand for such spaces  after the  pandemic and the trend expected to sustain, Smartworks expects this number to rise to 6 million square feet by the end of this fiscal year and 20 million sqft in the next 36 months. Smartworks is looking to double its capacity in Bengal from 200,000sqft at present. It is also targeting a presence in eastern cities  such as Ranchi, Patna and Bhubaneswar. “When we commenced operations, co-working was perceived as having small offices, a floor in a building catering to start-ups or SMEs. However, we realised that while co-working is a big segment, in India, the managed office space that caters to enterprises offers a bigger opportunity. So, we thought of creating a flexible model for such enterprises,’’ Neetish Sarda, founder of Smartworks, said.  This strategy has yielded results with Smartworks that commenced operations in 2016-17, turning profitable in 2019. It now has over 450 clients, 95 per cent of which are enterprises like Microsoft, Amazon, EY, Starbucks, and Samsung to name a few in different locations. Sarda disclosed that while Smartworks raised Series A funding of $ 25 million from Keppel Land, Singapore in 2018-19, it may go for another round of equity infusion in the next financial year. He admitted that the firm might also look at an initial public offering (IPO) though this may happen in the next three to four years. His growth plans come at a time when corporates are seeking more flexible or managed offices (a workplace that is entirely managed by another operator), thanks to the pandemic. “The pandemic had a seminal effect on how occupiers reviewed their real estate strategies. Given the still-evolving situation around return to the office and a hybrid workplace strategy, cost optimisation, specialised services, and flexibility are key perspectives for occupiers as they plan ahead,’’ says a CII-JLL report. The report added that the flex space industry found the initial days of the pandemic tough and a still prevailing and extended work from home scenario continuing to impact center-level occupancies. “The sector, however, has pivoted during this period as demand from enterprises and big corporates has seen a surge’’, it observed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||Govt to launch next tranche of Bharat Bond ETF by December ||The government is likely to launch the next tranche of the Bharat Bond ETF by December and expects to raise over Rs 10,000 crore to fund growth plans of central public sector enterprises, according to a senior finance ministry official. The official said the fund requirements of CPSEs are being worked out and the third tranche of the exchange-traded fund (ETF) will be launched by the end of the calendar year. “We are finalising on the amount to be raised but it would be over Rs 10,000 crore,” the official said. Bharat Bond ETF is an exchange-traded fund that invests in debt of public sector companies. The ETF currently invests only in “AAA”-rated bonds of public sector companies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||Banks intensify efforts to alert customers of internet frauds||Banks have intensified their efforts to alert their customers of internet frauds that have swirled in numbers and varieties amid rise in digital payments. Bankers have stepped up their vigil on scamsters who are using sophisticated tools such as SIM swaps, juice jacking, frauds using search engines and QR code scams to dupe customers. In SIM swaps, fraudsters  call customers by posing as officials from a telecom operator  requesing details for a free upgrade of the SIM card. Existing SIM cards are deactivated and replaced by a clone SIM   through which accounts can be accessed and OTPs generated to authenticate transactions. “A mobile number has actually become an identity and anything from a banking perspective can be done if somebody takes control of SIM card and mobile numbers,” said Manish Agrawal, head credit intelligence and control, HDFC Bank. “At a bank level we are telling customers that if your phone suddenly stops working for a considerable period of time in a regular environment immediately, the customer should inform the mobile operator and ensure no duplicate SIM has been issued.” In juice jacking, once a mobile phone is connected to an unknown/unverified charging port, fraudsters gain access to sensitive information such as email, text messages, and saved passwords. “Most people have their financial credentials saved in a mobile phone or laptop. If connected with an unknown public wifi, data can be extracted from those devices,” said Agrawal. In an advanced form of phishing attack, contact details on search engines are camouflaged by fraudsters and customers trying to contact the banks or insurance companies or Aadhaar service centres end up contacting unknown numbers. QR codes have embedded account details in them for easier payments to bank accounts and wallets.  Fraudsters  contact customers under various pretexts and trick them into scanning QR codes using payment apps. Several banks have started campaigning to create cybersecurity awareness. “HDFC Bank has been doing secure banking campaigns through social media, text messages, e-mails and periodic notifications to its customers,” said Agrawal. “By highlighting through the campaign that the customer can tell when their information is under threat and respond appropriately, the bank hopes to bring them to share the critical role of protecting their information and transactions,” said Jasneet Bachal, chief marketing officer, Yes Bank. This allows them to withdraw money from the customer's account. “Official websites of banks/companies must be used to get the contact details,” said Agrawal. Not just seniors Data compiled by HDFC Bank show that around 85 per cent of customers with net banking and UPI fraud disputes between April -June 2021 were in the age group of 22-50 and supposedly more tech savvy. Around 75 per cent of the cyber frauds have happened between 7am and 7pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||Tata Motors eyes No.2 spot with sub-four metre SUV Punch||Tata Motors hopes to move up to the second place in the sales pecking order with its sub-four metre SUV Punch. The company at present sits in third place after Maruti and Hyundai. Tata Motors aims to sell more numbers of the Punch than its highest seller compact SUV Nexon. The company has sold 9,211 units of the Nexon in September this year, 1,00,06 units in August, and 1,02,87 units in July. In the financial year 2021-22, till date, Tata Motors has sold 5,09,14 units of Nexon. “With Punch, we hope to increase our market share. In FY22, we have an 11.5 per cent market share in the SUV space. With Punch we expect it to grow more as we think Punch will be the largest seller in our portfolio.” said Vivek Srivatsa, head, marketing, Passenger Vehicles Business Unit (PVBU) “You already know what kind of sales Nexon is generating and Punch should be equal to Nexon or slightly higher. So you can expect a jump in our market share,” Srivatsa said. Till September, Tata’s SUV sales for this fiscal stood at 74,000 units, and it occupied the fifth position in the segment  after Hyundai, Maruti, Mahindra, and Kia. “With Punch, we should be close to the next higher manufacturer,” said Srivatsa. While the company now has a presence in the sub-four metre SUV space, in the compact SUV space with Nexon, and two high SUVs, Safari and Harrier, it still has no product in the mid-SUV and premium SUV categories. “Mid-SUV is 32 per cent of the market and the Multi-Utility Vehicle (MUV) is 5 per cent, so we are not playing in 37 per cent of the market space. We cover only 58 per cent of the SUV space,” said Srivatsa. The company is planning to launch a mid-SUV, as it will also have an electric Punch. “An electric powertrain for Punch is in the making, '' he said, adding it will be part of the 10 new EVs that the company plans to launch by 2023. Tata Motors has increased its market share from 7.4 per cent in September 2020 to 13.9 per cent in September 2021. Though the company is also facing the effects of the global chip shortage it has managed to “dramatically increase its production ability,” said Srivatsa. When asked how it managed to do so, the director said: “We operate in the same ecosystem as other OEMs, we face similar challenges. But we have managed to optimise several aspects of the supply chain, we have better relations with our suppliers and we have optimised our product mix according to what is available.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
25-10-2021||Business||Government may introduce two key financial sector bills||The government may introduce two key financial sector bills, including the proposed law to facilitate the privatisation of public sector banks, announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the budget. The government is also likely to table amendments to the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) Act, 2013, to enable the separation of the National Pension System Trust (NPS) from the PFRDA for universal pension coverage. It is likely to table amendments in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, during the forthcoming winter session of Parliament, sources said. Amendments would be needed in the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970, and the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1980, for the privatisation of banks, sources said. These Acts led to the nationalisation of banks in two phases and provisions of these laws have to be changed for the privatisation of banks, they said. A month-long winter session of Parliament is expected to start by the end of the next month. The second batch of supplementary demands for grants, allowing the government to undertake additional expenditure other than the Finance Bill, would also be introduced for approval.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
25-10-2021||Business||Drone swarms find beneficial use||The concept of an army of drones that Mysterio used to trick Spider Man in the movie Spider Man: Far From Home, or the swarm of drones moving like birds in the popular video game Call of Duty: Advanced Warfare, isn't far from reality. In the virtual world, the bad guys use drones to attain sinister objectives. But a Bangalore-based startup — VFLYX India which carries out research and development on unmanned aerial vehicles in the country  — has found noble civilian goals to use drone swarms in the areas of geo-mapping, agriculture sector, disaster management and even aerial entertainment. The Telegraph spoke with Rohit Dey chief technology officer and Vishal Saurav chief executive officer of VFLYX, who said changing regulations have unlocked myriad opportunities for the indigenous development of the sector in India. Born in Calcutta, Dey (24) is a former Nasa scientist who has studied aerospace science from University of Central Florida, US and a B.Sc. CME (advanced computer electronics and theoretical mathematics) from Christ University Bangalore. He said that the list of use cases for drones is growing by the day and VFLYX has a differentiated objective to customise a basic drone platform for different end-uses. Governments and enterprises are at present the main users for hi-tech drones. “We have incorporated peer to peer communication in drones. That way drones in a swarm can talk with themselves. That’s where artificial intelligence and machine learning comes into picture. We can use this in case of natural disasters where personnel on ground can cover more area with a swarm of drones than individual units. Drones can also be used as aerial platforms to enable connectivity in disaster hit areas where power and network is affected,” said Dey. “Besides mapping and surveillance, we can also incorporate crop health management systems that can help farmers detect and spray specific areas in the field thus saving a lot of money and time,” he said. Saurav, in his early 30s, is an entrepreneur from Ranchi with a B.Tech in electrical and electronics engineering from Dayanand Sagar College, Bangalore. He said VFLYX, a new business vertical of the ecommerce gadget startup Xboom Utilities, is having a scalable manufacturing base in Bangalore. “We wanted to start manufacturing drones earlier but due to stringent regulations, we couldn’t do it and were waiting for the right moment.” This changed when the union ministry of civil aviation notified liberalised Drone Rules 2021. “The new regulation is giving a lot of emphasis on research and development without which we cannot build a manufacturing base,” Dey said. The global drone market is dominated by the US and China. According to BIS Research, a global intelligence agency, the market will touch $28.47 billion this year, in which India’s share will be about 4.25 per cent. The new rules are expected to aid growth of the industry with several startups already looking at early-stage funding. Excited at the growth prospects of the company, Dey signed off with a unique end use of drone swarms. “Firecrackers can cause a lot of pollution on Diwali. We can use drones instead for a lighting show in a completely eco-friendly way.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
25-10-2021||Business||Centre announces rules to maintain overhead optical fibre cables||The Centre has announced guidelines to maintain overhead optical fibre cables by amending the Indian Telegraph Right of Way (RoW) Rules (November 2016), giving a boost to broadband and 5G infrastructure in the country. The Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has notified it has amended the Act to prescribe various terms and conditions to lay the overhead optical fibre cables. Nominal one-time compensation and uniform procedure to lay the cables has been introduced, it said. The amount of one-time compensation to establish the  overhead cable will be a maximum Rs 1,000  per km. The paperwork for the right of way application has been made simple. There  will be no fee other than administrative fees and restoration charges to establish the cables, maintain them, transfer or shift them to overground. The amendments will ease the  right of way-related permissions and procedures, the DoT said. The RoW Rules had earlier covered only underground optic fibre cables and mobile towers. “Optical fiber is a fundamental and structural part of both mobile and fixed broadband networks. Faster rollout of fibre is important for backhauling a large amount of data at high throughput, improving reliability, and reducing latency,” said Digital Infrastructure Providers Association. The fiberisation of telecom networks is essential to achieving universal broadband connectivity at 50Mbps to every citizen. “With this amendment in place now, desired clarity for laying overhead OFC is also available which will go a long way in creating necessary infrastructure to cater to forthcoming 5G rollouts in the country,” DIPA said. “We applaud the DoT for its progressive approach in amending its Indian Telegraph RoW Rules 2016 to include aerial fiber.This directive stipulates that necessary infrastructure be built at the lowest logistical costs,” the Cellular Operators Association of India   said . Biswapriya Bhattacharjee, executive vice-president, insights division at Kantar Research, said, “The Indian market is expected to register a greater number of rural internet users than urban internet users by 2025. In line with this, the digital ecosystem would require capabilities to meet the particular demands of rural Internet users.” “ Key areas that are expected to emerge as a game changer include video, voice and vernacular,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-27
25-10-2021||India||Cruise Drug Case: Police protection given to witness, says Maharashtra home minister||Maharashtra Home Minister Dilip Walse Patil on Monday said police protection has been given to Prabhakar Sail, an independent witness in the drugs-on-cruise case who has claimed Rs 25 crore was demanded by an NCB official and other person to let off Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan in the case. Sail visited the Mumbai police commissioner's office in the morning and met Joint Commissioner of Police (crime) Milind Bharambhe, an official said. He later approached the Sahar police in suburban Mumbai, seeking security whenever he comes to meet his wife, children and mother-in-law, who live in the Sahar village here, officials said. Walse Patil, speaking to reporters in Mumbai, said, Prabhakar Sail has been given police protection. However, as I have not met (minister and party colleague) Nawab Malik yet, I can not comment on what he had indicated earlier. Malik claimed earlier in the day that Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) zonal director Sameer Wankhede used forged documents, including his birth certificate. Malik tweeted a photo of the purported certificate, saying Sameer Dawood Wankhede ka yahan se shuru hua furjiwada. (Sameer Dawood Wankhede's document forging started from here). Wankhede, an IRS officer of the 2008 batch, slammed the minister, saying his action was defamatory in nature and an invasion of his family's privacy. “I had a brief discussion about this issue (alleged forging of documents by Wankhede) with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. I was here to attend a meeting related to another topic,” Walse Patil said while responding to a question about the meeting. “Central agencies have been so active for the first time in history. I have never seen such activism earlier in my career by one government against another,” said the home minister in response to another query. On Sunday, Sail told media persons that he feared a threat to his life. The witness had claimed Rs 25 crore was demanded by an official of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and other persons, including absconding witness K P Gosavi, to let off Aryan Khan in the cruise drugs case. Sail had said he overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D'Souza over the phone, after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office following the October 3 raid on the cruise ship about a demand of Rs 25 crore and "to settle at Rs 18 crore as they have to give Rs eight crore to Sameer Wankhede", the zonal director of NCB. However, a senior NCB official had denied the allegations, terming them as "completely false and malicious". Wankhede on Sunday wrote to Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance related issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
25-10-2021||India||MP: Six persons infected with with AY.4 variant of coronavirus||Six persons in Indore district of Madhya Pradesh were found infected with the new coronavirus variant AY.4, a health official said on Monday. As per the report received from the Delhi-based National Center for Disease Control (NCDC), six persons were found infected with the AY.4 variant of coronavirus. Their samples were sent for genome sequencing along with other infected persons in September, chief medical and health officer (CMHO) B S Saitya said. It is for the first time in the last 19-month history of the pandemic that the AY.4 variant was found, he said. Saitya said all the six persons who were found to be infected with the AY.4 variant were fully vaccinated. They have recovered after treatment, he added. The CMHO said over 50 people who came in contact with these six persons in the last few days were found to be healthy after testing. Meanwhile, Dr Anita Mutha, who heads the microbiology department of the Indore-based Government Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, said AY.4 is a new variant of coronavirus and not much information is available about its severity. A total of 1,53,202 Covid-19 cases were found in the Indore district so far. Among them, 1,391 have succumbed to the coronavirus infection. Indore district remained worst affected in MP when the Covid-19 pandemic raged. However, due to the rapid pace of vaccination, the number of new infections found of late has trickled down to one or two per day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
25-10-2021||India||Modi launches Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission in Varanasi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission, one of the largest pan-India schemes for strengthening healthcare infrastructure, in his parliamentary constituency Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh on Monday. The prime minister also inaugurated various development projects worth more than Rs 5,200 crore for his constituency. The Pradhan Mantri Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission is one of the largest pan-India schemes for strengthening healthcare infrastructure across the country. It is in addition to the National Health Mission. Its objective is to fill gaps in public health infrastructure, especially in critical care facilities and primary care in both urban and rural areas. It will provide support for 17,788 rural health and wellness centres in 10 high focus states. Further, 11,024 urban health and wellness centres will be established in all the states. Through this, critical care services will be available in all the districts of the country with more than five lakh population through exclusive critical care hospital blocks, while the remaining districts will be covered through referral services. People will have access to a full range of diagnostic services in the public healthcare system through a network of laboratories across the country, and integrated public health labs will be set up in all the districts. Under the scheme, a national institution for one health, four new national institutes for virology, a regional research platform for WHO South-East Asia Region, nine biosafety level-III laboratories, five new regional national centres for disease control will be set up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Southwest monsoon withdraws from India||The southwest monsoon withdrew from the entire country on Monday, making it the seventh-most delayed retreat since 1975, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In view of a significant reduction in rainfall activity over most parts of the country, the southwest monsoon has withdrawn from the entire country today (October 25, 2021). Simultaneously, with the setting in of northeasterly winds in the lower tropospheric levels, the northeast monsoon rain has commenced over extreme south peninsular India today, the IMD said in a statement. The withdrawal of the southwest monsoon 2021 from the entire country is the seventh-most delayed withdrawal (on or after October 25) during 1975-2021, it said. The southwest monsoon retreated on or after October 25 five times between 2010 and 2021 in 2017, 2010, 2016, 2020 and 2021, the IMD data showed. The southwest monsoon started receding from west Rajasthan and adjoining Gujarat on October 6, making it the second-most delayed withdrawal since 1975. The withdrawal of the southwest monsoon from northwest India usually begins from September 17. The monsoon withdrawal started on September 28 last year, October 9 in 2019, September 29 in 2018, September 27 in 2017 and September 15 in 2016, according to IMD data. The country received "normal" rainfall during the four-month southwest monsoon season from June to September. All-India monsoon rainfall during June 1 to September 30 was 87 cm against the Long Period Average (LPA) of 88 cm of 1961-2010 (99 per cent of its LPA). This is for the third consecutive year that the country recorded rainfall in the normal or above normal category. Rainfall was above normal in 2019 and 2020. The rainfall over the country as a whole was 110 per cent in June, 93 and 76 per cent in July and August, respectively -- the months that bring the maximum rains. However, the shortfall of July and August was compensated in September which recorded rainfall 135 per cent of the LPA. The southwest monsoon made its onset over Kerala on June 3, after a delay of two days. It rapidly covered central, west, east, northeast and south India by June 15. It also covered many parts of north India, even Barmer and Jaisalmer -- its last outposts -- but the monsoon winds failed to reach Delhi, parts of Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh. It then witnessed a lull. It finally covered Delhi, parts of Haryana and west Uttar Pradesh, on July 13, five days after its normal onset date, belying IMD's forecasts. The northeast monsoon, which brings rainfall to southern states from October to December, is likely to be normal, according to the IMD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Bajrang Dal creates ruckus on web series set in Bhopal||A day after the set of filmmaker Prakash Jha's web series 'Ashram' was ransacked in Bhopal over alleged wrong portrayal of Hinduism, a Madhya Pradesh minister on Monday said producers and directors will have to inform the authorities about objectionable content or scenes in their stories before seeking permission for shooting in the state. Bajrang Dal activists had, on Sunday evening, vandalised the set of the third season of web series 'Ashram' and also threw ink on Jha, accusing him of portraying Hindus in a bad light, following which four people were arrested for the ruckus. "We are going to issue a permanent guideline following the dispute over the shooting of Ashram-3. Now, (the producer-director) will need to show the script of the story to the administration before seeking permission, if they are going to shoot objectionable scenes which hurt the sentiments of any religion," MP Home Minister Narottam Mishra told reporters on Monday. He said the state government welcomes filmmakers to shoot their projects here but they should inform authorities about objectionable scenes before seeking permission, and those who have objections to a script or scene must complain to the administration. Replying to a query, Mishra further said he supports the Bajrang Dal's demand to change the name of the web series from Ashram. "I also support this. Why is the web series named Ashram? They will understand (the consequences) if they name it (web series or stories) after others' (religion)? We consider the ransacking as wrong. Four persons were arrested and further legal steps will be taken. But, Jha saheb (Prakash Jha), think about your mistakes too," Mishra said. Later, Mishra tweeted, "In the name of the web series, an attempt is being made to deliberately target Hinduism for a long time. Considering the spirit of the majority society, Prakash Jha should consider changing the name of his web series Ashram. Meanwhile, Bhopal South Superintendent of Police (SP) Sai Krishna Thota said Bajrang Dal activists raised objections and staged a protest over the name of the web series when its shooting was underway at Old Jail Premises located in Arera Hills. The protesters threw ink on Prakash Jha, pelted stones due to which the windscreens of two buses were damaged and one person was injured, the SP said. Bajrang Dal state convener Sushil Surhele asserted that his activists would not allow Ashram to be shot in Bhopal as "Prakash Jha wrongly portrayed the arrangements in a Hindu ashram in its previous seasons by showing the exploitation of women by gurus." "There have been ashrams in Sanatan Dharma since the past thousand years and these have played an important role in building social values. There is no truth in what has been shown in this web series," Surhele, who admitted Bajrang Dal activists threw the ink on Jha, claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Maharashtra minister claims Sameer Wankhede forged birth certificate||Maharashtra NCP minister Nawab Malik on Monday claimed that Narcotics Control Bureau's zonal director Sameer Wankhede used forged documents including his birth certificate. Malik tweeted a photo of the purported certificate, saying Sameer Dawood Wankhede ka yahan se shuru hua furjiwada. (Sameer Dawood Wankhede's document forging started from here). Wankhede, an IRS officer of the 2008 batch, slammed the minister, saying his action was defamatory in nature and an invasion of his family's privacy. The NCB official said he was pained by the nature of personal defamatory and slanderous attacks by the minister without any justification. The series of acts of the minister over the past few days have put me and my family under tremendous mental and emotional pressure, Wankhede said in a statement. An NCB team led by Wankhede earlier this month allegedly seized drugs onboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast following which Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, was arrested on October 3. Malik has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs bust case as "fake". On Monday, the document posted by Malik on Twitter mentioned the name of the NCB official's father as Dawood. Wankhede said his father's name is Dnyandev, who was an excise official. Malik has been targeting Wankhede after his son-in-law Sameer Khan was arrested in an alleged drug case. The minister had claimed that NCB officials booked Sameer Khan under wrong charges and no banned drug was found in his possession. Malik, who is also the NCP spokesperson, recently claimed that his government will soon put Wankhede behind the bars. On Monday, talking to a news channel in Nanded, Malik claimed that Wankhede is a Muslim by birth. "In the past 15 days, whenever I spoke on various subjects like the Maldives tour (of Wankhede), I didn't get any answers and they were termed as political allegations. But, now the truth has come out," he said. Malik stated that earlier the BJP had said his son-in-law and Aryan Khan are Muslims. Later, the BJP's "troll army" tried to create an environment, making it a Hindu-Muslim issue via Wankhede, he alleged. "NCB zonal director Wankhede's name is 'Sameer Dawood Wankhede', and he is a Muslim by birth. I have published his birth certificate (online). I had to make an effort to find it...he got the IRS job on bogus certificate...I shall reveal more such acts of his 'bogusgiri'," he said. Malik also alleged that by "hiding" his religion, he (Wankhede) obtained fake documents and through this, the right of a backward class candidate was snatched. Notably, Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Sunday came out in support of Wankhede and said targeting a Dalit officer who is doing good work is not right. Terming Malik's allegations against Wankhede as "baseless" and "mischievous", Athawale had defended the officer, saying he has not done anything wrong. Athawale had also accused Malik of trying to give a religious and casteist colour while targeting Wankhede. Meanwhile, reacting to Malik's claims, Wankhede in a press release said the minister's act of publishing his personal information on Twitter was "defamatory in nature and unnecessary invasion of his family's privacy". Wankhede said this was intended to malign him, his family, his father and late mother. In the statement, Wankhede mentioned that his father Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede retired as senior police inspector of the state Excise department, Pune, in June 2007. His father is a Hindu and his late mother Zaheeda was a Muslim, the official said. Wankhede said he belongs to a "composite, multi-religious and secular family in true Indian tradition" and he is proud of his heritage. The NCB official also mentioned that he married Dr Shabana Qureshi in 2006 under the Special Marriage Act. Both of them divorced mutually through a civil court in 2016. Later, in 2017, he married Kranti Redkar, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: NCB, Sameer Wankhede move court against extortion allegations||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) and its zonal director Sameer Wankhede approached a special court here on Monday against the allegations of extortion levelled against them in the cruise drugs seizure case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is an accused. Two affidavits have been filed with the NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act) special court. The first, filed by the NCB, says the fact Prabhakar Sail filed his affidavit before submitting it to the court shows he has turned hostile. The second was filed by Sameer Wankhede (in his personal capacity) in response to NCP leader Nawab Malik tweeting a document related to the NCB officer's birth and alleging "forgery". It says: "... have been personally targeted, especially by a known political figure, (since) one Sameer Khan, a relative of this honcho, was arrested in a drug case... from that time there is a personal vendetta..." Wankhede also released a press statement outlining the "composite, multi-religious and secular (nature of his) family in true Indian tradition". "The publishing of my personal documents on Twitter is defamatory in nature and unnecessary invasion of my family privacy. It is intended to malign me, my family, my father, and my late mother," he has said, according to NDTV.com. The anti-drugs agency and Wankhede in their affidavits also said this was an attempt to create hurdles and scuttle the investigation in the case. The NCB in its affidavit sought that there should be no tampering with the evidence or investigation, while Wankhede refuted the allegations raised against him. On Sunday, an independent witness in the cruise drugs case, in a statement to the media, claimed that Rs 25 crore was demanded by an official of the NCB and other persons, including absconding witness K P Gosavi, to let off Aryan Khan in the case. Prabhakar Sail, the 'independent witness', told media persons that he had overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D'Souza over the phone, after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office following the October 2 raid, about a demand of Rs 25 crore and "to settle at Rs 18 crore as they have to give Rs eight crore to Sameer Wankhede". Sail had said he would soon release evidence to support his claim. The NCB and Wankhede rubbished these claims in their affidavits submitted to the court on Monday. Wankhede on Sunday also wrote to Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance related issue. Without taking names, Wankhede, an IRS officer of the 2008 batch, had claimed in his letter to Nagrale that the threat of jail and dismissal have been issued against him on public media by highly respectable public functionaries. An NCB team led by Wankhede earlier this month allegedly seized drugs onboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast following which Aryan Khan was arrested on October 3. He is currently lodged in the Arthur Road jail in Mumbai. His bail application is likely to be heard by the Bombay High Court on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Babul Supriyo backs TMC to do well in upcoming Goa polls||Trinamool Congress leader Babul Supriyo on Monday expressed confidence that his party will do very well in the Goa Assembly elections due early next year. Several TMC leaders, including Supriyo and party MPs Mahua Moitra and Saugata Roy, have arrived in Goa ahead of West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC head Mamata Banerjee's visit to the state scheduled on October 28. The TMC has already announced its decision to contest the Assembly elections in Goa. The forthcoming Goa Assembly poll is an important election and the TMC will do very well in it, Supriyo told reporters. This (Goa) is one place in India that should see a lot of development to make it more tourist-friendly, said Supriyo, who joined the TMC last month after quitting the BJP. He said Goa is known for its culture, tradition, music and wonderful beaches. A lot more can be done here, he added. Last month, former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro joined the TMC, while state Independent MLA Prasad Gaonkar has also extended support to the Mamata Banerjee-led party. The TMC last week appointed Faleiro as its vice president. The party has been inducting several local leaders in its fold ever since it announced its intention to contest the Goa Assembly polls. Elections to the 40-member House in the state are due in February 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Firing resumes in Jammu and Kashmir's forest||Heavy firing was reported from a forest area as a massive search operation to track down hiding terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir's twin border districts of Poonch and Rajouri entered the 15th day on Monday, officials said. It was not immediately clear whether the firing in Bhatti Durrian forest was the result of a fresh contact with the terrorists, believed to be hiding in caves deep inside the forest, the officials said. Nine Army personnel including two JCO's and an arrested Pakistani terrorist have been killed and three security men injured since the commencement of the operation on October 11. While five Army personnel were killed on the first day of the operation in Surankote forest of Poonch, four other soldiers lost their lives in Bhatti Durrian area of Mendhar on October 14. The Pakistani terrorist, who was shifted from Kot Bhalwal Central Jail Jammu to Mendhar on police remand for questioning in connection with the ongoing operation was killed when the security forces accompanying him to identify a hideout came under fire from hiding terrorists on Sunday. Besides Surankote and Mendhar, the search operation also continued in nearby Thanamandi forest in Rajouri district. The officials said Army helicopters made several sorties over the besieged forest area, while drones are also being used to keep a tight surveillance to ensure that the terrorists are not able to flee. Nearly a dozen persons including two women were also detained for questioning after it came to light that they allegedly provided logistic support including food and shelter to the terrorists, the officials said. Traffic between Mendhar and Thanamandi along the Jammu-Rajouri highway remained suspended as a precautionary measure for the 10th day on Monday in the wake of the ongoing operation. Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Modi inaugurates nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday lashed out at the previous government in Uttar Pradesh for ignoring basic medical needs of the people of Purvanchal region while "filling coffers" of their families, and asserted that the region will now emerge as a medical hub under BJP rule. Inaugurating nine medical colleges in Uttar Pradesh virtually from here, the prime minister said the BJP's priority is to provide basic facilities to the poor. In an apparent dig at the Samajwadi Party government which ruled the state before the BJP came to power in 2017, Modi said, "Their cycle of corruption ran 24 hours. They had the priority of earning for themselves and filling the coffers of their families while for us the priority is to extend basic facilities to the poor. Earlier there was corruption in medicines, ambulance, appointments, transfer and posting and in this entire game some 'parivarwadis' (dynasts) in Uttar Pradesh flourished, he said. "The cycle of corruption ran 24 hours but the common families of Purvanchal and Uttar Pradesh got crushed, he said. Modi said seven years ago the government in Delhi and the one four years ago in Uttar Pradesh did not pay attention to the poor and announced small dispensaries which could never see the light of the day. Built at a cost of Rs 2,329 crore, the medical colleges inaugurated on Monday are located in Siddharthnagar, Etah, Hardoi, Pratapgarh, Fatehpur, Deoria, Ghazipur, Mirzapur and Jaunpur districts. While eight medical colleges have been sanctioned under a Centrally sponsored scheme for the establishment of new medical colleges attached with district or referral hospitals, the one at Jaunpur has been made functional by the state government through its own resources. The new medical colleges have been named after noted personalities of the region and in some cases prominent politicians. The Siddarthnagar medical college has been named after Madhav Prasad Tripathi, a Jansangh leader who served as the first BJP president of the state after its formation in 1980. In Deoria, the medical college has been named after Maharshi Devraha Baba (a noted saint), Ghazipur medical college after Maharshi Vishwamitra, Mirzapur medical college after Maa Vindhyavasini, a manifestation of Goddess Durga, Pratapgarh medical college after Dr Sonelal Patel (founder of BJP ally Apna Dal), Etah medical college after Virangna Avanti Bai Lodhi and Fatehpur college after Jodha Singh Ataiya Thakur Dariyav Singh. Under the Central scheme, preference is given to backward and aspirational districts. The scheme aims to increase the availability of health professionals, correct the existing geographical imbalance in the distribution of medical colleges and effectively utilise the existing infrastructure of district hospitals. Under three phases of the scheme, 157 new medical colleges have been approved across the nation, out of which 63 medical colleges are already functional. Governor Anandiben Patel, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya were among those present at the inauguration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||India logs over 14,000 fresh Covid cases, 443 casualties in a day||India logged 14,306 new COVID-19 cases, taking the virus tally to 3,41,89,774, while the active cases declined to 1,67,695, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll climbed to 4,54,712 with 443 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. Kerala has reconciled 363 fatalities from the previous period, officials said, adding that 71 deaths have been reported from the state in the last 24 hours. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 31 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 120 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.49 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.18 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 4,899 cases has been recorded in the total active number of COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.43 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.24 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,35,67,367, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 102.27 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 443 new fatalities include 363 from Kerala, 18 from Maharashtra and 15 from Tamil Nadu. A total of 4,54,712 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,40,016 from Maharashtra, 38,007 from Karnataka, 36019 from Tamil Nadu, 28,592 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,055 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh polls: Priyanka Gandhi promises free medical treatment up to Rs 10 lakh||Making another poll promise ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday said free medical treatment of up to Rs 10 lakh will be provided to people of the state if her party government is voted to power. The Congress leader had flagged off her party's "Pratigya Yatras" from Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki district on Saturday with seven promises, including loan waiver for farmers and jobs to 20 lakh people if voted to power. Everyone saw the dilapidated condition of the health system of UP due to government neglect during the Corona period and now during the spread of fever. For ensuring good and cheap treatment, with the consent of the manifesto committee, the UP Congress has decided that if voted to power, our government will provide up to Rs 10 lakh for treatment of any disease, Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. Among the other promises made by the party are purchase of wheat and paddy at Rs 2,500 per quintal and Rs 400 per quintal for sugarcane. The party has also promised jobs to 20 lakh people, halving the electricity bill of all and a sum of Rs 25,000 to families who faced financial crunch amid the Covid crisis. Besides the party has decided to give 40 per cent tickets to women in elections and smartphones to Class 12 pass girls and e-scooters to graduate girls if voted to power. Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls are scheduled early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-90
25-10-2021||India||Facebook grapples with Indian hate army||On February 4, 2019, a Facebook researcher created a new user account to see what it was like to experience the social media site as a person living in Kerala. For the next three weeks, the account operated by a simple rule: follow all the recommendations generated by Facebook’s algorithms to join groups, watch videos and explore new pages on the site. The result was an inundation of hate speech, misinformation and celebrations of violence, which were documented in an internal Facebook report published later that month. “Following this test user’s News Feed, I’ve seen more images of dead people in the past three weeks than I’ve seen in my entire life total,” the Facebook researcher wrote.  “The test user’s News Feed has become a near constant barrage of polarizing nationalist content, misinformation, and violence and gore.” In a separate report produced after the elections, Facebook found that over 40 per cent of top views, or impressions, in Bengal were “fake/inauthentic.” One inauthentic account had amassed more than 30 million impressions. The reports were two of dozens of studies and memos written by Facebook employees grappling with the effects of the platform on India. They provide stark evidence of one of the most serious criticisms levied by human rights activists and politicians against the world-spanning company: it moves into a country without fully understanding its potential impact on local culture and politics, and fails to deploy the resources to act on issues once they occur. With 340 million people using Facebook’s various social media platforms, India is the company’s largest market. And Facebook’s problems on the subcontinent present an amplified version of the issues it has faced throughout the world, made worse by a lack of resources and a lack of expertise in India’s 22 officially recognised languages. The internal documents, obtained by a consortium of news organisations that included The New York Times, are part of a larger cache of material called The Facebook Papers. They were collected by Frances Haugen, a former Facebook product manager who became a whistle-blower and recently testified before a Senate subcommittee about the company and its social media platforms. References to India were scattered among documents filed by Haugen to the Securities and Exchange Commission in a complaint earlier this month. The documents include reports on how bots and fake accounts tied to the country’s ruling party and Opposition figures were wreaking havoc on national elections. They also detail how a plan championed by Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, to focus on “meaningful social interactions,” or exchanges between friends and family, was leading to more misinformation in India, particularly during the pandemic. Facebook did not have enough resources in India and was unable to grapple with the problems it had introduced there, including anti-Muslim posts, according to its documents. Eighty-seven percent of the company’s global budget for time spent on classifying misinformation is earmarked for the US, while only 13 per cent is set aside for the rest of the world — even though North American users make up only 10 per cent of the social network’s daily active users, according to one document describing Facebook’s allocation of resources. Andy Stone, a Facebook spokesman, said the figures were incomplete and don’t include the company’s third-party fact-checking partners, most of whom are outside the US. Facebook has invested significantly in technology to find hate speech in various languages, including Hindi and Bengali, two of the most widely used languages,  Stone said. He added that Facebook reduced the amount of hate speech that people see globally by half this year. “Hate speech against marginalised groups, including Muslims, is on the rise in India and globally,”  Stone said. “So we are improving enforcement and are committed to updating our policies as hate speech evolves online.” In India, “there is definitely a question about resourcing” for Facebook, but the answer is not “just throwing more money at the problem,” said Katie Harbath, who spent 10 years at Facebook as a director of public policy, and worked directly on securing India’s national elections. Facebook, she said, needs to find a solution that can be applied to countries around the world. 2019 elections Facebook employees have run various tests and conducted field studies in India for several years. That work increased ahead of India’s 2019 national elections; in late January of that year, a handful of Facebook employees travelled to the country to meet with colleagues and speak to dozens of local Facebook users. According to a memo written after the trip, one of the key requests from users in India was that Facebook “take action on types of misinfo that are connected to real-world harm, specifically politics and religious group tension”. Ten days after the researcher opened the fake account to study misinformation, a suicide bombing in the disputed border region of Kashmir set off a round of violence and a spike in accusations, misinformation and conspiracies between Indian and Pakistani nationals. After the attack, anti-Pakistan content began to circulate in the Facebook-recommended groups that the researcher had joined. Many of the groups, she noted, had tens of thousands of users. A different report by Facebook, published in December 2019, found Indian Facebook users tended to join large groups, with the country’s median group size at 140,000 members. The “Popular Across Facebook” feature began recommending viral, unverified material about military action following Indian airstrikes against Pakistan in the wake of a suicide bombing in Kashmir. The feature also began recommending military-themed posts unrelated to the strikes. Graphic posts, including a meme showing the beheading of a Pakistani national and dead bodies wrapped in white sheets on the ground, circulated in the groups she joined. After the researcher shared her case study with co-workers, her colleagues commented on the posted report that they were concerned about misinformation about the upcoming elections in India. “These groups become perfect distribution channels when they want to promote bad content within short period of time.” “The admins of these groups tended to take a lax position/hands-off attitude towards ensuring that the content shared in the group was on a particular topic of focus, and allowed users to freely post whatever they found interesting/wanted to share.” Two months later, after India’s national elections had begun, Facebook put in place a series of steps to stem the flow of misinformation and hate speech in the country, according to an internal document called Indian Election Case Study. The case study painted an optimistic picture of Facebook’s efforts, including adding more fact-checking partners — the third-party network of outlets with which Facebook works to outsource fact-checking — and increasing the amount of misinformation it removed. It also noted how Facebook had created a “political white list to limit P.R. risk,” essentially a list of politicians who received a special exemption from fact-checking. The study did not note the immense problem the company faced with bots in India, nor issues like voter suppression. During the election, Facebook saw a spike in bots — or fake accounts — linked to various political groups, as well as efforts to spread misinformation that could have affected people’s understanding of the voting process. A report published in March 2021 showed that many of the problems cited during the 2019 elections persisted. In the internal document, called Adversarial Harmful Networks: India Case Study, Facebook researchers wrote that there were groups and pages “replete with inflammatory and misleading anti-Muslim content” on Facebook. The report said there were a number of dehumanising posts about Muslims and callss for men to rape their female family members. Hesitation on RSS Much of the material circulated around Facebook groups promoting the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). The groups took issue with an expanding Muslim minority population in Bengal and near the Pakistani border, and published posts on Facebook calling for the ouster of Muslim populations from India and promoting a Muslim population control law. Facebook knew that such harmful posts proliferated on its platform, the report indicated, and it needed to improve its “classifiers,” which are automated systems that can detect and remove posts containing violent and inciting language. Facebook also hesitated to designate RSS as a dangerous organisation because of “political sensitivities” that could affect the social network’s operation in the country. Of India’s 22 officially recognised languages, Facebook said it has trained its AI systems on five. (It said it had human reviewers for some others.) But in Hindi and Bengali, it still did not have enough data to adequately police the content, and much of the content targeting Muslims “is never flagged or actioned,” the Facebook report said. Bajrang Five months ago, Facebook was still struggling to efficiently remove hate speech against Muslims. Another company report detailed efforts by the Bajrang Dal to publish posts containing anti-Muslim narratives on the platform. Facebook is considering designating the group as a dangerous organisation because it is “inciting religious violence” on the platform, the document showed. But it has not yet done so. “Join the group and help to run the group; increase the number of members of the group, friends,” said one post seeking recruits on Facebook to spread Bajrang Dal’s messages. “Fight for truth and justice until the unjust are destroyed.” New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
25-10-2021||India||Elgaar Parishad: Partner appeals to speak with Gautam Navlakha||The Delhi-based partner of human rights activist Gautam Navlakha, arrested in the Elgaar Parishad terrorism case, has issued a public appeal to be allowed to speak to him over the phone and for him to be allowed to walk in the open in his Navi Mumbai jail. Sahba Husain said in a statement: “Gautam Navlakha, nearly 70, is one of the oldest of the Bhima Koregaon arrestees, who was shifted to the ‘Anda Circle’ (high security) from the barracks on October 12, 2021. “Additionally, his telephone calls to me and his lawyers, his lifeline to the outside world, have been discontinued on the pretext that physical mulaquats have resumed in jail.” Husain added: “I, his partner, Sahba Husain, am over 70, and I live in Delhi. Travelling to Taloja Jail in Navi Mumbai frequently to meet him for the allotted ten minutes is difficult.” Husain said: “And Gautam’s only contact with me is through the two calls he was allowed every week to me that enabled me to send him articles of need, including medicines, books etc. With discontinuance of phone calls, all this will now depend on letters that take a minimum of two weeks to reach me. “Apart from the calls to me, regular access to lawyers through phone calls is an essential facility for undertrial prisoners. To deprive any undertrial prisoner of this effective and efficient mode of securing legal advice and help, or access to family, is the height of unfairness.” She added: “Gautam writes, ‘confinement in Anda Circle means denial of fresh air/ oxygen as there is not a single tree or plant in the open space of the Circle. And we are forbidden to step outside of the Anda Circle…. In other words, we spend 16 hours out of 24 cooped inside our cell and the 8 hours we are let out we are confined to a corridor 71/2’ x 72’ for our daily walk on cemented floor surrounded by high walls all around. Husain said: “These are prisoners of conscience, who have had to face indignities and humiliation for the smallest needs, and wage court battles for basic dignities in prison. In the past, when Navlakha’s original pair of spectacles went missing, it was difficult for the replacement spectacles to reach him in time. “It is not too much to ask for these simple facilities, phone access to his lawyers and family, and some fresh air to walk in once or twice a day.” Maharashtra’s prisons department is yet to respond to Husain’s appeal. She told The Telegraph she planned to send her request to the director-general (prisons) with endorsement from relatives of the other accused. The state government has ignored civil society pleas to recommend to the high-powered committee, mandated by the Supreme Court to decongest prisons during the pandemic, the release of the Elgaar prisoners — most of whom are elderly and ailing -- on interim bail. Despite demands from internationally renowned activists and human rights defenders every few weeks in the past three years, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has consistently opposed bail pleas in the case. Two of the accused have blamed then Taloja jail superintendent Kaustubh Kurlekar of ill-treating co-accused Father Stan Swamy, an 84-year-old Jesuit who suffered from Parkinson’s disease. Father Stan died of post-Covid complications while in hospital under judicial custody in Mumbai on July 5. Fifteen others, including Navlakha, had been arrested in the case which relates to an alleged Maoist conspiracy and caste violence at an Ambedkarite pilgrimage in 2018. The accused include rights activists, writers and lawyers. Forensic analysis of devices of the accused by an American firm has indicated the planting of evidence on the computers of two of them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
25-10-2021||India||Shadow of Bengal looms large over CPM in Kerala||As the CPM prepares for its 23rd all-India Congress, the shadow of Bengal looms large over the party in Kerala. In its determination not to repeat the mistakes of the party during its over three-decade rule in Bengal, the CPM in Kerala has gone to such extremes that some political observers wonder whether the party has been afflicted by some sort of Bengal phobia. These concerns of the Kerala CPM are noted in a party circular issued among its cadre for discussion at the block, area and local levels in the run-up to the CPM state party conference this year. This will be followed by the party’s 23rd all-India Congress to be held in Kannur sometime next year. This is the first time after 1946 that the communists have no representation in the Bengal Assembly. The reasons for this setback are both political and organisational. While the party grew organisationally in the first two decades, ideologically the party became bankrupt. The Kerala document points out that local landlords and lumpen elements found precedence over genuine party workers at the grassroots level. Since 2008, there has been steady erosion in the party’s mass base mainly because of the leadership’s alienation from people. This has resulted in a fall in its general social acceptance. The party leadership failed to read the socio-political changes taking place in Bengal, especially in the rural belt, where the party once had strong roots. The industrial policy imposed by the government in the villages of Nandigram and elsewhere alienated the poor. The leadership was partially blinded by three decades of power. The only way to overcome these pitfalls is to stand by the people and constantly engage them in the decision-making process. After the recent Assembly elections, the Kerala unit has taken a number of corrective measures effecting changes in its rank and file. For a party, which has been voted back to power with a larger majority some of these measures may appear harsh. In the light of the assessment of election results, disciplinary action has been initiated against no less than a dozen district committee members and even state committee members; notable among them is a former minister and a senior leader from Alappuzha. Even leaders from winning constituencies have been penalised for dereliction of duty. Once again it is the lessons learnt from Bengal that prompted the Kerala CPM to deny tickets to two-time MLAs. The idea was to discourage party leaders from turning into local satraps and in the process becoming larger than the party. Bengal had witnessed quite a number of them even during the time of the late Jyoti Basu. The Kerala CPM had all along opposed the Bengal comrades’ decision to go in for any sort of tie-up with the Congress there. Though the decision was backed by a section of the central leadership led by party general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Kerala CPM had always maintained that Congress remains its No. 1 enemy in the state. Even while asking their Bengal counterparts to go in for introspection with regard to their tie-up with the Congress, the Kerala comrades have welcomed senior Congress leaders into the party, something unheard of in the past. By giving party membership to two long standing Congressmen despite resentment in its own ranks, the CPM recently successfully thwarted the BJP’s moves to entice disgruntled Congress members. The divide between the Kerala and Bengal CPM has only widened on the issue of Congress. Another term for Sitaram Yechury as party general secretary will depend much on how the party resolves the Congress issue. Kerala is not going to back Yechury if he toes the Bengal line. That is for certain.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
25-10-2021||India||Kashmir: Youth with bag of apples dies in alleged CRPF firing||A 20-year-old died in alleged CRPF firing in Shopian district on Sunday, a day after Union home minister Amit Shah had made overtures to Kashmir’s youth seeking their help to weed out militancy. Shahid Aijaz Rather, who local people said had dropped out of school to earn a living and support his family, was shot dead at Babapora outside the camp of the CRPF’s 178 Battalion. Police and the CRPF claimed Shahid had died during a gunfight between security forces and militants but local people and politicians accused the forces of killing him in cold blood. A picture shows Shahid lying on the ground, head propped up against the wheel of what appears a security force vehicle, with a bag of apples lying in front of him. Both his arms are inside the pheran, the long cloak Kashmiris wear in winter. The killing comes at a time Shah is on a four-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir to review the situation after a surge in militant violence. The home minister was in Jammu on Sunday, laying foundation stones for development projects. He is to return to the Valley on Monday before leaving for Delhi on Tuesday. Shah had on Saturday told the Valley’s youth they could do what his government could not — eradicate militancy from the region. On Sunday, Shopian district police tweeted: “Around 10:30 hrs unidentified terrorists attacked a Naka party of 178 Bn, CRPF at Babapora, Shopian. CRPF retaliated the fire and during cross-firing, one unidentified person got killed. Further details are being ascertained.” Women in Shahid’s village in adjoining Anantnag district staged a protest, accusing the forces of murder and asking them to hand the body over to the family for the last rites. “For God’s sake we urge the tyrants to return the child (his body). At least his mother will see his face,” a woman protester is seen shouting in a video. “They are a very poor family and his mother had sent the child to earn a living for them. Let them (the forces) kill us all. We don’t raise our kids for this.” Another woman said Shahid’s father was bedridden after having surgery recently. She said the young man was the sole breadwinner of the family. Some social media users asked the CRPF to release the CCTV footage to prove Shahid had died in a gunfight. “Another innocent civilian killed allegedly by CRPF in Shopian today,” former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti tweeted. “Its sad that armed forces show little restraint & operate with such impunity. My heartfelt condolences to his family.” This is the second killing at CRPF hands in Kashmir this month. On October 7, the paramilitary force had fired at the vehicle of a tribal man, Parvaiz Ahmad Bokad, and killed him. The CRPF had claimed that Bokad had jumped a checkpoint but local people accused the forces of deliberately targeting him. October has witnessed a surge in militant violence with the rebels killing 11 civilians, seven of them non-Muslims, who were allegedly targeted to force religious minorities out of the Valley.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
25-10-2021||India||Lalu Prasad Yadav returns to Bihar from Delhi||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) president Lalu Prasad received a rousing welcome on his return to the state capital from New Delhi on Sunday evening after more than three years. The RJD supporters went berserk with excitement as Lalu, sporting  a green cap and a green gamchha around his neck, came out of the Patna airport accompanied by wife Rabri Devi and eldest daughter Misa Bharti. His sons Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav, currently at loggerheads with each other, were present at the airport to receive him. Cries of “Lalu Prasad zindabad” rent the air as RJD workers waved party flags and showered petals on their leader and his vehicle while he waved at them. RJD supporters lined the road to Rabri’s 10, Circular Road residence in the city and a large number of them were present there to witness his return — an event that has the potential to spark off a turbulence in state politics. The vehicle carrying Lalu went straight inside. “I was not in Patna for a long time. I am going there today. By-elections are going to be held at Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan in Bihar. I will try to go there, too. The doctors have given me medicines and allowed me to go. I will have to return for medical check-up after a month,” Lalu said in Delhi before catching the flight to Patna. He attacked the Congress over its recent exit from the Opposition Grand Alliance in the state on the ground that the RJD unilaterally fielded a candidate from Kusheshwar Asthan (a seat contested by the Congress) in the 2020 Assembly elections. “What is an alliance with the Congress? What is it? Should we have given the seat to it for losing and forfeiting the security deposit?” Lalu said. Reacting sharply to the All India Congress Committee’s Bihar in-charge and former Union minister Bhakta Charan Das’s allegations that the RJD was in cahoots with the BJP, Lalu used a vernacular slang to call him an “idiot”. The RJD chief also rubbished claims by various NDA leaders that he would not be able to campaign because he had been granted bail on health conditions. “They are not right,” Lalu said. He also downplayed the rivalry between Tejashwi and Tej Pratap and said there was no fight between them. “Both are my sons. There is no anger between them,” he said. The RJD chief is scheduled to campaign with Tejashwi at Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan on October 27. The two Assembly seats are going to polls on October 30. The RJD chief had been away from Bihar after being convicted and incarcerated in fodder scam cases. He is suffering from severe diabetes, kidney and heart ailments, and was mostly under treatment at various hospitals in Ranchi, Mumbai and Delhi during this period. He was granted bail in April this year, but was stuck in Delhi due to health reasons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
25-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: Ashis sent to hospital after he contracted dengue||Union minister Ajay Kumar Mishra’s son Ashis, arrested for the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre of four farmers and a journalist, has been shifted to hospital after he contracted dengue, an official said. Ashish was sent to the district jail on Saturday evening for treatment at its healthcare facility, additional superintendent of police Arun Kumar Singh said. He had been taken into two-day police custody on Friday evening. Arrested on October 9 after the Supreme  Court’s intervention,  Ashis was allowed to go to judicial custody after three days of police remand. On Wednesday, when the apex court heard the matter again, it had asked why the police had not sought extension of custody. The chief medical officer of Lakhimpur Kheri, Shailendra Bhatnagar, and his team examined Ashis. “The samples collected Saturday night tested positive for dengue. His sugar levels were found to be critical. Some changes were also observed in the ECG. This demands treatment under observation by expert doctors at the district hospital,” he told reporters on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
25-10-2021||India||Bihar: Cong decision to contest by-elections alone delights party lobby||The Congress decision to contest the Bihar by-elections alone and declare the end of the alliance with the RJD has delighted a party lobby that opposes coalitions in the Hindi heartland, arguing the party needs to regain ground here to revive its national fortunes. This section is acutely worried at suggestions from some senior leaders that the Congress should explore the possibility of an alliance with the Samajwadi Party ahead of the Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. They argue that any hope of a Congress revival in the 2024 general election rests on the party’s performance in the Hindi heartland. While the Congress is strong in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, this lobby is pushing firmly for the party to go it alone in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. “We have built an organisational structure across the state, in every district, after almost three decades. We have got a charismatic leader in Priyanka Gandhi,” a young Congress office-bearer from Uttar Pradesh told The Telegraph from Lucknow. “If we get into a coalition with the Samajwadis now and don’t contest in 70-80 per cent constituencies, the organisation will slip into decay again. If we fight ferociously now, we will be ready for the parliamentary elections even if we don’t win too many seats in the Assembly elections.” A senior leader echoed the same sentiment. “We must do in Bihar what we did in Uttar Pradesh: build structures in every district, prepare networks across the state and get ready to fight the parliamentary elections as a true alternative to the BJP,” the politician said. “If we survive on crutches, we shall get crumbs.” The younger Congress politicians are pushing the anti-coalition line more vigorously, arguing that a pragmatic approach on alliances should be adopted instead of surrendering the party’s chances of rebuilding itself. While the break-up in Bihar might appear accidental — a result of the RJD declaring candidates for both the by-elections without consultations — the anti-alliance Congress lobby has seized the opportunity to build its case for solo fights instead of sulking about a “betrayal”. Kanhaiya Kumar’s induction into the Congress had angered the RJD as the former CPI politician doesn’t get along with Tejashwi Yadav, and the resultant strains would have separated the two allies sooner or later. A prompt declaration from Congress Bihar minder Bhakta Charan Das about the party’s intention to contest all the 40 Lok sabha seats from Bihar in 2024, and Kanhaiya’s subtle attack on the RJD and Tejashwi, indicate the leadership is ready to carve a new path in the state. Kanhaiya has framed his narrative carefully to suggest the Congress alone has the credentials to fight the BJP at the national level. Addressing a meeting in Patna a few days ago, Kanhaiya had asked the people of Bihar to shed any dilemmas they might harbour. “Amne-samne ki ladai chhid chuki hai (It’s an open confrontation). Those who want to fight the BJP should come with the Congress,” he had said. “The Congress’s understanding is clear — no ifs and buts. There are no calculations here. I want to ask: is there any other party in the country that hasn’t ever gone into the BJP’s embrace? A few Scindias can go but the Congress will never go to the BJP, come what may.” What Kanhaiya said on the subjection of dynasty is likely to hurt many regional parties. “Whoever has his family’s political legacy has clung to it by closing the door on others. Nobody is willing to share space with others,” he said. “Look at Hardik Patel, Jignesh Mevani and myself — none of us comes from a political family. There is only one leader in the country, Rahul Gandhi, who is willing to heartily embrace people like us. This party has tolerance, this party gives you freedom. The party which gave this country freedom can also protect this country’s freedom.” Indicating a political resolve to confront the RJD, Kanhaiya said: “Only self-respect (atma samman) is not enough. People who snatched power from the Congress will be asked what they have given Bihar in 30 years.” Kanhaiya argued that self-esteem can be protected only if there are education and livelihood opportunities. He also attacked caste-based politics. “With social justice, social unity is needed too. I want to ask those who have turned the election into (a calculation of) caste equations, how long will you fool the people? Did the coronavirus strike on the basis of caste?” he said. Social justice and caste loyalty are the fulcrums of the RJD’s politics. Kanhaiya is now trying to convince people about the importance of social harmony, education, jobs and infrastructure that can prevent large-scale migrations from Bihar in search of livelihood. This suggests the Congress is preparing to try a new political narrative in the state. If the party does well in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections, the go-alone policy in Bihar is likely to be cemented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
25-10-2021||India||Mumbai cruise drugs case: Witness alleges NCB sought bribe||A man listed as an independent witness in the Mumbai cruise ship drugs case in which Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau has in a notarised affidavit alleged a move to seek a bribe of Rs 25 crore. Prabhakar Raghoji Sail, who introduces himself as personal bodyguard of fellow independent witness K.P. Gosavi, says that shortly after the raid he heard Gosavi speak over the phone to a man named Sam D’Souza about paying Rs 8 crore to NCB officer Sameer Wankhede. Sail does not say what the purported payoff was for. But he adds that minutes after the conversation — which he says happened while he was in a car with Gosavi — a 15-minute meeting took place in a car between Gosavi, Sam and Shah Rukh’s manager Pooja Dadlani. There was no response from Dadlani in the public domain till late evening though reports about the affidavit were circulating since afternoon. Wankhede, NCB zonal director posted in Mumbai, told reporters he had done nothing wrong and would give a “fitting reply”. Sail has claimed that after Aryan’s detention on October 2, he was called to the NCB office by Wankhede and asked to sign as a panch (witness) on 10 blank sheets of paper. Sail, who has sent scanned images of the notarised affidavit to the media and also aired his allegations in a video, says he has done this because he fears that “NCB officials and other persons” would kill him. He suggests that Gosavi, who has disappeared, may have been kidnapped. Legal experts said anyone can get a declaration notarised if they wish. Notarisation is not a certificate of truth but lends credibility to the declaration, and if the person making the declaration later backtracks they can be hauled up in court. A notarised affidavit can be placed before a court. Little is known about Gosavi, who claims to be a “private detective agent” in his Facebook profile and was seen in a photo clicking a selfie with Aryan in the NCB office after the October 2 night raid. It raised the question what an outsider was doing in the NCB office. Sail has not explained who Sam is. A video shared by Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday showed Gosavi handing a mobile to Aryan, presumably in the NCB office the same night. The NCB has not clarified Gosavi’s presence in its office that night beyond confirming he was an outsider and one of nine independent witnesses in the case. In the affidavit, Sail says that after Aryan’s detention, “Gosavi was talking to Sam on the phone and stated that you put a bomb of 25 crores and let’s settle at 18 final because we have to give 8 crores to Sameer Wankhede”. “Bomb” denotes an inflated figure mentioned at the start of negotiations so that the final settlement would seem like a bargain. After the purported meeting that followed between Gosavi, Sam and Dadlani, Gosavi allegedly asked Sail to go to a spot near Indiana hotel and collect Rs 50 lakh in cash. Sail says an occupant of a white car, whose last four numbers were 5102, handed him two bags of cash. He delivered the bags to Gosavi, he says, and later to Sam at his employer’s instructions. In his affidavit, Sail says he had earlier accompanied Gosavi to the cruise ship on October 2. Sail says: “...K.P. Gosavi is missing now and I now fear that NCB officials and other persons involve(d) may kill me or abduct me like Gosavi.” The NCB, which reports to Union home minister Amit Shah, issued a statement saying Sail should submit his statement to the court. Mutha Ashok Jain, NCB deputy director-general (southwest), said in a statement: “Affidavit by Prabhakar Sail, witness in a crime case of NCB has come to my notice. As he is witness and case is sub judice, he needs to submit his prayer to the court rather than on social media if he has anything to say. “In addition, there are certain vigilance-related allegations against certain persons in the affidavit which are based on overhearing by Mr Prabhakar.... Our zonal director of Mumbai unit Sameer Wankhede has denied the allegation.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-91
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Schools, colleges in Bengal to open mid-November ||Educational institutions in Bengal will open from mid-November, as announced on Monday by chief minister Mamata Banerjee at Siliguri, amid a rise in Covid cases across the state post-Durga Puja. “Schools and colleges should be reopened from November 15 onwards. They have to be given time to sanitise,” Mamata told state chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi during an administrative meeting in the North Bengal town. “Kali Puja is on the 4th (of November), followed by Bhai Phonta on 6th, Chhat Puja on November 10 and 11 and Jagaddhatri on November 13. Whatever is to be done has to be from November 15 onwards,” Mamata said. The CM later clarified that classes 9-10, 11-12 & college, universities will reopen from November 16 as November 15 is a holiday on occasion of Birsa Munda jayanti. The state government has allocated Rs 110 crore for renovation of school buildings, which have been lying shut since March 2020. For around 400 government and government-aided schools in Calcutta and surrounding areas, Rs 7crore have been allocated. The schools had already been instructed to inspect the condition of the buildings and take up repair work. The state education department has instructed district inspectors for schools to ensure that the first round of sanitisation is completed by October 30. The second round of sanitisation will be carried out before the premises actually open. Though the government order on reopening of schools is still pending, sources said reopening is likely to be done in phases beginning with classes IX onwards. On Sunday, Bengal had reported 989 new cases of Covid-19, higher than the 974 cases recorded on the previous day. The highest number of cases were recorded from Calcutta (273) followed by adjoining North 24-Parganas (146). The Bengal government has relaxed most of the restrictions imposed in May this year after the elections, though curbs on educational institutions remained. Mamata had earlier hinted that schools could reopen after the festive season. CISCE and the CBSE have already announced dates for holding offline examinations from November 22 and November 30 respectively, which might have forced the state government’s hand in opening educational institutions, at a time when children are yet to be vaccinated. A Bengal government official said the central boards did not consult the state before announcing their offline schedule. Had the Bengal government delayed the opening of schools, students in CBSE and CISCE run schools would have faced problems in appearing in the exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
25-10-2021||West Bengal||No force can create further division of Bengal, says Mamata ||Mamata Banerjee said no force can create a further division of Bengal while speaking here on Sunday, her first public address in north Bengal after becoming the chief minister of the state for the third time in a row. Her unequivocal message, a source said, was part of her strategy to throw the gauntlet at the BJP which has in recent times been talking about carving out a state from  north Bengal. Mamata, who has time and again underscored that she and her party, the Trinamul Congress, are against any further partition of Bengal, on Sunday again asserted that any division of the state would compound the problems in the northern districts. “We do not believe in divide and rule. There is going to be no division of the state anymore... We want to stay together so that peace and amity prevail in the region. If we divide, there will be problems,” Mamata said at a “Bijoya Sanmilani” (a post-Dussehra get together) hosted by the Siliguri Metropolitan Police at Bagha Jatin Park of Siliguri. Such assertion of the chief minister comes at a time when a number of BJP functionaries, including elected representatives like Union minister of state for minority affairs and Alipurduar MP John Barla have demanded that a state should be carved out of north Bengal. A number of senior party leaders, including former state party chief Dilip Ghosh, had lent Barla support in a roundabout manner. Amid the debate on whether north Bengal can or should be divided, the Narendra Modi government brought the issue of the PPS (permanent political solution) out of the freezer earlier this month. Home minister Amit Shah held a tripartite meeting on the emotive subject involving Gorkha identity. In the course of her speech, Mamata also criticised the BJP for raising fingers at her government on the issue of post-poll violence and said that leaders of the saffron party had better take a look at the states where they are in power. She referred to the recent attack on party leader Sushmita Dev in BJP-ruled Tripura and avowed that they will never let “Bengal turn into Tripura.” “It is not so easy… we will not let Bengal become a Tripura. We will put all efforts to protect Bengal. In Tripura, no one can enter it and anybody going there has to face assault. No other political party (except the BJP) can hold political activities there. There has been a spate of violence in Tripura and things have reached such an extent that we have brought our injured party workers to Calcutta for treatment as they did not get proper medical treatment there. Similar is the situation in (BJP-ruled) Uttar Pradesh,” said Mamata. The chief minister, while addressing the crowd, also tried to drive home the point that she is concerned about the festivals of all the communities of the state. She announced that the state government has announced two days’ holiday on occasion of Chhat Puja celebrated next month. “I would ask all the DMs and SPs of the state to prepare the ghats we require for Chhat Puja. If required, some new ghats can be readied so that people can carry out rituals while adhering to Covid-19 safety protocols,” Mamata said. During the next two days, the chief minister will attend review meetings of four north Bengal districts, Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, Darjeeling and Kalimpong, which will be held at Uttarkanya (the branch secretariat of the state) in Siliguri and in Kurseong. Mamata will stay in north Bengal till Wednesday. The Bengal chief minister is scheduled to leave for Goa, the west Indian state where Trinamul has cast its focus, on Thursday. BJP-ruled Goa will have its Assembly elections in February next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Sunderbans youth on mission oxygen on two wheels||Soumitra Mondal, 29, from the remote Bali island of the Sunderbans, proved humanity exists even in the bleakest of times. On Saturday morning, Soumitra tied an oxygen concentrator to the carrier of his bicycle and cycled 15km on muddy roads and then lugged his vehicle on a boat to cross a river and reach a village in Basanti to help a Covid-19 patient’s need for oxygen support in that remote place. After a two-hour journey, he reached the patient,  an elderly woman,helped her out with the oxygen concentrator, before returning down the same tough terrain in the afternoon. Saturday was just another day for Soumitra, who has helped over 100 Covid-19 patients since the outbreak last year.  Before the pandemic, he used to be a contractual para teacher in a local school but Covid-19 made him jobless. But it did not make jim bitter. He became a volunteer, helping out people round the clock. “I saw it is tough for people in these remote islands to get oxygen cylinders or medicines in good time, so I started arranging oxygen cylinders with the help of a few NGOs. Now I have six oxygen cylinders and two oxygen concentrators. As I have no other vehicle, I have to carry the cylinders or concentrators on my cycle,” he said. On Saturday, when Amal Nayek, a retired teacher from Shibganj contacted Soumitra for oxygen support for his ailing wife, a Covid-19 patient, the youth did not waste any time. “I am now used to these trips, as I have been doing this since the summer of 2020,” he said. Nayek, who is also known in the area as a social worker, said he was very grateful to Soumitra. “My wife got infected with Covid-19 and was released from a nursing home, but she needed oxygen at home. I called Soumitra, and he took just two hours to reach our home with the oxygen concentrator. It is truly admirable,” said Nayek. Soumitra, who is diabetic, contracted Covid in June. “I got Covid, but the pandemic can’t stop me from helping people. Here, the main challenge is access to a hospital in time. Locations are such that people have to rely on boats. I will help in whichever way I can,” he said. The local administration has allowed Mondal to board boats gratis, for his services. “What he has been doing is remarkable. Everyone should accord all help possible to him,” said a district official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Explosion at vacant house in Malda||An explosion ripped apart a vacant house at Patuatuli village in Malda district on Sunday after crude bombs went off, triggering panic in the area. Police rushed to the spot and have seized 40-odd crude bombs from the house and also from an adjacent litchi grove. Investigations have started. According to sources, the explosion occurred at the house of Samiul around 10am, which was under lock and key. Sheikh works as a migrant worker in Kashmir. His family also stays with him. “The room and walls of Sheikh’s house have been damaged in the explosion,” said a source. “Preliminary investigations have revealed that as the migrant worker had left his house locked and some anti-socials were using it for making and storing crude bombs,” said a police officer. Anticipating that more bombs were stored at the locality, the police launched a search and soon found more crude bombs kept hidden in the litchi plantation adjacent to the house. The bomb squad of CID was summoned and the bombs were defused at the site in the afternoon. In Malda, crude bombs are made in different parts of Kaliachak and are used by miscreants during gang wars. Those bombs are mostly kept stored at orchards where people do not visit regularly. Madanmohan Roy, the inspector-in-charge of Kaliachak police station, said no arrests have been made so far. “We are conducting a search across the village. Also, our officers have gathered some information and are trying to trace those who had stored the bombs at the spot. We are also finding out whether anybody was injured in the explosion,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Funds sanctioned for town near Bhutan border||The state municipal affairs and urban development department has sanctioned a sum of Rs 12 crore for infrastructure development of Jaigaon, the town in Alipurduar district on the India-Bhutan border. “We thank the state government for sanctioning the fund. It will be spent for improvement of roads, sewerage and solid waste management of Jaigaon. We have spoken with officials of Kalchini block (Jaigaon is located under this block in Alipurduar)) and have also sought some projects from them. The state fund will help in giving a facelift to Jaigaon and its surrounding areas,” said Gangaprasad Sharma, the chairman of Jaigaon Development Authority (JDA). Jaigaon is close to Phuentsholing, the commercial capital of Bhutan and the most popular entry route to the Himalayan kingdom from India. Over the years, members of the business community and residents in general dwelling in Jaigaon have demanded better infrastructure   in the town, whose shabby look is in sharp contrast with Bhutan’s Phuentsholing. “On our side, the roads are narrow and there is no parking space for vehicles. Also, our town has no proper waste disposal system is unlike Phuentsholing which is neat and clean. The roads in Phuentsholing are wide with dedicated parking lots. We, too, want a clean town with proper infrastructure. It is good that the state government has sanctioned funds for our town,” said a trader based in Jaigaon. Sharma, the JDA chairman, said he has identified around 18 roads which require extensive repairs and drainage. Also, some localities, which are beside hilly streams flowing down from Bhutan, have been identified, he said. “During the monsoon months, these streams swell and cause flash floods and minor landslides, damaging roads and houses. Appropriate protection work would be carried out in these sites,” Sharma explained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Biswa Bangla all set to launch fairs in districts||Biswa Bangla, a retail enterprise established by the micro, small and medium enterprises department of the Bengal government, has decided to promote the art, craft, culture and food of each of the 23 districts of the state through fairs in every district. The initiative will be launched from December with the first fair in Murshidabad. While the primary objective will be to promote the heritage of that particular district, these fairs will give the Biswa Bangla brand, a brainchild of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, an opportunity to regain the business that it has lost during the pandemic. “Biswa Bangla is looking at promoting crafts and textiles of different districts to pull in customers post pandemic and open new vistas for artisans in the grassroots through this,” said Partho Kar, chief consultant to the enterprise. According to Kar, two such fairs will be held every quarter in the coming months, starting with the one in Murshidabad in the third week of December. This will be followed by a fair at Bolpur in Birbhum early next year. “The pandemic had hit Biswa Bangla just like any other retail business. However, in the last few months things have been looking up,” Kar said, adding the enterprise has maintained its 100 odd employees during the pandemic and paid them their full salary. Biswa Bangla works directly with around 15,000 artisan families across the state. These craftspersons have also been victims of the pandemic induced lockdown. As the new initiative is likely to attract more orders, artisans will now get more work, hoped Kar. Sources in the government said that it was also planning to organise the flagship business convention, the Bengal Global Business Summit, in April after a two-year hiatus. “We are going to organise the BGBS in April. MSME, indigenous arts and crafts have always been our focus in the summit. Two Biswa Bangla events (the two fairs) immediately before the summit will have a positive effect in general,” an official at the MSME department said. Every Biswa Bangla store— there are nine such stores including one each in Delhi and Hyderabad — will also have banners and posters with the history and a commentary highlighting the heritage of a district and its exclusive products that its craftspersons are famed for, Kar said. He also added that an artisan, who carves out replicas of products made out of ivory during the time of the Nawabs, has been identified. This person uses a Korean stone to make ivory replicas and he will also be a part of the fair.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata lambasts Modi govt over hype around 100 crore Covid jabs||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday lambasted the Narendra Modi government over its hype around the 100 crore Covid-19 vaccination doses administered in the country, calling it yet another “jumla”. Mamata said when only about 30 crore people or less than 23 per cent of India’s 130-odd crore population are fully vaccinated, there is no need for such celebrations. “This (the 100 crore vaccinations) is nothing but another jumla,” she said in Siliguri. “Jumla” has come to mean unfulfilled promises. “What is the meaning of this noise when barely 30 crore people have been fully vaccinated and over 35 crore people have not received a single dose. Vaccination process for those below 18 years of age has not even begun yet.… Unless you administer the double dose to the entire population, there is no point in such a show,” said Mamata. Of the 102.3 crore vaccine doses administered in the country, only 30.5 crore have been second doses. She also spoke on Covaxin. “There has been a bit of keleyngkari (scandal). He (Modi) took Covaxin. He went for a trip to the US. But they have failed to obtain (WHO) recognition for Covaxin, which is inconveniencing countless people, including students, who can’t go abroad for no fault of theirs, because they received Covaxin,” she said. “I had written to him to expedite recognition for Covaxin….” Bengal received from the Centre barely seven crore of the 14 crore vaccine doses it needs, she said. “It is being said we are number 3 three among states in terms of vaccination. Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh are ahead of us because they got more doses than us.” Bengal, with a population of around 10 crore, has so far administered over 7.2 crore doses, including 1.97 crore second doses. After a Puja lull, Bengal administered over 55 lakh doses in the past seven days. Covid numbers On Sunday, Bengal reported 989 new Covid-19 cases, 828 recoveries and 10 deaths. Active cases rose by 151 to 7,882. On Sunday, Bengal reported 989 new Covid-19 infections, 828 recoveries and 10 deaths, resulting in a rise by 151 in the total of active cases, or people under treatment of the infection, to 7,882. Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in active cases on September 26. In these 29 days, including Durga Puja and preceding and succeeding weeks, there has been a net rise of 208 in the state’s active cases, from the 7,674 of September 25. A minister said new infections being reported now were indicative of people who got infected between October 15 and 19 (Vijaya Dashami to Lakshmi Puja). Calcutta reported 273 new infections on Sunday and North 24-Parganas 146, the only two of Bengal’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases in a day. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen districts reported zero deaths, Calcutta and North 24-Parganas two each. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 719 or 72.7 per cent of the new infections detected. Bengal now has 4.73 per cent of the national total of active cases, and remains sixth among states with the highest number of such cases. Its recovery rate, 98.33 per cent even till Wednesday, fell to 98.32 on Thursday, 98.31 on Saturday and 98.30 on Sunday. The recovery rate, nationally, remained 98.14 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.32 per cent on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee greets Anit Thapa as 'bondhu' from hills||Mamata Banerjee landed at Bagdogra airport on the plains of Darjeeling district on Sunday afternoon but the rumbles were felt in the hills of Darjeeling. This is because three major political forces in the hills; the Anit Thapa-headed Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM), the Bimal Gurung-led Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) and Binay Tamang, who plans to start his “third chapter” of his political career are all allies of Trinamul Congress but are intensely competing against each other to be the “closest” to the chief minister. Amid the rivalry and the game of perception, Anit Thapa seems to be leading. Only Thapa shared the dais at the chief minister’s function in Siliguri on Sunday afternoon. The importance of Mamata’s invitation to Thapa for the Siliguri event could be gauged from the reactions in his party. Pictures of Thapa at the event and also a 22-second video where Mamata addressed Thapa as our “bondhu (friend)” from Darjeeling were immediately and widely circulated by leaders of the BGPM. Many believe that the perception of having the “blessings” of the state government has gained importance in the hills amid talks that elections to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) and panchayats can be held immediately. GTA elections are due since 2017. The last one-tier gram panchayat election in the hills was last held in 2000. Thapa’s party leaders have also started creating a narrative that Mamata’s decision to hold the administrative meeting for Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts in Kurseong on October 26, is a further reinforcement of the state’s blessings to Thapa. Thapa hails from Kurseong. In what many hill observers felt was a last-minute damage control measure, Thapa’s former leader Tamang issued a press release signed as “former GTA chairman” reminding all that an earlier administrative meeting had also been held at Kurseong in 2019. Tamang also stated in his media statement that he would want to see Mamata Banerjee as the Prime Minister of India in 2024. Asked if he was meeting Mamata, Tamang told this paper that nothing is confirmed. The Bimal Gurung camp, however, was more candid. “We have sought an appointment to meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee but have not received any confirmation yet,” said Roshan Giri, the general secretary of GJM. Bimal Gurung and Mamata Banerjee, despite being political allies now, have shared a blow-hot, blow-cold relationship in the past. Even though Gurung decided to ally with Trinamul last year, ditching his decade-old ally BJP, there has been no public announcement of the two leaders meeting each other. Rivals Thapa and Giri also hoped that elections either to GTA or two-tier panchayat elections will be held in Darjeeling soon. According to a 1992 constitutional amendment, only a two-tier panchayat election (gram panchayat and panchayat samiti) can be held in the hills. There are no provisions for holding elections to the third tier, zilla parishad, unless the Constitution is amended again. Even so, the elections to one tier, which is the gram panchayat, was last held in 2000. Insiders maintain Thapa is planning on a rousing reception for Mamata when she ascends the hills on Tuesday. Sources maintain that Thapa’s party is also looking at replacing office-bearers of Khas, Rai and minority development board. “The final decision, however, lies with the chief minister,” said a BGPM source. The state government has formed 16 development boards for various hill communities. There are allegations of widespread corruption against certain boards. Many in the hills are expecting the chief minister to take stock of the development surrounding the setting of Darjeeling Hills University, which has yet to make a headstart as a vice-chancellor to the university has not yet been appointed following difference of opinion between the state government and the governor on the issue. The recent landslide and the administration’s promptness are also likely to be discussed in the administrative meeting. The district administration of Darjeeling and Kalimpong have been communicating to the media of the initiatives being taken to reopen NH-10 and other roads in the districts. Political parties in the hills are also vying against each other in deploying earthmovers to clear roads, too.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Wild elephants get stranded in Jalpaiguri ||A herd of wild elephants got stranded in the Teshimla and Kumlai area of Malbazar block of Jalpaiguri on Sunday morning. Sources said a herd of elephants had strayed out of Apalchand forest and entered the area on Saturday. A section of this herd walked into Kumlai and Teshimla villages and took shelter near a tea estate. As the news spread, a team from Malbazar wildlife squad and police reached the spot. Dipen Subba, the range officer of the squad, said they were monitoring the elephants and would steer them into the forest in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Bhola fish 'taller than a man' trapped in Gosaba ||A team of five fishermen — Bikash Burman, Rahul Burman, Saikat Burman, Kamalesh Burman and Kalipad Barr —  from  Sonagaon village of Gosaba island, South 24-Parganas, trapped a Bhola fish “taller than a man” from a creek linked to Kapura river on Saturday afternoon. The fish, which was 7 feet long and weighs 78.4 kilos was later brought to the Canning market for auction in the evening. A Calcutta-based fish trading company bought it for Rs 37,53,811. “We had never seen such a giant fish in this market. The fish was sold at the rate of Rs.47,880 per kilo in the auction,” said Prabhat Mondal, a fish trader in Canning. A fish exporter claimed that the giant fish, colloquially known as “Telia Bhola” has immense medicinal value. “The blubber (primary fat storage) of this fish has huge demand in the foreign markets. That’s why it is exported for medicinal purpose,” the trader added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata asks Modi to withdraw extension of BSF's jurisdiction||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to immediately withdraw a Union home ministry notification that extends the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force (BSF) from 15km to 50km within Indian territory from the international borders Bengal shares with neighbouring Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan. The wider footprint will bring around 37 per cent of the total geographical territory of Bengal within the ambit of the central paramilitary force, Mamata has pointed out in a letter to Modi. The entire territory of Bengal adds up to “88,752sqkm, of which around 32,400sqkm (equivalent to 37 per cent of the state’s total territory) will come within the expanded territorial jurisdiction of the BSF, and thus interfere with the executive powers of the state and the state police’s ability to maintain the law and order in such areas”, the letter said. On October 11, the Union home ministry came up with a notification that empowers the BSF to conduct raids and make arrests and seizures in areas located within 50km from the borders without requiring permission from the state police. Mamata, who usually does not make political statements during the festive season, broke her silence on the issue on Sunday. “It is just an attempt to try and grab control over a considerable area of the state,” she said in Siliguri. A retired police officer agreed: “What the chief minister has mentioned is absolutely correct. If we consider the entire north Bengal region and Murshidabad district, an estimate indicates that the BSF will have access to the entire area spread across as many as 70 police stations. The number is likely to touch 100 if we consider other districts like Nadia and North 24-Parganas which also share borders with Bangladesh.” After the notification was issued, several trade bodies in Bengal and exporters had expressed fear that the smooth flow of goods could be affected and local economies in the border districts harmed. Opposition parties such as the CPM and the Congress, too, had raised questions. Charanjit Singh Channi, chief minister of Punjab that shares borders with Pakistan, too had voiced objections. In her letter, Mamata has mentioned that altogether, the BSF would have jurisdiction in 11 districts of the state while underscoring some of the practical problems that would crop up. “Most of the areas which will now fall under the newly delineated jurisdiction of the BSF are densely populated, and extending the powers of the BSF in such areas is fraught with the potential issues which are bound to arise when a force unfamiliar with the local populace, language, geography and society, is also put in the charge of administering law and order in such areas,” the chief minister said. In the three-page letter, she has elaborated on the police infrastructure of Bengal which has three zones, 10 ranges, 29 police districts, seven commissionerates, 631 police stations with 491 outposts and other specialised units. The state police are “thus well-equipped and better-placed than the BSF to promptly respond to any situation in the areas affected by the notification”, Mamata has written to Modi. Mamata, who has time and again protested the Centre’s attempts at usurping the state’s powers, has accused the Modi government of creating a parallel investigating agency for offences that fall within the state police’s jurisdiction. “In a federal structure, the requirement of obtaining the relevant state’s concurrence and consent is central to the exercise of jurisdiction of any central force, such as the BSF, in the state. Given the absence of such concurrence, the notification is a violation of the basic structure of the Constitution, of which federalism is an inviolable part,” the chief minister said in the letter. Mamata, who reached Siliguri on Sunday afternoon on a five-day visit, said at a public event: “Some people… have taken such a decision politically…. We don’t endorse it. We have good relations with Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal and don’t need such extension of jurisdiction here. It is just an attempt to try and grab control over a considerable area of the state.” Trinamul sources said the letter — and the brief comment at the Siliguri event — were the beginning of a long-drawn protest the chief minister was planning on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-37
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Bid to bring back dropouts to schools in South 24-Parganas||The South 24-Parganas district administration has launched an endeavour to bring back children who were compelled to leave studies for financial reasons back to school, in a move that will be amalgamated with the state’s pre-existing Kanyashree endeavour for adolescent girls. Kulpi block officials aided by a social organisation have begun mapping out such regions and motivating children and their parents to resume school activities. The ‘Kanyashree Prakalpa’ and ‘Scheme for Adolescent Girls’ (SAG), with the support of individuals and social organisations like ‘Child In Need Institute’ (CINI), which work for poor children in India, are jointly behind the effort. “Since poverty is one of the prime causes behind such drop outs, the district administration wants to ensure that the parents of such children are covered by suitable welfare schemes as per their eligibility,” said an official. The local administration last month re-admitted at least 12 such drop outs, including a girl who left for an underage marriage and also a special needs child who stopped going to school for peer abuse and bullying. Jhuma Das, 15, Sanchita Purkait, 14, Saheba Khatun, and Azhar Mollah, 12 will once again be attending regular classes at the Gumuk Beria Braja Mohan High School in Gajipur once the pandemic restrictions are lifted. At 13, Jhuma had to stop her studies in order to get married. She, however, escaped from her in laws’ home in the wake of alleged physical and mental torture. She was spotted by SAG-KP facilitators during a door-to-door Covid awareness programme. She has been admitted to Class IX. “I am eagerly waiting to visit the classroom again,” Jhuma said. Sanchita had begun working as domestic aid in Calcutta with her mother two years ago to keep the family afloat. Her ailing father, a tricycle paddler, expressed his inability to continue paying for her studies. She was also spotted during a Covid awareness initiative. Madhumita Halder, a facilitator under the SAG-KP programme said, “During door to door Covid and health awareness programmes for girls, we noticed many girls and boys had stopped their studies primarily in the absence of smart phones as they could not attend online classes and also owing to financial reasons in most cases. At the same time, we found some other students who stopped going to school even before the pandemic situation began. We talked to them and their families and later appraised the district administration so as to get them back to school.” “We tried to solve their problems which convinced them to resume studies. CINI provided all support including organising counselling sessions for the children since they had difficult past,” Madhumita said, further adding that since these children are disconnected with studies they would soon be brought under special free coaching arranged by the block administration. An official of CINI added, “Our sole objective is to prevent drop outs and to develop a conducive atmosphere for education. Our front-line workers in association with administrative authorities engage in dialogues with families of dropped out students or those at risk to highlight how the benefits of education would in long term benefit them. To prevent drop outs, we also offer supplementary education support and other possible means in consultation with the administration”. Kulpi’s joint BDO Tarif Islam told The Telegraph, “Bringing back dropout students to school is a continuing process. But bringing back dropouts after over two years is a unique initiative which we have launched under the SAG-KP convergence scheme. We have taken the support of social organisations like CINI in this endeavour. Not just CINI, we are at the same time involved with other organisations and individuals so that the mapping of such students can be done on a wider level so as to get them back to school again.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Gosaba bridge in byelection battle on October 30||A three-year wait for clearance from the Narendra Modi government for a bridge to connect Gadkhali and Gosaba in South 24-Parganas has become a major issue in the Gosaba bypoll on October 30. The proposed bridge over the confluence of four rivers, Durgaduani, Hogol, Vidyadhari and Kartoa is expected to overhaul the socio-economic scenario in remote Sunderbans. Right now, it takes around 30 minutes to cross the confluence of four rivers and reach Gosaba from Gadkhali. Once the bridge gets constructed, travel time will be cut down to three minutes. The bypoll in Gosaba was  necessitated as victorious Trinamul MLA Jayanta Naskar died of Covid in June this year. Naskar had defeated his closest rival, Barun Pramanik of the BJP, by over 23,000 votes. This time, Trinamul’s Subrata Mondal is pitted against the BJP’s Palash Rana. In October 2018, the Bengal government had planned to build a 1km bridge to connect Gadkhali and Gosaba. The public works department of the state government had sanctioned Rs 285 crore in the 2017-18 fiscal to the Sunderbans affairs department, which is the implementing authority of the project. Preliminary work started to build the bridge. However, a critical component to implement the project is awaited — getting clearance from the Union ministry of environment and forests — as the site of the bridge falls within Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ). The notification for CRZ rules was issued by the Union ministry of environment and forests in February 1991 to regulate activities in coastal areas. Under it, coastal land up to 500m from high tide line and 100m from the banks of creeks, lagoons, estuaries, backwaters and rivers subject to tidal fluctuations are earmarked under CRZ. Hence, without central nod, the work to build the bridge could not be started although the Mamata Banerjee government sanctioned Rs 285 crore for it three years ago. . “The latest communication with the Centre on this vital bridge happened in July after I took oath as minister. The BJP-led government is doing what they do for other projects in Bengal, delaying its nod,” said Bankim Hazra, the Sunderbans affairs minister. This alleged central indifference has become the focal theme of Trinamul’s campaign in the Gosaba by-poll. “The state government has sanctioned funds for it but the BJP is making the people of Gosaba suffer by sitting on a crucial permission. We are telling people how they are being deprived,” said Trinamul candidate Mondal. BJP’s Rana countered this charge. “There are conditions and the state government needs to fulfil those (before getting the Centre’s permission). The problem is that Trinamul is trying to misguide the people of Gosaba on this issue with an eye on the bypoll,” said Rana but could not elaborate on the conditions. District officials said the bridge would help provide better and faster health care services to people of Gosaba. “We need to wait for a trawler to carry emergency patients or pregnant women who need to be shifted to a sub-divisional hospital in Canning. During low tide, boats can’t operate properly and patients have to wait for as long as an hour for the high tide. With the bridge, patients can be transferred to Canning in ambulances within a few minutes,” said Indranil Bargi, the block medical officer of health in Gosaba. This apart, policing in the remote islands would become easier once the link comes into operation. At present, police use boats to reach far-off islands in Gosaba but the bridge will help cops to travel in vehicles. “Now, we send forces in advance to tackle situations like cyclones. The bridge will help us to communicate with the islands easily,” said Vaibhav Tiwari, the Baruipur police superintendent under whose jurisdiction Gosaba falls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
25-10-2021||West Bengal||Couple and five-year-old son found dead in Cooch Behar district||A couple and their five-year-old son were found dead at their house at a village located under Dinhata-II block of Cooch Behar district on Sunday. According to police, Manoranjan Sarkar, 52, a casual worker and a resident of Tiyadaha-Kishamat village, hacked his wife Santana, 22, and son Rony, 5, to death and then committed suicide by hanging. “During preliminary investigation, we have come to know that the couple had differences and would often indulge into fights. On Sunday, as none of the family members came of the house and the doors remained closed till late morning, some locals checked and found them dead inside,” said Sumit Kumar, Cooch Behar district police chief. The villagers informed police and soon, a team rushed to the spot. “All three bodies have been sent for post-mortem. Investigations have started,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-38
25-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Torn fabric||Social media has been weaponized by bigots to proverbially beat up pliant victims. The recent storm in the social media tea cup over Fabindia’s introduction of a new collection titled ‘Jashn-e-Riwaaz’ during the festive season adhered to a predictable, sickening, dispiriting script. Thin-skinned, self-professed guardians of the Hindu faith took umbrage, alleging that this was an attempt on the part of the company to ‘de-Hinduize’ Diwali. Fabindia denied that the line was its Diwali collection: there would not be a problem even if it was the case — giving in to the poisoning of language, including advertisement lingo, is a mischief that must be resisted at every level. Unfortunately, Fabindia refused to stand up to the bullying and took down some of the promotional tweets of the new range of clothing after social media echoed with calls of boycotting its products. The capitulation of businesses in the face of an ideological witch-hunt has become de rigueur in New India. A jewellery brand of the Tatas, one of India’s most respectable establishments, had been singed by an equally toxic campaign because it had chosen to, quite refreshingly, endorse interfaith marriages, yet another pillar of pluralist India that is now under siege. These vicious campaigns, targeting businesses or political and ideological opponents of bigotry, reveal the double-facedness of Narendra Modi and his government. In the face of criticism, the prime minister is in the habit of mouthing homilies that talk of accommodation. His slogan, ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas’, is a classic example of this lip-service. Mr Modi falls short when it comes to translating words into action by rooting out engineered divisiveness. The consequences of this wilful inertia are chilling. Apart from embossing the republic with a distinct majoritarian imprint, the complicity also encourages a loony constituency that is no longer limited to the fringes to subvert constitutional traditions and the rule of law. Businesses suffer too. There is plentiful research to suggest that a communal ethic is injurious to the entrepreneurial spirit. The submission of the captains of Indian industry may have something to do with the culture of institutionalized intimidation. They must recover their voice of reproach if India is to continue to function as a robust, assimilative democracy. But this mobilization of industry to condemn intolerance will only be possible if businessmen receive adequate support from their most important patron — the common man.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
25-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Amit Shah visits Jammu and Kashmir||Too little Sir — During his maiden visit to Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370, the Union home minister, Amit Shah, tried to woo the youth by alluring them with financial benefits (“Na bhai na: Shah”, Oct 24). Shah’s realization that the need of the hour is to bridge the trust deficit with Kashmiris is too little, too late. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s strident political posturing and autocratic policies have not won the government any friends. So long as Delhi continues with its policy of repressing Kashmiris and fails to initiate a genuine political process, restoring normalcy in the Valley will remain a distant dream. S.S. Paul,Nadia Human touch Sir — There are fears that journalism could be the next industry to fall prey to automation. Some news organizations recently used artificial intelligence to report on the Kandahar mosque blast. Although journalism involves reporting of dry facts, the role of emotions in this process cannot be undermined. For instance, a journalist speaking to people rendered homeless by a flood can never be replaced by the dehumanized reporting of a robot. Ranganathan Sivakumar,Chennai Ruled out Sir — A Delhi court recently denied bail to Sharjeel Imam, the Jawaharlal Nehru University student arrested for allegedly instigating rioting with his ‘inflammatory speech’ (“Proof sketchy but no bail”, Oct 23). It beats reason that although there is little to no evidence of the charges brought against Imam, he was denied bail. In a democracy, it is expected that anyone who goes to court will be treated fairly and presumed innocent until proven guilty. Further, the Supreme Court has made it clear that bail is the rule and jail the exception. But India’s lower courts refuse to get the message. How will Imam be compensated for the time he is losing in incarceration? Jahar Saha,Calcutta Fact check Sir — Even if one were to look past the fact only 30 per cent of India’s eligible population has been fully vaccinated, it cannot be forgotten that more than 4,53,000 people have lost their lives owing to the callousness of the government (“Blank noise”, Oct 22). While the prime minister falsely boasted of providing one billion vaccines for free, did he stop to recall the hundreds of migrant workers who lost their lives owing to an ill-planned lockdown or the countless children who took their own lives because they could not afford online education? Yet, rather than apologizing for his massive failure, the prime minister took credit for feats of statistical jugglery. This is a mockery of those who have lost their lives, directly or indirectly, owing to Covid. Kajal Chatterjee,Calcutta Sir — The prime minister’s address to the nation after one billion Covid-19 vaccines had been administered in India is not just premature but also childish. Other nations have started administering booster shots while 70 million vulnerable adults in India and most of its under-18 population remain unvaccinated. Vaccination in India is still making up for faulty policy at the start when the Centre thoughtlessly passed on the burden of procuring vaccines to the states. Worse, the prime minister was lying when he said one billion vaccines had been provided free of cost. At the height of the vaccine shortage, some hospitals charged exorbitant sums for the vaccines. He has nothing to be proud about. S.K. Choudhury,Bangalore Talk more Sir — The meeting of countries with a stake in Afghanistan — with the exception of the United States of America — in Moscow is a step forward. Although no one is in a hurry to recognize the Taliban government, regional forces are eager to see peace return to Afghanistan. It is thus commendable that India has promised humanitarian aid to that country in spite of the Taliban government. If influential countries can look past their personal gains, the Afghanistan crisis might just be resolved. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh Sir — The Moscow Format Consultations on Afghanistan are a cause for concern. This matter needs a careful diplomatic touch. Arindam Banik,Calcutta  Deepening gloom Sir — It is gloomy both outside and inside. An overcast sky can mess up mental health by inducing a chemical imbalance in the brain. It has been proven that on gloomy or rainy days, the brain produces very little serotonin — aka the happy hormone — making one feel unhappy or blue. This increases the possibility of seasonal affective disorder, causing fatigue, social withdrawal, hopelessness and depressive thoughts. Given that climate change is ensuring year-long monsoon-like conditions in cities like Calcutta which are close to the sea, the link between mental health and climate change needs to be explored further. Kasturi Ghosh,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
25-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Clear signs||The signs of green turning grey are everywhere; but few bother to read them. A new study has revealed that India has lost nearly two million hectares of tree cover — this includes plantations as well as natural forests — over the last two decades. Of this, the northeastern states account for 76.7 per cent. But this should not come as a surprise — the decline in green cover in the Northeast has been discernible for quite some time. Even two years ago, the India State of Forest Report 2019 showed that while forest cover in many parts of the country had increased, it had decreased in all northeastern states apart from Assam and Tripura. However, the then environment minister had decided to wish these symptoms away by claiming that they were not “yet a matter of concern”. What makes the situation all the more worrying is that the Northeast, which is home to one-fourth of India’s forest cover, houses a number of endangered species of flora and fauna. Shrinking tree cover would undoubtedly threaten the biodiversity of not only the region but also the country. A targeted investigation into tree cover loss — the complete removal of tree cover canopy — is the need of the hour in order to address the problems typical to the region. For example, shifting cultivation poses a grave threat to its green cover. Besides clearing off vast stretches for farming, it aggravates the risk of forest fires — the average number of such calamities in northeastern states is twice that in central states. Alternative farming practices need to be incentivized and local communities sensitized about the need for forest conservation. Further, policy intervention must focus on sustainability. For instance, the Centre’s plan to introduce oil palm cultivation to discourage the jhum practice has invited sharp criticism from environmentalists — these plantations, it is argued not without reason, damage the quality of soil irreversibly. If India is to fulfil its target of increasing its green cover to 33 per cent to meet the Paris Agreement goal, then such short-sightedness will not suffice. Instead of tweaking laws to make nominal changes to the status of forests — the proposed amendment to the Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980 is a recent example — the government needs to crack down on lopsided templates of development that cause large-scale deforestation. The crisis is not restricted to the Northeast alone — the national capital may lose over 5,000 trees to a ‘development’ project. As such, a fundamental change in perspective is imperative. No progress can be ushered in at the cost of nature. Will the government understand this before it is too late?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
25-10-2021||Opinion||Tricky Game||It’s possible that the tide which brought hard-right populist governments to power in a number of central European countries is starting to go out again. In the Czech Republic, the billionaire oligarch, Andrej Babis, suffered a surprise defeat in his bid to be re-elected prime minister earlier this month. The last straw may have been the revelation in the Pandora Papers only days before that he had set up an offshore company to secretly buy a $17.6 million mansion in southern France. In Hungary, the Jew-baiting, Muslim-hating, ultra-nationalist president, Viktor Orbán, suddenly has to worry about winning re-election next year. The perennially split Opposition parties managed to unite and made the mayor of a small town their candidate. If they can manage to stay united, they might even bring Orbán down next year. In Poland, which has twice the population of the other two combined, the populist Law and Justice party (PiS) is drifting into troubled waters too. It doesn’t face re-election until 2023, but by then it may manage to get Poland expelled from the European Union: Polexit. That would greatly upset the 88 per cent of Poles who want to stay in the EU. The PiS is a deeply conservative party in the Catholic tradition, with populist trimmings like a government subsidy of about $125 per month for each child under 18. Its voters are mostly rural and small-town, deeply religious, older, and poorly educated. They respond well to racist, xenophobic, and anti-Semitic rhetoric.The PiS has been in power since 2015, but almost every recent election has been a hair’s-breadth victory: it is as unpopular in the liberal cities as it is beloved in the villages. So it set itself the task of improving its chances in future elections. One obvious measure was to take control of the media. That was easy with the State-owned media. However, it proved impossible to take over or freeze out the independent media, especially the foreign-owned ones, because EU law defends free speech. Polish courts upheld the EU laws as every member country had to pledge when it joined that on such matters EU law takes precedence over national laws and Constitutions. So the PiS decided to get around this roadblock by ‘reforming’ the Polish courts. First, the PiS government forced a lot of judges out by lowering the retirement age, and replaced them with PiS supporters. When the EU objected to this blatantly political tampering with the courts, it packed the Constitutional Tribunal with its own people and they declared that Polish law is superior to EU law. At that point, the Play-Doh hit the fan. The European Commission declared that rulings by the European Court of Justice are “binding on all member states’ authorities, including national courts.” France’s Europe minister was blunter: “[T]here is the risk of a de-facto exit.” He’s right. The PiS is playing a game of chicken with the EU, of course, and has no intention of actually leaving the EU. As the streets of Warsaw and other Polish big cities filled with young people chanting ‘Zostajemy’ (‘We’re staying’), the prime minister, Mateusz Morawiecki, declared, “The place of Poland is and will be in the European family of nations” — but he is already in over his head. Right now, Poland is awaiting approval of a $65 billion transfer from Brussels as its share of the EU’s $865 billion post-Covid ‘stimulus package’. But that and much else might not come if Poland is in revolt against the EU’s rules. Russia is still close, and although nobody is expecting a Russian invasion at the moment, all of Polish history is shouting that you don’t want to be alone out there. So it really should all blow over, but games of chicken are tricky. You have to drive like you have a death wish, and then turn away at the last second — but just after the other guy did. It’s really hard to get the timing right, and if you get it wrong, you drive off the cliff. Polexit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
25-10-2021||Opinion||Stormy weather||‘God’s Own Country’ is certainly Kerala’s grandiose moniker coined by its vibrant tourism industry. The state’s picturesque landscape, salubrious climate, and relative immunity to natural disasters, despite its fragile ecology, have certainly appeared to be providential blessings. Kerala, for long, had remained safe even when other states used to suffer natural disasters regularly. No wonder Kerala’s great floods of 1924 were a constant theme in Malayalam literature and cinema for almost a century. According to a historian, old people in Kerala even anchored their memories in relation to that flood. But this story is undergoing a major transition. Kerala now appears to be slipping out of god’s protection, thanks mostly to humans. Kerala is being visited by nature’s wrath with stunning regularity, especially since 2017, although the first major calamity to hit the state was the tsunami of 2004. In the latest round, torrential rains battered the state for four days from October 15, causing floods and landslips that took 50 lives and caused much loss to property. The heavy rains were caused by a low-pressure area over southwestern Arabian Sea. The first in the devastating series was the Ockhi cyclone of November 2017. The tropical cyclone, classified as ‘very severe’, made landfall in Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu and Kerala before spiralling away towards Gujarat. As many as 143 fishermen were killed in Kerala by this most intense cyclonic storm in the Arabian Sea after Cyclone Megh in 2015. Next year, Kerala suffered the worst floods of the century. Caused by abnormally heavy monsoon rains during June-August, it killed about 500 and caused damages worth Rs 40,000 crore. Heart-rending images of swollen rivers and dams, beautiful landscapes, houses, roads, bridges, temples, churches, and even airports reeling under waters, hills ravaged by landslips, marooned men and women being airlifted by choppers and so on were new to Kerala. The only silver lining was the massive voluntary participation of Kerala’s civil society in the rescue and rehabilitation operations led by various official agencies and the government. But since then, the eerie images have become all too familiar every August. On August 8, 2019, the southwestern monsoon came down, once again, in torrents, triggered by a depression in the Arabian Sea, with its usual attendants — floods, landslips, deaths, devastation. The death toll reached 129 within a week and 80-odd landslides caused most of them. According to a study, the floods were caused primarily by a mesoscale cloudburst event, more common in the north but never reported before in the Kerala region. Kerala reported the first case of Covid-19 in India in January next year. This year, too, Kerala awaited the monsoon with bated breath amidst fears of an encore. The India Meteorological Department issued red alerts in three districts. With clockwork precision, the heavy downpour triggered floods in various districts on August 7. However, the major havoc was confined to one hill district, Idukki, where a huge landslip at a tea plantation near Munnar killed 52 labourers when their settlements were buried under. The region faced its heaviest rains in four decades. Misfortune struck Kerala again the same day when the Air India Express Flight 737 from Dubai skidded off the tabletop runway while landing amidst heavy rains at the Calicut international airport, killing 19 passengers and both pilots. The flight had 184 passengers and was repatriating Indians stranded due to the pandemic. There is now a debate on why Kerala is faced with this regular cycle of disasters and their consequences. A blame game is on as well. The government has slammed the IMD for not forecasting precisely. The IMD and the Opposition blame the government for ignoring warnings and not learning lessons from the past. The inept management of the state’s 40-odd large dams accentuated the floods. Experts cite reasons, ranging from climate change to anthropogenic commissions like stone quarries in ecologically sensitive zones, conversion of paddy fields that used to absorb rains, the mining of river beds, razing hills for indiscriminate construction, mono-crop cultivation and so on. Madhav Gadgil’s report (2011) had predicted the possible calamities that would be caused by the destruction of the Western Ghats on account of encroachment, quarrying, and other factors. But political parties of all hues and the Christian churches worked together to reject the report to appease vote banks and religious constituencies. Kerala has nearly 6,000 stone quarries of which only about 1,000 are licensed. Most quarries are located near forests or in ecologically sensitive zones and 78 of the 115 landslides that occurred between 1983 and 2015 were in these zones. “The state of Kerala has always considered itself a safe place, treating major disasters as those happening to other people. Ever since its formation in 1956, Kerala did not have to face major natural disasters. However, this myth was shattered in 2004 by a tsunami, but even then, people assumed it as a once-in-a-millennium freak incident”, said a report on Kerala’s 2018 floods authored by a team headed by Muralee Thummarukudy, a UNEP disaster management specialist. In 2016, the State Disaster Management Plan had identified that Kerala was prone to 17 natural and 22 anthropogenic hazards, many of them induced by climate change. Nearly 14.5 per cent of the state’s land area is prone to floods. A valid reason for Kerala’s present plight and a grim warning came from studies pointing to a very important, recent shift occurring in the North Indian Ocean consisting of the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal. They show that the once cooler Arabian Sea has been warming in the past two decades much faster than the Bay of Bengal, which was always warmer. The result is the rise in the frequency, intensity, and duration of cyclonic storms originating in the Arabian Sea compared to the Bay of Bengal that is wreaking havoc on the western coast. The past trend of more cyclones originating in the Bay of Bengal than in the Arabian Sea has been reversed. An international study (2014) led by Pune’s Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology has corroborated this. According to it, the western tropical Indian Ocean has been warming for more than a century at a rate faster than any other region of the tropical oceans and has turned out to be the largest contributor to the overall trend in the global mean sea surface temperature. A 2016 study by Hiroyuki Murakami of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in the United States of America blamed anthropogenic climate changes for the excessive warming and the resultant cyclones in the Arabian Sea. According to meteorologists, it was the first time since the beginning of satellite records in 1980 in India that the Arabian Sea had severe pre-monsoon cyclones — Mekanu (2018), Vayu (2019), Nisarga (2020), Tauktae (2021) — in four consecutive years. Similarly, the formation of four cyclones in a single year (2019) over the Arabian Sea was recorded after 117 years. The Arabian Sea and the western coast are perilously in for more. M.G. Radhakrishnan, a senior journalist based in Thiruvananthapuram, has worked with various print and electronic media organizations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
25-10-2021||Jharkhand||Visitors to Ranchi providing wrong contact details to dodge quarantine||Several passengers travelling to Jharkhand from other states by trains and buses have gone traceless after testing Covid positive during routine tests conducted upon arrival in the state, officials said on Monday, claiming that such passengers were trying to dodge quarantine by providing incorrect wrong contact details. While the count of active Covid cases in Jharkhand has already quadrupled in the past one month, passengers providing wrong addresses may cause a further rise in cases by infecting locals they come in contact with, officials added. Covid testing teams deployed at Ranchi Railway Station have been having a tough time convincing all passengers to undergo rapid tests upon arrival. A healthcare worker deployed at the station said that many passengers tried to dodge Covid testing at the railway station and run away from the staff deployed there to conduct Covid tests. Many of these passengers were even reluctant to show their address proof, which only carries their permanent address, and not the address of the place they would go to in Jharkhand. “Contact tracing is an important step to prevent the transmission of virus in localities here. Many passengers travelling from other states have tested positive for Covid-19 lately, and it is time they start acting responsibly,” said Ranchi Civil Surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar. The government’s concern over interstate passengers triggering a rise in cases is justified as several people travelling to the state from Odisha and Bihar were found infected recently. On October 23, at least 55 passengers, who got down from Tapaswini Express and Rourkela Passenger Train at the Hatia Railway Station in Ranchi, were found infected by coronavirus. As per data compiled by the health department, the active caseload of Covid-19 had jumped to 224 by Monday morning. Ranchi, which is well-connected to most other Indian states, alone accounted for 145 of the 224 active cases in Jharkhand. While Ranchi has been reporting a spike in cases since Durga Puja, fresh Covid cases have also surfaced in some of the districts that had zero Covid patients until Dussehra. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Arun Kumar Singh has also urged interstate travellers to act more responsibly upon their arrival in Jharkhand in a bid to keep Covid cases under control. Compliance to Covid protocols by commoners was the most important step in keeping Covid cases under check in the state, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
25-10-2021||Jharkhand||Minister inspects steel city ghats ahead of Chhath||The steel city is getting ready for Chhath, the biggest festival of Jharkhand and neighbouring Bihar which will be celebrated on November 10 and 11 this year. Local legislator and state health minister Banna Gupta on Monday inspected the Subernarekha Ghat in Sakchi, the biggest river ghat which draws the maximum number of Chhath vratis during the two- day festival. The minister was accompanied by officials of two civic bodies - Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) and Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC). Gupta is understood to have asked civic body authorities to ensure proper cleanliness of the ghat so that the festival could be celebrated smoothly. All the major ghats in and around steel city, including Subernarekha Ghat at Sakchi, Kapali in Mango, Domuhani in Sonari, Pandey in Bhuiyandih, Bhuiyandih ghat, Sati in Sonari, Substation ghat at Kadma, Bodhanwala in Bistupur and Baroda ghat at Bagbera, draw thousands of devotees during Chhath. The minister asked the civic body authorities to clean and level the ghats by the first week of November. Apart from cleanliness of river ghats streetlights and halogen lights would be set up on river banks for the convenience of the devotees. Chhath would also be celebrated at the premises of the sprawling Surya Mandir at Sidhgora, which has two artificial ponds. On Monday, a cleanliness drive was undertaken at an artificial pond (popularly known as C2) in ISWP township close to Telco, where people celebrate Chhath every year. A company official supervising the cleaning operation said that the drive was undertaken following a directive from the East Singhbhum district administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
25-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand recruits teaching doctors for new medical colleges ||The Jharkhand government recruited some teaching doctors, raising hope of facilitating medical studies for more students in new medical colleges of the state. Following walk-in interviews of willing doctors, the government offered jobs on October 20 to 43 professors and associate professors on contract basis, initially for two years, mostly for the three newly opened medical colleges in Dumka, Hazaribagh and Daltonganj. The admission process that was stopped in these colleges last year for lack of adequate faculty and infrastructure would be opened and students would be allowed to take admission this time. These medical colleges, established under a centrally sponsored scheme, enabled 300 more aspiring students of the state to study medicine, 100 in each of those. Both the central and state governments had also released required funds for establishing these colleges by upgrading the existing district hospitals at Dumka, Hazaribagh and Daltonganj. Accordingly, the first batches comprising 100 students were given admission in each of those three colleges in 2019-20. But the National Medical Council (NMC) stopped admission to those colleges the next year (2020-21), citing lack of infrastructure and faculty. Following this, chief minister Hemant Soren wrote a letter to then NMC chairman Dr Suresh Chandra Sharma in November last year requesting the latter not to stop admission process when the same for 2020-21 had just begun. When his letter yielded no positive results, Soren approached then Union health minister Harsh Vardhan the next month (December 2020), seeking his intervention. “This (the NMC decision of stopping the admission process) has sent a shockwave among the aspiring students of this poor, backward and tribal state,” Soren said in his letter, adding these colleges were “located in aspirational districts where the Union government was keen on improving the education system and the Niti Aayog was monitoring (the districts) in all spheres”. “The state is fully aware and committed to fulfilment of the NMC norms,” he further wrote to the Union health minister. Meanwhile, after the state government tried to fulfil the requirements, NMC allowed admission into the new medical college in Dumka recently but the not in the rest two. “It’s good to learn that many faculty members have been appointed, raising possibility of students getting admission to those medical colleges,” Ranchi MP Seth told The Telegraph. Besides fulfilling aspirations of the deserving students, these medical colleges are also expected to cater to the people of those areas by treating them locally so that they need not come to Ranchi for treatment, he added. “Now that 36 of the 43 faculty members have been recruited for these new colleges, we are hopeful admission would also be allowed in the remaining two in Hazaribagh and Daltonganj,” said another faculty member who did not like to be quoted. Though the students lost the chance last year, they would now get the benefit if these colleges are allowed to admit them, he further said, adding 200 medical seats mean a lot for aspiring students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
