26-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 383 points to close above 61,000 ||Equity benchmark Sensex surged 383 points on Tuesday, buoyed by Reliance Industries, Kotak Bank and Bajaj Finance amid a largely positive trend in global markets.  The 30-share index ended 383.21 points or 0.63 per cent higher at 61,350.26. Similarly, the NSE Nifty surged 143 points or 0.79 per cent to 18,268.40.  Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, spurting around 4 per cent, followed by Titan, Bajaj Finance, Nestle India and Tech Mahindra.  On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank, PowerGrid, HUL, Dr Reddy's and TCS were among the laggards.  "Markets managed to end higher in a volatile trading session, thanks to firm global cues. Upbeat earnings announcements from the US markets set the tone in the beginning however choppiness in the index majors, especially from the banking pack, in the middle kept the participants on their toes," said Ajit Mishra, VP - Research, Religare Broking.  Indications are in favour of a further rebound, but a lot would depend on the earnings announcement scheduled in the following sessions, he noted.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains, while Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red.  Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 0.29 per cent to USD 84.92 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
26-10-2021||Business||Indians are Not Saving Anymore, They are Investing Everywhere, Especially Cryptocurrencies!||Traditionally, Indian culture was based on ancient practices that come from the agricultural foundations of our society. This was ingrained in the personal economics as saving for tough times, as the society relied on stocking food to mitigate uncertainties. And the practice continued till the modern-day and the savings extended to money plus valuable assets like gold. This has been the cornerstone of stability for most Indians until recent times. Fun Fact: Indian households are estimated to hold almost 11% of all of the world's gold. However, the newer generation is living in a world of complicated economics and much more open opportunities than before. Add to it the information available to us all through the internet plus the ease and accessibility through technology. Gone are the days when investing in different financial instruments required time and effort with less accessible institutions. Now we can invest in almost all these opportunities with just our fingertips. And Indians have realized this in the last decade as everything got easier with every advancement in technology and policies. In the last five years, India has seen a tremendous rise in industrialism and had been witnessing the startup economy grow for many more. This has led the younger generations, especially those under 40 years of age to explore opportunities beyond conventional sources of income. While the opportunities themselves were present for a long time, it was a matter of accessibility for everyone to partake in it. And then, in 2017, came the explosion of Bitcoin and blockchain technology that gave the final push to the nation to start investing and earning beyond their regular incomes. Dev Sharma, founder of the Canadian crypto marketing agency, Blockwiz told us, "India is witnessing a financial revolution at the moment. Indian markets saw steady growth even during the pandemic, partly due to technology-enabled services that helped to invest right from home. As part of the Blockchain industry, we have also witnessed deep interest in Indian markets through our clients. Crypto exchanges, in particular, consider the Indian market among the highest potential for growth and business which is evident in their marketing strategies and targeting. Plus there is a steady rise in investment in mutual funds and stock markets as well. India is considered among the fastest-growing economy of our time and Indians have started realizing that dream." Currently, India has some of the best technology-based financial services, from mobile banking to investments in various financial instruments. You can see roadside stalls accepting online payments, ATMs remaining practically unused, and a surge of capital in the markets including cryptocurrency. Technology is often called out for its negative impacts on societies but we often overlook the vast potential for growth they can harness, from an individual standpoint to the whole nation's. You can open a Demat account in minutes with a few simple steps, opening a cryptocurrency wallet takes even less time. They say time is money. Up until a decade or two back, most Indians believed in investing time and saving money. But now, we have a new radical mantra: save time, invest money!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
26-10-2021||Business||Sensex rallies over 300 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 300 points in early trade on Tuesday tracking gains in index heavyweights Reliance Industries, HDFC Bank and Tech Mahindra amid strong quarterly earnings and a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share index was trading 318.7 points or 0.52 per cent higher at 61,285.75 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty surged 93.75 points or 0.52 per cent to 18,219.15. Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying over 6 per cent, after the software exporter reported a 26 per cent increase in its September quarter net at Rs 1,338.7 crore. Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Finance, Tata Steel, L&T, ITC and SBI were also trading with gains. On the other hand, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, PowerGrid, HUL and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 145.43 points or 0.24 per cent higher at 60,967.05, and Nifty advanced 10.50 points or 0.06 per cent to 18,125.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,459.10 crore on Monday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red. Stock exchanges in the US ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude rose 0.15 per cent to USD 85.30 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
26-10-2021||Business||ICICI Bank shares leap almost 11% following stellar Q2 numbers||Shares of ICICI Bank on Monday leaped almost 11 per cent following stellar second quarter numbers, but the gains have led to one key question among investors — has HDFC Bank finally met its match at least in the valuation game in the markets? The ICICI Bank scrip on Monday rose to a new high of Rs 850.70 during intra-day trades — a gain of 13.25 per cent after which it settled at Rs 841.05 — a rise of 10.80 per cent, or Rs 81.95, over the previous close on the BSE. Based on the closing price, the counter had a market cap of Rs 5,83,350.85 crore. Rival HDFC Bank closed 1.49 per cent lower at Rs 1,656.86. The most valued lender has a market cap of Rs 7,24,803.45 crore. ICICI Bank on Saturday reported a record standalone net profit of Rs 5,511 crore. Net NPA ratio fell below 1 per cent to 0.99 per cent — a seven-year low.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||Groww raises $251 million in funding round led by Iconiq Growth||Digital firm Groww on Monday said it has raised $251 million (around Rs 1,885 crore) in a funding round led by Iconiq Growth, at a valuation of $3 billion. The series E funding round also saw participation from investors such as Alkeon, Lone Pine Capital and Steadfast. Groww’s existing investors Sequoia Capital, Ribbit Capital, YC Continuity, Tiger Global, and Propel Venture also participated. “The financial services market in India is already large, growing rapidly, and ripe for disruption. During the last couple of years, Groww has demonstrated that they are ready to seize that opportunity,” Iconiq Growth partner Yoonkee Sull said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||Venture capital funding in India reaches $14.4 billion during third quarter||Venture capital funding in India followed the global trend and reached a high of $14.4 billion during the third quarter of calendar year 2021, according to KPMG. There were 496 deals during the July-September quarter, up from 376 during the previous quarter. The deal value during the third quarter was 113 per cent higher compared with the second quarter (April-June) of 2021, where the amount was $6.7 billion. According to KPMG’s Venture Pulse report, in addition to substantial raises by Flipkart and Byju of $3.6 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, both PharmEasy and Ola raised $500 million during the quarter. The country saw nine new unicorns during the quarter including fintechs BharatPe and CoinDCX and edtechs UpGrad and Eruditus. While payments firms continue to attract most of the venture capital funds, there is investor interest in the insurtech space given the low penetration of insurance in India. “The money pouring into consumer tech companies, D2C (direct-to-consumer) companies, fintech companies and others is only going to get stronger. Already we had more unicorns this year than in the last seven or eight years put together,” said Nitish Poddar, partner and national leader, private equity, KPMG in India. “Looking forward, there are a few big IPOs coming down the pipe and assuming they go well, that is only going to strengthen investor confidence even further.” “We are seeing a lot of strategic investments in India — not only from global corporates looking to get into the market, but also from some of the larger Indian conglomerates. Over the last few quarters, we have seen big companies focusing on investing in and acquiring other companies and startups in different areas, ” said Amarjeet Singh, partner KPMG in India. “They are slowly trying to move into the area of something called the super app: an app that fits all the purposes that a consumer might need.” Globally, the total venture financing in Q3 was $171.7 billion against $166 billion in Q2. “In Q3 2021, investors continued to pour money into late stage mega deals, including a record 11 deals of $1 billion,” said Jonathan Lavender, global head, KPMG Pvt Enterprise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||Tech Mahindra reports 26 per cent increase in September quarter net ||Software exporter Tech Mahindra (TechM) on Monday reported a 26 per cent increase in its September quarter net profit at Rs 1,338.7 crore and expects to maintain the trajectory. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 1,064.6 crore in the July-September quarter of 2020. The Mahindra Group company’s overall revenue was up 16.1 per cent to Rs 10,881.3 crore in the second quarter of this fiscal and higher by 6.4 per cent — highest in a decade —when compared with the preceding June quarter. The company’s rate of attrition climbed to 21 per cent at the end of September from 14 per cent in the year-ago period and 17 per cent in June. Tech Mahindra’s managing director and chief executive C.P. Gurnani said attrition is a “complex” situation arising out of the higher demand for talent but expressed satisfaction at how the company has been able to manage it. The company has acquired Lodestone, a digital engineering quality assurance provider for new age digital companies, for up to $105 million (about Rs 789 crore). The Mumbai-based company has also acquired WMW by Born London Limited, UK for £9.4 million. Birla AMC numbers Aditya Birla Sun Life AMC on Monday reported a 38 per cent jump in profit at Rs 173.1 crore for September quarter 2021-22. The company had posted a profit after tax of Rs 125.4 crore in the year-ago period. Total revenues rose 28 per cent to Rs 372.2 crore from Rs 291 crore a year ago. The company has declared an interim dividend Rs 5.60 per share for 2021-22. “We continue to focus on increasing our overall assets under management by growing across different asset categories,” managing director and CEO A. Balasubramanian said. HDFC AMC profit HDFC Asset Management Company (AMC) on Monday reported a nearly 2 per cent growth in profit after tax at Rs 344.38 crore for the three months to September 2021. ? In comparison, the firm had posted a PAT of Rs 338.06 crore in the same quarter of the preceding fiscal. The company’s total income increased to Rs 608.4 crore during the period from Rs 569.95 crore a year ago. HDFC AMC, investment manager to HDFC Mutual Fund, said its average assets under management surged by 17 per cent to Rs 4.39 lakh crore as of September 2021, from Rs 3.75 lakh crore in the same quarter of the preceding financial year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||SpiceJet asks Bengal govt to remove weekly flight restrictions||Budget airline SpiceJet has written to the Bengal government to remove the restrictions on the number of flights per week, which is three days at present. The airlines in a letter to the chief secretary of the state government has urged “approving daily flight operation to Bengal (Calcutta, Bagdogra, Andal) from Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad and Pune”. “At present, flights are permitted three days a week (on Monday, Wednesday and Friday) and passengers have to take a via flight/connections on other days to reach their destination in Bengal. Permission of daily flight operations from the above mentioned cities will help passengers and also reduce travel time to reach destination,” the letter said. The airline has sought the daily flight operation at a time  the ministry of civil aviation has allowed airlines to operate 100 per cent of their scheduled capacity October 18 onwards, removing a key restriction imposed when domestic flight operations resumed in May 2020 after a two-month lockdown. However, restrictions on fare bands continue to be in place and a call on that too is likely to be taken soon. The country’s domestic passenger volume in September rose to a robust 70.66 lakh — compared with 39.43 lakh passengers in the same month of 2020 — aided by increased vaccination rates, easing some more travel restrictions and demand bolstered by the festive season. Moreover, the domestic air traffic reached its highest single-day level at 327, 923 on October 17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||Eicher Motors to re-appoint Siddhartha Lal as MD||Eicher Motor shareholders have approved a proposal to re-appoint Siddhartha Lal as the company’s managing director for a period of five years with effect from May 1 this year. The members also cleared the proposal to increase Lal’s remuneration. In the latest round of voting, 93.75 per cent votes favoured the re-appointment, while 6.25 per cent votes opposed the proposal. “The resolution was passed with requisite majority,” Eicher Motors said in a regulatory filing. Similarly, 98.56 per cent of the votes favoured an increase in Lal’s remuneration while 1.44 per cent votes went against the proposal. The agenda was cleared by the shareholders under the ‘ordinary resolution’ mechanism. In August, Eicher Motors’ shareholders had rejected a proposal for re-appointment of Lal as the company’s managing director for a period of five years with effect from May 1 this year. During the company’s 39th AGM, which was held in August, the members had also rejected the proposal of increasing Lal’s remuneration. While 73 per cent of the votes had favoured the re-appointment, the rest 27 per cent were against it. As a special resolution, it needed support from 75 per cent of the votes cast to pass the proposal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||Rising crude prices, shift to clean energy pose hurdles to BPCL sale||The bid to cross the finishing line on the sale of BPCL by March is facing the twin hurdles of a global crude price spike and the growing shift away from fossil fuels to clean energy. The rapid-fire final rounds of the Air India strategic sale had encouraged the Modi government to wrap up the BPCL exercise quickly. Analysts said the government’s nudges to state-owned refiners on the pricing of petrol and diesel could dissuade bidders unless they get a categorical assurance from the Centre to allow the full play of market forces. State-owned refiners continue to price petrol and diesel keeping in mind political considerations as they do not increase product prices during the poll period. “This would result in unfair competition as the new private buyers of BPCL would have to price their products similar to the state-owned refiner, which would not be market determined,” the analysts said. The growing shift away from fossil fuel has emerged as a new challenge to the government’s strategic sale of the refiner. Global energy firms and other investors are keen to be associated with the green fuel which would make it a difficult task for the bidders to rope in firms with technical and financial muscle to clinch the deal. Saudi Arabia, the world's top crude oil exporter, has announced plans to reach net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2060, setting out an initial $190 billion spending plan and joining a growing list of nations and firms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business|| Govt signs share purchase deal with Tata Sons for Air India sale||The government on Monday signed the share purchase agreement with Tata Sons for the sale of national carrier Air India for Rs 18,000 crore. Earlier this month, the government had accepted an offer by Talace Pvt Ltd, a unit of the holding company of the salt-to-software conglomerate, to pay Rs 2,700 crore cash and take over Rs 15,300 crore of the airline’s debt. On October 11, a letter of intent was issued to the Tata Group confirming the government’s willingness to sell its 100 per cent stake in the airline. “Share Purchase Agreement signed today (Monday) by Government with Tata Sons for strategic disinvestment of Air India,” Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (Dipam) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. Air India director — finance Vinod Hejmadi, civil aviation ministry joint secretary Satyendra Mishra and Supraprakash Mukhopadhyay from the Tata group signed the share purchase agreement. Now, various regulatory clearances, including from the CCI, would have to be taken by Tata Sons before the actual handover of the airline takes place by December-end. The government is divesting its 100 per cent ownership of Air India and Air India Express along with its 50 per cent stake in AISATS.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||India invites retaliatory US tariff by refusig to withdraw Google tax ||India has exposed itself to retaliatory tariff from the US by its refusal to immediately withdraw the 2 per cent digital equalisation levy tax on global internet players.  However, it intends to do so when the global minimum tax deal is in place. Speaking to Bloomberg while on an official visit to the US, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the equalisation levy — also called the Google tax — was introduced by India when there was no agreement on the global tax deal that seeks to thwart large digital companies from escaping tax in several countries despite earning significant revenues in these countries. “Naturally after all of us have agreed on a global minimum tax that (equalisation levy) will have to be withdrawn,” she said. However, the US may impose retaliatory tariffs on India next month over the 2 per cent digital tax on foreign tech  majors as it has not joined the agreement to immediately restrict the use of such unilateral measures in light of the global digital taxation deal finalised by 136 countries at the Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) earlier this month. Under the agreement, any digital taxes the countries collect from such firms after January 2022 that exceed what they would have to pay under the new rules would be credited against the firms’ future tax liabilities in those countries. In exchange, the US agreed to drop its planned tariff retaliation against five countries on the grounds that their taxes discriminated against American companies. The agreement does not include two other countries that have imposed digital services taxes and face tariff threats: India and Turkey, US Trade Representative Katherine Tai has said in a statement. The office of the US Trade Representative (USTR) had in June decided to suspend by 180 days additional tariffs of up to 25 per cent ad valorem on aggregate level of trade on a slew of items including basmati rice, sea food, bamboo, semi-precious stones, and pearls, hoping for a multilateral solution on the issue of digital taxation at the OECD. However, trade experts said the tariffs may have little impact on Indian exports and the overall economy, considering limited significance of these items in India’s export basket and demand inelasticity of most of the items the list. Besides, the tariffs against India are aimed to mop up $55 million, which is as much as what India will collect from the US firms through equalisation levy, according to US estimates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||Plan to launch Jio-Google budget smartphone during Diwali||Reliance Jio is targeting to launch its budget smartphone in collaboration with Google during Diwali as it looks to halt the drop in subscriber additions in the second quarter. Jio lost 11 million subscribers in Q2 ratcheting up pressure on the telecom player which has been looking to dominate the field. Although ARPU (average revenue per user) rose by 4 per cent to Rs 144, several brokerages expect things to improve only if the company raises tariff — as Airtel and Vodafone already have. The churn at the bottom of the subscriber pyramid is worrisome and it isn’t clear where these users are heading. ICICI Direct believes that Jio will be able to arrest the subscriber decline once it launches its JioPhone. The JioPhone Next is powered by Android Pragati OS . Markets are speculating the 2GB RAM powered phone would be priced around Rs 3,500, attractive enough to encourage migration from 2G mobile phones. Analysts at Jefferies said Jio’s performance during the second quarter was little to cheer about as revenues, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) and profits missed estimates even as the subscriber decline of 11 million was the key disappointment Nomura said the operators will shift focus from market share gains to ensuring adequate returns for future network rollouts. With a high subscriber base, ARPU increase is likely to be the main growth driver, thus making tariff hikes inevitable. JM Financial said a part of the subscriber loss could have been due to the impact of  users moving out after their three-year lock-in period. According to JP Morgan, Jio’s performance depends on tariff hikes, while Emkay said the operator suffered a churn in the low end.  Motilal Oswal pointed to Jio’s lack of tariff action.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-25
26-10-2021||Business||Airtel accepts 4-year moratorium on AGR and spectrum dues||After Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel has accepted the Centre’s offer of a four-year moratorium on the payment of AGR (adjusted gross revenue) and spectrum dues. Airtel is yet to decide  whether it will convert the interest component of the dues into an equity stake held by the Centre in the company. A decision will be taken within the 90-day period stipulated by the department of telecom (DoT), sources said. They said the company has communicated to the DoT that “it will take the four-year moratorium on AGR and spectrum dues with the option of prepaying as per NIA (notice inviting application) norms”. Airtel had time till October 29 to communicate with the government on the moratorium. Bharti Airtel chairman  Sunil Mittal had said the moratorium would help the telecom operator to conserve a cash outgo of Rs 35,000-40,000 crore over the next four years. Last week, Vodafone had accepted the moratorium offer on spectrum dues. It is yet to convey its stand on AGR dues and the interest-swap. The option of the dues moratorium was offered by the government to the operators as part of a recently announced relief package for the sector. Among the top three players, Reliance Jio is yet to announce its position on the government offer. The moratorium, applicable from October 1, 2021, is an optional scheme and the company that decides to avail itself of the scheme will pay interest at the rate of the marginal cost of funds-based lending rate (MCLR) plus 2 per cent. MCLR is the minimum lending rate for banks. A moratorium of up to four years in annual payments will protect the net present value (NPV) of the dues. The deferment is on payments of spectrum purchased in past auctions — excluding the auction of 2021 — for up to four years Dues amendment The government on Monday amended the telecom licence norms to reduce the tax burden on operators by exempting all non-telecom revenues, income from dividends, interest, property sale and rent, among others, for the calculation of levies such as licence fees and spectrum usage charges. The amendments will apply from this month and were part of the telecom reform package. 5G trial extension Telecom operators have asked the DoT to extend the 5G trial period by six months. The current trial period ends in November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-26
26-10-2021||India||Haryana govt panel talks to farmers over Tikri road blockade||A Haryana government high-powered committee on Tuesday held talks over the road blockade at Delhi's Tikri border with farmers protesting the Centre's farm laws.  The panel headed by Haryana Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajeev Arora held talks with representatives of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the stir, in Jhajjar's Bahadurgarh, close to the Tikri border.  Arora was accompanied by DGP P K Agrawal and other officials.  The meeting has come days after the Supreme Court said farmers protesting at Delhi borders cannot block roads indefinitely.  Arora told reporters that the main purpose of the meeting was how to open the road for smooth movement of traffic.  Replying to a question, Arora said before talking to the Delhi Police they wanted to know if all roads on the Haryana side are open.  Though the apex leadership of the SKM was not present in the meeting, it was held with representatives of the Morcha in a cordial atmosphere, he said.  A farmer leader said they conveyed in the meeting that from their side, no road has been blocked.  "The entire responsibility to open roads is on the Delhi Police as the way has been blocked towards the other side," he claimed.  "We told the Haryana government committee that we have not blocked roads," he added.  Representatives of the industry too were present in the meeting.  Speaking to reporters, an industry representative said, "The officials listened to our concerns patiently. We told them that industry is facing lot of problems due to road blockade and some have been forced to shift to other places.  The Haryana government had last month constituted the committee to hold talks with the protesting farmers for clearing the blockade at the Tikri and Kundli-Singhu borders, where farmers have been protesting against the farm laws for past 11 months.  Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij had last month said the committee had been constituted to comply with the apex court orders to open passage on the national highways leading to the national capital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
26-10-2021||India||CBI arrests five persons for leaking confidential information ||The CBI has arrested five persons including a commander-rank Navy officer for allegedly leaking confidential information related to an ongoing submarines project in return for illegal gratification, officials said Tuesday.  Besides the officer, two retired navy personnel and as many private persons were taken into custody under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Corruption Act after the agency initiated action last month, the officials said.  So far, the agency has conducted searches at 19 locations in Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam among others from where important documents and digital evidence have been seized and are being examined, they said.  It is alleged that the commander, has been serving at the Western Naval Command in Mumbai, had discussed crucial details about the ongoing modernisation project of Kilo-class submarines with the two retired officers for alleged illegal gratification, they said.  The Anti-Corruption Unit of the agency, which handles sensitive and high profile corruption cases, was tasked to unearth the leakage of information following which the operation was started, they said.  The unit has questioned several other officers and ex-servicemen who were in regular touch with the arrested officer and retired personnel, they said.  The CBI is conducting a forensic analysis of digital products used by the officer to understand if the information had fallen into the hands of people with vested interests, they said.  "Investigation related to alleged information leak of administrative and commercial nature being with some unauthorised personnel has come to light and is being investigated by appropriate government agency," the Navy said in a statement  The investigation by the agency with complete support of the Indian Navy is in progress, it said.  An internal inquiry by the Navy is also being progressed, it said.  Sources said the Navy has appointed a high-level inquiry panel headed by a Vice Admiral to examine how information was leaked and to recommend corrective measures.  The inquiry committee comprises a rear admiral as well among others, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
26-10-2021||India||He can get me shot...: Nitish Kumar laughs off Lalu's poll dare||Laughing off arch-rival Lalu Prasad’s challenge for the October 30 bypolls in Bihar, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar has said the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) patriarch can get him “shot”, but “can’t do anything else”. In a video shared by news agency ANI, Kumar is seen speaking to reporters. Asked about Lalu Yadav's remark that he has returned to Patna to ensure the “visarjan” -- immersion -- of Kumar and the ruling NDA in the bypolls, the Chief Minister started laughing. “If he wants, he can get me shot, he cannot do anything else,” he said. In an interview to ANI on Monday, Lalu Prasad said he will campaign for his party at poll-bound Kusheshwar Asthan (SC) and Tarapur Assembly segments. “I know Tejashwi is campaigning in both the places and is doing really well in giving a strong fight to the NDA. I will ensure visarjan (immersion),” he said. The return of Lalu Prasad to the Bihar political arena after a gap of three years has raised political temperatures ahead of the bypolls. The RJD founder, who was in prison till earlier this year following his conviction in fodder scam cases, hit headlines soon after his return. Responding to a question on the rift between the RJD and Congress, Lalu Yadav told reporters, “What is Congress's alliance? Why should we give the seat to Congress? So that they would lose? So they would lose their deposit?” His remark on the Congress's Bihar unit in-charge Bhakt Charan Das drew criticism, with the party accusing the RJD leader of hurting the self-respect of the Dalit community. Das had said the alliance between the two parties would have remained intact had the RJD spared one seat for the Congress in the bypolls. Lalu Yadav's remarks also come against the backdrop of the 2020 Bihar Assembly elections when the RJD, despite emerging as the single largest party, had to sit in the Opposition benches as ally Congress won only 19 out of the 70 seats it contested.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
26-10-2021||India||Sameer is not attached to any party, says wife||The wife of under-fire NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede on Tuesday came out in strong support of her husband and said they were getting threat calls, facing vicious trolling online and living in fear as she rejected allegations levelled against him by Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik. Talking to the media in suburban Andheri, Kranti Redkar, who is an actress, described her husband as an honest government officer and also refuted the extortion attempt claims made by an NCB witness in the Mumbai cruise drugs case which is being supervised by Wankhede. Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan is among 20 persons arrested in connection with the case, which relates to alleged seizure of drugs from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast early this month. Redkar claimed a section is working against her husband. "My husband is an honest officer and doing his duty with sincerity for the last 15 years. Sameer is not attached to any political party, he is a central government employee and doing his work, some people are having a problem from his work due to which everything (row related to allegations against Wankhede) is happening," she said. "People who are against Sameer have been threatening us, saying they will burn us and kill our family, but the police have given us security, and they are taking very good care of us," Redkar said. Asked about the series of allegations made against Wankhede by Malik, she said the state minister has made his claims on social media and not in front of a court of law. "Minister Nawab Malik has put allegations against us on Twitter, and Twitter is not a court. If Malik submits allegations against Sameer in a court and if all allegations are proved, then only the person becomes a criminal. Media trials can not help him," Redkar said. Malik on Monday claimed Wankhede is a Muslim by birth and was hiding his religious identify. Asked about Malik's claims, Redkar said they were untrue. "Sameer and me are born Hindus. We have never converted to any other religion. We respect all religions. Sameer's father, too, is a Hindu who married a Muslim woman...my mom-in-law is no more," she said. Asked about NCB witness Prabhakar Sail's claim that there was an extortion bid of Rs 25 crore by some agency officials, including Wankhede, and others for letting off Aryan Khan in the drugs case, Redkar said if he has evidence, he should produce it in a court. Earlier in the day, Malik launched a fresh attack on Wankhede and accused him of illegal phone tapping and said he will hand over a letter listing the IRS officer's misdeeds' to the NCB head. Sameer Wankhede through two persons in Mumbai and Thane is illegally intercepting the mobile phones of some people, said Malik, who has been targeting Wankhede after his son-in-law's arrest in a separate drugs case. The state minister also claimed that Wankhede had sought the call detail record (CDR) of a member of his family from the police. Wankhede, in an affidavit submitted to a Mumbai court on Monday, claimed he was under a "lurking threat of arrest as it does not suit some vested interests for conducting an honest and impartial investigation". In the past, Malik has made a series of allegations against Wankhede, ranging from forging documents, lying about his religion to dubbing some of the cases investigated under his supervision as fake. The 2008-batch IRS officer has refuted all allegations made by Malik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
26-10-2021||India||Opposition demand sacking of Goa CM's post Malik's allegations||Opposition parties on Wednesday demanded that Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant should be sacked after former governor Satya Pal Malik accused the state government of corruption. While the ruling BJP in the state dismissed the allegations as baseless following Malik's TV interview on Tuesday night, leaders of the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) and Goa Forward Party targeted Sawant. There was corruption in everything the Goa government did (during the COVID-19 pandemic). I was removed for my allegation of corruption against the Goa government, Malik, now the governor of Meghalaya, alleged. He also termed the Goa government's initiative to distribute ration at people's doorsteps as "impractical", alleging that it was launched on the "insistence of a company that paid money to the government." While chief minister Sawant has not commented on the allegations yet, an AITC delegation led by Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy and including former Union Minister Babul Supriyo and the party's vice president Luizinho Faleiro met current Governor P S Sridharan Pillai on Wednesday. You must immediately seek resignation from the chief minister and announce investigation by an independent agency, the AITC's memorandum to the governor said. It also demanded a white paper on the government purchases and expenditures during the pandemic. Congress spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said Malik's interview endorsed the corruption allegations leveled by the Congress, and demanded dismissal of the Sawant-led cabinet. He also demanded a time-bound investigation under the supervision of a sitting Supreme Court judge into the alleged corruption. The ED, CBI, Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) and other agencies should be directed to file cases against Sawant and others, Vallabh said, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should explain why no action was taken even after "the governor (Malik) informed him about the rampant corruption." AAP leader Raghav Chaddha, speaking at a press conference in Delhi, demanded that Sawant resign immediately and sought an independent judicial probe. The AAP also held a protest march in Panaji, led by its state convener Rahul Mahambrey. A delegation of the Goa Forward Party, led by Vijai Sardesai, also met the governor demanding the sacking of the chief minister. Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte said the CM should be sacked and President's rule be imposed in the state. After Malik's interview aired, Goa BJP chief Sadanand Shet Tanavade had said that the allegations were false and baseless, and they would be complaining to the Union government against him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
26-10-2021||India||No bail for Aryan today as hearing to continue tomorrow||The jail-stay for Aryan Khan got an extension for another day, as the Bombay High Court posted his bail hearing for tomorrow. According to an NDTV report, in today’s arguments, former Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi representing Shah Rukh Khan’s eldest son argued that Aryan was a “young man” and should be sent to a rehab rather than jail. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday had opposed the bail plea filed by actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, who was arrested earlier this month in the cruise drugs seizure case, alleging the 23-year-old was not just a consumer of drugs but also involved in illicit drug trafficking. The agency also claimed that Aryan Khan and a woman named Pooja Dadlani, Shah Rukh Khan's manager, were tampering with the evidence and witnesses in the case in an attempt to derail the investigation. Earlier, Aryan Khan (23) had moved the HC on October 20 after a special NDPS court in Mumbai rejected his bail plea in the afternoon. The special court, while refusing bail, had observed that Aryan Khan was involved in "illicit drug activities on a regular basis" and had a nexus with drug peddlers and suppliers. The lower court had also rejected the bail pleas of Aryan Khan's friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion model Munmun Dhamecha. The three were arrested on October 3 by the NCB after it raided the Goa-bound ship and claimed to have seized drugs, including charas. They are now in judicial custody. While Aryan Khan and Merchant are lodged at the Arthur Road prison, Dhamecha is lodged at the Byculla women's prison in the city. The trio and others were held in the case for alleged conspiracy, possession, consumption, purchase and trafficking of drugs under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. So far, 20 people have been arrested in the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
26-10-2021||India||NCB Mumbai director Sameer Wankhede visits Delhi headquarters||Sameer Wankhede, the Narcotics Control Bureau's Mumbai zonal director who is leading the probe in the cruise drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan is arrested, visited the agency's headquarters here on Tuesday and spent over two hours. The officer entered the NCB office in the R K Puram area through a back entry gate and is understood to have met his senior officers. It was not confirmed if Wankhede met NCB director general (DG) S N Pradhan. However, sources indicated that the top brass of the federal anti-narcotics agency met on Tuesday for a review meeting of various zonal offices of the agency in the country. NCB deputy director general (DDG) northern region Gyaneshwar Singh, heading the departmental vigilance probe on the allegations of extortion in the drugs-on-cruise case, told reporters outside the NCB office that he "did not call anyone for my probe". "When it is required, I will call him (Wankhede)," Singh, an IPS officer, said. He added that he was not travelling to Mumbai on Tuesday. Wankhede's visit to the national capital comes in the backdrop of the NCB ordering a vigilance inquiry into the allegations made by a witness in the cruise drugs case of an extortion bid of Rs 25 crore by some agency officials, including the Mumbai zonal director, and others for letting off Aryan Khan. The officer had told media persons outside the IGI Airport on Monday that he has not been summoned by the agency but has some work here adding he did a fair job in the drugs-on-cruise case. Wankhede on Sunday had written to Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance-related issue. On Monday, he failed to get any relief related to an affidavit on the sensational extortion claims made by the independent witness, Prabhakar Sail, with a special court saying it cannot pass a blanket order barring courts from taking cognisance of the document.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
26-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan not just drug consumer but also involved in drug trafficking, alleges NCB||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday opposed the bail plea filed by actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, who was arrested earlier this month in the cruise drugs seizure case, alleging the 23-year-old was not just a consumer of drugs but also involved in illicit drug trafficking. The agency also claimed that Aryan Khan and a woman named Pooja Dadlani, Shah Rukh Khan's manager, were tampering with the evidence and witnesses in the case in an attempt to derail the investigation. On the other side, Aryan Khan's advocates submitted to the HC an additional note, stating that he has nothing to do with the allegations and counter-allegations that are being circulated between the NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede and certain political personalities. The NCB on Tuesday filed its affidavit in response to the bail plea filed by Aryan Khan in the HC. A single bench of Justice N W Sambre is likely to take the plea for hearing later in the day. The anti-drugs agency in its affidavit said attempts are being made to tamper with the ongoing investigation with a malafide intention to derail the probe into the case. "This is evident from the contents of a purported affidavit of one Prabhakar Sail," the agency said, referring to the allegations of extortion attempt made by Sail, an independent witness in the case. The affidavit also referred to Pooja Dadlani and said "this lady appears to have influenced panch witnesses when the investigation is ongoing". The NCB said the bail plea was "misconceived and ill-conceived". It said the probe into the case so far has revealed Aryan Khan's role in illicit procurement, transportation and consumption of drugs. The agency said prima facie investigation has revealed that Aryan Khan used to procure drugs from his friend Arbaaz Merchant, also an accused in the case. "The applicant (Aryan Khan) was in touch with some persons abroad who appear to be part of an international drug network for illicit procurement of drugs," it said. The affidavit further said even though there has been no recovery from Aryan Khan, he has "participated in the conspiracy". "Prima facie investigation has revealed that this applicant is not just a mere consumer of drugs as sought to be made out by him," it said. The applicant has not made out any case for enlargement of bail, prima facie and/or otherwise, the NCB said. "The role of this applicant (Aryan Khan) in the commission of grave and serious offences under the NDPS Act including illicit drug trafficking is apparent considering the nexus and connection of this applicant with the other accused in the case," the affidavit said. It added that there has been the recovery of an intermediate quantity of drugs from the other accused in the case and hence, the case of Aryan Khan cannot be looked at in isolation. "The ingredients of conspiracy are clear and evident," the affidavit said, adding that in such cases the quantum of recovery of drugs from an individual accused becomes inconsequential. The NCB also said it is still probing the case and a charge sheet needs to be filed. It said the agency requires sufficient time to properly investigate the international linkages so as to approach the foreign agency concerned through proper channel, which would entail some more time. Meanwhile, Aryan Khan's advocates submitted to the HC an additional note stating that he has nothing to do with the allegations and counter-allegations that are being circulated between the NCB's zonal director Wankhede and certain political personalities. "The applicant (Aryan Khan) does not make any allegations against any individual in the prosecution department," the note said. It further said Aryan Khan has no connection with Prabhakar Sail, an independent witness in the case, who has made allegations of an extortion attempt against Wankhede and others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
26-10-2021||India||Pegasus: SC to pronounce order on Wednesday on pleas seeking independent probe ||The Supreme Court is scheduled to pronounce verdict on Wednesday on a batch of pleas seeking independent probe into the Pegasus snooping matter. A bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli had reserved order on September 13, saying it only wanted to know whether or not the Centre used the Pegasus spyware through illegal methods to allegedly snoop on citizens. The apex court had observed orally that it would set up a technical expert committee to inquire into the matter and pass an interim order on the pleas seeking an independent probe into the grievances of the alleged surveillance of certain eminent Indians by hacking their phones using Israeli firm NSO's spyware, Pegasus. The top court's observations on constituting the committee assume significance in view of the Centre's statement that it would set up an expert panel on its own to look into the entire issue. The apex court had said it would pronounce order in a few days and asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, to mention the case if the government had a re-think about filing a detailed affidavit. The bench had said that it only wanted to know from the Centre, which expressed unwillingness to file a detailed affidavit citing national security, whether Pegasus was used to allegedly spy on individuals and if it was done lawfully. Observing that concerns have been raised by journalists and others over violation of privacy in the Pegasus row, the top court had said it was not interested in knowing the details related to national security. The Centre maintained it did not wish to file a detailed affidavit on whether particular software is used or not as it was not a matter for public discussion and will not be in the "larger national interest". The law officer had contended that the disclosure of whether the country was using a particular software or not may cause harm and alert all potential targets, including terror groups. "We had to have your affidavit to understand your stand. We do not want to say anything further, the court had told Mehta, adding that if a spyware is used by the government then it has to be as per the procedure established by the law. The law officer had said the government has nothing to hide and that is why the Centre has on its own said it will constitute a committee of domain experts who will look into the allegations and report to the court. I am not averse to certain individuals claiming invasion of privacy. This is serious and must be gotten into. The question is whether it is Pegasus or something. Our stand is putting this into an affidavit will not serve national interest... Hence allow us to form a committee of domain experts without the government members, Mehta had added. The apex court was hearing a batch of pleas, including senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar along with the Editors Guild of India, seeking an independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter. The pleas seeking independent probe are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium had reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
26-10-2021||India||Congress MLA's absconding son arrested in rape case in Madhya Pradesh||Police on Tuesday arrested Karan Morwal, the son of a Congress MLA from Madhya Pradesh, who was absconding for over six months after a woman lodged a rape case against him, an official said. Karan Morwal is the son of Murli Morwal, the legislator from Badnagar in Ujjain district. Police had earlier announced a reward of Rs 25,000 on his arrest. Based on a tip-off, Karan Morwal (30) was arrested near Maksi town in Shajapur district, about 80 km from Indore, Jyoti Sharma, in-charge of the women's police station in Indore, told PTI. A joint team of women personnel and crime branch sleuths caught the accused while he was going in a car with an accomplice - Rahul Rathore, she said. While on the run, the accused used to hide at a place for some time and then shift to somewhere else, the official said, adding that they are also probing Rathore's role into it. After the arrest, a medical examination of the accused was conducted and he was being questioned, she said. He will be produced in a local court and police will seek his custody to ascertain the places where he was hiding all these months and who all helped him, she added. According to officials, the rape case was registered against Karan Morwal on April 2 this year at the women's police station in Indore. The woman complainant had alleged that he raped her on the pretext of marrying her, they said. On October 19, the police questioned the accused's younger brother Shivam as they suspected he was aware of his brother's hideout, the officials said. Eyewitnesses earlier said Congress MLA Murli Morwal had on October 19 arrived at Palasia police station here, located adjacent to the women's police station, and held a closed-door meeting with some officials. After he came out of the police station, media persons had asked him about his absconding son, but the legislator left while saying he didn't want to say anything to the media on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
26-10-2021||India||Gujarat court asks Rahul Gandhi to appear on October 29 in defamation case||A magistrate court in Surat has directed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to appear before it on October 29 to record his statement in connection with a criminal defamation case against him over his remark on the "Modi surname". On Monday, Chief Judicial Magistrate A N Dave asked Gandhi to appear on October 29 to record his statement further, after the testimony of two new witnesses were taken since the Congress leader last appeared before the court on June 24 this year. Prior to it, Gandhi had appeared before the court in October 2019 and pleaded not guilty for his comment. "The court on Monday orally directed Rahul Gandhi to appear on October 29 to record his further statement over the testimonies of two new witnesses. He is likely to remain present before the court between 3 pm and 6 pm on that day," Gandhi's lawyer Kirit Panwala said. BJP legislator from Surat, Purnesh Modi, had filed a complaint against Gandhi in April 2019 under Indian Penal Code Sections 499 and 500, that deal with defamation. In his complaint, the MLA had alleged that Gandhi while addressing a poll rally in 2019 defamed the entire Modi community by saying "how come all the thieves have Modi as the common surname?" Purnesh Modi is now a minister in the new Gujarat government led by Chief Minister Bhupendra Patel, holding the portfolios of road and building, transport, civil aviation, and tourism and pilgrimage development. Since Gandhi's last appearance before the court, testimonies were taken of two more witnesses -- the then electoral officer of Kolar in Karnataka where the Congress leader made the speech, and a video recorder employed by the Election Commission to record his speech. In his speech at the rally in Kolar on April 13, 2019 ahead of the Lok Sabha polls, the then Congress president had reportedly asked, "Nirav Modi, Lalit Modi, Narendra Modi...how come they all have Modi as the common surname. How come all the thieves have Modi as the common surname?" PTI COR KA PD GK||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
26-10-2021||India||Strengthening organisation should override personal ambitions, says Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday emphasised on the need for discipline and unity, saying strengthening the organisation must override personal ambitions. Chairing a meeting of top party leaders to evolve a strategy for assembly elections in five states early next year, she said the party must redouble its fight for the victims of the Union government's "worst excesses". Gandhi also expressed concern over the party's messages on key issues not percolating down to the grassroot cadres, and said there is lack of clarity and cohesion even among state leaders. Former party chief Rahul Gandhi also attended the meeting of party general secretaries, in-charges and Pradesh Congress presidents at the AICC headquarters here. The leaders have also come together to chalk out a strategy for the party's new membership drive and finalise the modalities for it. The drive is starting from November 1 and will continue till March 31 next year. "I would like to re-emphasise the paramount need for discipline and unity. What should matter to each and every one of us is the strengthening of the organisation. This must override personal ambitions. In this lies both collective and individual success," Sonia Gandhi said in her opening remarks. Stressing on training programmes for party workers, the Congress chief said it should be taken up on priority. "The fight to defend our democracy, our constitution and the Congress party's ideology begins with being fully prepared to identify and counter false propaganda. "We must fight the diabolical campaign of BJP/RSS ideologically. We must do so with conviction and expose their lies before the people if we are to win this battle," she said. Noting that AICC releases important and detailed statements almost every day on issues facing the nation, Sonia Gandhi said, "But it is my experience that they do not percolate down to our grass root cadres at the block and district level. There are policy issues on which I find a lack of clarity and cohesion even amongst our state-level leaders." Attacking the Modi government, she said it has sought to erode our institutions so it may evade accountability and has sought to undermine the core values of our constitution so it can hold itself to a lower standard. It has questioned the very fundamentals of our democracy, she said. "We must redouble our fight for those who are the victims of this government's worst excesses: our farmers and farm labourers, our youth fighting for jobs and opportunities, small and medium scale businesses, our brothers, our sisters with particular focus on the deprived," she stressed. On the elections to five states, the Congress leader said our campaign must be founded upon concrete policies and programmes emanating from widespread discussions with all sections of society. Assembly elections in the states of Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur are slated early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
26-10-2021||India||CLC Classes: The Exuberant Jaunts towards Language Learning and Self-Discovery||It’s 4:55 pm on a sweltering evening of May. With the ‘new normal’ of online classes, I briskly connect my laptop to the scheduled CLC class at 5 pm with a concomitant thought playing at the back of my mind—“The day is almost over…will they turn up?” Tomy Surprise and utter delight, I see the screen filled up with bright faces, all set to enjoy (according to them) the most coveted time, not only of the day, but of the entire week! Seeing them exploring their speaking, debating and presenting skills fills me with contentment—the greatest reward we can ever expect as facilitators. This is the joy and vivacity of learning that NSHM Centre of Language and Communication (NCLC) promises to brighten and contour the lives of our students with. With young, talented faculty members who bring in innovative ways of teaching Language Proficiency, Essential Communication Skills, Personality Development, Public Speaking and full-fledged Foreign Language Courses into their classes, NSHM Centre of Language and Communication (NCLC) has made a substantive mark for itself among students, who have immensely acknowledged its contribution towards enriching their language proficiency and preparing them for the industry. Lisa Roy, my student from BBA First Year, Durgapur campus, writes to me—“In those two hours of weekly CLC classes, we have literally learnt so many things like how to be confident, how to present yourself in front of the interviewer and so on. The GD and case studies made us more confident and knowledgeable. We have tried to acquire as much as we can this semester. I hope you will teach us more tips and tricks next semester”. Isha Kumari from the same batch writes: “The CLC classes enabled me to improve my communication skills. They were really interactive sessions. We got a chance to put our opinions in front of all by which we gained a lot of information about our current surroundings. Every week we had 2 hours of conversation. CLC classes also helped me to improve my English language proficiency as well as my body language. Regular classes can definitely enrich your vocabulary and you can communicate frankly with others. From my experience I would say, CLC classes were really amazing”. Arpan Dey, who is currently pursuing his BBA in Hospital Management and is in his second semester, writes:“I’ve really enjoyed each CLC class and learnt very informative lessons including presentation skills, interview skills, telephone etiquettes, group discussion skills and many more which are absolutely necessary for us to be professional and efficient to get our target jobs.”The centre has been helping our students realise their true penchant for self-development which have also assisted them abundantly in coping with the psychological adversities posed by the pandemic. Amidst the stifling conditions of lockdown, contagion and closed campuses, students have been incarcerated within the four walls of their homes for the past 16 months! A part of life that was meant to be lived and enjoyed in exhilarated classrooms, bustling corridors and mirthful hostel rooms are being mundanely spent in front of Smartphones and laptop screens. Enthusiastic conversations that were to take place in the college coffee-shop or in the canteen, on the lush green lawn or by the lake—are being conducted over voice or video calls, gradually drifting them far away from each other. With CLC classes which are dedicated to conversational skills and debating skills, students get to interact with each other, which not only enhance their professional communication skills but also let them suspend their worries for the time being. Group discussion sessions at times enable them to go beyond the virtual plane and actually imagine themselves to be in a tangible class! This is particularly applicable to the students whose college life started online and might possibly remain so unless the pandemic withdraws its shadow from our lives. They have only met their classmates and teachers online and are awaiting the day when they get to see each other in person. These students look at the CLC classes as a gateway to each other’s lives, as ceaseless interactions let them know their friends a little better. Online elocution competitions, inter-college essay writing and debate competitions organized by CLC have not only kept the mengaged but have also encouraged them to go that extra mile in exploring their talents. Besides the language proficiency classes, communication classes and other events organised by the centre, a major attraction of the students have undoubtedly been the Foreign Language courses offered by CLC. Many students, including final year students, have taken up Foreign Language courses of their choice to broaden their scope of employability. Laboni Maji of BCA Durgapur (Batch of 2018) who took up a course on German language says: “The foreign language classes are very informative and interactive. This class has increased myinterestinlearningnewlanguages.Weareconstantlyencouragedtoparticipateintheclassand are asked for our feedback. Classes are planned and modified according to our requirements. While taking the basic course, I was facing some problem in speaking. However, it has improved now and I am still working on it to enhance it further. Overall it's a nice experience; I am really enjoying the classes.” Shubhanjan Sinha, a student of BCA Durgapur (Batchof2018) says: “I have completed the basic language proficiency course in Spanish language and I must say that it has been one of the highlights of my 3 years in NSHM. Our teachers are very nice and supportive. The way they explain grammar and non-grammatical sections are very interesting. Currently I'm in the intermediate level of the Spanish language course. If I get the opportunity in the future I would be definitely going for the advance level course.” Such heart-warming, honest feedbacks from our students give us hope. The hope to strive further in making a positive change in their lives so that the tenure they spend with us becomes a treasure for a lifetime for them. As an institute, we never let the pandemic take at all on our teaching-learning process and as a centre, CLC has ensured that the online platform is used to the optimum level in enhancing the language skills and employability skills of our students. However, it is worth admitting that nothing can replace the experience and thrill of an actual class. The classrooms are the little worlds which the students create with their teachers a space where they learn, explore and make memories. We dearly wait to get back to our classes and bear witnesses to our students living their dreams. Until then, we hope to make the most of our virtual interactions and ensure that the journey towards language learning and self-discovery continues with the same dynamism and alacrity. This article is authored by Dr. Debapriya Goswami. She is an Assistant Professor at NSHM Knowledge Campus, West Bengal, India and can be reached by email at mail to: debapriya.goswami@nshm.com.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
26-10-2021||India||Think pandemic is the only challenge? Think again||The pandemic has disrupted education and learning at a time when people were least expecting it. At the School of Computing and Analytics at NSHM Kolkata, we moved to online classes from the 3rd week of March 2020, even before the lockdown was declared by the government. The students and the teachers were tech-savvy, so the operational shift from offline to online was smooth. Yet, it turned out receiving education and learning through digital medium in the pandemic was a challenge. Or was it? Story 1: It was the third week of March, 2020 when the online classes started and I began my class on Machine learning at 11AM sharp. In the first 15 minutes of the class, only one student joined the virtual class but without any further ado, I decided to start teaching. I made sure, I was properly connected and as I proceed, I asked my student, “Can you hear me?”. Rinki unmuted herself and said, “Yes ma’am”; assuring me I was indeed audible but I was surprised to hear commotion coming from her end. “Rinki, where are you?” I asked and her reply stunned me when she said “Ma’am, I am at the Howrah station, boarding a train…” Oh my God! Story 2: A few months later, it was around second week of May 2020, when the pandemic has been announced officially and virtual classes were going on full-fledgedly. I was taking a class on Digital Marketing when suddenly a woman’s voice boomed from behind a particular screen “beta, chawal chaddha diya hai kya?” to which my student, Ram instantly replied, “Haan Maa” and I was quick to mute him because the class was being recorded. Story 3: Another year passed, the situation had not got any better and it was already the second week of May 2021 when a new batch had joined whose initial lessons started online without any face to face meet with their mentors. I was taking my machine learning classes as usual but I was worriedby reports of students’ inattentiveness in class coming from all around. I checked on the new students from time to time by calling out their names with the hope of a little interaction.When I called out a student named Raja, I heard the blaring noise of traffic in the background. He was on the road travelling somewhere while attending a class and in the middle of a pandemic! These are my real life experiences during the pandemic while conducting the online classes (names of the students are fictitious). None of those students were insincere in their studies; it was just unfortunate circumstances. Rinki was going back to her hometown as students were asked to vacate hostels and just like the millions of migrant workers, were struggling to get back home. Rinki was lucky to get a train ticket andshe joined the class from wherever she was whileher classmates were still struggling to get a ticket.Ram was helping his mother with the household chores balancing it with the classes as househelps were unable to come to work due to the strict lockdown. Later, I got to know that Raja was out to procure oxygen cylinders for an ailing person. These students of mine were heroes without the cape. Life is a great teacher. In the pandemic, life taught us to be compassionate, be grit to cope with adversities and survive. Discussions around education and learning during the pandemic revolved around online vs offline (mediums) and Zoom vs Teams (platforms). To me, the real issue is learning to survive vs learning the lessons. If we fast forward 50 years, offline classes may be a distant history. The students of the future are likely to attend virtual classes with the environment of a class brought into the drawing room, aided by technology. The online vs offline and platform debate too will become history. Machine learning and digital marketing are likely to evolve beyond recognition. But the compassion, grit, learning to cope and survive will stay with the students forever. This article is authored by Dr. Suparna Dhar. She is Associate Professor & In-charge of NSHM School of Computing & Analytics, West Bengal, India and can be reached by email at suparna.dhar@nshm.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
26-10-2021||India||Panchaali The Princess of Peace : A gripping story by Saniya Inamdar||To all the enthusiasts of Indian mythology and avid viewers of the Mahabharata on TV, Draupadi is a word synonymous with Disrobing! To the sensitive mind it is synonymous with Dishonour! And to the author it was in sync with Dignity which should have been bestowed on a character known as an arbitrator of war and gore! Panchaali the Princess of Peace is the story of a mythological character that emerges from the fire as full grown woman, with a prelapsarian naiveté which made it hard for her to understand and live in a world because of its newness! Panchaali as created by Inamdar is an intrigued, restless soul who seeks questions, fathoms deceptions, harbours fears and speaks her mind well before her disrobing! Panchaali in the story refuses to marry the five Pandava brothers and walks the path of honour and Peace! The book is not a feminist retelling of the story of a protagonist who was stripped of all her pride unabashedly in front of her mishpocha! It is a clarion call for each individual to fight for ones dignity and also be a torch bearer for the respect of others. The book portrays this similitude in the honest and soul stirring friendship between Panchaali (Draupadi) and Krishna! Dushasana kept dragging me by my hair, demeaning me, mocking me, chastising me, and belittling my very existence with his brutal hold and vulgar tongue! Even as I begged for relief, for help, I was begging for dignity, for respect that was of any woman to own in any circumstance or time! It seemed impossible in this situation, but the cruelty of the man and my fear made it a stark reality! Why only till that moment I was the revered Queen whose false haughtiness and impeccable beauty were the talk of endless banters! Only till a moment ago, I was a wife to five husbands and yet I found none of them in my plight! I was a Queen and not of any ordinary Kingdom nor of undistinguished men! Like the endless labyrinth, the moment seemed endless. Why didn’t somebody come to my rescue! How could this man yield so much of power to destroy a woman piece by piece through his immoral touch and verbal vituperations! How inexhaustible and unbounded was Dushasanas’ viciousness. He seemed to derive an opportune pleasure from my pain! Oh stop it, stop it, I pleaded in despair, wishing for an end or some safe harbour in this amaranthine situation! What made the situation worse and my foreboding full of discomposure was my state of Rajasvala! I was in my month, in a single piece of cloth with my navel exposed! Why was this wretched man taking me to a court full of men in this delicate and vulnerable state, what did he intend to do by taking me there! I was already in a weakened state by nature. Why didn’t this man sympathize with my situation! Could it really be me! Could this then be my identity, a woman so weak, so defenseless that she could not even seek relief in her most private days! He dragged, and I protested; he laughed, and I beseeched; he violated, and I implored to deaf haughty corrupted ears till he threw me in a court dignified! Proudly, I stood my ground as I tried to stand up and reckon my place in the court! This could not be happening to me. This was not my reality, and this should be no one’s reality! I feared not a single man in the world leave alone those in the impotent room! Why did I need to be afraid of any man or any human till the time I respected my boundaries and theirs! When I caused no harm, why would any other violate my sense of wellbeing! Naïve, foolish, fleeceable, Panglossian, and deluded! Never was a woman raped verbally by abuses, by insinuations, by immodesty, by blatant brazenness as I was in that court, by men who were in my relations and witnessed by men, great men whose glory would be revered by generations to come! I tried to bear the stage and my predicament by rendering it phantasmal; it was not me who was called a whore, a woman unchaste who slept with five men, five brothers, a slave woman! I lived through those words as if it was an illusion! But as soon as the man called out for my disrobing, I could no longer pretend or fool myself of my gross predicament! I could fight their verbal arrows and abuses, but where did I take refuge when I was to be stripped of all decency! It was frightening to the pit of my belly. Why did their revenge border on my decency! Was this their idea of getting even with the Pandavas to destroy me completely! Is this the utmost that men could do, how imbecile and puerile to the point of absurdity! To take revenge meant to deprecate a woman! To belittle a woman meant to disrobe her and bring her nakedness to fore! Couldn’t their small minds come up with an idea of revenge in a genteel form! Hadn’t they seen nakedness of a woman in their own homes, with their wives! I placed the men who abused me in the same dishonourable stratum as the men who bet on my name! Why weren’t the Pandavas disrobed of their apparels! Weren’t they also the losers! It was not revenge that the enemy was seeking; it was lecherous, depraved, viciousness! I stood vulnerable and yet so proud, so defamed and yet so honourable! Trembling inside amidst the sea of empty relations and feeble excuses, I knew there was nothing I could do to protect my modesty! I saw Dushasana going for the kill and I closed my eyes! As I prayed to the creator, I wished I was given a chance to have averted this precarious quagmire of mine!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-87
26-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri: SC directs UP to grant protection to witnesses||The Supreme Court Tuesday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to grant protection to the witnesses of Lakhimpur Kheri violence in which eight people including four farmers were killed during a farmers' protest. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana asked the UP government, represented by senior advocates Harish Salve and Garima Prasad, to record the statements of other relevant witnesses before judicial magistrates under Section 164 of the CrPC. We direct the District Judge concerned to entrust the task of recording of evidence under Section 164 of the CrPC to the nearest judicial magistrates available, said the bench which also comprised Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli. Statements under Section 164 of the CrPC (Code of Criminal Procedure) are recorded before a judicial magistrate and they have evidentiary value. The bench asked Salve to convey its concerns to forensic labs and experts on preparation of reports on electronic evidence of the incident and also directed the state government to file its report on two complaints including the one related to the lynching of a journalist. The state is directed to file separate replies in the cases, the bench said and fixed the plea for further hearing on November 8. During the hearing, the bench raised the question over the number of eyewitnesses made by the prosecution in the case and said, "The case is that thousands of farmers were going on and a rally was going on. Only 23 witnesses are eyewitnesses?" Salve said that out of 68 witnesses, statements of 30 witnesses have been recorded under Section 164 of the CrPC and some more testimonies will be recorded. "Of these 30 witnesses, 23 claim to be eyewitnesses. A lot of witnesses are formal witnesses of recovery and all", Salve said. He also submitted several digital pieces of evidence that have been recovered and sent for examination by experts. The Supreme Court had on October 20 had rapped the government, saying the court was getting the impression that the state police was dragging its feet, and also ordered the protection of witnesses. The apex court was hearing a matter about the October 3 violence in Lakhimpur Kheri in which eight persons including four farmers were killed during a farmers' protest and over ten accused, including Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra's son Ashish Mishra, have been arrested so far in the case. The Supreme Court had on October 20 had rapped the government, saying the court was getting the impression that the state police was dragging its feet, and also ordered the protection of witnesses In the previous hearing last week, the UP government was told sternly by the judges to "dispel the feeling that you are dragging your feet" on the case. The judges had asked why more witnesses had not been questioned by the UP government. "You have recorded the statements of only four witnesses so far out of 44. Why not more?", Chief Justice Ramana had questioned. The court had, even then, ordered the UP government to protect and record the statement of all witnesses and said: "This should not be an unending story". Ashish Mishra is accused of running over four farmers during a protest on October 3. More were killed in the violence that erupted afterwards. The Supreme Court, on the complaint of the families of BJP workers killed in the violence, asked the UP government for a separate report on the killing of four more persons, including a journalist. Ashish Mishra was arrested on October 11, three days after the Supreme Court expressed dissatisfaction with the Uttar Pradesh government's progress in the case. The Supreme Court had asked the Yogi Adityanath government to list in a status report how many have been arrested over the killing of eight persons and on what charges. In the last hearing, the court was upset about the report being filed "last-minute". Both Ashish Mishra and his father have denied all charges. Mishra had told NDTV that the car belonged to his family but neither he nor his son was in it when the incident took place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
26-10-2021||India||Entrepreneur Hetvi Karia Explains The Need For Digital Marketing||Hetvi Karia has disclosed to us in the article the significance of computerized promoting. The business visionary says that on the off chance that one follows these pointers, one will accomplish their objectives soon. These rules will likewise assist one with setting up an effective computerized advertising organization. Master input is consistently helpful, paying little mind to your field. Hetvi Karia is an advanced showcasing and online business proficient who works together with a group of specialists. With the fitting sort of PR and advancements, the youthful business visionary has helped organizations and top customers hang out in the computerized world. Hetvi Karia has disclosed to us in the article the significance of computerized promoting. The business visionary says that on the off chance that one follows these pointers, one will accomplish their objectives soon. These rules will likewise assist one with setting up an effective computerized advertising organization. Hetvi Karia Shares Importance of Digital Marketing: 1. Great Reach The reason for any brand is to have a decent reach and increment its client base. A ton of online media stages have made it simple for brands to associate with their interest group. Nonetheless, there are ways of making it happen appropriately. Computerized showcasing will assist one with keeping the guidelines and steps that will help for a superior reach. 2. Brand Awareness You can possibly catch individuals' eye when they know what/what your identity is. Not every one of them will go through your whole site and read your 'About Us'. Computerized promoting will assist individuals with thinking better with regards to your image contrasted with any tremendous banner or leaflet. The right computerized promoting organization will assist you with ways on the most proficient method to make brand attention to get your current customers while additionally getting new ones. 3. To Stay Ahead in the Game Each business field is brimming with rivalries. What one brand is doing, their rivals are doing likewise or better. In any case, do you know there are manners by which you can explain to individuals why you're really great? That can possibly occur on the off chance that you have great procedures and connecting with ways of getting individuals' consideration. The more clients you have, the more your image esteem builds, giving you better income and assist you with remaining solid in the game. All things considered, these are some essential pointers Hetvi Karia needs individuals to follow. She says that computerized showcasing is the present and future, and it is fundamental for everybody to have basically essential information about it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
26-10-2021||India||Hard work is Key to Success, Vaseem Qureshi||Vaseem Qureshi has created a name for himself in the Indian music industry with his music company "Aatma Music." 'Qureshi Productions,' a Mumbai-based production company, has assisted numerous young and wonderful musicians from all across India in achieving their singing objectives. Vaseem was born and reared in the Uttar Pradesh city of Najibabad, and he had lofty ambitions. He was constantly upbeat about his aims and prospects, despite his history in infrastructure, education, and pharmaceutical industries. Vaseem Qureshi, a producer, and director has introduced several hidden treasures in the Indian music industry. There are also appearances by Jumana Khan, Rakhi Sawant, and Nisha Guragain. He has high esteem for outstanding talent and feels that the world should be able to witness their extraordinary talents. As a result, he never turns down the chance to collaborate with fresh professionals. Rail Me Dhakke Laage Se, DJ Pe Nachungi, LOCKDOWN, and Ramzan Aa Gaya, to name a few of his hit songs. In Addition, Under the umbrella of Qureshi Productions, Vaseem Qureshi and actor Sonu Sood have made a name for themselves in the city by hosting the reality show "Mr and Miss 7 Status" on a TV channel. Qutub Minar, his film, will be released shortly. "I created the record label all by myself with the purpose of promoting artists from all across India," Vaseem says when questioned about the success of his "Qureshi Productions House" & Music Label "Aatma Music." I adore Indian music, and my friends and family do as well, therefore the songs are always a necessity at weddings, parties, and gatherings. So I decided to concentrate my efforts on them and offer any independent artist who is passionate about language and music a chance. There were difficulties at first, as being self- sufficient comes with a number of difficulties. However, I ignored the setbacks and focused only on producing excellent work with the finest artists. Aatma Music's success, I feel, is a result of all that hard work and commitment." Despite the epidemic and lockdown, Vaseem Qureshi believes 2021 has been a wonderful year for him. In the next years and early in 2022, he has a lot of aspirations and interesting initiatives. Vaseem and the artists that collaborated with him will reveal the new releases soon. He is now on his way to making it big in Bollywood.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
26-10-2021||India||Advocating feminism, food vlogger Priyanka Tiwari poses as a great inspirational success story||To all those people who thought that women were meant to only work in closed work environments or were only meant for household chores, successful stories like Priyanka Tiwari prove what truly women are capable of doing and what they deserve in life and in their careers. To envision something, put necessary efforts and become successful in what one desires is something people should learn from women from across industries and fields today. Priyanka Tiwari's massive rise to stardom in the social media world is proof of her sheer talent, resilience, passion and focus on her goals as a social media influencer and food vlogger. On the challenges she faced as a female vlogger, Priyanka Tiwari says, "The journey to where I have reached today was never a rosy road for me. Just like any other rising vlogger and influencer, I, too, had my share of struggles. In fact, it won't be wrong to say that these challenges were more for me as a female vlogger as I was always out there speaking to the public and interacting with them for my content." She further adds, saying that she would like to advocate feminism as she has always noticed how these mediums are rocked by male vloggers already. On her constant travels for creating content, Priyanka Tiwari highlighted that it is always difficult to travel to a new city every month and shoot videos for food content on the streets as a female vlogger. Many among the public pass on snide remarks and statements while making content, which can divert a person's focus and make them feel more discouraged, but her constant hustle, ability to overlook these remarks to focus on only creating great content helped her keep going strong in the industry. As a food vlogger, Priyanka Tiwari has always stood distinctive in the industry because of her unique content that adds comedy and also involves various challenges. For more than three years, she has been doing this and ensures to learn something new each day to implement in her work to become a better content creator and vlogger. Check out her YouTube channel, https://www.youtube.com/PriyankaTiwari, or follow her on Instagram @priyankaatiwari to know more.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
26-10-2021||India||Neyaz Khalid Noor Expresses Concern As India’s Youth Is Trapped Into Drugs||This is a harrowing reality to face. It is pretty difficult to believe that our youth are developing dangerous, addictive habits at such an early age, especially right under our nose. We want to believe it is just a phase. But on the other hand, there is an indisputable link between substance abuse and delinquency. Arrest, adjudication, and intervention by the juvenile justice system are eventual consequences for many youths engaged in alcohol and other drug use. Why are teens more susceptible to drugs? In such cases, we usually blame experimentation, or the other kids at school for our children’s early drug use. The last thing we want to come across is that our children are in danger, or that this substance use is something our sons and daughters have brought upon themselves. If we try to understand this ‘menace’ at a very basic level, we see that there are several mental health issues such as depression, developmental lags, apathy, withdrawal, and other psychosocial dysfunctions frequently linked to substance abuse among adolescents. Drug usage is always associated with a variety of negative consequences, that includes increased risk of serious drug use later in life, school failure, and poor judgment which may put teens at risk for accidents, violence, unplanned and unsafe sex, and suicide. Switzerland has long stood out internationally for its innovative approach to the problem of drug addiction, adopting a drug policy in the early 1990s when hundreds of addicts occupied public spaces in the cities of Zurich and Bern. “Switzerland has applied a ‘four pillars’ policy: prevention, therapy, harm reduction and repression (law enforcement). The model is greatly regarded by addiction professionals and has proven effective. Since its adoption, the number of deaths resulting from drug consumption has decreased, criminality has declined, the health of addicts has vastly enhanced and open drug scenes have disappeared. I feel like if India also goes for a similar approach then we can definitely solve the problem to some extent as the important thing is to break the supply chain” added Neyaz Khalid Noor, Social activist. If we look into our mass entertainment medium then even a few years ago, they have portrayed alcoholism in a very glamorous light & have influenced young minds with a completely wrong notion of ‘Being Cool’. Substance addiction not only spoils but also destroys a life which directly means it is a curse for any person. As we all, youngsters are innocent and they need the right guidance at their homes and schools. Parents, teachers and elders should always be empathetic and communicative with the youngsters so that they can easily talk out their issues and feelings, all they need is a good listener and a guide who can hold their hands and show them the right path. If the youngsters feel protected and they know that they have some trustworthy people in their lives with whom they can freely express their feelings and problems then there is no scope for any wrong way to intervene in their minds and life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
26-10-2021||India||Maharashtra minister accuses Sameer Wankhede of illegally tapping phones||Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik on Tuesday accused NCB official Sameer Wankhede of illegal phone tapping and announced that he will hand over a letter on the official's misdeeds' to the agency head. Sameer Wankhede through two persons in Mumbai and Thane is illegally intercepting the mobile phones of some people, said Malik, who has been targeting Wankhede after his son-in-law's arrest. Malik also claimed that Wankhede had sought the call detail record (CDR) of his family member from the police. Wankhede in his affidavit submitted to a Mumbai court on Monday claimed he was under a "lurking threat of arrest as it does not suit some vested interests for conducting an honest and impartial investigation". The official had also claimed that he was being personally targeted by a well-known political figure (Malik), and the only reason he can fathom is that the NCB had arrested "this person's son-in-law Sameer Khan". Malik said he is forwarding a letter written by someone in NCB about the various illegal activities of Wankhede' to the agency's DG S N Pradhan. The NCP minister said the NCB should investigate the 26 allegations in the letter claiming an extortion racket' being run within the anti-drugs agency. As a responsible citizen I will be forwarding this letter to DG Narcotics requesting him to include this letter in the investigation being conducted on Sameer Wankhede, the minister tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
26-10-2021||India||Daily rise in Covid cases lowest in 238 days||India saw a single-day rise of 12,428 new COVID-19 cases, the lowest in 238 days, while the active cases declined to 1,63,816, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. With the fresh cases, the total tally climbed to 3,42,02,202, while the death toll climbed to 4,55,068 with 356 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. Kerala has reconciled 228 fatalities from the previous period, officials said, adding that 53 deaths have been reported from the state in the last 24 hours. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 31 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 120 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.49 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.18 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 3,879 cases has been recorded in the total active number of COVID-19 cases in a span of 24 hours. Also, 11,31,826 tests were conducted on Monday, taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 60,19,01,543. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.10 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.24 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,35,83,318, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 102.94 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 356 new fatalities include 281 from Kerala, 14 from Tamil Nadu, 12 from Maharashtra and 11 from West Bengal. A total of 4,55,068 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,40,028 from Maharashtra, 38,017 from Karnataka, 36,033 from Tamil Nadu, 28,873 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,066 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
26-10-2021||India||Four of family die in house fire in Delhi||Four members of a family died on Tuesday after a fire broke out on the third floor of a building in East Delhi's Old Seemapuri area, officials said. The incident took place when the victims were asleep, they said. The deceased have been identified as Horilal (59), his wife Reena (55), their son Ashu (24) and daughter Rohini (18). The family members were sleeping on the third floor of the house, while their 22-year-old son Akshay had a narrow escape as he was sleeping on the second floor, they said. A call about the fire was received at around 4 am and four fire tenders were rushed to the spot, said Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services. Domestic articles in a room on the third floor of the house caught fire, resulting in the death of four people. The victims were found dead on the spot. The building comprised ground plus three floors and situated in an area of about 25 square yards, he said, adding that it was a minor fire. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahadra) R Sathiyasundaram said, "Our police team and Delhi Fire Services staff reached the spot immediately and the fire was brought under control. The crime team, officials from Forensic Science Laboratory and other senior officials also visited the scene of incidence." Police said the fire might have broke out and spread across the third floor of the building. The victims might have died due to inhaling smoke, but only the post-mortem report will be able to ascertain the exact cause of death. Akshay, the only surviving member of the family, works as a labourer in Safiabad. He had come home at around 2 am after work. He went to the third floor to get food and later slept on the second floor. He survived since the fire did not spread from the third floor of the building, police said. Horilal was working as a peon in Shastri Bhawan, Delhi and was due to retire in March 2022. His wife worked as a sweeper in MCD. His daughter was a class 12 student at a government school while his son was unemployed, they said. All the bodies have been shifted to Guru Teg Bahadur hospital mortuary for post-mortem, they said. A case has been registered under IPC section 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house) and 304A (causing death by negligence), the DCP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
26-10-2021||India||Sex racket in Bhubaneswar consultancy centre ||Police Commissionerate (Bhubaneswar-Cuttack) on Monday busted a sex racket that was running in the city in the guise of a consultancy firm. The owner of the firm, Laxmi Narayan Patnaik, was arrested and four women were rescued from there. “One of the employees turned up at the police station alleging that in the name of arranging jobs for them, the firm was forcing girls into flesh trade. Following the complaint, we conducted a raid and seized several identity cards,” the police said. Bhubaneswar DC Uma Shankar Das said: “An immoral trafficking case has been lodged in this connection.” “No one had thought that a sex racket could be going on inside a consultancy centre. Even the neighbours had no idea about the racket till we raided the place in Mancheswar,” the police said. The police found it surprising that inside the consultancy centre, there were nearly 10 rooms for servicing the customers. The police have seized a number of incriminating documents including a number of identity cards issued to girls in the name of various companies. Nearly three such sex rackets have been busted in the city during this year so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
26-10-2021||India||Four hooch deaths in dry Bihar’s Siwan||At least four persons died after allegedly consuming illicit liquor in Siwan district of dry Bihar, which has witnessed a series of hooch tragedies this year. The deaths occurred on Sunday night but came to light on Monday. The incident occurred in the twin villages — Bellaur and Bellauri — under Guthni police station spreading panic in the area because nobody was sure how many people had consumed illicit liquor. Three of the deceased are from Bellaur while another is from Bellauri. A large number of villagers alleged the deaths occurred because of consumption of hooch, which they said was freely available in the area bordering Uttar Pradesh. On the other hand, family members of the deceased refused to speak on the issue, as they were apparently afraid of being implicated in cases related to flouting of prohibition. “My father used to drink daily. He came home on Saturday night and was feeling uneasy. He was taken to a local doctor on Sunday morning, who treated him for cardiac arrest and then referred him to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. My family members took him to a private hospital there. He died at around 10.30pm,” Mukesh Kumar Ram, son of deceased Dukh Haran Ram, told The Telegraph. As the family members of the deceased mourned and information about the deaths spread, district administration and police officials rushed to the two villages to make enquiries. Siwan DM Amit Kumar Pandey told this newspaper that bodies of three persons have been sent for post-mortem though the local people were claiming that four had died. “The deaths were reported on Monday morning. We have been able to trace three bodies so far and sent them for post-mortem. The matter is under investigation and we will be able to ascertain the reasons of death only after the post-mortem reports come,” Pandey said. “Special operations are being conducted in a 3-4km radius from the villages to catch people who could be involved in brewing illicit liquor,” Pandey added. There have been a series of hooch deaths in Bihar since chief minister Nitish Kumar brought a law to ban liquor manufacturing, trade and consumption in the state. Lacklustre policing and a nexus between law enforcement agencies and liquor mafia are said to be the main reasons behind the deaths attributed to hooch consumption. Over 45 people have lost their lives in separate hooch tragedies in Kaimur, Muzaffarpur, Nawada, West Champaran, Vaishali and Siwan districts this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-88
26-10-2021||India||Congress seeks probe into Facebook-BJP ties ||The Congress on Monday said Facebook was a “diabolical tool” in the hands of bigoted regimes to subvert democracy and demanded a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) to investigate its nexus with the BJP in India. Referring to the fresh revelations by a whistleblower, which suggested how the social media platform took no action against the BJP’s hate campaign, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “This only goes on to prove that Facebook is nothing but a subjugated vicious diabolical tool used by the ruling regime and its proxies to propagate bigotry, hate and fear in the minds of the oppressed and marginalised in India. The absolute callous attitude of the company towards the people of India is reflective in the fact that they spend 87 per cent of their misinformation budget policing English speaking audiences, whereas those audiences make up only 9 per cent of their base.” The Congress asked both the Narendra Modi government and Facebook to answer these questions: “1. Despite knowing all of this, why hasn’t Facebook designated the RSS and the Bajrang Dal as ‘dangerous organisations’ based on its own internal reports? 2. While the government of India had been extremely proactive against Twitter citing social media safety compliance, why are they not uttering a word now?” Demanding a JPC probe, Khera said: “The internal reports and recommendations of Facebook’s security team went against the recommendations of Facebook’s safety team; in so far as they prioritised commercial interests over safety of Indian citizens, and yet no action has been taken by the government, doesn’t this clearly implicate the presence of a quid pro quo?” Describing the BJP as “all weather ally” of the Facebook, Khera recalled the murky episode involving former Facebook India head Ankhi Das, who was questioned by the parliamentary panel on the alleged bias in dealing with hate speeches, including her own internal postings detailing her explicit support for the ruling BJP. But, despite her resignation, the camaraderie and nexus between the BJP and Facebook never ended, he quipped. Khera said: “Facebook’s safety team earlier in 2020 had concluded that the Bajrang Dal supported violence against minorities across the country; it was speculated that Facebook was on the verge of designating them as a ‘dangerous organisation’ and ban them from the platform. But, subsequent to a report by Facebook’s security team, which stated, ‘besides risking infuriating India’s ruling nationalist politicians, banning Bajrang Dal might precipitate physical attacks against Facebook personnel and facilities’, and thus, the social media giant caved in and prioritised their business over the safety of millions of Indians.” The latest expose that prompted the Congress attack is the leaked research documents by whistleblower Frances Haugen, a 37yearold engineer who worked at Facebook. It showed Facebook knew they were not equipped to filter hate speech in Hindi through the course of the 2019 elections and the brutal Delhi riots, but they took no action. Their own internal reports have identified fake accounts with over a million impressions. India is the largest market for Facebook with about 370 million users. An internal assessment by Facebook suggested that only 0.2 per cent of reported hate speech was being taken down. Khera said: “Many internal studies and reports by Facebook that have now been leaked explicitly suggest that it is groups and entities affiliated with the RSS, Bajrang Dal and their political proxy BJP that have been at the forefront of largescale extensive hate speech campaigns and hatemongering by spreading targeted misinformation against a particular community.” The Congress insisted that any agency, any company, Indian or foreign, cannot undermine constitutional values, which govern this country. “Come what may, if Twitter does something wrong today, we will speak against Twitter and if the government does something wrong against any such company, we will again speak up. There is a rule of law, which governs the conduct of these companies. There is a rule of law, which governs my rights as a consumer of these platforms and Congress party will always stand by rule of law, by the Constitution, which governs our country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
26-10-2021||India||Maharashtra BJP MP boasts of impunity from ED||A BJP parliamentarian has said he doesn’t fear the Enforcement Directorate because he is an MP from the BJP, indirectly buttressing Opposition allegations that the Narendra Modi government has been using central investigative agencies to hound political rivals. Sunday’s comment by Sanjay Patil, MP from Sangli in Maharashtra, came days after party MLA Harshvardhan Patil too publicly said he was getting “sound sleep” after joining the BJP from the Congress since there are now “no inquiries”. “The ED won’t come after me since I am a BJP MP,” a smiling Sanjay Patil said, speaking in a lighter vein, while inaugurating a shopping mall in his constituency. A video shows the MP asserting in Marathi that wealthy politicians are often unfairly accused of corruption, when a fellow dignitary on the dais says something to him that cannot be clearly heard. The MP, who owns two sugar mills, then makes the comment about the ED. Sources suggested that Sanjay Patil had been keen to join Sharad Pawar’s Nationalist Congress Party ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls but backed out for fear of facing a probe by a central agency. When The Telegraph called the MP’s number, he said he had just arrived in “Bombay” and would talk after 15-20 minutes. When this newspaper called after a while, his phone was switched off. Central agencies like the ED, CBI, income-tax department and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) have launched probes against several non-BJP politicians in Maharashtra since the BJP lost power to a Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress coalition in 2019, triggering allegations of vendetta. Similar charges have been levelled elsewhere in the country too. Earlier this month, Harshvardhan Patil, who had defected from the Congress to the BJP ahead of the Maharashtra Assembly polls in 2019, was quoted by PTI as saying at an event: “We too had to go to BJP. He (referring to someone from the Opposition sitting next to him on the dais) asked why I had joined BJP. I told him to ask his leader why I went to BJP.” He added: “Everything is easygoing and peaceful (in the BJP). I get sound sleep as there are no inquiries.” Later, the four-time Maharashtra MLA claimed his comment had been misinterpreted. NCP leaders have suggested the recent NCB drugs raid and arrest of Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan also reflects political victimisation. “Drugs will become sugar powder if Shah Rukh Khan joins the BJP,” Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Chhagan Bhujbal had said on Saturday. The ED has lodged money-laundering cases against several NCP and Sena leaders, including former state home minister Anil Deshmukh and fellow NCP leader Eknath Khadse. The agency recently questioned Shiv Sena MP Bhawana Gawli and his party colleague and state transport minister Anil Parab. The ED has searched Sena MP Anand Adsul’s residence and offices in connection with a cooperative bank scandal. “Never heard of so many ED actions in Maharashtra,” Pawar said recently. The ED had filed a money-laundering case against Pawar and his nephew Ajit ahead of the 2019 Assembly polls. Among senior Opposition politicians investigated by central agencies is Congress veteran and former Union finance minister P. Chidambaram who was arrested by the CBI and the ED in 2019. Karnataka Congress MLA D.K. Shivakumar was put in jail for weeks in an assets case by the income-tax authorities in 2019. In 2015, the CBI raided the residence of then Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh of the Congress on the day of his daughter’s wedding.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
26-10-2021||India||Mohammad Shami trolled after India’s loss to Pakistan||On a day industrialist Sanjiv Goenka and an investment firm committed over Rs 12,700 crore or $1.7 billion to buy two new IPL teams, some Indians were indulging in what is increasingly becoming another national pastime. Cricketer Mohammad Shami was treated to the filthiest of abuses by trolls, most of whom referenced his religion, after India’s loss to Pakistan in the T20 World Cup match. If Rahul Gandhi led the political field in expressing solidarity with Shami, the silence at the other end of the spectrum was marked by the usual indifference that Prime Minister Narendra Modi displays when faced with such choices. Till Monday night, neither Modi nor any other Union minister had condemned the attacks on Shami. Sachin Tendulkar and Virender Sehwag were among those who “supported” and “stood by” Shami but few spoke of the reason that has made such a blizzard of communal attacks the “new normal” in India. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Mohammad #Shami we are all with you. These people are filled with hate because nobody gives them any love. Forgive them.” Sachin, whose image had taken an unprecedented knock when he echoed the official stand after singer Rihanna tweeted about the farmers’ movement in India, wrote: “When we support #TeamIndia, we support every person who represents Team India.” Sachin continued: “@MdShami11 is a committed, world-class bowler. He had an off day like any other sportsperson can have. I stand behind Shami & Team India.” Sehwag tweeted: “The online attack on Mohammad Shami is shocking and we stand by him. He is a champion and Anyone who wears the India cap has India in their hearts far more than any online mob. With you Shami….” It was not always like this — players did not routinely face hate attacks after a loss. Irfan Pathan tweeted: “Even I was part of #IndvsPak battles on the field where we have lost but never been told to go to Pakistan! I’m talking about the India of few years back.” It took broadcaster Raunak Kapoor to hit the nail on the head: “Mohammed Shami wasn’t viciously abused because he had an ‘off-day’. 9 players had an off-day yesterday. While it’s nice to see support for him from current & former players, would be prudent for them to also acknowledge & condemn the reason for it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
26-10-2021||India||Kashmir cheers Pakistan win over India during Shah visit||Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday snubbed Farooq Abdullah’s request for talks with Islamabad as all around him Kashmiris erupted in joy at Pakistan’s victory over India in the T20 World Cup. Valley residents burst firecrackers overnight and videos showed Kashmiris, apparently including students from a premier medical college in Srinagar, dancing and cheering Pakistan’s victory. Shah, visiting Jammu and Kashmir since Saturday, did not react to the celebrations but officials said they had come as an embarrassment for lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha’s administration. Some Kashmiri students studying in neighbouring Punjab have alleged their counterparts from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Haryana barged into their rooms and roughed them up for celebrating Pakistan’s win. Nasir Khouhami, national spokesperson for the Jammu and Kashmir Students’ Association, said over a dozen students were beaten up, seven suffering grievous injuries. Former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti appeared to justify the celebrations. “Why such anger against Kashmiris for celebrating Pak’s win? Some are even chanting murderous slogans — desh ke gadaaron ko goli maaro/ calling to shoot traitors,” she tweeted. “One hasnt forgotten how many celebrated by distributing sweets when J&K was dismembered & stripped of special status.” Shah bristled at Srinagar MP and former chief minister Farooq’s call for talks with Pakistan. “I read in newspapers that Farooq Abdullah has suggested the government should talk to Pakistan. He has a right to his opinion but we would rather talk to the Kashmiri youth,” Shah told a gathering at the Sher-i-Kashmir International Convention Centre on the Dal Lake’s shores. “But I want to tell Farooq Sahab and all of you that if there has to be talks, I shall hold them with my brothers and sisters from the Valley, with the youth of the Valley. Why should I not talk to you, we want to talk to you, that is why I extended the hand of friendship to the youth of the Valley.” Shah is on his first visit to Jammu and Kashmir since the August 2019 dilution of Article 370, arriving amid a spurt in militant violence. He has during the trip made repeated peace overtures to the youth, saying they and not the Indian government can weed out militancy. Shah was to end his visit on Monday but has extended it by a day, apparently to be part of “Accession Day” celebrations. Jammu and Kashmir had acceded to India on October 26, 1947. At the gathering, Shah asked the organisers to remove the bullet-proof screen so he could talk to the audience “frankly” and “without any security”. The venue, however, has been off limits for ordinary citizens for the past three days, with all the roads leading to it sealed. The few hundred visitors who attended the event were thoroughly screened before entering. Shah said those who advocate talks with Islamabad and separatists should be asked what Pakistan had done for Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. “Compare the development between this side and PoK. Do they have electricity, roads, healthcare and toilets? There is nothing (on the other side). You have the same rights as any other Indian,” he said. Shah vowed to eradicate militancy and end the civilian killings. He said he had been taunted and condemned “in very harsh words” after he announced the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in 2019. He defended the Internet curbs and curfew imposed in the aftermath of the constitutional changes, claiming “some people would have misled the masses” and killings would have taken place.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
26-10-2021||India||Rs 64,000cr govt mission to plug health gaps ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched a Rs 64,000-crore government mission that seeks to fill gaps in public health infrastructure nationwide through additional facilities ranging from critical care beds to labs to surveillance units. The Ayushman Bharat Health Infrastructure Mission will add 35,000 critical care-linked beds in 600 districts and establish 730 public health labs, 3,000 block public health units, and 15 biosafety labs, among other facilities, to support diagnostics and disease surveillance, the Centre said. Doctors and health experts have welcomed the mission but cautioned that its success will hinge on funding and commitment to establishing physical infrastructure and ensuring that sufficient numbers of adequately trained personnel are available to support its objectives. “In post-independent India, health infrastructure did not get the required attention for a very long time and citizens had to run from pillar to post for proper treatment,” Modi said, launching the mission that he claimed would strengthen healthcare infrastructure at the village, district, regional and national levels. The initiative comes months after India’s second Covid-19 wave exposed gaps in healthcare services across the country. A senior official in the Union health ministry said the planned 35,000 critical care beds would all be in public facilities distributed across 600 districts in the country. The added beds would raise India’s count of critical care beds to over 170,000, nearly twice the number before Covid-19. “This is a welcome initiative — the idea for a separate pool of funds for health infrastructure was first proposed and discussed over 10 or 12 years ago,” said T. Sundararaman, a community medicine expert and former executive director of the health ministry’s National Health Systems Resource Centre. Critical care medicine specialists said the mission should give equal emphasis to staffing facilities. “For this to be successful, critical care facilities will need doctors, nurses, technicians on the ground before they open — on day zero,” Srinivas Samavedam, a critical care medicine specialist and general secretary of the Indian Society for Critical Care Medicine (ISCCM), told The Telegraph. Most critical care specialists are currently clustered in large metropolitan cities and tier-II towns. The ISCCM has around 12,000 members, but postgraduates in anaesthesia, pulmonology or medicine could also be trained for critical care. “There is currently an acute shortage,” said Deepak Govil, ISCCM president, who estimates that the nationwide count of fresh doctors who complete superspecialisation or undergo specialised training for critical care would touch around 400 per year. Samavedam, a member of an ISCCM expert panel on the design of critical care units, said critical care beds also ideally require key complementary infrastructure such as a blood bank, a CT scan facility, an operation theatre, and a cath lab for procedures such as angiography or angioplasty. The treatment of acute respiratory infections, heart attacks, obstetric complications, strokes or traumatic injuries that typically make up a large proportion of complications needing critical care might require such complementary infrastructure, he said. But Sundararaman said shortages of critical care specialists could be made up through innovation and technology. “Medical graduates could be provided short-term training in critical care and telemedicine services could help support critical care decisions in rural areas,” he said. The proposed additional health infrastructure also includes five regional National Centres for Disease Control, 20 metropolitan units, and four new National Institutes of Virology, collectively aimed at improving India’s capacity for disease surveillance that many experts believe is currently weak.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
26-10-2021||India||Contempt call to SC against govt for stalling judges' appointment||The Advocates’ Association of Bangalore on Monday urged the Supreme Court to initiate contempt proceedings against the Centre for “wilful” defiance by refusing to clear 11 names for appointment as judges to various high courts in spite of the collegium iterating its recommendations. The names include five shortlisted for Calcutta High Court. Among those recommended but not cleared for Calcutta High Court include senior advocate Amitesh Banerjee, son of former Supreme Court judge Justice U.C. Banerjee who headed the one-man commission that had ruled out a conspiracy behind the Godhra train fire that killed 59 kar sevaks, and advocate Sakya Sen, son of former Allahabad High Court chief justice Shyamal Sen. In a writ petition filed through advocate Pai Amit, the association submitted that the wilful defiance of the collegium’s recommendations is in violation of the Supreme Court’s nine-judge bench ruling in 1993, iterated by another nine-judge bench in 1998 and restated by the Supreme Court on April 20 this year. All these rulings had said that once the Supreme Court collegium iterates a name, the Centre has no option but to abide by it. The association also expressed concern over the growing tendency of the Union government to segregate the names of candidates recommended by the collegium, instead of approving them in one instalment. For instance, if six names are recommended for a particular high court by the Supreme Court collegium, the Union government since 2014 has been clearing only three or four names while withholding the remaining names indefinitely. This affects the seniority of the person whose name is not cleared initially along with others by the Centre. A peculiar situation also arises as once a name is recommended, the “recommendee” usually desists from practising in any court. Any delay in clearing the name leaves the “recommendee” in a limbo. Before 2014, the convention had been to clear all the names together. The association said it is “…deeply concerned with the extraordinary delays in the appointment of Judges to the Hon’ble High Court of Karnataka as well as the rest of the Hon’ble High Courts across the country, as well as the segregation of the names by the Alleged Contemnors/Respondents, which is detrimental to the cherished principle of the independence of the judiciary. “It is submitted that by these inordinate delays in the appointment of Judges to the Hon’ble High Courts after the recommendation by the collegium headed by Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India even after reiteration are a direct contravention of earlier judgments,” the petition said. The petitioner has made Barun Mitra, secretary, and Rajinder Kashyap, additional secretary, in the Union law and justice ministry “the alleged contemnors as respondents in the case”. “It is submitted that it is a very dangerous precedent if the Executive confers upon itself the power to implement only those binding recommendations that are to its liking and chooses not to implement the others. It is submitted that the failure to implement the binding decision of the collegium headed by the Hon’ble Chief Justice of India, even upon reiteration, would amount to a wilful disobedience of the orders of the Hon’ble Supreme Court,” the petition said. The association has cited the following cases of alleged defiance by the Union government: The Supreme Court had earlier set the following timelines. According to the petitioner, unreasonable delays are a direct assault on the independence of the judiciary.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
26-10-2021||India||NCB vigilance probe after bribe demand allegation against officer||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has ordered a vigilance probe after allegations of a demand for bribe were made against its zonal director Sameer Wankhede by an independent witness in the cruise ship case in which Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan has been arrested. Sources said NCB’s deputy director-general Gyanneshwar Singh, who is also the agency’s chief vigilance officer, has been asked to probe the allegation. In a notarised affidavit, witness Prabhakar Raghoji Sail on Sunday said that shortly after the NCB raid on October 2, he had overheard a conversation about paying Rs 8 crore to Wankhede. Sail said he was the personal bodyguard of another independent witness K.P. Gosavi, whose selfie with Aryan inside the NCB office on the night of the raid had caught attention. In the affidavit, Sail said that after Aryan’s detention, “Gosavi was talking to Sam on the phone and stated that you put a bomb of 25 crores and let’s settle at 18 final because we have to give 8 crores to Sameer Wankhede”. On Monday, Sail met senior Mumbai police officials and sought protection saying he feared for his life. Wankhede, who has been leading the probe in the Aryan case, invoked his secular credentials and protested the “invasion of his family privacy” after his personal documents were published on social media. “I would like to express that my father Sh. Dnyandev Kachruji Wankhede retired as senior police inspector of state excise department, Pune on 30.06.2007. My father is a Hindu and my mother late Mrs. Zaheeda was a Muslim,” Wankhede said. “I belong to a composite, multi religious and secular family in true Indian tradition and I am proud of my heritage. Further, I married Dr. Shabana Qureshi in 2006 in a civil marriage ceremony under the Special Marriage Act, 1954. Both of us divorced mutually through civil court under the Special Marriage Act in the year 2016. Later in the year 2017, I married Shrimati Kranti Dinanath Redkar,” he said. Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik had tweeted a birth certificate that purportedly shows Sameer Wankhede was born as Sameer Dawood Wankhede. The minister also shared a photograph of his nikaah with Shabana Qureshi. Malik implied Wankhede had forged his caste certificate to bag the NCB job under the Scheduled Caste quota.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
26-10-2021||India||Archbishop urges Karnataka govt to drop church survey ||Archbishop of Bangalore Peter Machado on Monday urged the Karnataka government to withdraw the directive issued to district authorities and the police intelligence wing to conduct a survey on churches in the state and objected to the proposed anti-conversion law. “I would have had no issues with this had it been for all communities. But it hurts us since you are targeting only Christians,” he told a news conference. The Karnataka Legislative Committee on Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare had recently ordered a dubious survey on churches and the functioning of Christian missionaries ostensibly to keep a tab on their activities in the BJP-ruled state. This came close on the heels of chief minister Basavaraj Bommai repeatedly stressing the need for a “strong” anti-conversion law in the state where Christians form a mere 1.87 per cent of the 6.5 crore population. “We would like to appeal to the government not to go ahead with the anti-conversion bill. It won’t bring credit to Karnataka,” he said. “The foreign corporations that come here could perhaps think that Karnataka is a very limited state and its people have small minds,” he said, citing the implications of such a law. “I am also opposing such a law since it is discriminatory to us…. Everyone knows that Christian schools are very popular in Bangalore. You have the faith to send your child to our schools. Do you think I am going to convert you in your old age?” Machado said rebutting Sangh parivar allegations on rampant proselytisation. “It is arbitrary because it targets only the Christian community. Is conversion happening only in Christian community? If a Hindu converts to Christianity, you call it conversion. But what do you call when a Christian converts to Hinduism? We are just two per cent. Allow us to live in peace,” the archbishop appealed to the government. He noted that such a discriminatory law would be misused by religious fundamentalists. “There will be more and more attacks on our churches, our pastors and our sisters. Already we have seen signs of such things happening in Karnataka,” he said, alluding to the recent surge in attacks against minorities, especially Christians, in the state. “There has been an increase in attacks on churches. Six crosses have been demolished in Bangalore (over several months),” Machado noted, alluding to the cases pending in courts. He recalled how Bommai reacted to a series of attacks against churches and Christian institutions in 2008 when he was with Janata Dal United. “But now 10 or 12 years later, are you going to encourage certain groups to attack us by making laws like this?” The BJP government is likely to use the Uttar Pradesh anti-conversion law as a mould to model its bill. But the archbishop saw a bigger danger in doing so. “The UP law defines any kind of incentive as an allurement (for conversion). By that definition, we might have to stop free education to the poor since that could be construed as an incentive,” he said. He, however, limited his comments on the survey of churches as the matter was now in Karnataka High Court after People’s Union of Civil Liberties moved a petition against the legislative committee’s directive. Machado said the church would ask the Christian community in the state to spend the second Friday of November in prayers and fasting and possibly take out a silent march for their rights enshrined in the Constitution. Congress MLA and former home minister K.J. George, who was among those present at the news conference, said the use of intelligence wing for such a survey was illegal. “I have already said in the Assembly that there are no grounds to use the intelligence department for such a survey,” he said, adding that the Congress would put up a strong opposition against the anti-conversion bill when it is tabled in the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-89
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Centre asks Bengal to review Covid cases, deaths||Amid rise in Covid-19 cases in West Bengal, the Centre has asked the state government to immediately undertake a review of cases and deaths, and stressed on the importance of ensuring Covid-safe festivities. In a letter to the West Bengal health secretary, issued on October 22, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the state has reported 20,936 new cases and 343 fresh deaths in the last 30 days, accounting for 3.4 per cent of India’s new cases and 4.7 per cent of fresh deaths in the same period. Expressing concern over the rise in Covid-19 cases in Calcutta, he said the district has reported high quantum of average daily new cases in the week ending October 21 along with more than 25 per cent increase over the past week — from 217 cases in the week ending October 14 to 272 cases in the week ending October 21. Calcutta has also reported almost 27 per cent increase in positivity rate in the past week, from 5.6 per cent in the week ending October 14 to 7.1 per cent in the week ending October 21, Bhushan said. “The weekly testing trends in this district are also showing a downward trend. This calls for more proactive action on the testing front,” he said. “With the ongoing festive season, it is crucial to emphasise the importance of Covid-safe festivities in order to maintain the collective gains made in the battle against this pandemic so far,” the Union health secretary said. The state must ensure strict adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour and focus on second dose vaccination coverage of all eligible beneficiaries, Bhushan said. He said it has also been observed that cases surge exponentially in instances where basic public health strategy ‘testing, tracking, treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination’ is not followed rigorously. “The current trends of increasing daily new cases and case positivity, if left unchecked may lead to a situation where there is severe strain on health infrastructure and health workforce,” Bhushan said. He said regular review of Covid-19 cases and deaths must also be undertaken, and necessary corrective measures should be promptly communicated to field teams. “Lastly, it should also be ensured that the district maintains consistency in data up-dation in the Covid-19 portal,” Bhushan added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Ronaldinho, Yuvraj Singh to 'star' in Merlin Group's sports township||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee could soon have a date with the Brazilian world-cupper and former Barcelona star Ronaldinho. The Calcutta-based real estate major, Merlin Group, is bringing three sporting icons and a martial arts exponent together at Eastern India’s first greenfield sports-based township to come up at Rajarhat. Rise-Sports Republic with 2,500 flats in 10 towers—one exclusively reserved for senior citizens--- will have sports academies, two of which are expected to start by end of 2021. Brazilian soccer star Ronaldinho’s R10 soccer academy, which already has a presence in Bengaluru, will open a chapter in Calcutta at the township, and so will India’s own cricketing icon Yuvraj Singh. The Shroff siblings, Tiger and Krishna, will set up a martial arts training centre and a similar facility for swimming with the legendary Olympian Michael Phelps. The cricket and football grounds with specifications for training facilities as desired by the two icons, Ronaldinho and Yuvraj Singh, are in the final stages. “This will be a township with everything within the same premises including school and healthcare facility. The academies will be open for all and not just residents,” said Saket Mohta, managing director Merlin Group, at the launch of the project at a city hotel. The estimated cost of the project is around Rs 2,000 crore and expected to be ready by January 2027. The icons associated with each of the academies are expected to be visiting Calcutta a couple of times every year. “The coaches, trainers will be handpicked by the sporting legends as they have done with similar facilities elsewhere in the world. It is not important to see the face of either Ronaldinho or Yuvraj Singh, but follow the training module that they have designed. These are professionals and choose the best for the academies that they run,” said Mohta. For the project, the Merlin Group has been acquiring land over a period of 14-15 years. Apart from the sports academies, the township will also have other sporting activities for the residents to pursue like tennis and squash courts. The Merlin Group is yet to finalise on the school and the hospital that would come up in the premises. “The school will be affiliated to either CBSE or ICSE,” said Satyen Sanghvi, director Merlin Group. The block of flats exclusively reserved for the senior citizen will have emergency and nursing care facilities within the tower, making it a self-sufficient unit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
26-10-2021||West Bengal||People will face torture with extension of BSF jurisdiction, says Mamata||Continuing her tirade against the Union government over its decision to extend BSF's jurisdiction, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday alleged that the move was meant to torture common people. Banerjee also said that she respects the border guarding force for the job it undertakes, but condemns the "intention" behind extending its jurisdiction. The BJP-led central government has amended the BSF Act to authorise the force to undertake search, seizure and arrest within a larger 50 km stretch, instead of 15 km, from the international border in Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. "In the garb of extending BSF's jurisdiction, people will be tortured. There was no need to do so, the BSF does not even have the authority to lodge an FIR," the CM said here during an administrative meeting of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts. She further stated that there was no problem anywhere in the bordering areas of the state, and the West Bengal director general of police has spoken to inspector general, BSF, on the matter. "We are living in peace. I have already sent a letter to the PM on the issue," the CM added. On Monday, too, Banerjee had criticised this decision of the Centre and said that an "attempt was being made to interfere in the federal structure of the country".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Classes IX to XII of state-run, aided schools to resume from Nov. 16||Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced that Classes IX to XII at state-run and state-aided schools will reopen across Bengal from November 16 along with colleges and universities, some 20 months after the pandemic forced them to close. The decision doesn’t strictly cover private schools, a senior government official said. But a copy of the state government’s order meant for government and government-aided schools will be shared with the boards that affiliate private schools, another official said. The boards can pass on instructions they deem fit to the private schools, he added. Several private schools are said to be eager to reopen as early as possible although many parents are still unsure. The chief minister said at a review meeting for Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts in Siliguri: “It’s been decided to reopen the schools for Classes IX to XII, along with colleges, universities and other institutions of higher education, from November 16.” She instructed chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi to ensure the necessary preparations, such as sanitisation and repairs, before classes resumed. Schools and colleges in Bengal have been closed since March 16 last year. The government and government- aided schools in Bengal had reopened for students of Classes IX to XII for two months in February. But the government had to shut the schools again in April following a spike in Covid cases. The state government had about 10 days ago signalled its latest plan to reopen schools when it allotted Rs 110 crore to carry out repairs in 400-odd schools that prolonged closure had left in poor shape. Sources at Nabanna said the lower classes would be reopened in a phased manner. “In the next phase, we plan to reopen Classes VI to VIII. The decision will be taken only following an assessment of the situation after in-person teaching resumes in Classes IX to XII,” a senior government official said. Since nobody under the age of 18 has received Covid-19 jabs in the country, the Bengal government is in no hurry to reopen the lower classes, a bureaucrat said. Another official said: “We are not stressing the reopening of private schools at this moment because the private schools are holding online classes regularly from the nursery to the higher secondary level. But not all the state-aided schools have the infrastructure to hold regular online classes, so they need to resume physical classes.” He suggested a couple of other reasons why the private schools are not being asked to reopen immediately. “Teachers of state-aided schools have been given two doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. But the government has no record whether all teachers of private schools have received two doses. Besides, most of the private schools are in Calcutta, where Covid-19 cases are rising,” he said. Sources said the health department would issue a Covid-19 safety protocol before the schools reopen. A source said: “The guidelines will make it clear how many students would be allowed in a class at a particular period (lesson), whether the students and teachers must wear masks throughout, and how far two students should sit apart.” A health department official said that when some polytechnic colleges were allowed to reopen in January and February, only half the students were allowed to attend class together. “So, each student attended classes on alternative days. This plan is likely to be followed at the schools, too, initially,” he said. Mamata said: “We had initially planned to reopen the schools from November 15 (Monday). But the day had already been declared a holiday because it’s the birth anniversary of (tribal freedom fighter) Birsa Munda. So, the educational institutions will reopen the next day.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Art exhibition opens in Darjeeling||A major art exhibition was organised after a gap of 12 years in Darjeeling on Monday. The Annual Art Exhibition 2021 organised by the Himalayan Art Academy in association with Sahitya Kala Prakostha, Darjeeling, was thrown open to the public at Himalayan Kala Mandir here on Monday. The exhibition will continue till October 30. “A major art exhibition is being held in Darjeeling after 12 years,” said Hemu Rai, president, Himalayan Art Academy, an organisation of artists from the region. Hill artists attributed the irregularity of such events to the absence of a gallery and lack of patronage. They said that the town once used to organise three exhibitions in a year. “For decades we have been requesting governments to set up an art gallery in the town. In the absence of a gallery, our artists are forced to stack their works at home which is discouraging,” said Rai. “We don’t have a gallery, we don’t have an art school, forget about art colleges. Art materials are not easily available here and there is no institutional help. Governments dole out money to organise pujas, football tournaments, musical events and other activities but we have not received a penny to organise exhibitions,” said Rai. “This year we received support from the Bharatiya Gorkha Prajantrantik Morcha,” said Rai. Fifty-one artists have put up 173 exhibits at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Female jumbos rescued near Jalpaiguri, 4 held||The state forest department rescued two female elephants on Sunday night while the animals were being taken to Jamnagar in Gujarat from Arunachal Pradesh in a truck. Four persons, including a mahout, have been arrested in this connection. On Monday, the elephants and the arrested quartet were handed over to a team of the forest department of Assam. Rajendra Jakhar, the chief conservator of forests (north), on Sunday said a team of foresters in Assam intercepted the vehicle in Dhubri. “The driver was asked to produce documents to prove that they are transporting the elephants — one 18-year-old and another eight-year-old — in a legal manner but they managed to escape the spot with the vehicle,” Jakhar said. “We got information about the elephants and accordingly, the truck was stopped at the checkpost near Teesta river on NH 27, on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri. On Monday, a team from Assam reached the spot and we handed over the elephants as well as the four persons who were in the truck and detained. They left for Dhubri in the afternoon,” Jakhar added. Sources in the forest department said the elephants were bought in Arunachal Pradesh and were supposed to be taken to Gujarat. “The persons who were there in the truck claimed that the elephants were bought as a person wanted to donate the animals to a temple in Gujarat. However, there were discrepancies in the documents,” said a forester.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leader accused of assaulting schoolteacher in Malda arrested||A local Trinamul leader and former councillor of Englishbazar municipality in Malda district, who was accused of assaulting a tribal schoolteacher after branding him a thief, was arrested from the railway station here on Monday. Paritosh Choudhury had reached Malda Town station where he was apparently planning to board a train when he was apprehended by a team from Englishbazar police station around 10.30am. On October 15, Choudhury and some of his associates had assaulted Sudip Tudu, a schoolteacher based in Habibpur of the district, at Krishnapally here after accusing him of stealing a bicycle. Choudhury was produced in a local court which sent to him to police custody for three days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Protesters ransack bank over aid delay in North 24-Parganas||Over 500 women beneficiaries of Lakshmir Bhandar scheme allegedly ransacked a branch of a nationalised bank at Bongaon in North 24-Parganas on Monday morning and raised a blockade in Bongaon town accusing the bank authorities for non-cooperation in maintaining their accounts and delaying disbursement of money allotted to them by the state government. The women gheraoed the bank situated at Saatbhai Kalitala area of Bongaon, forcing suspension of day’s operation and also allegedly vandalised the door and window panes of the bank. They then blocked a road to protest against the authorities “refusal to update their passbooks for the last three years”. The blockade continued for over two hours and was withdrawn only after senior officials of the district administration and bank authorities assured to address their grievances soon. Unnati Bawali, a protestor, said: “Poor service by the bank is nothing new. The bank has over 10,000 customers and a large number of them are beneficiaries under the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme. But, unfortunately, most of the beneficiaries are yet to get money that disbursed by the state under the scheme. While all other banks have credited the amount to the beneficiaries, this bank has been harassing us. They don’t even allow us to print our passbooks and the ATM is also defunct.” Sonali Pathak, another protester, accused the bank officials of threatening customers with police complaints whenever anyone raised a voice against their poor service. Senior manager of the bank Ratan Roy, however, has refuted the allegations. “An upgradation process has been going on due to  merging of our bank with another nationalised bank. This has created some problems because of system-related changes and unavailability of stationery like passbooks. We have informed the higher authorities about the problem and they have assured cooperation. But people have become impatient.” “Moreover, till very recently there was a Bengal government ban on printing passbooks because of the Covid situation. The customers are wrongly accusing us of non-cooperation,” the manager added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: District schools in containment zones to not reopen from November 16||Several government-aided schools will not be able to reopen from November 16 as they are within containment zones, set up recently after Covid-19 cases started rising in Bengal again, officials said. On Saturday, the chief secretary had asked districts to set up containment zones once again as Covid-19 cases were rising after the pujas. “Since then, some districts like North 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Jalpaiguri have set up more than 150 containment zones. Almost all other districts will come up with freshly drawn up containment zones within the next two days,” said a senior official. Officials said as all other activities, except emergency services, remain suspended in the containment zones, reopening of schools falling in these zones would not be possible from November 16. District officials and teachers said they can’t start sanitisation activities in the schools located in the containment zones as such activities and entry are restricted according to the guidelines of the state government. “It is not possible to allow any school to open for any type of work inside a containment zone. Even all types of government offices are also kept closed in the containment areas. So, the school authorities need to wait till the number of Covid cases come down and the containment zone tags are lifted,” said a senior health official in Calcutta. Every containment zone is in force for at least 14 days from the day of announcement and the period can be extended if Covid cases do not come under control. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced in Siliguri on Monday that schools would be opened for Classes IX to XII, along with colleges and universities, from November 16 by adhering to proper Covid protocol. Apart from containment zones, district authorities have also introduced micro-containment zones in a few pockets. The containment zones are the highest in number in three Bengal districts adjoining Calcutta — Howrah, Hooghly and North 24-Parganas. As of now, there are 72 containment zones in Hooghly district, whereas the corresponding figure for Howrah and North 24-Parganas is 45 and 56, respectively. In Hooghly, at least six schools and a college have come under containment zones. Hooghly district magistrate Deepap Priya P, however, said: “We review the containment zones every week. So, it is not a long-run issue. Once the situation in those containment zones turns normal, the schools will be reopened.” However, a section of teachers said as the Covid cases in the state have started to increase after the festival, containment zones could be changed that could bring more schools within the containment zones in future. “My school is not in the containment zone now, but one cannot guarantee that the area will not become one with a steady spike in the number of Covid cases in the state. This can happen even after we have sanitised the buildings to reopen. Then we will have to sanitise the school again,” said a teacher in Hooghly. Officials in other districts also expressed concern over the growing number of Covid-positive cases. Apart from the increasing Covid cases, the chief minister’s announcement to reopen schools from November 16 has left several teachers worried as a large number of institutions need immediate repair. “We always demanded that schools should open. It is true Covid cases are on the rise and the other trouble is several schools are yet to receive funds from the government to carry out repair,” said Chandan Maiti, general secretary of the Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Bimal Gurung to focus on hill solution not GTA polls||Bimal Gurung, president of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, on Monday said that he would not contest the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) elections but would instead work for a “permanent political solution” with the state government. Many believe that Gurung might have shot himself in the foot with the announcement as he has left no escape route if the state government does decide to hold the GTA election now. The party in power in hill bodies like the GTA is considered to be the most powerful. Gurung, who was in Kalimpong to attend the death anniversary of former councillor Barun Bhujel who died while in police custody during the 2017 Gorkhaland agitation, said: “I will not contest the GTA election as I have already resigned. I will work for a permanent political solution. Others might contest but not Bimal Gurung.” Since 2017, elections to the GTA have not been held. The Morcha leader said that he would work for a permanent political solution with the state government. Gurung ditched the BJP last year to join hands with Trinamul. Even though the Morcha leader said he was committed to working with the state government, he did reiterate that he would support a party that supports hill issues during the 2024 Lok Sabha election. “Some say that Bimal Gurung has forgotten the community’s issue but till Bimal Gurung is alive, he will continue to work for the community, land… their (martyrs’) sacrifice will not go in vain,” said Gurung. A section of the hill people are also not taking his announcement seriously. “Politicians, however, can never be trusted. They can easily come up with some other excuse to contest the election as they simply cannot walk away from such an important election. Such flip-flops by Gurung are nothing new,” said an observer. Meanwhile, Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Morcha, has been invited to the administrative meeting to be held in Kurseong on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP MPs shun poll grind in Santipur and Naihati ||The beleaguered Bengal BJP is struggling to put up a united front ahead of the October 30 by-elections with the apparent reluctance of party MPs — Jagannath Sarkar and Nisith Pramanik — to campaign hard for Santipur and Dinhata, the two seats the party hopes to win, making things difficult on the ground. Bypolls for Gosaba, Khardah, Santipur and Dinhata will be held on October 30 and the BJP has been banking heavily on Sarkar and Pramanik to retain two of the four Assembly seats that the party had won in the summer elections. The bypoll for Santipur was necessitated after Sarkar opted to vacate the Assembly seat and retain his place in Parliament. Similarly, Pramanik vacated the Dinhata seat to stay on as MP and went on to be appointed as the junior minister for home in the Narendra Modi government. With an eye to win the Santipur bypoll, BJP appointed Sarkar as the observer for the Assembly segment. However, he refused to take the responsibility and informed the state BJP unit about his inability to dedicate much time for the polls due to preoccupations elsewhere. “Even before Durga Puja, Jagannathda had clearly told our leaders that he wouldn’t be able to work as the Santipur observer. He had said he would be busy with pujas and in his role as a member of parliamentary standing committees,” a state BJP leader said. The real reason, however, is Sarkar not being on good terms with BJP’s Santipur candidate Niranjan Biswas, the leader added. Sarkar had hoped the party would field someone of his choice for the Santipur bypoll but when that did not happen, he made his discontent clear. “To ensure that none raise their fingers at him, Jagannathda is taking part in the campaign but not in the way the party expects him to do,” a BJP leader in Santipur said. Refuting allegations of factionalism, Sarkar said: “We are a united team and the BJP candidate will win by a huge margin.” On the other hand, Pramanik is seen campaigning less for the party’s Dinhata candidate Ashok Mondal and busy with ministerial work in Delhi. “We understand that Nisithda is a minister. Yet this constituency is also a part of his responsibilities. More so when there have been defections to the Trinamul only because the leaders were unhappy with Nisithda,” a leader in BJP’s Cooch Behar unit said. The leader said Pramanik had joined the campaign in the last one or two days. “Mihir Goswami also joined our party from Trinamul. Yet he has been campaigning hard in Dinhata. Goswami and Mondal were attacked by Trinamul goons but Nisithda was nowhere to be seen. As a minister he should have been leading the campaign from day one,” the leader said. According to a state BJP functionary, the party hopes to win Santipur and Dinhata. The chances, however, have been affected because of Sarkar and Pramanik’s near absence during campaigning which in turn has brought down the morale of party workers, a senior state committee leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 805 new Covid infections, 11 deaths||Bengal on Monday reported 805 new Covid-19 infections, 807 recoveries and 11 deaths. The total of active cases fell by 13 to 7,869 — a drop after six consecutive days of rise. A minister said the number of new infections reported on Monday is indicative of the people who got infected in the October 16 (Ekadoshi) to 20 (the day after Lakshmi Puja) window. Calcutta reported 229 new infections, while North 24-Parganas recorded 142, being the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Eight districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths, while Calcutta and North 24-Parganas reported three each. “We are, in terms of the Covid-19 statistics, getting past the Puja days and going into the post-Puja phase. It is becoming increasingly clear that the reality of the outbreak situation is far better than what was estimated before the festive spell began,” said the minister. In the 30 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in the total of active cases ahead of the Puja season, the state recorded a rise in its total of active cases for 18 days and a fall for 11 days. In these 30 days — considered the core phase of the autumnal festive spell, including not only the Durga Puja days but also the preceding and succeeding weeks — there has been a net rise of 195 in the state’s total of active cases, from the 7,674 of September 25. Bengal now has more than 15.87 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.6 lakh recoveries and 19,066 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul inducts Congress leaders from Uttar Pradesh||Trinamul Congress on Monday inducted Congress leaders from Uttar Pradesh, after similar exercises in Tripura, Assam and Goa, with Mamata Banerjee underscoring her party’s ultimate objective of ousting the BJP from the Centre. In Siliguri, Rajeshpati Tripathi and Laliteshpati Tripathi — grandson and great-grandson, respectively, of deceased Congress stalwart Kamalapati Tripathi of Uttar Pradesh — joined Trinamul in the presence of the Bengal chief minister and her heir-apparent Abhishek Banerjee. “Some people mock our party as a regional political force but let me assert that Trinamul is a national party. We have initiated political activities in Tripura and Goa and now, we have Congress leaders from Uttar Pradesh joining us,” Mamata told journalists outside Uttarkanya. Mamata said the Tripathis would now draw up a plan for her to visit Varanasi. “Wherever we are going, we are going with the purpose of strengthening our organisation before the Lok Sabha polls (of 2024)…. If we can run Bengal, we can also run Delhi.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Traffic on NH55 restored, work on to repair NH10||Traffic movement along the entire stretch of NH55, the principal highway that connects Siliguri with Darjeeling through Kurseong, was restored after five days. The movement of vehicles along the entire stretch of NH10, the highway that connects Sikkim and Kalimpong with Siliguri and the rest of the country, however, will resume in another four-five days, said sources in the state PWD. Road restoration work at Birick Dara, located along NH10 under Kalimpong district and around 30km from here, continued for the fifth day on Monday. The progress of restoration work has also made the tourism industry hopeful.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal chief minister’s call to create jobs for migrants||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday instructed various functionaries of the government — from ministers to bureaucrats — to explore all possible options to create employment opportunities for migrant workers in the state in a bid to rebut the Opposition’s allegation that jobs are shrinking in Bengal. The chief minister, while attending an administrative review meeting of Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts at Uttarkanya — the branch of the state secretariat here — tried to send out a message that the government was keen on creating employment opportunities in Bengal. “Several youths from our state migrate to other states for jobs. There, they toil hard and have to bear considerable expenses for their stay. We have to take initiatives and motivate them so that instead of moving out, they stay here and get engaged in small businesses. We have to create self-help groups of youths through which they can carry out different works and can make a living,” she said. Over the past few years, BJP leaders, including central ministers, have asked why youths from here had to move to far-flung states like Kerala and Rajasthan to make a living for themselves. While elaborating on the need to create jobs to discourage migration of the working population from the state, Mamata also asked Moloy Ghatak, the state minister in-charge of the labour department, to update the data of the state’s employment bank. Keeping her focus on employment, the chief minister asked H.K. Dwivedi, the chief secretary, to immediately initiate the process of recruiting retired persons and corporate professionals as joint secretaries in various departments on contractual basis. “Publish an advertisement immediately for recruitment of 50 such people. Half of them would be posted in the districts (one in each district) while the remaining would be posted in various departments. This will help in easing the workload,” said Mamata. Later, she asked her officers to try and engage jobless youths in homestay tourism. She also asked the officers to focus on the textile sector and engage self-help groups as well as youths in powerlooms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-36
26-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Flight out||In a recent remark, Amit Mitra, the finance minister of West Bengal, claimed that 35,000 high-net-worth individuals had left India during 2014-2020. The claim is that in terms of this exodus, India ranks first in the world. India, however, ranks sixth in the number of millionaires and billionaires — 330,000 with net assets over USD 1 million and 120 with net assets of over $1 billion. According to Mr Mitra, one possible reason for this flight of entrepreneurs is the fear psychosis that has increasingly gripped the nation during the rule of the National Democratic Alliance. A few weeks back, a Union cabinet minister stated in public that the business practices of some Indian companies were not in the national interest. This was a strong and sweeping claim that would not make any business owner or manager either happy or proud. Worse, there was no rebuttal or even a qualifying comment from the prime minister. There is also the discernible trend of using tax authorities and other Central agencies against business houses and even well-known individuals. In most of these cases, the charges are seemingly flimsy or unsubstantial since it takes enormous time for the authorities to frame charges and bring the cases to court. It is argued that the most preferred destinations of those who left the nation were the United States of America, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and the United Arab Emirates. It is clear that Indian capital is not looking for new opportunities in emerging markets, but competing in well-established, mature market economies. Mr Mitra has called for a white paper on the matter to be placed in Parliament. It is important to know why this has happened and exactly to what extent. It sends a poor signal about the state of doing business in India to the rest of the world. The World Bank’s ease of doing business index showed an improvement for India, which moved sharply from a rank of 142 in 2014 to 63 in 2019. Even this ranking has come under the scanner with the World Bank suspending further publications of this report pending inquiries into irregularities regarding data quality and some ethical issues involving its staff members. Indeed, after discounting the jump in ranking, what has now emerged is the disquieting prospect of the flight of capital under the present regime. Meanwhile, the Central government continues with a fuzzy set of economic policies and maintains an uncanny silence on serious economic issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
26-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Sudhaa Chandran's flying woes||Gentle touch Sir — The actress and dancer, Sudhaa Chandran, revealed that every time she has to board a flight, she is asked to remove her prosthetic leg at security checks. This infringes on the dignity of the individual. Would the Central Industrial Security Force have apologized had Chandran, a public figure, not appealed to the prime minister to look into the matter? It is no secret that people with disabilities are routinely harassed in the name of safety protocols. Unless the staff is sensitized to conduct minimally invasive security checks, such incidents will recur. Anamika Saha,Calcutta Fight on Sir — A secret online school has reportedly been launched in Afghanistan by LEARN Afghanistan, a charity, for girls older than 12 who were banned from returning to classrooms by the conservative Taliban government. The efforts of the charitable institution must be commended. Ever since the Taliban regained control of Afghanistan, severe restrictions on access to education and work for women have been imposed. The school is a ray of hope for female students but as long as the Taliban is in power, the situation is unlikely to improve for women. Kiran Agarwal,Calcutta Old habits Sir — It is astounding that a significant number of people are, once again, out on the streets without masks as Covid-19 cases rise in the aftermath of Durga Puja (“Covid cases are rising, masks are falling”, Oct 24). Last month, when I drove to Maithon Dam, I saw that most people in Asansol city were not wearing masks and mingling in groups without care. It is difficult to comprehend the rationale behind this when a large number of fully-vaccinated people are testing positive for Covid. People must continue to strictly follow prescribed safety measures for the sake of their loved ones. Ashok Kumar Ghosh, Calcutta Sir — We all knew that Covid-19 cases would rise once the festive season was over — this had been the case last year too. It is alarming that people continue to be this irresponsible. The mutant strains of the coronavirus have hit several countries where many fully-vaccinated individuals have succumbed to the disease. We have to acknowledge that inoculation is not a guarantee against the onslaught of the disease. We will need to continue to adhere to Covid-19 protocols for the foreseeable future. Melville X. D’Souza,Mumbai Winning streak Sir — India has clinched the South Asian Football Federation championship for the eighth time by defeating Nepal 3-0. Sunil Chhetri, Suresh Singh and Sahal Abdul Samad each scored a goal which put the team on the winning track. The efforts and steady performance of the Indian football team must be appreciated. Anushka Jaiswal, Ujjain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
26-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Mellowed voice||The iron fist has failed in Kashmir. Therefore, it is now time to don the velvet glove. That seems to be the crux of the message that the Union home minister delivered while addressing a gathering of youths in Srinagar in the course of his maiden visit to the Valley after the abrogation of Article 370. Amit Shah appeared uncharacteristically conciliatory even though he stopped short of issuing an explicit apology for the pain and humiliation inflicted on Kashmir in these recent, turbulent times. For instance, Mr Shah conceded that the government’s measures to weed out militancy cannot succeed without the help of the youth and the local population. There is no disputing the role of public support in a campaign against militancy. But what needs to be asked of Mr Shah and his government is what they have done to address the gnawing trust deficit between the State and its subjects in Kashmir. Stripping Kashmir of its statehood, liquidating its special provisions without representative consultations with Kashmir’s political and public constituencies, humiliating and incarcerating the Valley’s political leaders, followed by the imposition of one of the most brutal crackdowns — all this in the name of ‘integration’ — could have hardly endeared the civilians to the Narendra Modi government. What has heightened public anxiety are whispers of broader — engineered — demographic transitions as well as the consistent anti-minority rhetoric of the Centre. The results have been predictable. Bloodshed is on the rise, with militants keen on deepening the fissures with targeted killings of minorities in the Valley. It is possible that Mr Shah was attempting to deliver a rather belated healing touch. However, it is doubtful that the home minister would succeed in winning over hearts with his latest overtures. The reason is that the Bharatiya Janata Party is prone to viewing Jammu and Kashmir’s long and complex history through an ideological prism. Such a prejudicial lens, complemented by the BJP’s flirtations with unilateralism, has, over the years, set a dangerous drift in the region. What is required is for the Centre to replenish the people’s confidence by ushering in participatory development through collaboration. That would require a fundamental break between the BJP and its ideological tenets. This rupture is an unlikely possibility.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
26-10-2021||Opinion||Boost morale, not miles||There are rumblings in West Bengal and Punjab over the jurisdiction of the world’s largest border guarding force, the BSF, raised in 1965 to protect the Indo-Pakistan and Indo-Bangladesh frontiers. The Union home ministry has just extended the area of operation of the Border Security Force (its powers include arrest, search and seizure) up to 50 kilometre in these two states and Assam. Earlier, its jurisdiction was limited to up to 15 km in these states. To ensure uniformity, it has curtailed the area in Gujarat from 80 km to 50 km. The move, announced in a gazette notification, has been criticized by the Bengal and Punjab governments as an attack on the federal structure of the country and an attempt to clip the rights of the state police. Does their grouse ring a bell? In 2012, Narendra Modi, as the Gujarat chief minister, had opposed a Central government move to expand the BSF’s jurisdiction. He had written to the then prime minister, Manmohan Singh, accusing the Centre of weakening the country’s federal structure. The move, he alleged, was an attempt to “create a state within a state”. In 2014, the home ministry’s notification said the BSF’s jurisdiction covered “the states of Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland and Meghalaya and so much of the area comprised within a belt” of 80 km in Gujarat, 50 km in Rajasthan and 15 km in the states of Punjab, West Bengal and Assam. The new notification amends the earlier one with: “Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland and Meghalaya and Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh and... a belt of 50 km in the states of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Punjab, West Bengal and Assam”. Taking a cue from Modi, the states can argue that law and order is a state subject and the move will infringe on their powers. Exercising powers under the BSF Act of 1968, the home ministry has extended the BSF’s powers under the Criminal Procedure Code, the Passport (Entry into India) Act, 1920 and Passport Act, 1967. While the parliamentary standing committee for home has decided to scrutinize border management, the need of the hour is to boost the morale of the force, not add to its area of operation. A visit along the border reveals how isolated and at the mercy of adversaries these personnel can be; many of them have committed or contemplated suicide and fragging is no longer rare. On a BSF border track along Bangladesh for nearly 30 km from Agartala to Kamalasagar (primarily fortified, since 833 km of Tripura’s 856 km international border has been fenced with barbed wire), there is a single sentry at each post, armed with a rifle and walkie-talkie, certainly no match for a gang of desperate smugglers. Add to that the prospect of staring for hours at miles of fields trying to decipher cows or drug smugglers and battling the vagaries of nature (the shelter is no protection against squalls, or swarms of insects and reptiles in pitch darkness). Combating trans-border crimes can be a superhuman task in these circumstances. A former inspector-general of the BSF, who was director of the BSF Academy, told me the “force must be utilized for the purpose it was raised, not for election duty, fighting Naxalites or helping the police during communal riots. Unless the BSF companies are rotated to the battalion headquarters, the men will continue to face the brunt. We must ensure their welfare.” Why were the BSF’s powers not enhanced with regard to the Arms Act, Customs Act and Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, since these cover most of the smuggling offences along the border? Unlike in China, India’s efforts to fortify border infrastructure are minimal. Just increasing area jurisdiction defeats the very purpose of enhanced vigilance. It makes the ill-equipped posts soft targets and our solo-act jawans sitting ducks!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
26-10-2021||Opinion||A picture of women's success||Globalization has led to multiple employment opportunities with the potential to alleviate poverty. Yet, women are over-represented among the poor, and the trend is deepening globally. The value ascribed to women’s work is not commensurate with that of work performed by men. Women are more likely to engage with unpaid labour and reproductive work, draw lower-wage salaries, work for longer hours, and face riskier work conditions than men. Furthermore, due to traditional customs and formal laws of inheritance, women are likely to own lesser land. While women comprise a category exposed to discrimination and oppressive structures, those from geopolitically disturbed terrain — Kashmir’s women are a case in point — stand doubly disadvantaged. This is not only because of the feminization of poverty but also because they are at the receiving end of various subjugate acts enshrined in social practices as well as of the threat of militancy that the region is vulnerable to. Since the Partition, Kashmir has exhibited volatility and vulnerability. The conflict plays out at various levels: India versus Pakistan, Hindus versus Muslims, and Kashmiri Muslims versus Kashmiri Pandits. The Valley has been an epicentre of militancy, greatly impacting livelihoods and the economy. The consequences are telling. The sex ratio had declined in Kashmir from 900 in 2001 to 889 in 2011. The literacy rate for females stood at 56.43 per cent while their work participation rate was 19.1 per cent. Women from the Valley are at risk of being trafficked because of poverty and suffer psychological trauma arising out of the conflict. Opportunities for education and employment are unequal; there is legitimacy for polygamous relationship for men; instances of divorcing a wife for her inability to bear an heir are not unheard of. Atrocities are perpetrated by insurgents and fundamentalists alike. Women venturing into domains associated with men are perceived as a threat. For women to be truly empowered, consciousness, ideology and structural conditions need to be challenged. Technology platforms could be a tool to facilitate women’s empowerment. These platforms have enabled women to conduct businesses with ease and reach out to a global audience with minimal capital investment. For instance, Instagram has been instrumental in bringing together skill-sets on the supply side and buyers on the other end for growth in the small and medium enterprises sector, enabling women entrepreneurs to reach consumers directly without the involvement of third parties. Instagram is now prominent as a business platform and Instagram entrepreneurs are known as Instapreneurs. It has also helped women connect with and support each other, thereby forming a community to voice their opinions against existing structural constraints. There are several women entrepreneurs operating out of the Valley. Clothing seems to be the most popular choice for entrepreneurship, followed by arts and crafts and health and beauty products. Significantly, Instapreneurship among women spring from a will to preserve Kashmiri culture, to pursue individual passions, or overcome the gloomy employment situation in the state. The scope of Instapreneurship can be expanded further so that women can exercise choice in decision-making in business and personal matters. The key to sustainable development in a restive geography like Kashmir lies in discovering the potential of new technology platforms like Instagram. However, women’s empowerment through technology need not follow a linear script. Gender stereotypes are often reinforced, rather than challenged, as women go about bearing the dual responsibilities of business and household. To fully tap into the potential of women Instapreneurs and move beyond the miscarriage of justice, empowerment should not be contingent upon class, income, or education. Although globalization and social media platforms like Instagram have substantially opened up avenues, insurgency and the enduring patriarchal mindset still impede women’s empowerment, reiterating the fact that development cannot be a substitute for justice. Debarati Bhattacharya is a student in the Faculty of Planning, CEPT University, Ahmedabad||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
26-10-2021||Opinion||Different take||Re-examining periods of the past is crucial to deepening our understanding of history. Today, when we are fighting a massive, relentless hijacking attempt on the history of our freedom struggle by the falsification factories of the Hindutva brigade, genuine re-examinations of the first few decades of the 20th century matter more than ever. Shoojit Sircar’s recently released film, Sardar Udham, positions itself as such a project, one which brings to light the almost forgotten story of Udham Singh, who also went to the gallows, ten years after the execution of his younger and much more famous HSRA comrade, Bhagat Singh. The events being historical there’s no risk of a plot reveal as such and the structure of the script goes thus: the film begins with titles explaining the 1919 Jallianwala Bagh massacre, for which General Reginald Dyer and the Lieutenant-Governor of Punjab, Michael O’Dwyer, were responsible; we see Udham, imprisoned for previous anti-raj activities, being released from jail in Lahore in 1931; he goes underground immediately and starts making his way to Britain with the aim of exacting revenge for Jallianwala; by the 30-minute mark, of the 2-hour-44-minute movie, Udham has reached London, shot O’Dwyer dead, and been arrested; his interrogations begin, with heavy beatings and torture. While one strand of the story keeps him incarcerated till his hanging, other strands flashback into his youth in Amritsar, his friendship with Bhagat Singh, the period Udham spends between 1934 when he first arrives in London and the actual assassination in 1940 and so on. Sircar’s record as a film-maker and the trailers indicating a high-budget saga were promising. What we actually get is a particular kind of screen-creature, very recognizable from previous epic disappointments. There are long passages traversing different countries, landscapes and locations in which an international cast of actors is choreographed in dramatic set-piece action, but which finally don’t add up to much. At one early point of the movie, there is an extended sequence of Udham stumbling across the snow in Russia on his long trek to London. Putting aside the nods to Tarkovsky, the Kurosawa of Dersu Uzala and the garnish of David Lean-ish long shots, this whole collection of shots is pointless and a precursor of many such stretches to come — arid bits devoid of plot development or cinematic weight (cinema here meaning where something magical happens outside of, or as a detour to, the story, but which illuminates the narrative when we come back to it). Unfortunately, many of these locational displays become bald patches on the scalp of the script, taking up filmic space instead of more challenging moments that might have been depicted. In all his travel and travails, Udham seems to learn nothing. His (very basic communist) political consciousness undergoes no evident deepening or expansion, he doesn’t gain any new insight about the Indian situation from seeing what is happening in other parts of the world. Ultimately, his remains a one-gear motive — he witnesses what was done at Jallianwala Bagh, he tells Bhagat Singh that he, too, will hang one day, and so there he is, full twenty years later, deciding to publicly shoot O’Dwyer in an act of actual and symbolic violence, but in the middle of the biggest outbreak of global violence history has ever seen. The recurring sequences of mayhem and murder do not manage to cover up a central lacuna in the script: the various people who chose violence to try and overthrow the raj all had one thing in common — they were severely at odds with the Congress’s non-violent ethos; at least from the mid-1920s, these violent freedom-fighters worked both against and under the massive shadow of Gandhi and his ahimsa; you didn’t have to like Gandhi or agree with him, but you couldn’t escape engaging with him. None of this registers in the film at all — Gandhi is mentioned but once. Watching it, someone unfamiliar with the history of the Indian freedom struggle could be forgiven for thinking that nothing much really happened in India’s fight to be free before or after the moment of Bhagat Singh’s actions and execution in 1931 and Udham’s great act of assassination in 1940. If Sircar had had the courage to make something à la Luchino Visconti’s The Leopard, or Bertolucci’s 1900 (both over four hours long), maybe he could have explored properly, tarried here and there, and told us the tale of an Indian freedom fighter in exile, working, organizing, engaging with Soviet Russia, experiencing first-hand the working-class grimness in the heart of Imperial Britain. Instead, we get little tik-tok-ized vignettes: protest on London factory floor, meeting with Soviet Politburo representatives, failed arms deal with IRA gun-runner, brush up against communist Englishwoman/semi love-interest and so on. All too often, the film is self-seduced into displaying its production plumage: look at my vast budget, my many locations, my great CGI, how many foreign actors I’ve marshalled and so on. The actual shooting of O’Dwyer, shown twice in exactly the same way, is but one part of Udham’s story, but it is clearly the bit that most hypnotizes the script-writers, that and the endless Jallianwala Bagh chunk, which feels like every single nice shot taken in that night time set-up was joined together. All over the anxious short-cuts taken by the script are ghostly echoes of a conversation between script-writers and director, one or the other saying, ‘Arre yaar, today’s audience won’t have patience for that.’ The self-indulgent repetitions come from the same insecurity. This fear of the audience ultimately translates into a fear of complexity and nuance. And this fear is the counterpart, or flip-side, of the kind of thinking that covers up the actual bullet-ridden walls of Jallianwala Bagh with kitschy reliefs. Both sides end up treating history purely as an instrument to be used, one side deploying a concocted, completely false, narrative to try and increase its grip on power, the opposing side using it as raw material to create a superficial spectacle which nods to the contemporary situation with references to ‘azadi’, the cruel sedition laws, the jailing of students, the mass disconnection of telephones and drone shots of lined up corpses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-14
26-10-2021||Jharkhand||Spike in fuel price makes firecrackers dearer in steel city||Firecrackers will be costlier this Diwali due to Covid-19 pandemic besides other reasons. With the festival of lights being almost a week away the heat of hike in cracker prices is being felt by hundreds of cracker dealers in steel city. According to them, the prices of the crackers will be up by almost 20 percent in comparison with  the previous years. They have cited rise in fuel price and Covid-19 restrictions as the main reason behind the hike. Sources familiar with the cracker market also held Covid protocol restrictions responsible for denting the cracker production in Tamil Nadu's Shivakashi, which is the main hub for cracker production of the country. “Apart from the low production caused by the Covid restrictions, the hike in the prices of petrol and diesel is also another main reason. This is why the crackers are being sold at a 20 percent higher rate in the wholesale market this year, “ said Lochan Mangotia, one of the leading crackers dealers of the steel city while talking to The Telegraph Online. In Jamshedpur, crackers and other fireworks worth over Rs 10 crores are sold every year during the festival of light. While about 50 percent of the crackers are bought by the retailers from the Ranchi-based crackers dealers -- Trade Friends and Sahu & Sons, another 50 percent are brought by four crackers wholesalers operating here directly from Shivakashi. About 300 retailers sell firecrackers at different localities of the city on the basis of temporary licenses issued by the district administration. Bijay Sahu, a key member of the Sahu & Sons' management confirmed about the hike in the prices of firecrackers this year. “Generally, prices of crackers are raised by five percent every year, but this year there has been a 20 percent hike in the prices of crackers. The main reason behind such price hike is the low production in Shivakashi crackers hub due Covid restrictions and second reason being the unusual hike in the fuel rates,” said Sahu while talking to The Telegraph Online.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
26-10-2021||Jharkhand||17 passengers flee Hatia station after testing Covid positive ||At least 17 passengers travelling to Ranchi by trains from Maharashtra and Odisha fled the Hatia Railway Station premises on Tuesday after testing positive for Covid-19 during routine Rapid Antigen Tests, some of them even switching off their mobile phones to evade contact, officials said. An ambulance was parked outside the Hatia station to take Covid positive passengers to either quarantine centres or hospitals. Four magistrates were also deployed there to ensure that passengers who test positive do not escape. However, almost all the 17 passengers refused to wait for their rapid test results and “literally ran” away from the staff deployed at the station, eyewitnesses said. Ranchi Deputy Commissioner Chhavi Ranjan had on Monday directed officials to ensure that all passengers testing positive for Covid-19 upon arrival at stations or the airport should not be allowed to go home. Ranjan was not available for his comments on Tuesday's fracas. However, Ranchi Sub Divisional Officer Deepak Dubey said that an explanation for the laxity will be sought from the magistrates who were deployed there. “We will seek an explanation from the magistrates and also strengthen deployment of forces at railway stations. We would also request passengers to cooperate with us for the safety of Ranchi residents,” said Dubey. Health officials have admitted that travellers from other states were contributing to the spike in Covid cases in Jharkhand. While all district administrations have been directed to intensify Covid screening among passengers, many Covid positive passengers went traceless in the state lately, posing a risk. During inspection at Ranchi Railway Station on Tuesday, officials found that some passengers even tried to dodge Covid tests by jumping over fences and barricades. “They did not listen to any of our requests,” one of the inspecting officials said. More than 100 passengers tested Covid positive in rapid antigen tests conducted on October 22 and October 23 at Hatia Railway Station. However, they tested negative for Covid-19 in confirmatory RT PCR tests, the results of which came a few days later, Ranchi Civil Surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar has clarified. However, some of the passengers who tested Covid positive in rapid tests at Hatia station earlier this week were found to be Covid positive even in confirmatory RT PCR tests. Labourer dies of Covid A Jamtara resident who recently returned home from Bangalore died of Covid-19 on Tuesday, doctors said. According to local sources, the deceased, who worked as a labourer in Bangalore, returned to Jharkhand on October 22. On Monday, his haemoglobin count dropped to an alarmingly low level and he died while he was being taken to Dhanbad for treatment. As per data compiled by the health department, as many as 5,136 people have died of Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
26-10-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad auto drivers stage protest against erroneous regulation||A month after the implementation of new regulations for auto-rickshaws in Dhanbad, which put a cap on the number of auto rickshaw entering Dhanbad town to 2500 from around 10,000, over 100 auto drivers plying their vehicles on the town route staged a massive ‘dharna’ near the district headquarters to protest against the erroneous selection of auto rickshaw to ply in town. The protestors staged the ‘dharna’ under the banner of Seva Dal Chalak Sangh claiming irregularity in the selection of auto rickshaw from areas to ply in town. They expressed unhappiness over the denial of permission for those previously plying on the town route to continue operating in Dhanbad. The agitators further claimed that despite submission of all relevant documents demanded by district transport department to get permit, they are being barred from operating in the coal town. Talking to The Telegraph Online today, Shiv Kumar Sharma, an auto driver traditionally plying on Karkend to Dhanbad route said, “I have been earning around Rs 20 thousand per month by ferrying passengers from Dhanbad to Kenuda before the implementation of auto regulation but ever since the new rules came into effect (September 20) I am earning nothing. I am waiting for the permit to ply on the same route despite submission of all relevant documents sought by district transport office.” “I am the sole bread earner of my family. My seven-member family was completely dependent on my earnings. Now, I am clueless about how to eke out a living for my family,” rued Sharma. He claimed they would be compelled to submit the keys of their vehicle to the District Transport Office if they do not get permission to ply on the town route as it is not possible for them to ply on remote route like Chirkunda, Tundi or Mahuda which lies over 40 kilometers from the district headquarters. Sunil Singh, another auto driver operating on Jharia-Dhanbad route said, “No criteria were followed while selecting the auto rickshaws to ply on the town route. The permit has been granted on a first come and first serve basis.” He demanded a comprehensive probe in this regard. Notably, as per the new auto regulation six routes for auto rickshaw have been divided into parts, which aims to restrict entry of large numbers of auto rickshaws in the coal town.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
26-10-2021||Jharkhand||Now, health workers deployed for Covid tests across Ranchi threaten stir over salary delay||Contractual healthcare workers deployed at railway stations, bus stands and airport in Ranchi to conduct Covid tests of incoming have threatened to go on strike as a mark of protest against the non-payment of salary for two months in a move that could cripple the government’s Covid screening mechanism to prevent the spread of infections. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar on Tuesday said that he had requested these healthcare workers to continue providing their services for at least a couple of more days, assuring them that he would ensure the disbursement of their pending salaries as soon as possible. “I have requested healthcare workers on Covid testing duty to be patient for a few more days. I have spoken to authorities in the National Health Mission (NHM), and I am trying my level best to ensure payment of salary in the next couple of days,” said Kumar, adding that some changes in the bank accounts through which NHM disbursed salaries was the reason behind the delay. Currently, about 700 contractual workers are deployed across Ranchi district to conduct Rapid Antigen Tests and RT PCR tests at railway stations, bus stands, the Birsa Munda Airport and other strategic locations in the state capital. “We are risking our lives by coming in contact with several thousand passengers daily while testing them, and the government is least bothered about our needs,” said a Covid testing staffer deployed at Ranchi Railway Station. “If we do not get our salary soon, then we all will go on strike,” he added. Several thousand contractual workers under NHM have already been on strike since October 10 demanding reinstatement of a terminated employee and implementation of an HR policy. The striking healthcare workers have claimed that the NHM did not pay salaries on time to many of them despite having funds. “Our strike will continue, and more people will join us in the days to come. This will not end anytime soon,” said a striking healthcare worker. As per government data, the active caseload of Covid-19 in Jharkhand was 195 on Tuesday morning, and more than half of these cases were in Ranchi, the district which has reported the highest number of cases and fatalities in the state. While more than 100 patients tested positive for Covid-19 in rapid tests conducted at Hatia and Ranchi railway stations in the past week, a majority of them tested negative in confirmatory RT PCR tests conducted later, the civil surgeon said on Tuesday, claiming that the rise in cases was not as alarming as it had seemed initially going by tests at railway stations. However, Ranchi’s efforts to keep a check on Covid cases will suffer if the staff deployed for Covid testing go off-duty, Kumar admitted. He said that he had also sought funds from the district administration to pay contractual healthcare workers in Ranchi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
26-10-2021||Jharkhand||Bay system brewing, may impact Jharkhand weather||After a short breather, Bay of Bengal is getting ready to host another low-pressure hub later this week. Weathermen at IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre said on Tuesday that a cyclonic circulation had formed over south east Bay of Bengal. "Doppler radar inputs suggest that the cyclonic circulation is expected to intensify into a low- pressure over central Bay of Bengal in the next 24 hours or so, " said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Met Centre. He, however, said that it was too early to say whether the system would intensify into a cyclonic storm. Met officials at IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre at Alipore in Calcutta spoke on similar lines. "Satellite pictures and other weather models suggest formation of a cyclonic circulation over south east Bay of Bengal. The cyclonic circulation is expected to concentrate into a low-pressure in the next 24 hours, " said a duty officer there. Several places across Jharkhand, including Ranchi, Jamshedpur and its adjoining districts, saw haze and formation of clouds on Tuesday which weathermen said was due to the impact of the atmospheric circulation brewing over the Bay of Bengal. The sun played hide and seek with clouds through the day. Ranchi Met Centre, in its forecast, issued on Tuesday afternoon, suggested no significant change in both day and night temperatures during the next 72 hours. Met statistics suggested that both Jamshedpur and Sahebganj recorded the highest maximum temperature of 32.5°C in the past 24 hours while the lowest minimum temperature of 16.6°C was recorded at Chaibasa in neighbouring West Singhbhum district. Weathermen confirmed that the south-west monsoon had withdrawn completely from the country on Monday, resulting in favourable conditions for the early advent of winter in Jharkhand. But the formation of the cyclonic circulation and the low- pressure system would result in an unfavourable wind pattern for the next few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
26-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand thrash Punjab, enter semis of national junior women's meet||Hockey fans of Jharkhand  rejoiced on Tuesday after the state team stormed into the semi-finals of the 11th national junior women tournament in Simdega by thrashing Punjab 6-2. Haryana and Chandigarh too sealed their semi-final slots by winning their respective matches during Tuesday's quarter final clashes. Jharkhand’s Elina Dungdung led the charge by scoring three goals in the 31st, 47th and 52nd minutes. Rajni Kerketta smashed two goals in the  49th and 57th minutes while Deepika Soren scored in the 39th  minute to take the team’s tally to 6. Kamapreet Kaur and Harpreet Kaur scored a goal each for Punjab. An elated Hockey Simdega President Manoj Konbegi maintained that Jharkhand had entered semi-finals of the tournament for the 10th time in a row. “Jharkhand has won all their matches so far in a convincing manner. We are sure of clinching the championship trophy this time on our home ground,” he said, adding that he was expecting some of the state's players to be selected in the national junior squad based on their performance in this meet. The  tournament is being viewed with attention   by a panel of Hockey India selectors as well as officials.  “Three years back, Salima Tete earned her berth in the national team through this tournament itself. Later, she went on to cement her place in the senior squad and ultimately represented the country in this year’s Tokyo Olympics,” said Konbegi. Hockey Jharkhand president Bholanath Singh also congratulated the team. “Jharkhand has always been regarded for its hockey talent and it is encouraging for all of us that all our teams are doing exceptionally well across all formats for last few years,” he opined.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
26-10-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant stress on govt schemes' awareness||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren at separate functions on Monday stressed on the need to  create mass awareness of  government schemes. The assertion from Hemant Soren, the JMM working president, comes close on the heels of his message to the JMM district presidents and district secretaries on Friday at Ranchi to let party cadres inform masses about government schemes. “Everyone should get the benefit of the development plans and welfare schemes of the state government. The district administration and elected representatives should ensure that these schemes get wide publicity at the grassroots level in villages. The administration should hold meetings at villages and panchayats and inform people about schemes and enable them to get it benefits,” said Soren at a function organised in Hisaguttu in Barhait block of Sahebganj district around 2.30pm. Barhait is the home constituency of the chief minister. An almost identical address was given at another public function in Boarijor block of Godda district, two hours later. “The Covid cases are on the decline and the government has now started speeding up developmental and infrastructural strengthening activities in the state. We managed to fight the Covid situation in a better manner with our resources and now are focused on development activities. The district administration should ensure that people at the last mile get the benefit of the schemes and that can happen only if they are aware of the schemes,” said Soren. Interestingly, the chief minister had also stressed people’s connection with the JMM district presidents and secretaries at the party organisational meeting on Friday at his residence in Ranchi and directed the party workers to create awareness about the government schemes and improve people connection. Party insiders claimed that the strategy is to make people aware about government welfare schemes ahead of the panchayat polls scheduled later this year. Soren in the address at both Barhait and at Godda spoke at length about the dhoti-saree schemes for the poor ration cardholders, the new schemes to provide employment through MGNREGA schemes like Birsa Harit Gram Yojana, Nilambar Pitamber Jal Samridhi Yojana, Shaheed Poto Ho Khel Vikas Yojana, Phoolo Jhano Aashivard Yojna and Mukhyamantri Pashudhan Yojana and asked the villagers to join these schemes and take full benefits. He also announced that there would be no need of ration cards for availing widow pensions. Soren also informed about government plans of giving eggs six days a week to children in government schools, and universal pension for those above 60 years of age. Soren also inaugurated schemes worth Rs 34.83 crore including a power sub-station at Godda and distributed assets worth Rs 8.50 crore to beneficiaries of government schemes and laid the foundation stone of schemes worth Rs 36 crore. While in Sahebganj, Soren laid foundation stones of 27 schemes worth Rs 18.45 crore and inaugurated a project worth Rs 30.21 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-18
