27-10-2021||Business||Sensex drops 207 points to close at 61,143||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled 207 points on Wednesday, weighed by losses in Axis Bank, Reliance Industries and Bajaj Finance amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share index ended 206.93 points or 0.34 per cent lower at 61,143.33. Similarly, the NSE Nifty fell 57.45 points or 0.31 per cent to 18,210.95. Axis Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, tanking over 6 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Bajaj Finserv, IndusInd Bank, HUL and Tata Steel. On the other hand, Asian Paints, Sun Pharma, Infosys, SBI and UltraTech Cement were among the gainers. Markets traded on a lacklustre note, tracking mixed cues. Initially, weak Asian markets were weighing on the sentiments and mixed trend across sectors kept the participants guessing as the session progressed, said Ajit Mishra, VP - Research, Religare Broking. A sharp dip in select index majors from banking, metal and energy sectors pushed the benchmark lower in the final hour, he noted. "Markets are closely watching earnings for cues and we'll see the reaction to the numbers of select index majors in early trade on Thursday. Besides, volatility is expected to remain high due to the scheduled monthly derivatives expiry," Mishra added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slumped 1.09 per cent to USD 84.72 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
27-10-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex advanced over 100 points in early trade on Wednesday tracking gains in index heavyweights like Reliance Industries, ICICI Bank and Asian Paints. The 30-share index was trading 106.71 points or 0.17 per cent higher at 61,456.97 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty advanced 26.70 points or 0.15 per cent to 18,295.10. Asian Paints was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying around 6 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Sun Pharma, Nestle India, Dr Reddy's and TCS. On the other hand, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance, Tech Mahindra and IndusInd Bank were among the laggards. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 383.21 points or 0.63 per cent higher at 61,350.26, while Nifty surged 143 points or 0.79 per cent to 18,268.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,368.66 crore on Tuesday, as per exchange data. High input costs have adversely impacted margins and profitability of select consumer and manufacturing companies despite steady volume and sales growth, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. This essentially raises concerns about sustainability of earnings rebound in subsequent quarters, which has weighed on sentiments recently, he noted. However, "despite that overall performance so far has been good with sharp growth in revenue aiding double digit growth in earnings," he said, adding "in our view, the market may remain volatile with downward bias in the near term and investors will track the pricing power of industries". Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Stock exchanges in the US ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 0.47 per cent to USD 85.25 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
27-10-2021||Business||Bengal extends cut in stamp duty and circle rate  till December 31||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to extend till December 31 the 2 per cent relief on stamp duty and 10 per cent reduction in the property circle rate. The decision was announced by the chief minister at an administrative review meeting in Kurseong on Tuesday. “It has been extended by three months,” Mamata said in response to a question. The original measure, aimed at stimulating demand in the residential real estate segment and filling up government coffers through a resultant rise in the volume of transactions, was announced during the budget in July this year and was supposed to be in place until October 30. The stamp duty now stands at 4 per cent and 3 per cent in urban and rural areas for properties up to Rs 1 crore and 5 per cent and 4 per cent for properties above that ceiling, respectively. A report published earlier this month by property consultancy Knight Frank suggested that the duty cut had had the desired effect in the market. During the July-September period, as many as 15,160 residential sales deeds were registered in the Calcutta Metropolitan Area, marking a 122 per cent growth over the same period a year ago. Buoyed by the response, developers had been pleading with the government for an extension, and Credai West Bengal had written a letter to the chief minister on October 9. “Buyers could not take full advantage of the scheme. There was a technical glitch initially for a fortnight, and then in October, there were Puja holidays. Moreover, because of Covid, registration could not be done in full swing,” Sushil Mohta, president of Credai West Bengal, said. Nandu Belani, head of Credai in Calcutta, said the extension may not come into effect from November 1 as the decision has to be ratified in the Assembly. “The government should consider extending it till March 31. Many other states, like Maharashtra, have done it,” Belani added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
27-10-2021||Business||Canara Bank makes provisions for exposure to two Srei group NBFCs||Canara Bank on Tuesday said it has made additional provisions for its exposure to the two Srei group non bank finance companies. The bank’s profit, however, has surged 200.22 per cent to Rs 1,333 crore despite an increase in fresh slippages during the quarter. The Reserve Bank of India has taken the Srei group firms — Srei Infrastructure Finance and Srei Equipment Finance — to the National Company Law Tribunal’s Calcutta bench and the cases have been admitted by the NCLT. “With regard to these two NBFCs, our exposure in these two accounts has been around Rs 3,200 crore. We have already declared them as NPA and we have provided additional provisions at around 50 per cent against the regulatory requirement of 15 per cent,” said Debashish Mukherjee, executive director, Canara Bank, at the bank’s earnings call. On a sequential basis, the bank’s net profit during the second quarter was up 13.25 per cent from Rs 1,177 crore in the first quarter of the ongoing fiscal. Gross non performing assets at 8.42 per cent during the quarter were lower than 8.5 per cent during the April-June quarter but increased from 8.23 per cent in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal. Fresh slippages during the quarter were at Rs 6,525 crore and the bank made NPA provisions of Rs 2,678 crore during the quarter. Net NPA during the quarter was at 3.21 per cent against 3.46 per cent during the April-June quarter and 3.42 per cent during the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal. The growth in profit was attributed by the bank’s MD and CEO L.V. Prabhakar to non-interest income, even as interest income fell marginally by 3.55 per cent to Rs 17,063 crore compared with the year-ago period. “Wherever necessary provisions have to be made, we have done so aggressively. Non interest income has grown significantly by 37 per cent. Fee based income has grown by 20 per cent. This has contributed to the operating profit which has grown by more than 20 per cent,” Prabhakar said. The bank’s capital adequacy during the quarter was at 14.37 per cent, increasing from 13.36 per cent during the first quarter of 2021-22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
27-10-2021||Business||India Post Payments Bank and HDFC to offer home loans||India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) and HDFC have entered into a strategic alliance to offer home loans to nearly 4.7 crore customers of the payments bank. Leveraging its country-wide network of 650 branches and over 1,36,000 banking access points (post offices), IPPB aims to make HDFC’s home loan products and its expertise available to its customers across India, HDFC said in a statement. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) on the strategic alliance was signed between IPPB and HDFC Ltd on Monday. “The partnership aims to facilitate HDFC’s home loans to customers, especially in unbanked and underserved areas with many of them having little or no access to finance, to fulfill their dream of owning a home. IPPB will offer housing loans through nearly 190,000 banking service providers (Postmen and Gramin Dak Sevaks),” it said. According to the MoU, credit, technical and legal appraisals, processing and disbursement for all home loans will be handled by HDFC, while IPPB will be the responsible for the sourcing of loans, it said. Union Bank Union Bank on Tuesday said it has reduced its home loan rates with the minimum rate of 6.40 per cent. The reduced rate will be effective from October 27. The new rates will be applicable to customers applying for new loans or those who wish to transfer their existing loans, including balance transfers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
27-10-2021||Business||Axis Bank reports net profit of  Rs 3,382.78 crore for Sep quarter||Axis Bank on Tuesday reported a net profit of Rs 3,382.78 crore on a consolidated basis for the September quarter, driven by lower loan provisions as asset quality improved. The third largest private sector lender reported a net profit of Rs 3,133.32 crore for the July-September period on a standalone basis, which is its highest ever for any quarter. Managing director and chief executive Amitabh Chaudhry exuded confidence that the second half will be better as consumer and business confidence is returning on the back of vaccinations and asserted that all the legacy asset quality issues were behind it. Net slippages declined 82 per cent compared with the preceding June quarter at Rs 707 crore and helped the gross non-performing assets ratio to improve to 3.53 per cent against 4.13 per cent in the year-ago period. Gross slippages during the quarter were Rs 5,464 crore. Consequently, the overall provisions were also down at Rs 1,735 crore against Rs 4,342 crore in the year-ago period, and none of the over Rs 5,000 crore of Covid provisions were drawn down during the quarter. Kotak profit flat Kotak Mahindra Bank Group on Tuesday reported a flat consolidated net income of 2,989 crore for the September quarter against Rs 2,947 crore a year ago, hit by worsening asset quality and higher operational costs, even though subsidiaries reported robust earnings. On a standalone basis, the fourth largest private sector lender reported a 7 per cent fall in earnings at Rs 2,032 crore from Rs 2,184 crore a year ago on higher credit cost and resultant provisions. The bank accounted for 68 per cent of the group’s bottomline for the quarter, while the subsidiaries and associates chipped in with the remaining 32 per cent, it said. Total consolidated income rose to Rs 15,341.65 crore from Rs 13,548.33 crore earlier. Gross NPAs spiked to 3.19 per cent or Rs 8,564.19 crore, from 2.55 per cent or Rs 6,055 crore a year ago. Net NPAs jumped to 1.06 per cent or Rs 2,897 crore from 0.7 per cent or Rs 1,637 crore. Bajaj Fin net jumps Bajaj Finance has reported a 53 per cent jump in consolidated net profit at Rs 1,481 crore for the quarter ended September on healthy interest income. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 965 crore in the same quarter of the previous fiscal. Total income rose 19 per cent to Rs 7,732 crore during the July-September period of 2021-22, as against Rs 6,520 crore in the same quarter of FY21, Bajaj Finance said in a release. Interest income grew by 16 per cent to Rs 6,687 crore from Rs 5,763 crore. Central Bank Central Bank of India on Tuesday reported an over 55 per cent jump in net profit at Rs 250 crore for the September quarter. The lender had posted a net profit of Rs 161 crore during the same quarter of the previous fiscal. However, total income was down at Rs 6,503.39 crore from Rs 6,762.36 crore in the year-ago period. Net interest income rose 5.99 per cent to Rs 2,495 crore, as against Rs 2,354 crore earlier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
27-10-2021||Business||Fino Payments Bank to evaluate option of converting to SFB||Fino Payments Bank will evaluate the option to convert to a small finance bank in the future but expansion of the payments ecosystem in the country will offer an immediate scope of growth for the bank, which is heading for its initial public offer on Friday. The maiden offer, which includes fresh issuance of equity shares and an offer for sale by the promoter, has a price band of Rs 560-577 per equity share. The IPO size at the upper band is around Rs 1,200 crore, comprising Rs 900 crore from an offer for sale of 1.56 crore shares and Rs 300 crore from fresh issue. The net proceeds from the public issue is proposed to be used to augment the bank’s tier-1 capital base to meet its future capital requirements. Managing director and CEO Rishi Gupta said that the bank has already garnered more than 2.6 million current and savings bank accounts and onboarded more than 6.4 lakh merchants since the bank was incorporated in April 2017. “We are going to scale up with more merchant additions as well as getting more customers on board. Growth in the payments ecosystem itself will be a big driver for the next couple of years. Small finance bank is an option which is available and at a relevant point of time we will decide what to do with the option. But right now we are not focusing on conversion to a small finance bank,” said Gupta. “The ATM network and the branch network are not growing because of high fixed costs. This augurs well for Fino because this gives an opportunity to spread ourselves in a very asset light and scalable model,” he said. Fino Payments Bank is a wholly owned subsidiary of Fino Paytech Limited (FPL), primarily engaged in providing technology-based solutions and services related to financial inclusion. FPL is backed by marquee investors like Blackstone, ICICI Group, Intel Capital Corporation, Bharat Petroleum, HAV3 Holdings (Mauritius) Limited and World Bank arm International Finance Corporation among others. Axis Capital Limited, CLSA India Private Limited, ICICI Securities Limited, and Nomura Financial Advisory and Securities (India) Private Limited are the book running lead managers to the offer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
27-10-2021||Business||Applications invited to post of chief economic adviser||The finance ministry has invited applications to the post of chief economic adviser in place of Krishnamurthy Subramanian who now will be in office for a little more than a month till December 6. The timing of the sudden resignation of IMF chief economist Gita Gopinath led to speculation that the Modi government could pick her, but her US citizenship could pose a hurdle. Among the other names doing the rounds is Sanjeev Sanyal, who is the principal economic adviser in the finance ministry. Subramanian made a surprise announcement earlier this month that he would step down in early December and return to academia after completing his three-year term on the job. Subramanian, an ISB Hyderabad professor, had taken over as CEA on December 7, 2018, nearly five months after his predecessor Arvind Subramanian stepped down citing “pressing family commitments”. The next CEA will just have a few months to prepare the Economic Survey of FY22 to be tabled in Parliament on the last working day of January. The vacancy comes at a time the economy is coming out of its pandemic-induced shell, and the next incumbent has the challenging task to draw up a vision document in the Survey with the ravages of the pandemic and the economic recovery in the backdrop. The chief architect of the last three Economic Surveys, Subramanian had come out with interesting concepts such as “Thalinomics”, “V-shaped economy” and “virtuous investment cycle”. According to the eligibility criteria set out by the ministry, a doctorate in economics or finance is desirable but not essential, though a master’s degree is required. The maximum age limit for applying for the post is 56 years. The notification did not specify the tenure of the position. The candidate should also have at least six years of experience in economic research, including one-year administrative experience in central or state governments, state-owned entities, the RBI or recognised universities or autonomous bodies. The post is open to government officials as well as those from academia, research, regulatory bodies and private financial institutions. The last day for the submission of applications will be 15 days from the publishing of the advertisement, which will be mid-November. “The selection committee reserves the right to invite and short-list suitable individuals from outside the list of applicants for the posts,” the notification said. The eligibility criteria is similar to the one floated when the Centre was seeking a replacement for Arvind Subramanian. The search committee, headed by former RBI Governor Bimal Jalan had picked Subramanian.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
27-10-2021||Business||Bombay HC restrains Invesco from calling EGM||Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd won a major battle after the Bombay High Court on Tuesday temporarily restrained Invesco from calling an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) to move  a resolution seeking to remove Zee Entertainment Enterprises Ltd MD & CEO Punit Goenka and appoint six of its nominees on the company’s board. “There will be an injunction...restraining defendants nos 1 and 2 (Invesco Developing Markets Fund and OFI Global China Fund)... from... holding an EGM under Section 100(4) of the Companies Act, 2013,’’ Justice G.S. Patel said in a 44-page order. Invesco can appeal against the order before the Supreme Court. The reprieve for Zee came on a day that the media giant decided to cancel its board meeting on  Wednesday to consider the second quarter results for the period ended September 30 because of a lack of quorum. The company said it would issue a fresh notice setting the date for its board meeting. A quorum requires at least three of the seven members of the board to be present at the meeting, sources said. Zee must hold the meeting within 45 days from the end of the second quarter. Justice Patel, who agreed with all the points made by Zee’s senior counsel Gopal Subaramaniam, went on to say “sometimes, it happens that a company must be saved from its own shareholders, however well-intentioned’’. Zee had argued that the Invesco bid to move resolutions at an EGM to remove Goenka and induct six new independent directors on the board  were “all misbegotten — illicit in conception, illegal in form and iniquitous in result”. The judge said that Invesco’s demand for an EGM had a “fundamental flaw” in as much as it was premised on the belief that “an EGM requisitioned by shareholders are somehow more special or sacrosanct than resolutions proposed by the Board itself.”. Zee had argued that Invesco’s demand was illegal and invalid as it violated provisions of the Companies Act, Sebi’s listing regulations and the guidelines of the ministry of information and broadcasting in so far as these related to media companies. The court upheld Zee’s contention that resolutions to remove Goenka and introduce a new slate of independent directors could “bypass or jettison” mandatory provisions that required approvals from the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC) and the approval of the Board. Invesco and OFI Global together hold 17.88 per cent in Zee. A shareholder with more than 10 per cent can call an EGM. On Invesco’s demand to remove Punit Goenka, the single judge  said that Section 203 of the Companies Act requires every firm to have an MD or CEO or manager, and failing any of these, a whole-time director. “The requisition demands his ouster — but without proposing a replacement. This puts Zee into a statutory black hole, for it would then be totally in violation of Section 203(1); and its directors, would have to face the liabilities, including fines, set out in Section 203(5). No shareholder can be permitted  to drive his company into a state of non-compliance and penalty,’’ Justice Patel said. Invesco counsel Janak Dwarkadas said shareholders have an unfettered right to propose a resolution they choose at an EGM. “If a shareholder resolution is bound to cause a corporate enterprise to run aground on the always treacherous shoals of statutory compliance, there is no conceivable or logical reason to allow such a resolution even to be considered. Shareholder primacy or dominion does not extend to permitting shareholder-driven illegality. A perfectly legal resolution, if carried, may well result in the diminution of the company’s profits or business. That is not a court’s concern. But the resolution must be legal,” Justice Patel observed. Justice Patel in his interim order also chose to “ignore’’ the proposed merger transaction between Zee and Sony. “This has no relevance to the discussion at hand and I have chosen to ignore it entirely. Both sides may have quite a lot to say about it; I do not see the need to hear any of it.” “If the Board itself proposes an EGM to consider these very resolutions, or ones equally vulnerable, it is entirely possible for anyone with sufficient legal standing, even a shareholder in a derivative action, to ask of a court precisely that which Zee does today.” “The decision taken by the court is a huge win for all the stakeholders of the company,’’ a spokesperson for Zee said. Speaking to The Telegraph, Shriram Subramanian, founder & MD, InGovern Research Services, a proxy advisory firm,  said that while the interim injunction is positive for Zee, it remains to be seen if Invesco will appeal in a higher court against the order or in a win-win step, back the proposed merger of Zee with Sony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-24
27-10-2021||India||India test-fires Agni-V missile with 5,000km range||In a major boost to its military might, India on Wednesday successfully test-fired surface-to-surface strategic missile Agni-5 that can strike targets at ranges up to 5,000km with a very high degree of accuracy, officials said. The test-firing of the nuclear-capable missile was carried out around 7:50pm from APJ Abdul Kalam Island in Odisha, they said. "The successful test of Agni-5 is in line with India's stated policy to have credible minimum deterrence that underpins the commitment to 'No First Use'," the defence ministry said in a brief statement. The work on the Agni 5 intercontinental ballistic missile project was started over a decade ago. People familiar with the development said it was the first user trial of the missile which can bring the northernmost part of China under its striking range. The successful test-firing of the missile, built by the Defence Research Development Organisation's (DRDO), came in the midst of a lingering border standoff with China in eastern Ladakh. The first test of the missile was carried out in April 2012 while the previous one was reportedly conducted around three years ago. "The missile, which uses a three-stage solid fuelled engine, is capable of striking targets at ranges up to 5,000 kilometres," the ministry said. The successful test firing of the missile paves way for its induction into the Strategic Forces Command that takes care of India's strategic assets, the people cited above said. The Agni 1 to 4 missiles have ranges from 700 km to 3,500 km and they have already been deployed. The Agni 5 project was aimed at enhancing India's nuclear deterrence against China which has missiles like Dongfeng-41 having ranges between 12,000-15,000 km. In June, the DRDO successfully test-fired a new generation of 'Agni' class nuclear-capable ballistic missile that has a range of up to 2,000 km. Many advanced technologies including propulsion systems, innovative guidance and control mechanisms and state-of-the-art navigation systems have been introduced in 'Agni Prime' missile.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
27-10-2021||India||Govt announces door-to-door Covid vaccination from next month||Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday the government was going to launch a mega vaccination campaign next month against the coronavirus disease. As part of the 'Har Ghar Dastak' drive, healthcare workers will conduct door-to-door vaccinations of people eligible for second dose as well as those who are yet to be administered their first jab as a shield against the virus, the health minister said. He added that special focus will be laid during the drive on 48 districts across the country where less than 50 per cent of the eligible population has been vaccinated against Covid-19. Mandaviya made the announcement after holding a meeting with his counterparts and representatives from states and Union Territories to discuss scaling up of the vaccination drive in the country. He further said 77 per cent of the eligible population in India has been vaccinated with the first dose, while another 32 per cent have been fully inoculated. However, more than 10 crore people have not yet taken the second dose of the vaccine, the health minister said, while urging them to go ahead with completing their course. The minister also asked officials at the meeting to focus on such beneficiaries who are overdue for their second dose. According to government data, over 3.92 crore beneficiaries are more than six weeks overdue for their second dose, around 1.57 crore are up to four to six weeks late, and more than 1.50 crore are up to two to four weeks overdue for their second shot of either Covishield or Covaxin. Also, over 3.38 crore people are up to two weeks overdue to becoming fully vaccinated. The gap between the first and second dose is 12 weeks for Covishield and four weeks for Covaxin. Both doses are needed for adequate protection against severe Covid-19 infection and hospitalisation. The 11 states and UTs that have completed administering both doses to more than half of their eligible beneficiaries are Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Goa, Ladakh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Daman and Diu, Arunachal Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
27-10-2021||India||PM reaffirms India’s focus on free, open & inclusive Indo-Pacific region||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday reaffirmed India’s focus on a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific and the principle of “ASEAN Centrality” in the region. Modi made the statement at the 16th East Asia Summit hosted by Brunei via video conference. The PM also emphasised the importance of a resilient global value chain and reiterated India's commitment to providing Quad-sponsored vaccines to Indo-Pacific countries. He recalled India’s support of $1 million to the ASEAN Covid-19 Recovery Fund. Taking to microblogging platform Twitter, the Prime Minister further wrote India remained committed to strengthening respect for shared values of multilateralism, rules-based international order, international law and sovereignty and territorial integrity of all nations. “I look forward to participating in the 18th ASEAN-India Summit tomorrow,” the PM wrote as part of a series of tweets. The PM also raised the idea of developing global standards on cyber security. The East Asia Summit is a premier leaders-led forum in the Indo-Pacific region. Since its inception in 2005, it has played a key role in the strategic and geopolitical evolution of east Asia. Apart from the 10 ASEAN member states, East Asia Summit includes India, China, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Australia, New Zealand, the United States and Russia. India, being a founding member of the East Asia Summit, is committed to strengthening the East Asia Summit and making it more effective for dealing with contemporary challenges. ASEAN-India summits are held annually and provide the opportunity for India and ASEAN to engage at the highest levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
27-10-2021||India||Covid vaccine second dose missed by 11 crore Indians||Over 11 crore people who have taken the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine have not got themselves jabbed with the second dose even after the expiry of the prescribed interval between two doses, according to government data. The data showed that over 3.92 crore beneficiaries are more than six weeks overdue for their second dose, around 1.57 crore are up to four to six weeks late, and more than 1.50 crore are up to two to four weeks overdue for their second shot of either Covishield or Covaxin. Also, over 3.38 crore people are up to two weeks overdue to becoming fully vaccinated. This issue was discussed in a meeting chaired by Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya with health ministers and representatives of all states and Union territories on Wednesday. They were asked to focus on such beneficiaries who are overdue for their second dose, official sources said. The gap between the first and second dose is 12 weeks for Covishield and four weeks for Covaxin. Both doses are needed for adequate protection against severe COVID-19 infection and hospitalisation. Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Bihar together account for around 49 per cent of such beneficiaries who are late for their second dose of vaccine. The Union Health Ministry has also written to several states and UTs asking them to prioritise administering the second dose to beneficiaries who have not got themselves jabbed with the second shot even after the expiry of the prescribed interval between the two doses, sources said. More than 76 per cent of India's adult population has received at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine, with nine states and union territories administering the first dose to all eligible people. The eleven states and UTs which completed second dose coverage to more than 50 per cent of eligible beneficiaries are Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Goa, Ladakh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Daman and Diu, Arunachal Pradesh, and Jammu and Kashmir. Over 32 per cent of the country's around 94 crore adults have been administered both the doses, Health Ministry officials said, adding the cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 103.53 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
27-10-2021||India||NCB officials made me sign blank papers, says witness in another drugs case||Days after NCB witness Prabhakar Sail claimed that he was made to sign blank papers by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the cruise drugs case, another witness in a separate drugs case on Wednesday levelled a similar allegation against the agency officials, including its Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede. The witness, Shekhar Kamble, a resident of Navi Mumbai, said he was made to sign on 10-12 blank papers by Wankhede and others, which were later used as panchnama in connection with a Nigerian national's arrest from Mumbai's Kharghar in August this year. He also claimed that although no drugs was recovered from the Nigerian national, the NCB falsely showed that some amount of MD drug was found on him. He said he had played the role of an informer in that case and after the raid in Kharghar, the NCB had caught two Nigerians, but let off one of them, he claimed. On the day of raid in August, I along with six NCB officials reached Kharghar to catch a Nigerian national, but he managed to flee from the spot. Later, we went to another location in Kharghar, where around 50 Nigerians were present. As we entered, all of them escaped, but the officials caught two Nigerians and brought them to the NCB office, where one of them was let off, he said. "After taking my and friend's Aadhaar cards, the NCB officials asked me just to sign 10 to 12 blank papers. When I asked them about the panchnama, Wankhede and other officials said they will write it and I don't have to worry,” Kamble added. He said he came to know that he was a witness in the case after Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik made public a list of the agency's 26 different drugs cases and the witnesses in those cases. He said after he read about Malik's claims, he rang up NCB officer Anil Mane on Tuesday to express his concern over the claims in the Nigerian case. "The officer asked me to visit the NCB office on Wednesday, but I did not go," Kamble said. Kamble said he now fears for his life as anything can happen to him since he has spoken up about the NCB's "frauds". On August 27, the NCB had issued a press release, which said that it had intercepted a Nigerian national, identified as Kingsley Ukwueza, following a raid at Kharghar. As per the NCB, it was the agency's case number 80/2021. The accused was held at a Nigerian community kitchen, who was present there along with around 50 Nigerian nationals. However, others had disappeared from the spot and two NCB officials had suffered injuries due as the Nigerians scrambled to escape, it had said. The accused Nigerian national is a big MD trafficker or supplier in Navi Mumbai and has international linkages, the NCB had said. On Sunday, Prabhakar Sail had claimed that Rs 25 crore were demanded by an NCB official and other persons, including absconding witness K P Gosavi, to let off Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, who was arrested in the cruise drugs case. He also claimed NCB officials had asked him to sign nine to ten blank papers. Sail had told media persons that he had overheard Gosavi telling one Sam D'Souza over the phone after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office after the October 3 raid about a demand of Rs 25 crore and "to settle at Rs 18 crore as they have to give Rs eight crore to Sameer Wankhede". Minister Malik has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs case as "fake" and levelled various allegations against Wankhede, including illegal phone tapping. Wankhede has refuted the allegations and denied any wrong-doing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
27-10-2021||India||No bail for Shah Rukh Khan’s son yet, arguments to continue tomorrow||The Bombay High Court will continue hearing the bail plea of Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan who has been arrested in a drugs case, on Thursday when the NCB will present its arguments. Aryan Khan's lawyer told the Court on Wednesday his arrest in the drugs-on-cruise case was a direct infringement of constitutional guarantees and the counsel of a co-accused claimed conspiracy charge was invoked as an afterthought, while an NCB team began probe into allegations of extortion linked to the case against agency officials, including its zonal director in Mumbai Sameer Wankhede. The jail stay of Aryan Khan (23), son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, got longer as the hearing on his bail application remained inconclusive for the second day and proceedings in the HC will resume on Thursday. Aryan Khan, arrested in the drugs case earlier this month, is in judicial custody for nearly three weeks now. Narcotic Control Bureau (NCB) Deputy Director General-northern region Gyaneshwar Singh said his team recorded the statement of Wankhede for more than four hours as part of a vigilance probe into allegations of extortion in the drugs case, while the controversy surrounding the IRS officer took a new turn when the qazi who performed his first marriage in 2006 said he was a Muslim at that time, a claim denied by his family. A five-member vigilance probe team, which landed in Mumbai in the morning, has started its probe and collected some documents and recordings NCB office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai, DDG Gyaneshwar Singh, who is heading the departmental probe into the allegations of extortion, told media persons. "The team today collected crucial documents of the case from NCB zonal office and as part of the investigation, we recorded the statement of Wankhede, " Singh said. "During the four-and-a-half-hour-long recording of the statement, Wankhede has put many things before the team and we will collect a few more documents from him in coming days and if required we will get more information from him," he said. Asked whether Wankhede will continue to supervise the investigation into the cruise drugs case, Singh said, "Let the investigation go ahead, if I have something concrete then only I will be able to give report to my DG." "I am appealing to K P Gosavi and Prabhakar Sail (NCB witnesses in the drugs case) through the media to join the enquiry," he said, adding, "If they have any complaint... any allegations, they should approach us and record their statements." Meanwhile, the qazi who had performed the first marriage of Wankhede claimed the officer belonged to a Muslim family otherwise the 'nikah' would not have been solemnised as per Islam. The qazi's claim came against the backdrop of Nawab Malik's allegations that Wankhede was born as a Muslim, but forged documents, including a caste certificate, to show he belonged to the Hindu SC category to get a job under quota after clearing the UPSC examination. I had performed the 'nikah' of Sameer Wankhede and Shabana Qureshi (his first wife). Her father had approached me to perform the marriage in the Lokhandwala complex area of Mumbai. The groom's name was Sameer Dawood Wankhede who married Shabana Qureshi, Maulana Mujammil Ahmed told a news channel. When asked about Wankhede's claim that he is a Hindu, the qazi said had Wankhede been a Hindu the 'nikah' would not have been performed. The Maulana claimed all the witnesses had signed the 'nikahnama' as per Islamic customs. As the controversy over his marriage and religion refused to die down, Wankhede, who is in the eye of a political storm following allegations of extortion in the high-profile cruise drugs case said he had married (in 2006) as per Muslim customs as per the wish of his late mother. "Fulfilling the wish of one's mother in a secular country is not a crime. I am proud of secularism in our country. My mother was a Muslim and my father is a Hindu. I love both of them very much, " Wankhede told PTI. Wankhede asserted that he never converted to Islam and he belonged to a Hindu caste. He said his first marriage was registered under the Special Marriage Act within a month. "The process of divorce was also completed as per the Special Marriage Act. I was never converted to Islam and I belong to a Hindu caste of my family," Wankhede claimed. Meanwhile, Wankhede's father once again refuted allegations of Nawab Malik about his religion. Malik had said Wankhede senior's real name is Dawood Wankhede and not Dnyandev Wankhede. Kranti Redkar, whom Wankhede married after divorce from his first wife, also came out in support of her husband, saying he never changed his religion. Redkar, who is an actress, contested the claim made by the qazi. Addressing a press conference, Redkar, who married Wankhede in 2017, slammed Malik for playing "low level" politics by making a string of allegations against her husband. "Is that qazi above the Constitution? He should produce papers to show Sameer Wankhede had converted (to Islam) to marry his first wife," Redkar said, adding Wankhede had performed the 'nikah' in 2006 only to fulfil the wish of his late mother, who was Muslim. "It was just a formality. Sameer (Wankhede) is born as a Hindu. He never converted. Malik is levelling allegations out of his grudge owing to the (drugs) case involving his son-in-law," she claimed. Redkar admitted that the signature on the 2006 nikahnama was of Sameer Wankhede's. "He doesn't know much about nikahnama (a written document that two Muslim partners entering into a civil union must put their signature on to legalise their marriage)," she claimed. Meanwhile, Wankhede's father Dnyandev Wankhede said he would approach the court against Malik. "What do my religion or castes have to do with the drug cases? I am Hindu and Mahar (Scheduled Caste). The 2006 Nikahnama is correct and my signature is also genuine. But I didn't understand the content of the document since it was in Urdu," he told reporters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
27-10-2021||India||Pegasus snooping attempt to 'crush' Indian democracy, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday termed as a "big step" the Supreme Court appointing a three-member panel of cyber experts to probe the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of certain people, and expressed confidence that truth would come out. At a press conference here, Gandhi alleged that only the prime minister or the home minister could have ordered the use of Pegasus spyware. During the last Parliament session, the Opposition had jointly taken up the issue and had stalled proceedings demanding a probe, he recalled. "We were asking three basic questions -- who authorised Pegasus, which agency, which person authorised Pegasus as we all know Pegasus cannot be bought by a private individual, it has to be bought by a government; second question was who was it used against; final thing was, did any other country have access to information of our people," the former Congress chief said. Asserting that alleged snooping using Pegasus is an "attempt to crush Indian democracy", Gandhi said it is a "big step that the Supreme Court has said that they are going to look into this matter. I am confident that we will get the truth out of this". "We are quite happy that the Supreme Court has accepted to look into this. There is the institution of Parliament where we will raise this again and we will try to have a debate in Parliament. I am sure the BJP will not like that debate so they will make sure that debate is stalled but we will try to hold that debate," he said. The Supreme Court on Wednesday appointed a three-member panel of cyber experts to probe the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of certain people in India, saying every citizen needs protection against privacy violation and mere invocation of "national security by State" does not render the court a "mute spectator". Finding material that "prima facie merits consideration", a bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli declined the Centre's plea to appoint an expert panel on its own, saying such a course would violate settled judicial principle against bias. Three experts on cyber security, digital forensics, networks and hardware were roped in by the Supreme Court to "enquire, investigate and determine" whether Pegasus spyware was used for snooping on citizens and their probe would be monitored by former apex court judge R V Raveendran. The three-member technical panel, which has been given wide ranging powers, would comprise eminent experts, Naveen Kumar Chaudhary, Prabaharan P and Ashwin Anil Gumaste and report to Justice Raveendran.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Modi most successful administrator India has ever had, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi as the most successful administrator of the country after independence, saying he has taken India into a different trajectory in the spheres of eradication of poverty, economic development, national security and foreign policy. Addressing a conference on Delivering Democracy: Reviewing two decades of Narendra Modi as head of government, Shah said Modi first became chief minister of Gujarat two decades ago without having any administrative experience and proved himself as a successful administrator despite facing a difficult situation at that time. The home minister said in 2014 when the Manmohan Singh government was in power, there was a policy paralysis everywhere and every member of the cabinet thought of himself or herself as the prime minister while the "prime minister was not considered as prime minister". There was no national security policy. India's honour had been lost. There were scams of Rs 12 lakh crore and an impression had been created that Indian democracy will collapse, he said. But when the Modi government came to power in 2014, Shah said, people started thinking that ''now things would improve, the system would improve''. He said India's problems are not just of the administration or economic development but its honour has to be protected, the country's culture should be preserved and its security should be ensured. And for this one has to have a different kind of approach which only a popular leader can have. That leader has to be rooted to the ground and has to know the pain of the poor. Poorest of the poor must get the benefits of development, he said. The home minister said economic development, good governance and eradication of poverty are all necessary. Poorest of the poor must be developed, the country is made secured, the country is made developed, the people of the country are educated, our cultural glory should be enhanced and the country's honour must go up. When all these happen, then only someone becomes a successful administrator. Even though Narendra Modi considers himself as the 'pradhan sewak', I can say with conviction that he is the most successful administrator the country ever had after independence. Because he covered all these points and took India to a different level, he said. Referring to a series of decisions taken by the Modi government in the last seven years, Shah said when demonetisation was announced in 2016, they knew that there was a risk as the Uttar Pradesh assembly election was due but people stood behind Modi and supported the decision. The people realised that it was announced to check black money and Modi had no other intentions, he said. The home minister said the law against Triple Talaq, one rank and one pension and creation of the post of Chief of Defence Staff were all difficult decisions. After the anti-terror surgical and airstrikes, a message has gone out to the whole world that no one can play any game with India's border. You can see it as a bold decision of Narendra Modi or you can see it as a decision of national security. It is a significant move, he said. Shah said there was no proper national security policy prior to the Modi government and it was always under the shadow of foreign policy. But Narendra Modi has clearly separated the national security policy from the foreign policy. We made it clear that we want friendship but we will not accept any aggression on our sovereignty, he said. With the abrogation of Article 370 and 35A, the home minister said, Jammu and Kashmir has been completely integrated with the union of India, not a single riot has taken place anywhere in the country and there has been no murmur after the Supreme Court decision on Ram Janmabhoomi. Narendra Modi has also enhanced the value of India's passport which is an honour for the country, he said. Shah also gave a detailed description of the development works Modi had carried out in Gujarat as chief minister. Perhaps Narendra Modi is the only person who became chief minister without having any experience. At that time, Gujarat was trying to come out of the devastating Bhuj earthquake, he said. Shah said Modi completely overhauled the power situation in Gujarat, gave emphasis on the education and development of those living in forest and coastal areas. Modi did such work that Gujarat had seen 10 per cent growth in the agriculture sector for 10 years continuously, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Will launch party once EC clears name, symbol, says Amarinder Singh||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said he will launch his new political party when the Election Commission clears the name and symbol, and claimed that many people from the Congress are in touch with him. "I am forming a party. But I cannot tell you the name right now. When the Election Commission (EC) approves the name and symbol, only then I can tell you. Let us wait for the EC to approve," he said during his first press conference after resigning as the chief minister last month. He also said that he will meet Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday to continue his efforts to resolve the issues of farmers who have been protesting against the Centre's three new agriculture laws. Singh had resigned as the Punjab chief minister amid a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Singh Sidhu. Responding to a question, Singh claimed many people from the Congress are in touch with him and that they will come out in the open when the time comes. Obviously many people are with us. We are waiting for the opportune moment. But I will not take their names as my supporters are already being harassed, he said. Asked how many MLAs are in touch with him, the former CM said, If Rahul Gandhi needs to have back-to-back meetings with Punjab Congress MLAs, what does it mean? On not resigning yet from the Congress, he said, I have spent 50 years in the Congress, how does it matter if I stay for another 10 days? Singh had last week said that he would soon launch his own party, and that he was hopeful of a seat adjustment with the BJP provided the ongoing farmers' stir was resolved in their interest. He also asserted that he had never spoken of aligning with the BJP, and that all he wanted was seat sharing. In military parlance, it means concentration of forces, he said while stating that he had, however, not yet talked to the saffron party in this regard. The leader further said he had no intention of aligning with the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), but only with breakaway Akali groups. Asked about the reported refusal of SAD (Sanyukt) chief Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa to tie up with him, he said, If Dhindsa has to put up a real fight, he will have to concentrate his forces too. To defeat the Congress, SAD and AAP, we all have to work as a joint force, he asserted. Meanwhile, Sidhu took another dig at Singh and called him the negative force stalling development in Punjab. "We, the 78 MLAs of Congress, could never imagine, what we received an arm-twisted, ED controlled BJP loyal Chief Minister of Punjab @ capt-amarinder who sold the interests of Punjab to save his skin! You were the negative force stalling justice & development of Punjab," Sidhu tweeted. Singh, however, dismissed the tweet as trash and said the thought of seat sharing with the BJP came to his mind only after he was forced out of office. States have to work with the Centre to function effectively, he pointed out. "We will fight and defeat Sidhu from wherever he contests the upcoming assembly polls," he said. The former CM also alleged that ever since Mr Sidhu came on the scene (took over Punjab Congress reins), our surveys show there has been a drop of about 25 per cent in the Congress' popularity. Rejecting the Congress claims of a majority of party MLAs hvaing opposed his continuation in office, he said, Once they (party leadership) had made up their mind to replace me, all these excuses were made. He added that the so-called 18-point agenda of the Congress for his government was nothing but part of the Punjab 2017 manifesto, adding that the Kharge committee, formed by the party to end factionalism, was clearly told that 92 per cent of the poll promises had been fulfilled. Singh also dismissed allegations against his Pakistani friend Aroosa Alam. Even as he asked if Alam was the only issue left in Punjab, he questioned the intention of (Sukhjinder) Randhawa in raising the issue now after never mentioning it all these years. Singh asserted that Alam had been visiting him for 16 years and he would definitely invite her again. Punjab Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa had recently said that a probe would be carried out to ascertain whether Alam, a Pakistani journalist visiting Amarinder Singh for several years, has links with Pakistan's spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Amarinder Singh later shared with the media a booklet titled 'Facts v/s Disinformation', detailing achievements of his government from March 2017 till September 18, 2021. On the political issues he will prioritise in the elections, the former CM said a manifesto committee will finalise the same. Punjab goes to the polls early next year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Educational institutions in Delhi to reopen from November 1 ||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority has allowed reopening of all educational institutions from November 1, and Chhath Puja celebrations in the city amid strict Covid protocols, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Wednesday. Schools will have to ensure that classes are conducted in a hybrid mode which means online classes will continue, he said. "All private and government schools can be reopened from November 1. However, parents cannot be forced to send their ward to schools, Sisodia said at a press conference after a DDMA meeting. The minister said not more than 50 per cent of the students in a class should be called to the school and all the staff are required to be fully vaccinated as soon as possible. Sisodia said a restricted number of people will be allowed to conduct Chhath Puja at predetermined spots across the capital. "People are requested to follow all Covid protocols and wear masks... The Covid situation is under control in Delhi but one has to remain careful, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Extortion: NCB's vigilance probe team recording Sameer Wankhede's statement||The NCB's Deputy Director General (DDG)-northern region Gyaneshwar Singh on Wednesday said they have started recording the statement of the agency's Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede in connection with the departmental vigilance probe into allegations of extortion in the drugs-on-cruise case. A five-member vigilance probe team, which landed in Mumbai in the morning, has started its probe and collected some documents and recordings from the Narcotic Control Bureau's (NCB) office at Ballard Estate in south Mumbai, DDG Singh, who is heading the departmental vigilance probe into allegations of extortion, told media persons. "We have started recording the statement of Wankhede. It is a sensitive inquiry and it is not possible to share real-time information related to the probe," he said. "We have started our investigation and are calling witnesses to record their statements," he added. Earlier, Gyaneshwar Singh reached the NCB's office here at 12.45 pm. The NCB has ordered a vigilance inquiry into the claims made by a witness, Prabhakar Sail, in the cruise drugs case of an extortion bid of Rs 25 crore by some agency officials, including its Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, to let off Aryan Khan, the son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan. The inquiry is being conducted by Gyaneshwar Singh, who is also the chief vigilance officer of the federal anti-narcotics agency. A large number of media persons were present outside the NCB's office when Singh arrived. Wankhede, who is leading the probe in the cruise drugs case, visited the NCB's headquarters in New Delhi on Tuesday and spent over two hours. Sources earlier said the inquiry will also look at the aspect of K P Gosavi, another NCB independent witness in the case, being in close proximity of Aryan Khan after the raids, and the procedures followed by the sleuths while entrusting custody of all the accused arrested on October 3 from the international cruise terminal in Mumbai. Photos and videos of Gosavi with Aryan Khan have gone viral on social media and other news platforms. The role of all the officers and witnesses involved in the case will be probed and it will be recorded if they followed the NCB manual and procedures mentioned in the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act during such operations, they said. Wankhede on Sunday wrote to Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, seeking protection from likely legal action "being planned" against him by unknown persons to falsely frame him concerning an alleged vigilance-related issue. On Monday, he failed to get any relief related to an affidavit on the sensational extortion claims made by Sail, with a special court saying it cannot pass a blanket order barring courts from taking cognisance of the document.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Extortion claim in cruise drugs case:  Police record witness Sail's statement for 8 hours||Mumbai Police recorded the statement of independent witness Prabhakar Sail for over eight hours in connection with his allegation of extortion attempt by NCB officials in the drugs seizure case involving Aryan Khan, an official said on Wednesday. Sail appeared before the city police on Tuesday evening and the process of recording his statement was completed at around 3 am on Wednesday, he said. After recording his statement, Sail left the office of Assistant Commissioner of Police, Azad Maidan, early on Wednesday, the official said. He has been provided protection by the city police in the wake of revelations he made in his application, the official said. On Tuesday, Sail's lawyer Tushar Khandare claimed that his client was "misused" during the Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast earlier this month during which drugs were allegedly seized and Aryan Khan, actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, was arrested. The city police on Tuesday said they received four applications alleging extortion by NCB Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede and other officials, and have launched an enquiry to verify these claims. One of the applications was sent by Sail, who had alleged that he overheard K P Gosavi, another witness in the cruise ship raid case, talking to one Sam D'Souza over the phone about a demand of Rs 25 crore including Rs 8 crore for Sameer Wankhede, police said. Wankhede, the IRS officer who visited the NCB office in Delhi on Tuesday, has denied the allegations. A police official earlier said they will verify claims made by Sail. Police teams are also verifying locations of mobile phone numbers as well as CCTV footages of various places mentioned in Sail's application, he had said, adding that appropriate action will be taken after the enquiry. The Mumbai Police have also received two applications against Maharashtra cabinet minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik an official earlier said without elaborating. Malik has raised a string of allegations against Sameer Wankhede and also accused him of illegal phone tapping and forging his documents to secure job. Sail on Tuesday said he stood by his allegation of extortion demand against Wankhede and others, and nobody had tutored him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Congress welcomes SC order on Pegasus snooping matter||The Congress on Wednesday welcomed the Supreme Court order of setting up an expert committee on the Pegasus spyware issue and said it has negated alleged attempts of the government to evade and divert attention in the name of national security. "Pseudo-Nationalism is the last refuge of cowardly fascists everywhere," Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said on Twitter. "Welcome SC order setting up Special Committee to examine misuse of spyware Pegasus despite Modi Government's embarrassing attempts to evade, avoid and divert attention in the name of National Security. Satyamev Jayate," he said. The Supreme Court has appointed a three-member panel of experts to probe into the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of some persons, saying every citizen needs protection against violation of privacy. The court was hearing pleas seeking an independent probe into reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Pegasus. An international media consortium had reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs party organisers took nod from Centre, alleges NCP minister||Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Wednesday claimed the Cordelia cruise drugs party organisers had taken permission directly from the "directorate of shipping" at the Centre and not the state police or the state home department. Speaking to reporters here, Malik also claimed that a member of an international drugs mafia was present on the same cruise, and asked how come he was moving scot-free, while some others were arrested, following a raid on the ship earlier this month. Malik also said if the Narcotics Control Bureau Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede's birth certificate, which the minister had posted online to claim the official forged documents to secure job, turns out false, then he will resign from his ministerial post and retire as a politician. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) raided the cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2 during which drugs were allegedly seized. Later, Aryan Khan, actor Shah Rukh Khan's son, and some others were arrested. Malik has repeatedly termed the cruise drug bust case as "fake" and levelled a string of allegations against Wankhede, who led the raid. On Wednesday, the minister said, The Cordelia cruise drugs party organisers Fashion TV had not taken any permission from the Maharashtra Police or the state home department. They obtained the permission directly from the directorate of shipping, which comes under the Union Ministry for Ports, Shipping and Waterways. Malik said, I believe that a top committee of NCB officials from Delhi has arrived here. They should check the call detail records of personal phones of NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede, (witnesses) K P Gosavi, Prabhakar Sail and Wankhede's driver Mane. You will need no recording of statements. The phone calls will be self-explanatory." The minister also claimed that a member of an international drugs mafia was present on the same cruise. "There are some of videos of the party in which the person, sporting a beard, can been seen. I am told he was in the Tihar Jail (Delhi) and in a Rajasthan jail in the past. The NCB's Delhi team should check the CCTV cameras of the cruise. How come a few people were arrested and the international level drugs mafia (member) is moving scot-free? the NCP spokesperson asked. Malik also said that if Wankhede's birth certificate, which he had posted on social media, turns out to be false, then "I will resign from my post and retire as a politician". "If my claims are true, then Sameer Wankhede should at least apologise to me and my family. He will lose his job for sure," the minister said. Malik had earlier levelled a number of allegations against Sameer Wankhede and also accused him of illegal phone tapping and forging his documents to secure job. Wankhede, who visited the NCB office in Delhi on Tuesday, has denied the allegations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Teen girl from UP raped in Bengal ||A teenage girl from a village under Haldi police station limits here was allegedly kidnapped and raped by a 20-year-old youth, police said on Wednesday. The accused was arrested on Tuesday, police said. A 15-year-old girl had gone missing from her house on September 8. Her father had lodged a case against an unknown person for luring her away, SHO Suresh Chandra Dwivedi said. The police, who launched an investigation, traced the girl to Hooghly in West Bengal on October 25, the SHO said. In her statement to the police, the girl alleged that the youth, belonging to Dumraon village in Buxar district of neighbouring Bihar, kidnapped her from the village and took her to Hooghly, where he allegedly raped her. On the basis of the statement, the youth has been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, Dwivedi said. The victim has been sent to the district hospital for a medical examination, the SHO added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||'Jumla' version of Covid vaccine story will not save lives, says Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said actual vaccinations and not the "jumla (rhetoric) version" of the COVID-19 vaccine story would save lives and pointed out to the large number of people who are yet to be vaccinated in the country. He shared an article by Congress president Sonia Gandhi in a newspaper that lauded Indian scientists and researchers on achieving the 100-core vaccination milestone but pointed out to the large number of people and children who are yet to be inoculated against COVID-19. "Jumla-version of the vaccine story won't save lives. Actual vaccination will," he said on Twitter using the hashtag "#DutyToVaccinate". The Congress also shared on Twitter Sonia Gandhi's article and quoted her, "The PM likes to emphasise that vaccines are free, while conveniently forgetting that they have always been free. It is the BJP government that moved away from India's universal free vaccination policy." Sharing the article on Twitter, Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "The floundering economy can be turned around if we can drive away the dark clouds of Covid-19. That requires us to ramp up the pace of the rollout of vaccines to all, completely free, including to our children." Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also quoted the Congress president and said, "Not hollow announcements but genuine execution is the key to not only health of our citizens but wealth of our Nation". "Vaccine for all..including our children.. usher in the festive season with genuine optimism," he also said quoting Sonia Gandhi and shared her article on Twitter. In the article "The vaccination milestone and a distant goal", Sonia Gandhi pointed out that the Government ought to realise that vaccinating all Indians as quickly as possible is linked to their health and progress. "Our frontline healthcare workers deserve our fulsome congratulations for crossing the milestone of 100 crore COVID-19 vaccine doses. They, along with our scientists, researchers, medical professionals, and vaccine manufacturers have heroically overcome multiple obstacles in the quest to protect our citizens from COVID-19. Thanks to their efforts, our vaccination drive has picked up pace after the initial months of delay, indecision, and confusion," Gandhi has said in her article. She also said that this milestone also marks the triumph of science and of India's research and manufacturing infrastructure built and nurtured over decades. The Congress president has also pointed out that the promise of all eligible Indians being doubly vaccinated by the end of 2021 is unlikely to be accomplished. "The hollow announcement has not been accompanied by either appropriate planning or execution. Experts assert that we will miss this target by at least five to six months," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-84
27-10-2021||India||Supreme Court wants experts' panel to look into Pegasus case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday appointed a three-member panel of cyber experts to probe the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus for surveillance of certain people in India, saying every citizen needs protection against privacy violation and mere invocation of national security by State does not render the court a mute spectator. Finding material that prima facie merits consideration, a bench comprising Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli declined the Centre's plea to appoint expert panel on its own, saying such a course would violate settled judicial principle against bias. The top court urged its former judge Justice R V Raveendran to oversee the functioning of the three member panel and sought a report expeditiously from the committee. It posted the batch of pleas in the matter, including the ones filed by Editors Guild of India and veteran journalists N Ram and Shashi Kumar, for hearing after eight weeks. The bench took note of the vehement submissions of the Centre on national security and rejected it saying it does not mean that the State gets a free pass every time the spectre of national security' is raised. "National security cannot be the bugbear that the judiciary shies away from, by virtue of its mere mentioning. Although this Court should be circumspect in encroaching the domain of national security, no omnibus prohibition can be called for against judicial review." Pronouncing the verdict, the CJI said the Centre must justify the stand that they take before a Court. The mere invocation of national security by the State does not render the Court a mute spectator . Justice Raveendran will oversee functioning of the panel of cyber security, digital forensics, networks and hardware and the three members are: Naveen Kumar Chaudhary, Prabaharan P and Ashwin Anil Gumaste. The apex court said that former IPS officer Alok Joshi and Sundeep Oberoi -- Chairman, Sub Committee in (International Organisation of Standardisation/ International Electro-Technical Commission/Joint Technical Committee) -- will assist Justice Raveendran to oversee the task to the committee. The top court said that in this world of conflicts it was an extremely uphill task to find and select experts who are free from prejudices, are independent and competent, rather than relying upon any government agencies or any private entity. "We make it clear that our effort is to uphold Constitutional aspirations and rule of law, without allowing ourselves to be consumed in political rhetoric," the bench said, adding that this court has always been conscious of not entering political thicket. "Members of civilized democratic society have reasonable expectation of privacy. Privacy is not singular concern of journalists or social activists," the bench said. In a democratic country governed by rule of law, indiscriminate spying on individuals cannot be allowed except with sufficient statutory safeguards, by following procedure established by law under Constitution, it said. A two-judge bench had reserved order on September 13, saying it only wanted to know whether or not the Centre used the Pegasus spyware through illegal methods to allegedly snoop on citizens. The apex court had observed orally that it would set up a technical expert committee to inquire into the matter and pass an interim order on the pleas seeking an independent probe into the grievances of the alleged surveillance of certain eminent Indians by hacking their phones using Israeli firm NSO's spyware, Pegasus. The top court's observations on constituting the committee assume significance in view of the Centre's statement that it would set up an expert panel on its own to look into the entire issue. The apex court had said it would pronounce order in a few days and asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, to mention the case if the government had a re-think about filing a detailed affidavit. Observing that concerns have been raised by journalists and others over violation of privacy in the Pegasus row, the top court had said it was not interested in knowing the details related to national security. The Centre maintained it did not wish to file a detailed affidavit on whether particular software is used or not as it was not a matter for public discussion and will not be in the "larger national interest". The pleas seeking independent probe are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium had reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware. The apex court was hearing a batch of pleas seeking independent probe into the alleged Pegasus snooping matter. The pleas seeking independent probe are related to reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli firm NSO's spyware Pegasus. An international media consortium had reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on the list of potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country lowest in 242 days||India logged 13,451 new coronavirus infections, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,42,15,653, while the active cases declined to 1,62,661, the lowest in 242 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll climbed to 4,55,653 with 585 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 33 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 122 consecutive days. The active cases comprise 0.48 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.19 per cent, the highest since March 2020, the ministry said. A decrease of 1,155 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.03 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for last 23 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.22 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 33 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,35, 97,339, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 103.53 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 585 new fatalities include 482 from Kerala and 32 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,55,653 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,060 from Maharashtra, 38,024 from Karnataka, 36,048 from Tamil Nadu, 29,355 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,081 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||WHO seeks 'additional clarifications' from Bharat Biotech for Covaxin||The World Health Organisation's technical advisory group on Tuesday sought "additional clarifications" from Bharat Biotech for its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin to conduct a final risk-benefit assessment for Emergency Use Listing of the vaccine. The technical advisory group will now meet on November 3 for a final assessment. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has developed Covaxin, had submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) to the WHO on April 19 for the vaccine's Emergency Use Listing (EUL). The technical advisory group met on Tuesday to review data on Covaxin for the emergency use listing of India's indigenously-made vaccine. "The TAG met today (26 October 2021) and decided that additional clarifications from the manufacturer are needed to conduct a final EUL risk-benefit assessment for global use of the vaccine, the WHO said in an email response to a question by PTI on the decision regarding the Emergency Use Listing of Covaxin. "The TAG expects to receive these clarifications from the manufacturer by the end of this week, and aims to reconvene for the final risk-benefit assessment on Wednesday, 3 November, it added. The Technical Advisory Group for Emergency Use Listing (TAG-EUL) is an independent advisory group that provides recommendations to WHO on whether a Covid 19 vaccine can be listed for emergency use under the EUL procedure. Earlier Tuesday, WHO spokesperson Dr Margaret Harris had said that on COVAXIN, the technical advisory group that reviews all the data for a potential emergency use listing was reviewing that data. "Now if all is in place, and all goes well, and if the committee is satisfied, we would expect a recommendation within the next 24 hours or so, she had said during a press briefing. The Covaxin has demonstrated 77.8 per cent effectiveness against symptomatic COVID-19 and 65.2 per cent protection against the new Delta variant. In June, the company said it concluded the final analysis of Covaxin efficacy from Phase 3 trials. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and AstraZeneca and Oxford University's Covishield are the two widely used vaccines in India. The WHO has so far approved Covid-19 vaccines of Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca-SK Bio/Serum Institute of India, Johnson & Johnson-Janssen, Moderna, and Sinopharm for emergency use. Last week, the WHO had said it is expecting one additional piece of information from Bharat Biotech regarding Covaxin and emphasised that it has to thoroughly evaluate to ensure vaccines are safe and cannot cut corners before recommending a vaccine for emergency use. WHO has said the timeframe for its Emergency Use Listing procedure is dependent on how quickly a company producing the vaccine is able to provide the data required for WHO to evaluate the vaccine's quality, safety, efficacy and its suitability for low- and middle-income countries. "When the information provided addresses all questions raised, WHO and the Technical Advisory Group will complete the assessment and come to a final recommendation whether to grant Emergency Use Listing to the vaccine, it has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||Kashmir: Medical students booked for celebrating Pak T20 victory ||Jammu and Kashmir police have booked unnamed students of two premier medical colleges in Srinagar under the stringent anti-terror law for celebrating Pakistan’s victory over India in the T20 World Cup, sources in the force said on Tuesday. The purported action came barely three days after Union home minister Amit Shah extended the “hand of friendship” to Kashmir’s youths and said only they, and not the government, could stamp out terrorism. Although the police have not officially commented on the purported action, the sources said an unknown number of medical students had been booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) for “insulting the national sentiment”. Footage of students, purportedly from the Sher-e-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences and the Government Medical College in Srinagar, bursting firecrackers, raising slogans, some of them in favour of Pakistan, and dancing after the match were widely shared on social media. According to the sources, the students have been booked under Section 13 of the UAPA, which deals with crimes that advocate, abet, advise or incite the commission of any unlawful activity. The UAPA, usually used against terrorists, allows for detention without trial for up to six months and carries a maximum punishment of seven years’ imprisonment. Any official crackdown would mean India is going far beyond the political posturing behind the Tebbit test in Britain. Conservative Party member Norman Tebbit had whipped up suspicions among the white majority in 1990 by suggesting immigrants and their children could not show loyalty to Britain until they supported the England team at cricket. On Tuesday, a prominent students’ outfit in Jammu and Kashmir appealed to the government not to ruin the careers of the medical students. Erstwhile BJP ally and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti raised a point that few at the Centre would acknowledge. Mehbooba tweeted: “Instead of trying to ascertain why educated youth choose to identify with Pakistan, GOI (Government of India) resorting to vindictive actions. Such steps will alienate them further.” On Sunday, parts of the Valley had erupted in celebration soon after Pakistan defeated India in the T20 World Cup match. The celebrations capped a day on which the administration of lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha was busy hosting Union home minister Shah. A police officer said on the condition of anonymity that the FIR, lodged at Soura police station in Srinagar, was “open” and no student had either been named or arrested so far. Ravinder Raina, the BJP’s Jammu and Kashmir president, asserted that all those who had cheered for “enemy country” Pakistan would land in jail. In Jammu’s Samba, the police have detained six people after a video showed them celebrating Pakistan’s victory and raising “objectionable slogans”. Nearly four decades ago, a cricket match had unwittingly become the staging ground for events that were partly blamed for the spurt in militancy. “Pro-azadi” crowds had cheered for Clive Lloyd’s West Indies on October 13, 1983, during the match against Kapil Dev’s India at the Sher-e-Kashmir Stadium in Srinagar. It was the first international cricket match in the Valley. Some in the crowd had waved pictures of Pakistani players and booed Indian players. Several youths, angry that India had hosted an international match in the “disputed region”, had invaded the pitch during the lunch break and dug holes in it. The damage was not severe enough to halt the match. The West Indians won a match truncated by bad light and a dust storm by 28 runs. The conduct of the spectators had been criticised in the rest of the country. The youths were booked for waging war against the country, another name for sedition. A Srinagar court in 2011 acquitted 12 men for lack of evidence. A number of these Kashmiri youths went on to play a key role in starting the armed insurgency in 1989. “They were kids then but were arrested and booked for waging war against the country. They were put in jail for months. Years later, many of us picked up the gun because of continuous harassment,” a separatist leader, a relative of one of those acquitted, told The Telegraph on Tuesday. But this time, there have been no law-and-order violations like a pitch invasion. “We live in altogether different times. This government does not tolerate people celebrating a cricket victory even in their homes. I am worried this government might destroy the careers of these students. Such actions only trigger more alienation,” the separatist leader said. The second and last time Kashmir hosted an international cricket match was in 1986 when India played Australia. The state government had made elaborate security arrangements. The Sher-e-Kashmir Stadium ceased to be an international venue after that, mainly because of militancy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||Gujarat riots: Zakia Jafri says SIT ignored crucial evidence on Modi||Zakia Jafri, wife of Gujarat Congress leader and 2002 riot victim Ehsan Jafri, on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that a special investigation team had ignored crucial evidence to give a clean chit to then chief minister Narendra Modi in the larger case of conspiracy. After absolving Modi of complicity in the riots as alleged by Zakia, the apex court-appointed SIT had filed a closure report in February 2012, which the trial court accepted in December 2013. Gujarat High Court upheld the decision in October 2017, and an aggrieved Zakia had approached the apex court. “There were several facts which the SIT did not look into while filing the closure report,” senior counsel Kapil Sibal, appearing for Zakia, told the bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, Dinesh Maheshwari and C.T. Ravi Kumar. “A sting operation was relied upon in the Naroda Patiya (massacre) case and no one doubts its authenticity, and only the SIT did not look at it. Police wireless messages were not considered,” Sibal added. Sibal said some of the police messages had been destroyed. Sibal said the SIT had ignored the testimony of witnesses such as the then IPS officer Sanjeev Bhatt. Bhatt, who had accused Modi of directing the police to let Hindus “vent their anger”, was later dismissed from service and recently sentenced to a life term over a three-decade-old custody death. “The SIT did not even follow the procedure to record statements, etc. The SIT had no authority to select which statement was correct when contrary statements were made. But they did so by selectively recording the statements,” Sibal said. Ehsan Jafri and 68 others were burnt alive at Gulbarg Society in Ahmedabad on February 28, 2002. Zakia has alleged that the administration had ignored appeals for help. The trial court convicted 24 accused and acquitted 36. The apex court had directed the SIT to look into Zakia’s allegations that Modi, some other ministers and police officers were part of a larger conspiracy behind the riots. “Our case is that it was a well-planned operation of unleashing of violence with police complicity and which was in the knowledge of the state government,” Sibal said. He contended that to prove the conspiracy charges, one had to look beyond the specific massacre but “the magistrate says, ‘I can’t look at anything else since the Supreme Court asked me to look into only the Gulbarg Society case”. Sibal said about 23,000 pages of documents had been placed in support of the allegations before the SIT, but it had ignored them. “A republic stands or falls depending on the court. We cannot trust anyone but the judiciary and courts. I am not on any single particular person. This is not a political issue, it’s the administrative failure of the state that I am concerned with,” Sibal said. “All that I am looking for here is the investigation and not a conviction. I can show state intelligence bureau reports and see how it corroborates our submissions. This republic is too great to look the other way. So many documents were destroyed. Should not this be investigated?” Justice Khanwilkar said the court wanted to see the closure report accepted by the magistrate. The arguments will continue on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur: Kin of slain journalist afraid of bid to frame farmers ||The arrest of two farmers on Tuesday in connection with alleged retaliatory lynchings after the October 3 Lakhimpur Kheri massacre and indications from police have prompted a sibling of a slain journalist to express fear that efforts are on to blame the farmers for his brother’s murder too. A police officer who asked not to be identified said that following the interrogations of the 15 suspects arrested in the case, the SIT now believed that TV reporter Raman Kashyap too had been lynched by the farmers. Kashyap’s father and brother have all along said the journalist was mowed down by Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s Thar jeep. The family had also alleged that attempts had been made to force them to say that he had been thrashed to death by the farmers. Pawan Kashyap, younger brother of the journalist, told The Telegraph over the phone on Tuesday evening: “I know from my sources that the SIT is giving a twist to the murder of my brother. All I can say is that I have submitted evidence to the SIT, in which my brother can be seen lying under the wheel of the Thar jeep. Badly injured, he somehow tries to run towards the agricultural field and again falls (and) is not able to move. There were farmers near him but none of them harmed him.” Pawan added: “My brother was on the spot since noon and the farmers knew well he was there to cover their protest. The farmers didn’t hurt him. What I understand is that Teni is very powerful. We have lost all hope of getting justice and are looking to God for help.” While the injuries of a person crushed under a car should be easily distinguishable from those of one beaten to death, Pawan told reporters that Kashyap’s post-mortem report only mentioned “injuries” and loss of blood as the cause of death. Teni’s son Ashis and 12 associates had earlier been arrested on murder charges after a convoy of SUVs, led by the Thar jeep, hit a group of farmers from behind and ploughed through them as they were returning from a protest against the minister. Four farmers were crushed to death. In retaliatory violence, block-level BJP leaders Shubham Mishra and Shyam Sundar Nishad and Teni’s driver Hari Om Mishra were allegedly lynched. Vichitra Singh of village Bhira and Gurvindar Singh of village Mokarampur-Aliganj are the first two farmers to be arrested in the case. They have been sent to 14 days’ judicial custody. The special investigation team (SIT) had begun questioning them on Monday evening. “Gurvindar Singh, son of Gurmej Singh, and Vichitra Singh, son of Lakhvindar Singh, were arrested on October 26, 2021, produced before the court and sent to jail. The investigation is on,” the SIT said in a statement in Hindi. The police officer who claimed the SIT now believed that Kashyap too had been lynched by the farmers said: “These two persons (Gurvindar and Vichitra) were identified on the basis of video footage.” He added that more farmers were likely to be arrested. Ashis, arrested on October 9, almost a week after the massacre and only after the Supreme Court’s intervention, was admitted to the government district hospital on October 23 with symptoms of dengue. Shailesh Bhatnagar, chief medical officer of Lakhimpur Kheri, said on Tuesday: “Ashis’s dengue report is positive. He has been kept in the VIP ward.” The Centre has refused to heed demands for Teni’s dismissal. The junior home minister had threatened the farmers a few days before the massacre that he would fix them if they didn’t stop protesting against the three new central farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||Iran leaves India out of Afghan meet ||India has been left out of a meeting called by Iran on Wednesday of neighbouring countries on Afghanistan as Tehran has decided to invite only those that share a land border with the war-ravaged country, besides Russia. The meeting was announced by Iran on October 18, the day India joined Israel, the UAE and the US in what is being called the Middle East Quad. Announcing the meeting, Iran’s foreign ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh said it will be attended by China, Pakistan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan, which share land borders with Afghanistan. Russia is the only other invitee to the meeting which does not share a land border with Afghanistan. In leaving out India, Iran has disregarded New Delhi’s contention that it shares a 106km-long land border with Afghanistan in Pakistan occupied Kashmir (PoK). Billing the meeting as another initiative to address the political crisis in Afghanistan, the Iranian embassy in New Delhi said in a statement that the foreign ministers of the seven countries will meet in Tehran — two of them virtually — to discuss how they as surrounding countries can contribute to the creation of an inclusive government in Kabul with active participation of all ethnic groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||Lakhimpur Kheri : SC directs UP govt to protect massacre witnesses ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the Uttar Pradesh government to provide protection to the Lakhimpur Kheri massacre witnesses while asking why the number of eyewitness statements was just 23 when the gathering had “4,000 or 5,000” people. It said the witnesses should be protected under the “Witness Protection Scheme 2018”. The scheme entitles vulnerable witnesses to police guards and escorts, patrolling in front of their homes, round-the-clock CCTV surveillance, pseudonyms to protect their identity, appearance at in-camera proceedings or through video links, and avoidance of face-to-face contact with the accused. This apart, the witnesses are entitled to financial aid from the witness protection fund and confidentiality of all their records relating to the case. The bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli also sought an additional status report on the murders of BJP worker Shyam Sundar Nishad and journalist Raman Kashyap after lawyers representing their families expressed reservations about the investigations. A convoy of SUVs allegedly led by Union minister Ajay Mishra Teni’s son Ashis Mishra mowed down four protesting farmers in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3 while a driver and two BJP workers, including Shyam Sundar, were lynched in retaliatory violence. Kashyap, covering the farmers’ protest, was also killed amid contradictory claims about whether he was run over or lynched. Justice Ramana expressed surprise that the statements of only 30 witnesses — of whom 23 are purported eyewitnesses — had been recorded so far. “There were hundreds at the farmers’ rally and only 23 people are witnesses?” he asked senior advocate Harish Salve, representing the Uttar Pradesh government, and additional advocate-general Garima Parshad. Justice Kant remarked: “You said there were 4,000 or 5,000 people. Mostly they were locals. Post-incident, most of them have been agitating for an inquiry. Accessibility and identification of such persons in the vehicle should not be a great issue.” Justice Ramana directed the state government to have the statements of more witnesses recorded before a magistrate. The court also expressed concern about “the delay in getting all the reports by the state government from the forensic laboratories”. It directed the state “to make a request to the concerned forensic laboratories to provide all the reports to it as early as possible”. Senior advocate Arun Bhardwaj, appearing for Nishad’s wife Ruby Devi, said her husband was killed in the violence but the police had refused to register an FIR till now. Instead, she and her family members were being threatened, she said. Salve promised to look into the matter. He said the deceased was also an accused in the FIR filed for the killing of the farmers. On Tuesday, the Uttar Pradesh police arrested two farmers over the retaliatory lynchings. Ashis and 12 associates had earlier been arrested in connection with the killing of farmers. Harshvir Pratap Sharma, counsel for the family of Kashyap, too demanded clarity about the investigations into the journalist’s death. The bench sought an additional status report and fixed the next hearing for November 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||Congress accuses PM Narendra Modi of failing to fight corruption||The Congress on Tuesday said the RSS-BJP’s divisive agenda had put India’s constitutional democracy in peril, and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of failing to fight corruption. A meeting called by Sonia Gandhi to finalise details of a membership drive and a nationwide campaign to expose the Modi government’s divisive agenda and failures also discussed Meghalaya governor Satyapal Malik’s allegations of corruption against Goa’s BJP government. Malik’s disclosures dominated the post-meeting briefing, with the Congress accusing Modi of patronising corruption. “When Malik, the then Goa governor, brought to the Prime Minister’s notice the rampant corruption in the government, Modi chose to shoot the messenger instead of removing his chief minister,” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said. “The Prime Minister’s role is in question and we demand a thorough probe by a sitting Supreme Court judge.” Dinesh Gundurao, the Congress’s Goa minder, revived the “chowkidar chor hai (The watchman himself is a thief)” slogan that plays on Modi’s 2014 campaign pitch about being a watchman who would prevent theft. “The Prime Minister was aware that everything is on sale in Goa but he acted like a bhagidar (partner),” Gundurao said. Malik has been quoted as saying in an interview: “There was corruption in everything the Goa government did.... The Goa government’s plan for door-to-door distribution of ration was impractical. It was done on the insistence of a company that paid money to the government.... I investigated the matter and told the Prime Minister about it. “They enquired from the same people who were responsible for corruption….  Today, people are scared to speak the truth in the country.” Surjewala said: “A government involved in corrupt practices in the middle of a pandemic — is (that) what aapda mein awsar (opportunity in a crisis) means?” “The Prime Minister should answer why no action was initiated against the chief minister when the (then) governor informed him of corrupt deeds? When Malik (then Jammu and Kashmir governor) informed him about corruption in Jammu and Kashmir, he was transferred to Goa; when he informed him about the corruption in Goa, he was transferred to Meghalaya,” he added. Asked about the Trinamul Congress’s foray into Goa and its claim that it went ahead alone because the Congress was not serious about fighting the BJP, Surjewala said: “If any single party has consistently fought the RSS-BJP without any fear, without retracing any step, it is the Congress and Rahul Gandhi. Elections are not tourism; Trinamul fought even the last election in Goa and vanished.” “Is Trinamul providing firing cover to the BJP in Goa? Are they helping the BJP? What are they fighting for and who are they fighting? Are they fighting to create their own space?” he said. “We empathise with smaller parties who at times compromise when they get an ED notice. They get frightened and compromise. We have no complaints, we still support them. We know they are being unfairly targeted.” The Congress meeting of office-bearers kept its focus on the Modi government, targeting its divisive politics, failure to create jobs and attack on farmers as well as the economic slide. Sonia said: “We must fight the diabolical campaign of the BJP-RSS ideologically. We must do so with conviction and expose their lies before the people if we are to win this battle. “You must train our workers to take on the unceasing onslaught of malicious disinformation campaigns at the behest of the BJP-RSS. And you must train our people to fight it while upholding and projecting the core Congress ideology.” Both Sonia and Rahul stressed the importance of discipline and unity. “I would like to re-emphasise the paramount need for discipline and unity. What should matter to each and every one of us is the strengthening of the organisation,” Sonia said. “This must override personal ambitions. In this lies both collective and individual success.” Asking the party to stay united, Rahul tweeted after the meeting: “True Congressmen are each other’s strength, not weakness.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||Trinamul Congress defends Goa foray||The Trinamul Congress on Tuesday tried to answer the Congress charge of breaking Opposition unity, saying it had taken the plunge in election-bound Goa because the Congress made no move over the past few months to rally non-BJP parties together. Trinamul’s high-voltage bid to try and become the main challenger to the BJP in Goa has upset the Congress, which was hoping to gain from anti-incumbency sentiments in next year’s Assembly elections. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to visit Goa on Thursday, and the Trinamul drum roll for the elections has begun. Trinamul has focused its attention on Goa and Tripura, where it has not been a player at all, to try and remain part of the electoral narrative ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Tripura votes in 2023. The seemingly endless drift in the Congress and the reluctance of several regional parties like the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the YSR Congress to work with the Grand Old Party have given Trinamul the hope of becoming the rallying point for the Opposition. Addressing the charge of weakening the efforts to build Opposition unity, Trinamul MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy told journalists in Delhi that Mamata had met all senior non-BJP politicians during her July visit to Delhi. During the trip, Mamata had urged Congress president Sonia Gandhi to take the lead in framing a common plan of action for a joint battle against the Modi-Shah duopoly in 2024, Roy added. “We waited for the Congress to take the initiative but it seems to us that the Congress party is busy with its internal issues. So we decided that we cannot wait indefinitely as five Assembly elections are round the corner,” Ray said. He stressed that every party has a right to expand its footprint across the country. Roy dismissed the charge against Trinamul of poaching from other parties on a day former Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev was sworn in as a Rajya Sabha member from Trinamul. “We are not poaching. Every individual has a right to join any party. When Kanhaiya Kumar left the CPI to join the Congress, was it poaching?” he retorted. On fears that Trinamul would divide the anti-BJP vote in Goa, Sushmita said: “It is a fact that the Congress and Trinamul contested against each other in the Bengal elections. We did not ask, ‘Why are you contesting against us?’” She added: “In Tripura and Bengal, the Congress is nothing but a signboard. Yet it contests elections in both states. We understand that in a democracy every party has to look for political space.” Sushmita said that in the Bengal Assembly elections earlier this year, Trinamul had shown that it can do fearless politics and that it’s a party ready to fight on the streets. Trinamul believes it can grow in Goa riding the 28 per cent minority vote, reckoning that the Congress has lost the perception battle with 10 of its MLAs crossing over to the BJP after the 2017 Assembly elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-85
27-10-2021||India||School teacher sacked for Pakistan celebration post||A private school teacher in Rajasthan’s Udaipur was sacked and a case registered against her after she posted a celebratory WhatsApp status following Pakistan’s victory over India in their T20 World Cup match Sunday. Nafeesa Attari, a teacher at Neerja Modi School Udaipur, had put out a picture of Pakistani players with the caption, “Jeeeet gayeeee… We wonnn”. After screenshots of her status were shared on social media, the school management terminated her.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
27-10-2021||India||Odisha: Congress workers demand immediate resignation of minister||Congress workers on Tuesday hurled tomatoes and eggs at policemen who tried to stop them from marching towards Naveen Niwas, the official residence of Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik, demanding the immediate resignation of minister of state for home Captain Dibya Shankar Mishra for his alleged involvement in the murder of a woman schoolteacher in Kalahandi district. Party workers also staged a demonstration outside the office of the DGP in Cuttack demanding Mishra’s ouster. In Cuttack, Congress workers organised a rally demanding immediate ouster of the minister. The Congress also issued a deadline of 72 hours to take action against Mishra or face an intensified agitation. Mamita Meher, a teacher at Mahalinga in Kalahandi district, had gone missing on October 8. Her charred body was later recovered from a deep pit. The Opposition has alleged that Mishra, who also hails from Kalahandi district, used to patronise Govinda Sahu, the main accused who has been arrested. On Tuesday, BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra announced that it would send a three-member team from Delhi to find out the reasons behind Mamita’s death and the minister’s involvement. The team would submit its report to BJP national president J.P. Nadda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
27-10-2021||India||Crushed farmers’ ashes trigger anguish and anger in Odisha||Sachin Mohapatra’s hands trembled as he touched the urn containing the ashes of the four farmers who were crushed under the wheels of a Union minister’s car in Uttar Pradesh’s Lakhimpur Kheri. “They died for our cause. Their killing was a shameless attempt to stifle the voice of the farmers protesting the controversial central farm laws. But we will not be cowed down by such threats,” said Sachin, a 32-year-old MBA graduate from Rohtak University who opted for farming after changing jobs. The urn had been brought to Bhubaneswar by members of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha’s Odisha unit from Lakhimpur Kheri to be immersed in the Daya river on the outskirts of the Odisha capital. “Farmers are being exploited and this must come to an end,” Sachin said. The Morcha, leading the farm struggle against the Modi government, chose the Daya river for the immersion of the ashes, including those of a journalist who too was mowed down by the Thar jeep of Union junior home minister Ajay Mishra Teni, because of its symbolic value. “Here on the banks of the Daya river the great Kalinga war was fought between the people of Kalinga (Now Odisha) and King Ashoka, the emperor of Magadha. Here we pledge to wage a war against the Modi government as long as we are alive. Either we will win or we will be finished,” said social activist Mahendra Parida Mishra’s son Ashis has been arrested against the backdrop of the charge that he was in the Thar when it ran the farmers and the journalist over on October 3. When the urn covered in red cloth reached the farmers’ protest site on Tuesday at the Master Canteen Square near the Odisha Assembly, there was a rush to touch it. “You see the anger of the people. Our interests have been ignored by the Modi government,” Sachin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
27-10-2021||India||Greenhouse gas emissions will fall by only 7.5% by 2030: UN||The world’s greenhouse gas emissions will fall by only 7.5 per cent by 2030 under currently pledged national emission-lowering actions, instead of 30 per cent required to limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius, a United Nations agency said on Tuesday. Updated nationally determined contributions (NDCs) — voluntary pledges by countries under the 2015 Paris climate agreement — up to 2030 will place the world on track for a global temperature rise of 2.7°C, the UN Environment Programme said in its annual emissions gap report. The report also said India is among the several other group of 20 (G20) countries — Argentina, Brazil, China, Indonesia, Mexico, Russia and Saudi Arabia — which are expected to release more Earth-warming emissions during 2030 than they did in 2010. Scientists have warned for years that the Earth is already experiencing the impacts of global warming such as unprecedented heat waves, extreme weather events, fiercer storms. But the global temperature rise would need to be capped below 2°C to avert even more devastating impacts resulting from large sea level rises and mass melting of glacial ice. The UNEP report — released ahead of a UN climate conference that starts on October 31 in Glasgow, UK — said global emission reductions of 30 per cent by 2030 are needed to cap global warming at 2°C and 55 per cent to keep the temperature rise within 1.5°C. “We have eight years to almost halve greenhouse gas emissions to stand a chance of limiting global warming to 1.5°C,” Inger Anderson, executive director of the UNEP, said in a media release. “Eight years to make plans, put in place policies, implement them and deliver the cuts.” The UNEP said G20 members as a group are not on track to achieve their original or new 2030 pledges. But India is among 10 G20 members (Argentina, China, EU, India, Japan, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Turkey and the UK) likely to achieve their original NDC targets under current policies. Among these countries, India, Russia and Turkey are projected to reduce their emissions to levels at least 15 per cent lower than their previous unconditional NCD emission targets, the report said. India in its original NDC had pledged to increase the share of non-fossil fuels in primary electricity production to 40 per cent and reduce its emissions per gross domestic product by 33 to 35 per cent by 2030 from its 2005 levels. The per capita emissions vary significantly across G20 countries. India’s per capita emissions are about half the G20 average, while Saudi Arabia’s is three times higher. India has during climate change negotiations consistently asserted that while New Delhi would pursue domestic actions to curb emissions, the developed countries need to accelerate their own actions and support developing nations with finance and technology for clean energy. The UNEP’s Anderson acknowledged that position on Tuesday saying developing countries need financial and technological support to enable them “to adapt to the impacts of climate change and set out on a low-emissions growth path”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
27-10-2021||India||Search for IIT Bhubaneswar director starts afresh||The government has cancelled the process of appointing a regular director for IIT Bhubaneswar after shortlisting names over a year ago, not citing any reason for the continued delay in making the recruitment. The Union education ministry on Tuesday uploaded on its website a fresh advertisement inviting applications for the post of IIT Bhubaneswar director by December 10. The ministry of education had issued ads for the posts of director for the IITs at Bhubaneswar (Odisha), Patna (Bihar) and Ropar (Punjab) together in November 2019. A panel headed by then education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had conducted interviews for the three institutions on July 14, 2020, through video-conferencing. The IIT Council headed by the Union education minister appointed the director of IIT Ropar this January after approval from the Visitor, the President of India. Last month, the council appointed Prof. T.N. Singh, a faculty member from IIT Bombay, as director of IIT Patna. But IIT Bhubaneswar’s wait for a regular director has only got prolonged. The five-year tenure of the incumbent, Prof. R.V. Rajakumar, ended in April 2020. He has been functioning as in-charge director for the past 18 months. The Telegraph sent an email to the education ministry asking why the appointment process had been cancelled but received no response till late on Tuesday night. “The cancellation of the appointment process at IIT Bhubaneswar after a delay of over a year is a record in itself. As a matter of practice, the appointment process is started six months prior to the end of the incumbent director’s tenure with the objective of completing it within the intervening period,” said an IIT Delhi faculty member. Even if the process is fast-tracked, the duration can be three-four months. “It seems an institution of national importance like IIT Bhubaneswar will remain without a regular director for at least two years,” the teacher said, preferring anonymity. The absence of a regular vice-chancellor at a university or a director at an IIT affects the functioning of the institution. Prof. Rajen Harshe, former VC of Allahabad University, said an in-charge VC or director rarely takes any policy decision or recruits permanent faculty. “The institution suffers on mainly two counts. The in-charge VC or director neither pushes any policy issue nor recruits any faculty or non-teaching staff. The longer the post remains vacant, the institution’s functioning gets more and more affected,” Harshe said. An education ministry official claimed files for such recruitments are unofficially sent to the Prime Minister’s Office under the current dispensation. After a green signal, the names are sent to the Visitor, the official claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-86
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Drugs worth Rs 2 crore seized in North 24 Parganas, 3 held||Three persons were arrested after Yaba tablets worth around Rs 2 crore were seized from them in Madhyamgram on Wednesday. Acting on a tip-off customs department officers apprehended two people from Madhyamgram and recovered around 28,000 Yaba tablets. Both of them were arrested. Later, 8000 more tablets were seized from another place and one more person was arrested. “The total value of the seized Yaba tablets is around Rs 2 crore. Also known as madness drug, crazy medicine and Nazi speed, these are psychotropic substances prohibited under the NDPS Act 1985,” said an official. A mixture of methamphetamine and caffeine and sold as red or pink pills, Yaba originated in Myanmar and entered the Bangladesh black market in early 2000 and gained instant popularity due to the paucity of such stimulants locally. The fact that it was cheap also helped. This is, however, not the first time that such drugs were seized from the city and its outskirts. In August this year, Heroin and Amphetamine tablets worth ₹55 crore in the international market were seized by the special task force of the Kolkata Police in West Bengal’s Malda district. Four drug peddlers, two of whom are from Manipur and Bihar, were arrested. A consignment was also seized in Kolkata in July 2020. Smuggling of Yaba tablets has shot up since 2019 across the porous Indo-Bangladesh border in south Bengal, after the Border Security Force (BSF) cracked down on cattle smuggling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Make this dhanteras chomok bhora||Shyam Sundar jewellers like every year have a number of gifts, collections and special editions of jewellery, gems and more on offer for its annual Diwali presentations – Chomok Bhora Dhanteras. For those visiting this Gariahat outlet between October 26 and November 6, will have the special collections of this extra special edition of ‘Chomok Bhora Dhanteras’ which has turned 16 this year, thereby making the annual celebration grander. The collection includes designer hand-crafted gold and diamond jewellery, traditional and trendy bridal jewellery, dazzling collections of affordable diamond jewellery, gems and precious stones. “We had started Chomok Bhora Dhanteras, fifteen years ago, as an opportunity for people to buy gold and diamond jewellery and pray for its reflection in family fate and fortune,” said Rupak Saha. He added, “Dhanteras is all about welcoming home the Goddess of wealth and prosperity.” “Over the years, 'Chomok Bhora Dhanteras' has grown in size and scope - in terms of the festive collections of gold and diamond jewellery as well as the gift-wrapped offers and draws - all in the true spirit of the festival,” added Saha. Shyam Sundar Co Jewellers, is geared up to welcome customers and usher in the festive season of light and warmth, joy and happiness, greeting and gifting. During a special preview earlier this month, Tollywood star, Ankush Hazra, unveiled this year's 'Dhanteras Dazzle' jewellery collection and added to the glamour of the day. He was flanked, on either side, by Arpita & Rupak Saha, Directors, Shyam Sundar Co Jewellers “I take this opportunity to wish everybody all the best during Chomok Bhora Dhanteras,” said Hazra. “We take this opportunity to thank our dear customers for their continued patronage and assure them of continuing to live upto their expectation,” said Arpita Saha. The threesome signed-off with heart-felt greetings and good wishes for a really happy Diwali. 'Chomok Bhora Dhanteras' will be exclusively on at all the showrooms of Shyam Sundar Co Jewellers in Kolkata (Gariahat, Behala & Barasat) & Tripura (Agartala, Khowai, Dharmanagar & Udaipur) from October 26 to November 6, 2021. What more, with every purchase that its customers make to please goddess Dhanvantri, there are a number of assured gifts, offers and draws that can make you feel lucky. Some of them being • Assured gifts with every purchase • 25% discount on making charge of gold jewellery • No making charge on diamond Jewellery • Precious gems available at a discount of 15% • Daily lucky draws, where three lucky winners can win gold coins • Mega draw: 5 Scootys Apart from this the jewellery outlet has other regular schemes like Sonay Sohaga (special discount scheme to buy jewellery), old gold exchange facility, gold coins, silver coins and utensils on offer. Keeping the pandemic and rising number of cases into account, Covid protocol is being strictly followed and necessary safety measures are in place for customers to safely make purchases in the stores; and all staff members are vaccinated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Alapan moves court challenging shifting of case filed before CAT||Alapan Bandyopadhyay, former Bengal chief secretary and current chief adviser to the chief minister, moved Calcutta High Court on Tuesday challenging a decision to shift a case he had filed before the Central Administrative Tribunal bench in Calcutta to the principal bench of CAT in Delhi. The Centre had served a showcause notice on Bandyopadhyay, asking why he had violated norms by “not attending a meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi” at Kalaikunda on May 28. “Bandyopadhyay had replied that only the state government, where the IAS officer is posted, has the jurisdiction to carry out an inquiry on the officer’s conduct. But the Centre’s department of personnel and training (DoPT), the cadre-controlling authority of IAS officers, unilaterally set up an inquiry committee against Bandyopadhyay and asked him to appear before the committee in Delhi,” said a source in Nabanna. Bandyopadhyay had challenged before the CAT’s Calcutta bench the DoPT’s decision to set up the inquiry committee against him. “But the DoPT moved the principal bench of CAT in Delhi, urging it to shift the case to the capital, which was approved unilaterally. Bandyopadhyay has challenged the decision to shift the case from the CAT bench in Calcutta to the CAT principal bench in Delhi. It is still unknown why the case is moved to Delhi even though it could easily be heard by the Calcutta bench,” said a source in the administration. Death threat Late on Tuesday night, Calcutta police lodged a case based on a complaint from Bandyopadhyay regarding a death threat to him through a letter. The letter was sent to his wife and Calcutta University vice-chancellor Sonali Chakravarti Bandyopadhyay. It was sent by one Gourhari Mishra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Traffic along damaged stretch of NH10 resumes, bridge repair starts||Traffic along the damaged stretch of NH10, which links Sikkim and Bengal’s Kalimpong district with the rest of the country, resumed on Tuesday afternoon after a gap of six days. Since August 20, vehicular movement had come to a halt along the route as a part of the road had caved in at Birick Dara, located around 30km  from here, after an extremely heavy downpour in the hills. The incident had prompted the state PWD (NH-X division) to engage earthmovers. Rocks along the stretch, around 80 feet, had to be cut to create space vehicles to ply. Altogether, a stretch of around 300 feet has been rebuilt in the past few days, PWD sources said. “We have managed to restore the connectivity of NH 10 along Birick Dara. Both heavy and light vehicles started plying from around 4.30pm on Tuesday,” S. Chhetri, the executive engineer of NH-X division of the state PWD said. The resumption of road connectivity has come as a major relief for the business community in the hills as well as for tourists and  tourism stakeholders. During the past one week, all vehicles bound for Sikkim and Kalimpong from Siliguri and vice-versa, were taking detours on narrow roads. Repairs also started on the Balason river bridge on NH31  on Tuesday. On October 19, a pillar of the bridge had tilted, prompting the police to stop traffic, barring two -wheelers. “Repairs have commenced from today and by November 8, components of the Bailey bridge, which would be installed in the damaged stretch, will reach here from Calcutta. We expect the Bailey bridge to be ready in a month’s time,” said an official of state PWD. In Kurseong, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee attended a review meeting of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts, she also expressed concern over road conditions. “We have found a number of hilly roads are in a bad state. This is because a section of contractors use white pebbles instead of black ones and within a year, the top layer of the road peels off. This has to stop. Officials  should pay surprise visits to ensure proper quality...,”said Mamata. A senior official of state PWD, who attended the meeting, said he would look into the issue and will also hold talks with engineers of his department. He also spoke on the widening of a 13km stretch of NH31 between Balason bridge in the northwest and Sevoke in the northeast of Siliguri and said the state has cleared the decks from its end. “We have cleared everything from our end. The NHAI will fund the project and we are waiting for their approval,” the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Kashmir killings drive migrant workers back to Malda district||Asgar Ali, a 28-year-old who worked at an apple orchard in Kulgam district of Kashmir, returned to his village in Malda district four days ago. Ali, who had worked in Kashmir for over four years, felt unsafe in the Valley after the recent killings of five migrant workers. “Everything was fine there even a few weeks back. However, after migrant workers were killed by unidentified militants, I felt it was no longer safe to stay there. Even the police there are not confident about protecting us and so I decided to return home,” said Ali, who hails from Nayabusty in Kaliachak. It was a hard decision. The youth used to make Rs 22,000 a month in Kashmir. He is now jobless in Malda, and doesn’t know how to run his five-member family. Along with Ali, some 1,500 workers have returned to home in Malda district, mostly in Kaliachak, from Kashmir. Akbar Sheikh, who is from the same area, said they did not know why militants were targeting migrant workers. “It might be a conspiracy to drive us away. But whatever be the reason, we are now jobless,” said Sheikh, who would make around Rs 20,000 a month in a carpet factory. Sources in the state intelligence agencies estimated that roughly 5,000 workers from Malda work in Kashmir, mostly in apple orchards or in carpet-making units. “My employer in Kulgam expressed his helplessness and said it was better if we left for our home states. He assured us once things improve, he will call us,” said another youth back in Malda. Abu Hasem Khan Choudhury, the Congress MP of Malda south, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention in the situation for the security of these workers so that they can return to Kashmir. “It (Kashmir) is an integral part of India and there is no reason why workers of Malda can’t work there freely and safely. I have urged the PM to see to it that they can work there safely,” he said. “Also, the home minister has been there and he too, should look into the issue,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
27-10-2021||West Bengal||North Bengal: Private schools await official circular on reopening||Authorities of private schools in Siliguri and in the hills of north Bengal are waiting for an official circular of the state government to decide if they will reopen their institutions, at least for Classes IX to XII, along with the state-run and state-aided schools. On Monday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced that government schools will reopen for students of Classes IX to XII from November 16, after a gap of almost 20 months. On March 16, 2020, the Bengal government had shut schools in view of the pandemic. Online classes began shortly afterwards. Colleges, universities and other institutions of higher education will also reopen from November 16, Mamata had added on Monday, and stressed on sanitising the buildings in time before that date. In all, there are around 70-odd ICSE schools in the hills and Siliguri, along with 30-odd CBSE schools. S.S. Agarwal, the president of North Bengal Sahodaya School Complex (NBSSC), an association of CBSE schools in the region, said they will hold a meeting on October 30 with the principals and administrators of all CBSE affiliated schools of north Bengal. “The first-term board exam for Classes X and XII will be held offline in the last two weeks of November. After exams, we will hold a meeting and take a decision on the issue,” said Agarwal, also the principal of Siliguri Model High School. “We need to confirm that all teaching and non-teaching staff, bus drivers and allied staff have received both doses of the Covid vaccine before classes resume. Also, whether all the students will attend classes daily in school or be called on alternative days,” said a representative of AHLIS (All Hill Listed ICSE Schools), an association of ICSE schools in the hills. The principal of a well-known ICSE school in Siliguri said he wanted to read the circular that the state government was likely to issue on reopening schools. “It is evident that a set of guidelines or standard operating procedures on Covid 19 safety will be stated in the circular that schools will have to follow. We want to see it before making a decision,” said Velloor Chacko Jose, the principal of Don Bosco School, affiliated to the ICSE, in Siliguri. Authorities of a number of state-aided schools across north Bengal have started sanitising their premises in view of the chief minister’s announcement. Atyuha Bagchi, the headmistress of Siliguri Girls’ High School, said they were ready to resume classes. “We recently sanitised the entire and we will do it again shortly ahead of November 16,” she said. “All teachers and non-teaching staff of our school have been vaccinated and have planned to allow only two students to sit on one bench. If there is any other guideline from the state’s side, we will strictly adhere to it,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 806 new cases, 811 recoveries and 15 deaths||Bengal on Tuesday reported 806 new Covid-19 infections, 811 recoveries and 15 deaths, resulting in a drop, for the second consecutive day, by 20 in its active cases to 7,849. Bengal now has 5 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is fifth on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. In the 31 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in active cases ahead of Durga Puja on September 26, the state recorded a rise in its total of active cases for 18 days, a fall for 12 days and no change for one day. In these 31 days considered the core phase of the autumnal festive spell, including not only Durga Puja days but also the preceding and succeeding weeks, there has been a net rise of 175 in the state’s total of active cases, from the 7,674 of September 25. A minister said the number of new infections reported on Tuesday was indicative of people who got infected between October 17 (Dwadoshi) and 21 (two days after Lakshmi Puja) . Calcutta reported 248 new infections, while North 24-Parganas 148, being the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Nine districts reported a single-digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 618 or 76.67 per cent of the new infections detected on Tuesday. Nineteen districts reported zero deaths, Calcutta and North 24-Parganas six each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent now, while that of the nation is 98.17. Bengal’s  daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.08 per cent on Tuesday. Bengal now has over 15.88 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year, including over 15.61 lakh recoveries and 19,081 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Four Meghalaya residents arrested with 15kg cannabis||Police arrested four Meghalaya residents, including a woman, after 15 kilos of cannabis was seized from their vehicle in Jalpaiguri on Monday night. Police sources said they had information that an illegal consignment of narcotics would be smuggled to Bihar from the northeast. Accordingly, a team of Kotwali police station intercepted a car on NH27 at Gosala More, on the outskirts of Jalpaiguri town, around 9pm. As the policemen searched the vehicle, they found 15 kilos of cannabis concealed in it. “The vehicle that has been seized bore a registration number of Meghalaya. During preliminary probe, it has been found that the cannabis was loaded somewhere in Assam and was supposed to be smuggled to Bihar. We are trying to find out whether the arrested quartet, all residents of Meghalaya, are mere carriers or associated with a drug smuggling racket,” said a police officer. The estimated price of the seized consignment is Rs 75,000, the police sources said. On Tuesday, the quartet — Sanjib Roy, Jagmohan Roy, Vicky Kunar and Bina Ranglihat  — were produced at a local court and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. In another incident, a suspected smuggler was apprehended by 174 battalion of the Border Security Force at Hamjapur border outpost in South Dinajpur district on Monday. Aynul Miya, a resident of Banspatharia in the district, was trying to cross the India-Bangladesh border with 124 bottles of cough syrup when the BSF men intercepted him. The BSF carried out raids in different locations across north Bengal on Monday and Tuesday and seized a number of items including cattle, cannabis and cough syrup worth Rs 3.08 lakh, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Tourist hub at India-Bhutan border||Come Diwali, and tourists intending to travel to the Dooars — particularly the eastern parts of the region that fall in Alipurduar district — will have the option to enjoy the enchanting landscape of the Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan from a hilltop of India. The Alipurduar district administration has come up with nine cottages at Daragaon, a tiny hilly hamlet, in the district, built at around Rs 1 crore. “Each of these is a double-bed cottage. Tourists can spend nights here while travelling to the neighbouring country from India and vice-versa. The accommodations will be opened before Diwali,” said a source. Sitting at the cottages, one can see the Bhutan hills and Phuentsholing town, the principal entry point to Bhutan by road from India, and its surroundings. Raj Basu, a veteran in the north Bengal tourism industry, said these cottages, close to the India-Bhutan border, would provide tourists an opportunity to catch a glimpse of the neighbouring country. Bhutan has opened gates for tourists after the Covid-19 pandemic, but made it mandatory for tourists to stay in paid quarantine for a fortnight. “Tourists can catch a glimpse of the mystic landscape of Bhutan while staying in the Dooars. There are only a few accommodations available for tourists at such a location on the Indian border,” said Basu. The cottages have been handed over to the Jaigaon Development Authority (JDA). Ganga Prasad Sharma, the chairman of JDA, said: “We will provide the cottages on lease to a private agency. The tender process has been initiated. “ “Tariff and other charges would be finalised once we select the agency (to run the facility) and confirm  an agreement,” added Sharma. He mentioned that a paved road has been constructed from Jaigaon town to the cottages which are on the Daragaon hill. “Tourists can sit on the verandah of the cottages, enjoying the beauty of forests and hills, while relishing the local traditional cuisine. In due course, there are plans to organize a day-trip to Phuentsholing and adjoining areas of Dooars and also organise ethnic cultural events at the venue,” said a source in the JDA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
27-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee focuses on small-scale industries in hills||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday spoke extensively on the need to set up small-scale industries in the hills, the stress on industry in a region traditionally starved of organised sector employment indicating a strategy to woo voters in the region ahead of the GTA and panchayat polls. This is the first time the state government has shown such an intent for the hills, but it remains to be seen if the idea is implemented, said a veteran in hill politics. Mamata announced a steering committee with Anit Thapa, president Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatrantik Morcha, his rival Roshan Giri, general secretary of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha, former Darjeeling MLA, Amar Singh Rai, Trinamul leader Gautam Deb and state government officials. “The steering committee should come up with proposals by December. I will visit Darjeeling then,” she said. The economy of Darjeeling depends mainly on tea and tourism, both of which are largely unorganised. In an attempt to create more jobs, Mamata stressed on eco-friendly projects in 15 percent of unused tea garden land that the government has allowed for non-tea activities. She also directed officials to explore the possibility of bottled drinking water plants using stream water. “This can be marketed through Bengal Dairy (an enterprise of the state government),” she said. “Bengal Dairy will take up HIMUL (a dairy cooperative in Siliguri) and we will also set up a plant to produce poultry, cattle and fish feed,” said a state official. The other proposal floated by Mamata was IT units. “Why can’t IT units be set up in the hills, the place is ideal for IT hardware units,” she said. Mamata stressed the unused land of cinchona plantation be properly utilised. Discussions also ranged from setting up knitting and embroidery units in the hills, and strengthening food processing units and packing units which the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) has taken up in the hills with the state government and district administration. “Train hills youths in skills, just bring them out of their houses and train them,” said Mamata. The CII was also instructed to come up with proposals for Darjeeling region. The CM also announced construction of Jai Hind community and conference halls in Darjeeling, Kalimpong, Kurseong and Mirik. Rai raised the issue of appointing a vice-chancellor for Darjeeling Hills University and waiving electricity dues that hill people were not allowed to pay by agitating parties during the Gorkhaland agitation a decade back. Other issues raised by various hill leaders included setting up a subordinate selection board to recruit employees by Gorkhaland Territorial Administration, a separate school service commission for the hills, converting forest village into revenue villages, creating an alternative route to NH10 to connect Siliguri with Kalimpong/Gangtok among others. “There has to be peace in the hills. We plan things for hills but outsiders come and instigate an agitation. If there is peace much can be achieved,” Mamata said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
27-10-2021||West Bengal||GTA elections after final voter list, says Mamata Banerjee||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday announced that elections to Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) would be held soon and initiative would also be taken to hold panchayat elections. Her announcement assumes significance as this is the first formal declaration that the two key elections will be held soon in the region. Elections to GTA are due since 2017. The last one-tier panchayat election (gram panchayat) was held 21 years ago in the hills. “Right now, the voter list is being revised, once this is done, we will go for GTA elections,” Mamata said during an administrative meeting held in Kurseong. Administrative sources said that the revision of the electoral roll will start from November 1 and be completed by January 5. This essentially means elections can be expected by January-end, said a source. The chief minister sought the opinions of both Anit Thapa, president of Bharatiya Gorkha Prajantrantik Morcha, and Roshan Giri, general secretary of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha , who were specially invited to the administrative meeting, on holding the elections. Giri and BGPM MLA Ruden Sada Lepcha also sought elections to panchayats. While these two leaders sought a two-tier panchayat elections (gram panchayat and panchayat samity), the chief minister talked about three-tier panchayat polls (the first two and zilla parishad) in the hills. “Regarding panchayat there is an issue of upgrading from two-tier to three-tier for which a constitutional amendment. We will take up this issue, too,” Mamata said. In 1992, the Constitution was amended to set up a two-tier panchayat in the hills comprising a gram panchayat and panchayat samity unlike the rest of Bengal where a three-tier system with the zilla parishad as the highest tier exists. No constitutional amendment is needed to hold two-tier rural polls. The other major political announcement made by Mamata was the formation of a steering committee to suggest “a permanent political solution” and development avenues for Darjeeling hills. Anit Thapa, Roshan Giri, Amar Singh Rai, former Darjeeling MLA now with Thapa’s party, and Trinamul leader and former minister Gautam Deb were some names announced by the chief minister for the steering committee. “You give me feedback on the permanent political solution you want… I will come up with a permanent political solution. I don’t only just say things but I also fulfill them,” Mamata said, adding she wanted peace in the hills. A permanent political solution is a phrase coined by BJP in its election manifesto, the provision of which has not been specified by the saffron party. During the Bengal election campaign Mamata had also said she would come up with a permanent political solution. Roshan Giri had earlier said that they wanted an autonomous body under Article 244 (A) of the Constitution which is a provision for a “state within a state” but for Assam. Thapa said he would consult his party leaders and experts and draw up their proposal. The general understanding following the discussion at the administrative meeting suggests the hills will go for a GTA election in the next three-four months, followed by municipality elections and probably two-tier panchayat elections. In the meantime, an exercise would also be undertaken to come up with “a permanent political solution” for the region. Mamata made it clear that she has much confidence in Anit Thapa but also gave space to Roshan Giri. Bimal Gurung had on Monday said that he would not contest GTA elections if they are held and would instead concentrate on a permanent political solution. “It would be interesting to see how Gurung reacts once the election schedule is announced,” said a hill observer. The chief minister also reprimanded Trinamul leader and Rajya Sabha MP Shanta Chhetri twice during the meeting for “indiscipline” and for making public statements against Anit Thapa recently. “Anit is my friend in the hills,” Mamata told Chhetri. Mamata also asked Chhetri to meet state power minister Aroop Biswas. Chhetri had made a statement on Monday which many had interpreted was against Aroop.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
27-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP in Goa tore down Mamata Banerjee’s posters: Trinamul ||Trinamul on Tuesday accused the BJP’s Pramod Sawant government in Goa of damaging its publicity materials two days ahead of Mamata Banerjee’s proposed visit to launch her party’s bid for power in the western state. It tweeted that the BJP was never this rattled with the Congress or the AAP in Goa. “It’s a SHAME that the @BJP4Goa govt has to resort to such cheap tactics to defame the one woman that all of #Goa is waiting for!” said Trinamul tweeted in a statement, along with several pictures of the alleged damage to the party’s publicity materials. “Ahead of @MamataOfficial’s visit, BJP miscreants made a shoddy attempt to destroy our branding that featured Didi. Is this democratic in any way?” it asked on the microblogging site. “@BJP4Goa was never THIS RATTLED with @AamAadmiParty and certainly not with @INCIndia! Such cowardly acts are a huge misfit in Goa. Goa deserves a government that is fearless! Goa awaits a New Dawn! #GoenchiNaviSakal.” Bengal BJP chief Sukanta Majumdar denied the charges and claimed it was a publicity stunt. “Nobody knows Trinamul in Goa. Trinamul has torn its own posters in a bid to gain publicity,” he said. Goa is set to have its Assembly elections in February. Trinamul insiders said this week Mamata in Goa is likely to induct some leaders from other parties, musicians Lucky Ali and Remo Fernandes, and actor-activist Nafisa Ali. She is also likely to forge alliances with some Goa-based political parties. Trinamul has inducted former Goa chief minister Luizinho Faleiro, a veteran with four decades in the Congress, and elevated him to the post of national vice-president. After Faleiro came a number of political leaders from Goa, from various parties there. From the civil society, Trinamul has already managed to get the likes of poet N. Shivdas, filmmaker Tony Dias, environmentalist Rajendra Shivaji Kakodkar, footballer Denzil Franco, and boxer Lenny Da Gama. Prior to Trinamul’s formal Goa plunge last month, poll consultant Prashant Kishor and 200-odd members of his team – on assignment till 2026 for Trinamul, had been seen testing the Goa waters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-35
27-10-2021||North East||EC show cause to Himanta for violating model code of conduct||The Election Commission (EC) has showcaused Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma for allegedly violating the poll panel’s model code of conduct while campaigning for the October 30 bypolls in the state. Acting on complaints by Congress leaders — leader of the Opposition Debabrata Saikia and Assam PCC president Bhupen Kumar Borah — filed on October 22 and 23 respectively along with videos and news clippings accusing Sarma of violating the model code of conduct, the commission issued the showcause notice to the chief minister on Monday to explain his position by 5pm on Tuesday. “If no explanation is submitted within the said time limit, the Commission shall take a decision without any further reference to you,” the notice said. An official in the office of the chief electoral officer, Assam, said the chief minister responded to the EC notice around 4pm but details were not revealed. The Congress leaders had accused BJP’s “star” campaigner Sarma of making several announcements at various election meetings held in Bhawanipur, Thowra and Mariani Assembly constituencies for establishing a medical college, bridges, roads, high schools, stadium, sports complex, etc, and for giving financial assistance to self-help groups of tea garden workers and for development projects in these areas. In the showcause notice, the commission said after “going through the English transcripts of your speeches, received from concerned District Election Officers through Chief Electoral Officer, Assam, it is ‘confirmed’ that you have made ‘promises and announcements’ while addressing the gatherings at various places in the constituencies going to the polls”. In the notice, the panel cited the announcements/statements of the chief minister made on October 8, 20, 21 and 22 in Bhawanipur, Thowra and Mariani constituencies which it said “ violated” provisions of its model code of conduct. The poll panel said that from the time elections are announced by the commission, ministers and other authorities “shall not” announce any financial grants in any form or promises thereof; or make “any promise” of construction of roads, provision of drinking water facilities, etc. The panel had announced the date for the bypolls on September 28. The notice also cited the commission’s instruction dated January 7, 2007, stating that “announcement of new projects or programmes or concessions or financial grants in any form or promises thereof or laying of foundation, etc, which have the effect of influencing the voters in favour of the party in power is prohibited”. Bypolls will be held for five Assembly seats on October 30. The by-elections were necessitated because MLAs of Gossaigaon and Tamulpur belonging to the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) and United People’s Party Liberal (UPPL) respectively, died of Covid, while the legislators of Bhawanipur (AIUDF), Thowra and Mariani, both from the Congress, resigned to join the ruling BJP. The Congress welcomed the poll panel taking “cognisance” of the “violations” by the chief minister while reiterating its demand to bar Sarma from campaigning further in the bypolls. A statement issued by the Assam PCC media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma said that Sarma gives an impression that those in power are “not accountable” to anybody. The statement said: “Since it is evident through the proof of the video clippings that the Honourable CM has violated the model code of conduct, the EC should not wait for a response by giving a showcause. On the basis of the audio-visual evidence Dr Sarma should be immediately barred from further campaigning...” The result of the bypolls is unlikely to impact the government because the ruling BJP (59) and its allies UPPL (5) and AGP (9) have presently a combined strength of 73 MLAs in a House of 125 members after BJP MLA Sarbananda Sonowal resigned the day the bypolls were announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
27-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Fangsbook||Digital demons are but reflections of real monsters. According to reports leaked by a whistle-blower, the artificial intelligence algorithm running Facebook is programmed to amplify hate speech which gets more views and, in turn, more advertising. The situation is especially acute in India, where, evidence shows, unverified rumours and even content debunked by Facebook’s fact-check partners are promoted by the algorithm. It is worrying that a lot of this content and hate speech has been found to originate from members with links to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, alleges the document that has been compiled by the whistleblower. There is also evidence to prove complicity between Facebook and the political establishment. During the last general elections in India, Facebook created a “political white list” granting some politicians special exemption from fact-checking. This makes it obvious that political parties and their proxies, in India and around the world, exploit the platform to meet dubious ends. What is alarming is that this malaise appears to be contagious. An internal audit carried out by Twitter showed that its algorithm disproportionately amplifies right-wing political content and news sources. Strangely, Twitter, which had marked a toolkit shared by a BJP spokesperson as “manipulated media” and had its offices raided by the police in return, has not been able to identify the reasons for this amplification. Toxic algorithms, evidently, are turning a bad situation worse. Given the volume of data and the number of users, it is impossible for social media platforms to overhaul or exhaustively audit social media algorithms. What is required, then, is human intervention. Facebook spends 87 per cent of its global budget earmarked for tackling misinformation in North America — where only 10 per cent of its users reside — while India, its largest market, suffers owing to a lack of moderators and fact-checkers in regional languages. The leaked documents reportedly state that this is the reason why content posted by “users, groups and pages from the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh” get away unchecked. The pushback against this hate-mongering must proceed on the following lines. Social media platforms must be legally made amenable to independent, objective scrutiny. Since mischievous regimes are unlikely to play the role of the conscientious objector, advertisers must take the lead and stop patronizing digital outlets with venomous fangs. Depletions in finances have a wonderful ability to stoke a somnolent conscience. Most important, though, is public education. Teaching consumers to identify and then report spurious visuals and other forms of content could determine the outcome of this battle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
27-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Mamata asks Modi to withdraw extended BSF jurisdiction||Bold move Sir — The West Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee, has rightly asked the prime minister, Narendra Modi, to withdraw the home ministry’s decision to increase the jurisdiction of the Border Security Force from 15 kilometres to 50 km in the state (“Didi fires BSF land-grab gun”, Oct 25). The Modi government has developed a penchant for flexing its muscles with regard to states’ autonomy in the name of integration. Law and order is a state subject. As such, the Centre should refrain from trying to infringe on Bengal’s territory. Rajanya Dey,Howrah Sir — The Punjab cabinet has taken a serious view of the Centre’s move to extend the BSF jurisdiction in the state. The chief minister, Charanjit Singh Channi, has stated that the police force is capable of dealing with any law-and-order situation in the state. This step goes against the spirit of federalism. With this, a war seems to have broken out between the Centre and the state. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — The Centre has taken a bold step forward in extending the jurisdiction of the BSF. This will embolden the spirit of our front-line warriors in dealing with cross-border terrorism, illegal drugs smuggling, cattle trade and unchecked migration across porous borders. The move created a stir in Punjab and Bengal since the Centre seldom deems it necessary to consult state governments — especially in Opposition-ruled states — before taking any big decision. But the states, too, should have done more to handle these complex issues that threaten national security. The Centre should now resolve the differences with stakeholders in Punjab and Bengal to create a healthy precedent in mainstream politics. Janga Bahadur Sunuwar,Jalpaiguri Sir — The Centre’s decision on the BSF was unilateral and hasty. If it has inputs on any specific, fresh dangers from across the borders, the details must be shared with the border states. This move may backfire politically. The economy in the border districts of Punjab is already suffering. Protesting farmers, too, are unlikely to welcome this move. This will encourage migration from rural areas to cities, creating more chaos. The BSF’s vigil should have been tightened within the existing framework instead. There also seems to be a lack of coordination between the BSF and the state police. The people of Punjab have genuine reason to worry. Brij B. Goyal,Ludhiana Lessons learnt Sir — It was heartbreaking to watch the Indian men’s cricket team lose to Pakistan at the T20 World Cup match (“Pak blow holes in India armour”, Oct 25). This is a refreshing change for Pakistan — the team had a good combination of both batsmen and bowlers. The commendable performance of the pacer, Shaheen Afridi, restricted India to 151 runs. The Indian team must investigate the reasons for this embarrassing performance and use it to revitalize itself. Jayanta Datta,Hooghly Sir — As averred by Virat Kohli, a single loss is not the end of the road. However, as captain, he must answer some questions. Why did he play Bhuvneshwar Kumar in spite of his poor performance at the just-concluded Indian Premier League? Moreover, why was Ravichandran Ashwin, dubbed the world’s best spinner, benched and a rookie spinner brought out against a team who are better players of spin? One also wonders why the captain insisted on including Hardik Pandya, who is not fit enough. Pakistan played better cricket on the day. But the way our bowlers failed to take even a single wicket is worrying. Is it possible that the IPL has taken a toll on our front-line bowlers? N. Viswanathan,Coimbatore Too soon to switch Sir — Schools in West Bengal have been closed for nearly one-and-a-half years. Widespread campaigns — both online and offline — in favour of classroom teaching have finally led the government to declare the reopening of schools mid-November. The supporters of offline classes have been justifiably worried about the academic progress of students and their fair evaluation as well as the plight of children without the privilege of technology. However, the tendency of not adhering to Covid norms — wearing of masks and social distancing — has increased the spread of infection. Urgent steps must be taken to contain it. Until then, it is not safe for children — who are yet to be vaccinated — to attend offline classes. After all, classroom education cannot come at the cost of their health or lives. Atmadip Bakshi,Calcutta  Real danger Sir — Animal rescue videos — these show people saving helpless creatures from peril — are highly popular on social media these days. While the efforts of those who perform these rescue operations must be lauded — these videos can inspire others to do the same — one wonders how many of these are genuine and how many just ploys to get attention on social media. A report showed that 180 fake animal rescue videos were posted on YouTube between October 2018 to May 2021. In fact, there has been an upward trend in such online activity, pointing to a rise in animal cruelty in reality. But little is done to check this menace. It is time that strict action is taken against people who pose the real threat to animal safety. Pramiti Shukla,Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
27-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Visible cracks||A strong base is the key to support any edifice. Unfortunately, the building blocks of the judiciary, as the Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, pointed out in an address after inaugurating a new wing at the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court, need urgent repair. The data are dispiriting. An estimated 26 per cent of court complexes lack toilet facilities for women while 16 per cent do not have men’s toilets; a paltry 27 per cent have computers on the judge’s dais along with video-conferencing facilities; the provision of basic amenities like water and health are minimal — 54 per cent and 5 per cent, respectively. What is worse, interventions to improve court infrastructure have been tardy in their implementation. Research has indicated that none of the courts in India, apart from the district courts in Delhi and Chandigarh, have been able to fulfil the guidelines established by the National Court Management Systems Committee way back in 2012. A separate scheme to improve facilities in court that has been in operation since the early 1990s, research data suggest, has been bogged down by clumsy coordination at the state-level. The implications of this neglect, as Mr Ramana underlined, are pernicious. Poor infrastructure adds to the glut of cases, especially those involving commercial disputes, compensation and land acquisition. The slowing down of the wheels of justice has financial implications — the erosion of GDP growth, for instance. Equally worrying would be the consequent deficit in public trust in a judiciary hobbled by primitive technology and lacking in other public amenities. Such an outcome can be truly ominous in a democracy because Indian courts have a long and glorious history of serving as not only the vanguard of constitutional values but also checking the excesses of an ambitious, authoritarian executive. Two points raised by the CJI bear special significance in this context. The first is Mr Ramana’s call to reduce the judiciary’s financial dependence on the executive. This option should certainly be explored, given the notorious propensity of the present government to control key institutions. Mr Ramana’s other point — he has sent a proposal to the Union law ministry to institute a National Judicial Infrastructure Authority — must be expedited at the earliest. An efficient judiciary propelled by modernized facilities is a right of the citizens at large.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
27-10-2021||Opinion||One David, two Goliaths||On one of his many trips to Bhutan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked a rhetorical question that was meant to highlight the traditional trust that has defined the relationship between India and its small northern neighbour. “Who will not want a friend and a neighbour like Bhutan?” Modi wondered aloud. Modi was right. The peace-loving Himalayan nation has never posed a threat. It has stood by India even on occasions when New Delhi’s tendency to throw its weight around has alienated others in South Asia. Unlike other small nations in the region, it has avoided playing China and India against each other to secure the best deals for itself. At least until now. Earlier this month, China and Bhutan announced an MoU that puts in place a three-stage process toward resolving their longstanding border differences. This merely represents a statement of intent — not a settlement of their dispute. While New Delhi was aware of the negotiations between Beijing and Thimpu, multiple sources have confirmed to this writer that it was not formally informed of the specifics of the pact before it was announced. It’s easy — and understandable — to look at everything that Bhutan does through the prism of the India-China rivalry. Yet this tiny Himalayan nation might be doing the unthinkable: presenting a test to both its giant neighbours at the same time. China’s foreign policy approach to the rest of the world might be characterized by its so-called ‘wolf warrior diplomacy’ — an in-your-face, aggressive use of public platforms to bully those who challenge Beijing’s narrative. Yet it has been cautious not to alienate Bhutan through intemperate language, even when tensions between the two nations have been high, as during the Doklam stand-off. Now Beijing wants to go one step further, with a border settlement. In the 1990s, China struck a slew of border deals with neighbours, including Russia, to settle long-festering disputes. But in recent years, an assertive China has sparked territorial tensions with multiple neighbours across East, Southeast and South Asia, especially through its outlandish claims over the South China Sea. As Beijing faces a growing pushback in its neighbourhood and across other parts of the world, from Europe and America to Australia and Africa, it would make sense for it to try and fix its border woes one by one, instead of firefighting on multiple fronts all at once. But given Xi Jinping’s maximalist approach to relations with other nations, will Beijing be willing to settle for a reasonable border agreement with Thimpu, or will it demand a deal that’s unfair to Bhutan? It’s a question only China’s leadership can answer, and its response could define whether Bhutan emerges as an example of how others can trust Beijing on border negotiations or as evidence that the world’s second-largest economy is its biggest bully. Bhutan’s MoU with China also poses a challenge to India. Although Bhutan’s economy is dependent on aid from New Delhi, the small but proud nation is increasingly keen to assert its independent stature in the global comity of nations. Bhutan’s officials and many of its youth did not like India’s heavy-handed approach to the Doklam crisis when New Delhi publicly cited its 1949 security pact with the nation to justify sending troops there. Yes, Chinese troops had grabbed territory contested between Beijing and Thimpu but not once has Bhutan said that it asked India to send its soldiers. In the past, India hasn’t always been supportive of a border deal between China and Bhutan. If it reflexively chooses that path again, it risks standing on the wrong side of history. Talk to young people in Bhutan today and it won’t be long before you realize that most appear in support of a border resolution with China. To be fair, the Modi government’s response to the MoU has, so far, been mature. It has merely acknowledged the existence of that agreement, but has refused to pass any verdict on it in public. What New Delhi must now do is quietly offer Thimpu technical, diplomatic and other support for future border negotiations with China, including satellite imagery or historical maps that Bhutan might need to strengthen its case. India can help Bhutan negotiate with China from a position of strength. That way, New Delhi would force Beijing to demonstrate whether it is genuinely sincere about a fair border deal. Any settlement that leaves Bhutan happy would represent a victory for India. And if talks between Bhutan and China break down, it would serve as vindication of Xi’s inability to bring peace to his country’s borders. New Delhi won’t mind that outcome either.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
27-10-2021||Opinion||The White Sadhu||“Aap chronology samjhiye.” The Union home minister’s words, spoken in a different context, can now be justifiably hurled at one of his colleagues, Ashwini K. Choubey, the minister of state for environment, forest and climate change, who said, earlier this month, that the Centre is keen on changing the name of India’s first protected forest from Jim Corbett National Park to Ramganga National Park. Choubey’s reasoning, as is often the case with his brethren, was a mixture of half-truths and, hence, specious. He said — this is where he mixed up the chronology — that the reserve had originally been known as Ramganga National Park and was then named after Corbett. The truth is that the reserve forest had, in the beginning, been called Hailey National Park after Malcolm Hailey, the governor of the United Provinces, Corbett’s contemporary and a man who shared his peer’s passion for conservation. Independence, which, understandably, kindled the practice of renaming sites associated with colonial figures, led to Hailey becoming Ramganga — but only for a while. In 1956, a year after Corbett’s death far away from India, the tiger reserve was rechristened after him. This renaming was a curious case of reversal, wrote Stephen Alter (In the Jungles of the Night): a space of national importance was being named after a domiciled Englishman at a time when a young nation was energetically jettisoning its links with relics of colonial rule. What must be noted is that there was great public support in favour of the rebaptization, and not just from Corbett’s friends or admirers. Govind Ballabh Pant, Kumaon’s tallest freedom fighter and, subsequently, Uttar Pradesh’s first chief minister, was an enthusiastic proponent of Ramganga giving way to Corbett. Choubey’s other claim — that he was merely articulating the wish of the local people for another round of name-changing — deserves closer scrutiny too. This is because in spite of the ravages of time and development, Corbett’s name and legacy survive in the much-depleted wildernesses as well as in the surrounding, burgeoning habitations of what is now Uttarakhand, sustaining an allied tourism-based economy that is central to the survival of the local population. (Corbett National Park received 2.84 visitors in 2017-18; the figure was 2.83 lakh in 2018-19.) In fact, the spirit of this public reverence may have been instrumental in shaping the response of the Uttarakhand state government, which stated that it was not in favour of Choubey’s proposal. The state forest minister reportedly added, for good measure, that ‘Corbett’ does not merely signify a surname; it is an expression of ‘national pride’. This veneration — it would have horrified the self-effacing Corbett — has old roots. Readers, who have had the pleasure of leafing through Corbett’s original writings or, for that matter, Mahasweta Devi’s magisterial introduction to the Jim Corbett Omnibus translated in Bengali, would be knowledgeable about the reasons for this collective admiration. My India — the singular first-person pronoun is important in this context — offers the clearest evidence of Corbett’s organic relationship with, and kindred affection for, Kumaon and its hardy, impoverished, and, sometimes, chequered people. There is Sultana, the forest brigand, of whom Corbett writes: “Society demands protection against criminals, and Sultana was a criminal. He was tried under the law of the land, found guilty and executed. Nevertheless, I cannot withhold a great measure of admiration for the little man who set at nought the might of the Government for three long years, and who by his brave demeanour won the respect of those who guarded him in the condemned cell.” Jostling for space with Sultana on these pages are Budhu and Lala Jee, occupants of contrasting positions on India’s social pyramid — Budhu was a bonded labourer and Lala Jee a merchant — yet bound to each other by Corbett’s benevolence. And who can forget Chamari, an untouchable, whose death — Corbett battled the man’s cholera heroically but in vain — diffused the rigid boundaries of caste, however momentarily, at Mokameh Ghat? What makes My India striking is Corbett’s unambiguous personal investment in the lives and the welfare of his people. Significantly, Tree Tops, an account of Corbett’s brief brush with royalty, possesses very little of the naturalist’s characteristic warmth, empathy and energy; the narrative is almost sedate in Corbett’s customary reverence for the then princess, Elizabeth, and the Duke of Edinburgh, save for one revealing passage. During a dinner involving the regal dignitaries, a spirit lamp burst into flames. Even as “frantic efforts were being made to stamp out the blaze the African boy who had served dinner unhurriedly came forward, extinguished the flames with a wet cloth… and a minute later replaced the lamp refilled and relit on the table.” It is not difficult to guess with whom Corbett’s sympathies lay on that occasion. In India, his land, this benevolent man was known as the ‘White Sadhu’ in the nooks and corners of his beloved Kumaon. Yet, Mahasweta Devi informs us that within three months of Independence, Corbett decided to sell Garni House, his family home in Nainital, and move, along with his elder sibling, Maggie, to distant Kenya. Before leaving, he buried his favourite shikar weapons, three rifles and two shotguns, deep in the forest. What made the man — a white man who believed in astrology, a man who knew no home other than India — uproot himself? There are no clear answers to Corbett’s displacement till date. Ironically, Corbett’s uncontested fame as a sportsman seems to have eclipsed other aspects of his intriguing persona reflected in the scale of his conservation efforts in India and, in the dusk of his life, in Africa or his willingness to journey, at the age of 72, in search of a refuge that was not quite home. Is that because Indian historiography is quite often receptive to uncritical veneration but not to objective, if uncomfortable, enquiries into choices made by icons? Except for the royal adventure at Tree Tops, very little is known about the everyday life of a reclusive Corbett during his final years in Africa. Mahasweta Devi writes that the aged Corbett was often spotted — alone — on the balcony of the Outspan Hotel, feeding bits of cake and bread to birds (picture). Perhaps that is where Corbett belonged — and wanted to be — in an in-between realm visited by wondrous, wild creatures, away from the oppressive, disappointing bonds with men and nationhood. uddalak.mukherjee@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-13
27-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ahead of Diwali Dhanbad Municipal Corporation flags off ‘no encroachment’ drive||Shops extending a stall or two along the roadside to sell lights and other decorative items during Diwali is a common annual feature for the festive season. However, keeping the risks involved, Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) has initiated action against street encroachment to prevent Covid rule violation during shopping for Diwali. As encroachments lead to congestion. Instructions in this regard have been given by DMC to different shop keepers to desist from any encroachment of the road leading to congestion. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Anil Kumar, Food Inspector of DMC, said, “We will begin the inspection drive from tomorrow. We will be visiting Bekar Bandh area, where we will convince the shop keepers and particularly those engaged in selling Puja related articles, besides decorative articles and food outlets among other.” He added, “We have also carried out a similar drive at Bank More area earlier this week during which we issued stern warning to shopkeepers extending their shops along the pavement or road side area near Urmila Towers. We will visit the area again, tomorrow.” He further maintained that restaurants and food outlets engaged in selling sweets often put up tents outside their shops to cater to the increased demand, this often leads to roadside congestion and traffic snarls. “We also appeal to trade body Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry and its over 50 units spread across the district to convey the message to the shopkeepers on the behalf of DMC. This comes as a preventive measure to avert the possible rise of Covid cases during the festive season when large numbers of people are also returning to their respective homes to celebrate Diwali and Chhath,” said Kumar. “Any compromise with the Covid guidelines may prove fatal,” said Kumar. Welcoming the drive, Prabhat Surolia, President of Bank More Chamber of Commerce said, “We welcome the DMC initiative. But we are also appealing to the administration not to penalize the shopkeepers only but also to take action against the encroachment of parking lots which adds on to traffic snarls in the market places.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
27-10-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant unveils veggies market, revamped park in Ranchi||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Wednesday inaugurated two key urban projects in the state capital— a dedicated vegetable market complex and a revamped park - aimed at enhancing civic amenities of Ranchi, his gift coming days before Dhanteras and Diwali. At Naga Baba Khatal opposite Raj Bhavan, the city’s first organised vegetable market complex has been constructed by Ranchi Municipal Corporation over 40,000 square feet by spending close to Rs 10 crore. The two-storeyed market has 195 spacious counters and a basement to house at least 300 fruit and vegetable vendors. It has passages on all sides for easy entry and exit and parking bays alongsode with a food court. Hemant said he hoped that the new vegetable market would help rid the city of traffic snarls due to vendors hogging roads.  “Now, maintaining this place and putting it to good use is everyone’s responsibility,” he added. RMC officials maintained that the idea of an organsied vegetable market in this area was primarily aimed that addressing the existing problem of vendors occupying road space. They said RMC would soon allot shops to vendors through a lottery system. Notably, the foundation stone of the vegetable market was laid in 2017 when the Raghubar Das-led BJP government was in power. It was meant to be ready by 2020 but the project got mired in delays due alterations in design and the pandemic. At Harmu, Hemant unveiled the Sadar Patel Park at the housing board colony in ward number 26. It is spread over 12,687 sq feet. Rs 2.5 crore was spent on it.  The park has fountains, manicured gardens, walking trails, an open gym, badminton and tennis courts, benches, sliders, cafeteria and a 7-feet statue of Sardar Vallabhai Patel. “This park was in utter neglect but I am happy that RMC and the urban development department has converted it into a beautiful park, which will cater to all age groups. For elders, there are separate spaces for yoga or just to sit and relax amid the natural environs. For children too, there are enough options to play,” he said. Ranchi MLA C. P Singh, MPs Deepak Prakash and Sanjay Seth, and RMC officials were present during the two launches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
27-10-2021||Jharkhand||RIMS to check rapid test kits after high number of false positives||An expert committee at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) will examine Rapid Antigen Test kits distributed among healthcare workers in Ranchi following complaints of faulty test results, officials said on Wednesday. The Ranchi district administration wrote to the National Health Mission (NHM) to examine the RAT kits provided to the district after more than 100 passengers tested positive at railway stations and bus stands in the past one week, but were found to be Covid negative in confirmatory RT PCR tests conducted on the same day, officials said. As per records shared by Ranchi Civil Surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar, of the 3471 people tested through RAT on October 22, at least 59 were found to be Covid positive. However, all these 59 people tested negative for Covid-19 in confirmatory RT PCR tests conducted later. Similarly, on October 23, of the 2,759 samples tested through RAT, 71 were found infected by coronavirus, but none of these 71 samples tested Covid positive in RT PCR test. “An expert committee at RIMS will examine the RAT kits to check if there was something wrong with them,” said NHM Director Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh. The decision of getting the RAT kits examined by an expert committee, comprising doctors and researchers, was taken by Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Arun Kumar Singh after the Ranchi district administration wrote to the NHM twice, highlighting possible faults in the test kits. Ranchi sub divisional officer Deepak Dubey said that getting such a high number of positive results on rapid tests of samples that eventually tested negative in RT PCR was a concern. However, a doctor at RIMS said that rapid antigen tests were usually more sensitive than RT PCR, and the high positivity rate could be attributed to the fact that many people had some level of antigen in their body, either due to exposure to the virus or vaccination. As per the standard operating procedure, passengers arriving at railway stations, bus stands and the airport in Ranchi are tested through Rapid Antigen Test as well as RT PCR if they do not produce a negative result of RT PCR test conducted within 72 hours prior to their journey. While rapid test results are out in 10 to 15 minutes, RT PCR test results usually arrive after several hours. The passengers who test positive in rapid tests are secluded from other passengers and kept in isolation until their RT PCR tests arrive, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
27-10-2021||Jharkhand||Security tightened at rail stations, bus stands to ensure Covid positive patients don't flee||Ranchi district administration has beefed up security at railway stations and bus stands to stop passengers who test positive for Covid-19 upon arrival from fleeing, officials said on Wednesday, a day after at least 17 passengers fled the Hatia station after a positive rapid antigen test. Ranchi Sub Divisional Officer Deepak Dubey said that following Tuesday’s incident, the district administration sought deployment of additional security personnel at railway stations and bus stands in a letter addressed to the Senior Superintendent of Police SK Jha. “We have been assured deployment of at least 120 police personnel at bus stands and railway stations across Ranchi to stop Covid positive passengers from running away,” said Dubey, adding that at least 90 police personnel will be deployed at Hatia and Ranchi stations, while the remaining 40 will be deployed at Khadgada Bus Stand and ITI Bus Stand. Several passengers travelling to Ranchi from other states by train have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past couple of weeks and some of them managed to dodge quarantine by providing wrong addresses and contact details. However, Tuesday’s incident triggered panic as all the 17 passengers who tested Covid positive upon arrival at Hatia fled despite the deployment of magistrates at the station. Some of these passengers even switched off their mobile phones to avoid any communication with the district administration. “We have been requesting passengers to cooperate with us. It takes hardly 10 minutes to get rapid test results, but many passengers do not want to wait,” said Dubey. Even though many passengers who tested Covid positive in Rapid Antigen Test did not test positive for Covid-19 in confirmatory RT PCR tests, all passengers testing positive in rapid tests should be isolated until their RT PCR test results arrive in order to protect other people in the city, officials said. As per government data, there were as many as 190 active Covid cases in Jharkhand on Wednesday morning, and more than half of them were from Ranchi alone. Ranchi civil surgeon Dr. Vinod Kumar has said that interstate travellers were contributing to the spike in cases here, and screening them was an important part of keeping Covid-19 under check.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
27-10-2021||Jharkhand||Coal secretary smug on domestic production  ||The current crisis has shown that domestic coal production can easily fulfil thermal power requirements of the country, Union coal secretary Anil Kumar Jain said on Tuesday. Addressing the inaugural session of the third Jharkhand Mining Conclave organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) at a hotel in Ranchi on Tuesday, Jain provided statistics to buttress his point. “Taking the positives from the coal crisis that hit the nation, it has been shown that domestic production without any imports can easily fulfil the requirement of thermal power in India. Domestic coal-based power plants have generated 24 per cent additional power whereas generation in plants which use imported coal has gone down to minus 30 per cent,” said Jain. He further highlighted the logistical issues faced by the coal sector during monsoon. “Coal India dispatches 13 to 14 lakh tonnes of coal during the rainy season and it rises to 19 to 19.5 lakh tonnes in other seasons. Amid the challenges, the industry should learn to adapt to the market conditions,” said Jain. He suggested that the coal producers/commercial miners should become quality and market conscious now as in the coming days the coal market might be changing from a seller to buyer market. “It is a good time for consumers and challenging for the producers. The industry players should improve quality, cut down on costs, be prepared to tackle logistic challenges in sidings and dispatch with modern processes.” Tata Steel vice-president (corporate services) and CII Jharkhand state council chairman Chanakya Chaudharye said: “Machinery and equipment for the mining sector are of prime importance to the success of Indian manufacturing. At a time when India seeks to chart a course towards raising the share of manufacturing in GDP, as well as expand mining as a foundation for growth, there is a need to accord special attention to the manufacturing of mining equipment.” CII Jharkhand mining panel convener and chief raw material strategy, corporate strategy and planning, Tata Steel, Somesh Biswas, said that if the country has to reach its full potential, the mining sector, which is undoubtedly one of the most important growth engines of the nation, has to play a major role.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
