28-10-2021||Business||Sensex nosedives 1,159 points to close below 60,000 ||Equity benchmark Sensex plunged 1,159 points on Thursday following an across-the-board selloff as monthly derivatives expired amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share index tanked 1,158.63 points or 1.89 per cent to close at 59,984.70. Similarly, the broader NSE Nifty plummeted 353.70 points or 1.94 per cent to 17,857.25. ITC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, tumbling over 5 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, SBI and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, L&T, UltraTech Cement and Asian Paints were among the gainers. "Domestic equities witnessed heavy selloff with high volatility mainly led by sharp correction in heavyweight financials and IT, which wiped out around Rs 4.5 lakh crore from investors wealth," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. All key sectoral indices fell sharply, with Nifty PSU Bank falling over 4 per cent. In addition to weak global cues, unwinding of long positions especially in financials on F&O expiry, which had seen a sharp rally in recent period were the prime reasons for the sharp market correction, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with losses. Stock exchanges in Europe were also trading in the red in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude slipped 1.11 per cent to USD 82.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
28-10-2021||Business||Sensex tumbles over 300 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex drops over 300 points in early trade on Thursday tracking losses in index majors ICICI Bank, HDFC and Infosys, amid a weak trend in global markets and unabated foreign fund outflow. The 30-share index was trading 306.32 points or 0.50 per cent lower at 60,837.01 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty fell 89.50 points or 0.49 per cent to 18,121.45. ICICI Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 2 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, ITC, SBI, HDFC and Titan. On the other hand, IndusInd Bank, L&T, Bajaj Auto and Bajaj Finance were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index ended 206.93 points or 0.34 per cent lower at 61,143.33, and Nifty fell 57.45 points or 0.31 per cent to 18,210.95. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 1,913.36 crore on Wednesday, as per exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Tokyo were trading with losses in mid-session deals, while Seoul was positive. Stock exchanges in the US ended on a negative note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude fell 2.25 per cent to USD 81.98 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
28-10-2021||Business||Altair Colombo formally inaugurated on Wednesday||Altair Colombo, the landmark residential development which was at the centre of a corporate slugfest between a clutch of top Calcutta-based developers and a little known businessman, was formally inaugurated on Wednesday. The evening event to mark the culmination of one of the largest FDI in real estate to Sri Lanka was attended by Namal Rajapaksa, the youth and sports minister of Sri Lanka and son of Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa. The Indian High Commissioner in SL, Gopal Baglay, was present at the inauguration along with the developers, who came together a decade back to undertake the $290 million project which has enviable views of Indian Ocean and Beira Lake on either sides. Conceived by Israeli-Canadian architect Moshe Safdie, best known for Marina Bay Sands integrated resort and Jewel Changi Airport of Singapore, the project consists of two towers —- one 63-storied tower leaning over a 68-storied tower — comprising 404 luxury apartments. The promoter of the 1.5 million-square-foot project is Indocean Developers Pvt Ltd (IDPL), a step-down subsidiary of South City Projects (Kolkata) Ltd, well known in Bengal for several prominent residential and commercial real estate projects. While the directors and shareholders of South City, namely Sushil Mohta, Jugal Khetawat, Rajendra and Prakash Bachhawat, were in Colombo along with Manmohan Bagree, a director of IDPL, the notable absentee was one Jaideep Halwasiya. The controversy In 2020, the relatively unknown Alipore resident was blamed by the South City owners, which include some of the top business families of the city, for hijacking Altair by unlawfully taking control of IDPL.  A Calcutta-based firm AA Infraproperties Pvt Ltd (AAI) used to own 100 per cent share of IDPL. It came down to 13.84 per cent after Halwasiya issued fresh shares in the SL subsidiary to entities linked to him. SCPL, which holds 87.5 per cent in AAI — the rest 12.5 per cent is with Halwasiya — claimed that issuance of shares in IDPL was an act of fraud perpetrated by Halwasiya to wrest control of Altair. The claim was vehemently opposed by Halwasiya, who said he had to step in with the investment to save the project from further delay. Multiple legal disputes followed on either side of Palk Strait. Cases were filed at company law courts in India and some of them reached all the way up to the Supreme Court. In Sri Lanka, the legal battle was fought at the Commercial High Court in Colombo. The settlement After close to one-and-half years of legal dispute, the two warring sides sat down for mediation under the aegis of some of the top businessmen of the city. Sources said, South City owners have again wrested control of IDPL and in turn, the Altair Colombo after Halwasiya was paid off. However, there still appears to be some dispute over the settlement amount and payment terms. Relief for buyers The 250-odd buyers can now reasonably hope to move into the property which has already been delayed for over three years. A statement from IDPL/SCPL said customers would now be able to initiate the fit-outs of the apartments through a phased out schedule with the total sold apartments ready to be handed over within the next few weeks. Commenting on the event today, Prakash Bachhawat, director of SCPL said: “Altair has been one of the challenging projects but I am glad that we have been able to complete this with all the obstacles. It is very fulfiling to see the end result and completion.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
28-10-2021||Business||I-T Department expands scope of information included in Form 26AS||High-value financial transactions and additional information like foreign remittances, off market transactions, information about purchase of mutual funds among others would be reflected in the Form 26AS. The Income Tax Department has expanded the scope of information included in Form 26AS in a move to make income tax filing more accurate. Form 26AS is an annual consolidated tax statement that taxpayers can access from the Income Tax Department website using their Permanent Account Number (PAN). The decision to add more information to the document is likely to facilitate faceless assessments. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) has issued an order under Section 285BB of the I-T Act expanding the scope of information reported in the new Form 26AS. The Section 285BB was added to the Income-tax Act in Union Budget 2020-21 to revamp Form 26AS to an ‘Annual Information Statement’, which apart from TDS/ TCS details, would contain comprehensive information of specified financial transactions. These would include payment of taxes and demands or refunds and pending/ or completed proceedings undertaken by a taxpayer in a particular financial year that has to be mentioned in income tax returns. Additional information recommended by CBDT includes foreign remittance made by any person through an authorised dealer, breakup of the salary with deductions claimed by the employee, information in ITR of other taxpayers, interest on Income Tax Refund, information published in Statement of Financial Transactions. Additionally, off market transactions reported by depository/ registrar and transfer agent, information about dividend of mutual fund reported by RTA, and information about purchase of mutual fund reported by RTA too would be included in Form 26AS. The CBDT has authorized the Director General of Income-tax (Systems) to upload information...in their possession, in the Annual Information Statement in Form 26AS in the electronic filing account registered by the assessee in designated portal, within three months from the end of the month in which the information is received by them. As per the rules, mutual fund investments exceeding Rs 10 lakh are required to be reported in Form 26AS as per the amended version from last year. Similarly, dividend income has become taxable from FY 2020-21 and tax has to be deducted on it if it exceeds Rs 5,000 in a financial year. Thus, any tax deducted on dividend income in the last year must be reflected in Form 26AS. “At present, the form 26AS mainly reflects information like TDS, TCS, tax payments, SFT transaction, tax demand, refund, etc. The scope of Form 26AS has been steadily expanded from the last few years and incorporating more information in it will be a beneficial tool for the taxpayers. The updated Form 26AS will allow the taxpayer to self-awareness about the reportable transactions well in advance, and assist them in correct ‘disclosure and income computation’ while filing the return of income. This will also help them in reducing the non-disclosure/ non-reporting penalties,” Om Rajpurohit (Director - Corporate & International Tax), AMRG & Associates, said. Nangia & Co LLP Partner Shailesh Kumar said the new Form 26AS will now have details about foreign remittances made by taxpayer, as reported by Authorized Dealer in Form 15CC, more comprehensive details about allowances, deductions claimed by taxpayers in respect of their salary income as reported to the employer. “This new reporting in Form 26AS will help both taxpayers as well as tax authorities in assessing a taxpayer's profile and bring better flow of information between taxpayer and the tax authorities," Kumar said. “With all the information/ details available at one place, it will also assist tax authorities doing e-assessment and having no/ limited interaction with taxpayers, as tax authorities will be able to easily compare information available in Form 26AS vis-á-vis information reported by taxpayer in ITR and any mismatch may be easily flagged by the systems to tax authorities. It will also assist the taxpayers to identify and take corrective action, in case any incorrect information/ detail is reported in Form 26AS,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
28-10-2021||Business||PB Fintech sets aside funds from maiden offer to expand offline||PB Fintech Limited, which operates through its online insurance and credit aggregator platforms — Policybazaar and Paisabazaar — will set aside Rs 375 crore from its maiden public offer to expand offline through physical retail outlets and point-of-sale presence. The IPO of PB Fintech will open on November 1 and at a price band of Rs 940-980 per share of face value of Rs 2 each. The Rs 5,710-crore offer consists of a fresh issue aggregating up to Rs 3,750 crore and an offer for sale of around Rs 1,960 crore, which includes Softbank entity SVF Python II (Cayman) Limited offloading a stake worth Rs 1,875 crore. PB Fintech has been valued at around $$6 billion. According to the company’s prospectus, as of September 30, 2021, it had 21 physical retail outlets which will be scaled up to 200 by the end of fiscal 2024. These outlets will serve as experience centres for consumers and will allow on ground claims support. The company further said it plans to develop point of sales presence in strategic locations over the next three fiscal years. Direct selling and agencies are the prominent sales channels for insurance in the country. PB Fintech CEO Yashish Dahiya said in 2009 the company’s marketing spend on health and life insurance policies were more than earnings. This came down in a major way when the call centre operations were started which aided conversion of enquiries into policy purchase and premium per enquiry numbers started moving up. “In the category of health and life insurance call centres have played a pivotal role in the growth of Policybazaar. We now plan to further scale up. The objective is the consumers who come online, can we convert them at a higher rate and get more premium out of the same inquiries,” said Dahiya. “Our strategy will be to invest in developing the brands, technology and infrastructure. We are expanding our offerings to SMEs and corporate clients.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
28-10-2021||Business||ITC Ltd reports 10.09% increase in consolidated net profit||ITC Ltd on Wednesday reported a 10.09 per cent increase in its consolidated net profit to Rs 3,763.73 crore for the second quarter ended in September 2021. The company had posted a net profit of Rs 3,418.69 crore during the July-September quarter of the previous fiscal, ITC said in a regulatory filing. Revenue from operations was up 12.14 per cent at Rs 14,662.59 crore during the quarter under review against Rs 13,075.14 crore a year ago. Total expenses were at Rs 10,258.26 crore up 11.93 per cent in the quarter  against Rs 9,164.68 crore of the corresponding period. Shares of ITC Ltd on Wednesday settled at Rs 238.40 on BSE, up 0.68 per cent from the previous close. L&T net drops 67% Larsen & Toubro on Wednesday reported a 67 per cent drop in consolidated net profits for the quarter ended September 30. The conglomerate posted a net profit of Rs 1,819.45 crore  compared with Rs 5,520.27 crore in the same period of the previous year. The numbers were, however, ahead of Street estimates. During the period, revenues rose to Rs 34,772.90 crore from Rs 31,034.74 crore in the year ago period. L&T disclosed that it  bagged orders worth Rs 42,140 crore during the quarter which marked a robust growth of 50 per cent over the corresponding period of the previous year. Bajaj Auto profit up Bajaj Auto saw its standalone net profits rising by 12 per cent for the quarter ended September 30, 2020. The two wheeler major posted a net profit of Rs 1,274.55 crore against Rs 1,138.20 crore in the corresponding period of the previous fiscal. Turnover of the company was up by 22 per cent to Rs 9,081 crore from Rs 7,442 crore in the previous year. Bajaj Auto said that the quarter was marked by an increase in raw material costs, which was offset by higher product prices. Meanwhile, at a board meeting today, the directors of the company approved the incorporation of a captive finance subsidiary (NBFC) to undertake the business of only financing the customers of the products manufactured or marketed by the company and its subsidiaries or associates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
28-10-2021||Business||Government receives final dividend of Rs 6,665 crore from BPCL||The government has received a final dividend of Rs 6,665 crore from privatisation-bound Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) for the 2020-21 fiscal, the Dipam secretary said on Wednesday. “Govt received final dividend of Rs 6,665 crore from BPCL for the FY 2020-21. This includes special dividend on account of gains especially on sale of BPCL’'s stake in Numaligarh Refinery in March 2021,” department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted on Wednesday. In March, BPCL had sold its entire 61.5 per cent stake in Numaligarh Refinery in Assam to a consortium of Oil India Ltd and Engineers India and the Assam government for Rs 9,876 crore. Diesel hits 100 in city Motorists and public transports in Calcutta will have to cough up over Rs 100 a litre for diesel for the first time on Thursday. The fuel will retail at Rs 100.14 a litre at Indian Oil Corporation pumps in the city, after 36 paise per litre hike overnight. Diesel scored a century 113 days after petrol touched the Rs 100-a-litre mark. On July 7, petrol price stood at Rs 100.23 a litre in the city. Petrol will retail at Rs 108.79 a litre in Hindustan Petroleum Corporation pumps in Calcutta on Thursday, rising around 34 paise per litre. With international crude oil prices hovering at a multi-year high and the Modi government’s reluctance to slash duties on fuel, consumers are likely to pay even higher for these essential commodities, stoking inflation and turning common man poorer. Fuel prices are continuing with their upward journey from May 3, a day after results from the state assembly elections, including Bengal, were declared. Diesel prices have moved up Rs 16.53 a litre since then, translating into an increase of 19.7 per cent in less than 6 months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
28-10-2021||Business||Iconix buys IP rights of Lee Cooper||Iconix Lifestyle India Pvt Ltd, an equal joint venture between Reliance Brands and Iconix Brand Group Inc, on Wednesday announced the acquisition of IP rights in India of the iconic British brand Lee Cooper for an undisclosed sum. The acquisition will allow Iconix Lifestyle India to expand Lee Cooper’s presence in the country by enabling the brand’s distribution across all retail channels apart from strengthening marketing and brand management. At present, the JV owns 24 fashion and home brands from the Iconix portfolio for the Indian market, across fashion, lifestyle, and home. They include Candie’s, Bongo, Badgley Mischka, Rampage, Mudd, Danskin, Ecko Unltd, Ocean Pacific, London Fog, Starter, Ed Hardy, Joe Boxer, Umbro and Rocawear. “Lee Cooper’s brand history makes it the most prestigious acquisition for the JV. It’s the go-to denim brand that liberalised India grew up with and its affinity among consumers gives us a strong foundation to rebuild the brand in the country,” Darshan Mehta, managing director, Reliance Brands, and director on the board of Iconix Lifestyle, said. Born in 1908, Lee Cooper is today a multi-category, dual gender brand with a presence across 126 countries and 7,000 points of sale. As the original British denim brand, its journey began in a local factory in London’s East End as a leading maker of workwear, providing uniforms for the British troops in World War 1 and World War 2. By 1945, the brand had moved its focus from military wear to fashion and denim. “Gaining Lee Cooper’s IP rights aligns with our long-term strategic approach to growing our brand presence in India,’’ Bob Galvin, chief executive officer and president of Iconix Brand Group Inc and director on the board of Iconix Lifestyle India Private, said. We have a very strong commitment to the ongoing success, and this development provides the opportunity to operate directly in a quickly expanding market and to bring this iconic high-quality brand to a new audience Reliance Brands was recently in the news when it acquired a 40 per cent stake in fashion designer Manish Malhotra’s MM Styles Pvt Ltd. So far, Reliance Brands, the arm of Reliance Retail has bought in more than 35 international brands in India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
28-10-2021||Business|| Maruti Suzuki India reports 65.3% decline in net profit during Q2||The country’s largest car manufacturer Maruti Suzuki India reported a 65.3 per cent decline in net profit to Rs 475.3 crore in the second quarter of 2021-22 against Rs 1,371.6 crore in the corresponding period last year. Consolidated revenue from operations stood at Rs 20,551 crore in the second quarter compared with Rs 18,756 crore in the year-ago period. Vehicle sales were down 3 per cent to 3,79,541 units against 3,93,130 units a year ago. “The quarter was also marked by an unprecedented increase in the prices of commodities like steel, aluminium and precious metals within a span of one year. The company made maximum efforts to absorb input cost increases offsetting them through cost reduction and passed on a minimum impact to customers by way of car price increase,” Maruti said. Material costs stood at an all-time high of 80.4 per cent of net sales, MSIL chairman R.C. Bhargava said. “Increase in material costs by 6.4 percentage points  is a huge impact.” A steady rise in the prices of commodities such as steel, aluminium and other precious metals has forced Maruti to raise prices thrice this year. In the last hike in August, prices were raised 1.9 per cent. Bhargava said the company did not pass on the entire additional cost burden to the customers. The management intends to keep car prices in check through cost optimisation measures. The company has no plans to raise car prices. Bhargava expects the forthcoming months to be better. “We are hoping that November production will be higher. On CNG, we’re going to increase production to meet the demand. What we had expected in terms of volumes and profitability has changed substantially. We will not have double digit growth this year,” he said. Electric vehicles Maruti will launch electric vehicles in the country only after 2025 as demand for such vehicles at the moment is less and it would like to sell around 10,000 units a month whenever it enters the electric mobility space, Bhargava said . “Unfortunately, we will not feel happy if we can (sell) 300 or 400 or 500 or even 1,000 cars a month. We have gone to much higher volumes, and volumes in 100s and even 1,000s, are very good, but they leave us a little unexcited.” “So we have to see if I start selling EVs I would like to sell maybe 10,000 EVs in a month or something like that,” Bhargava said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
28-10-2021||Business||Paytm IPO to open for subscription on November 8||The initial public offering of digital payments firm Paytm will open for subscription on November 8 in the price band of Rs 2,080 to Rs 2,150 apiece and close on November 10, according to sources. The company has filed papers with markets regulator Sebi which will be updated with price band, individual investor stake sale and other details later. The company is planning to get listed on November 18, the sources added. Paytm has decided to increase its IPO size to Rs 18,300 crore from Rs 16,600 crore earlier, with the company’s biggest shareholder Alibaba group firm Ant Financial and existing investors, including Softbank, deciding to dilute more stake in the firm. The offer-for-sale will now go up by Rs 1,700 crore to Rs 10,000 crore. “Roughly half of the offer for sale is by Ant Financial and the remaining by Alibaba, Elevation Capital, Softbank and other existing shareholders,” one of the sources said. Softbank was not part of investors selling stake in the disclosure made by the company in its IPO draft paper. Swiss Re stake Paytm on Wednesday said global reinsurer Swiss Re will buy a 23 per cent stake in its arm Paytm Insurtech Pvt Ltd for Rs 920 crore. Swiss Re will invest by way of equity shares and compulsorily convertible preference shares an amount of Rs 920 crore of which Rs 397 crore will be invested upfront. The remaining will be made in tranches subject to the fulfilment of certain milestones. According to the company, India’s insurance market presents a significant opportunity, given the its under-penetration compared to the global average. It added that the gross written premium for non-life insurance is expected to increase to $ 50-60 billion by 2025-26 from $27 billion in 2020-21 to $ 50- 60 billion. Amid such a potential, Paytm Insuretech plans to leverage Paytm’s customer base and merchant ecosystem to develop innovative insurance products . “We are excited to partner with Swiss Re for our insurance foray as a key strategic investor. It is an important milestone in our financial services journey of taking general insurance products to the masses. We look forward to gaining from Swiss Re’s global insurance capabilities and building innovative products to tap into the Indian market,’’  Vijay Shekhar Sharma, chairman, MD & CEO One 97 Communications, the parent of Paytm, said. IPO price One97 Communications will announce the price band of its much awaited IPO toon Thursday. There are unconfirmed reports that the offering may come in the band of Rs 2080-2150 per share and  the IPO may open for subscription on November 8. The company has also reportedly increased the size of the float to Rs 18,300 crore from Rs 16,600 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
28-10-2021||Business||Two-tier benchmarking plan for mutual funds: Sebi||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has proposed a two-tiered structure to standardise and ensure uniformity in the benchmarking of mutual fund schemes, giving investors the opportunity to easily compare performance of the various schemes. In a circular issued on Wednesday, the market regulator said the first-tier benchmark will be reflective of the category of the scheme while the second tier should be demonstrative of the investment style or strategy of the fund manager. The new benchmarking will be implemented from January 1. Ahead of its implementation, industry body Amfi has been asked to specify the first tier benchmark within a month. The performance of a mutual fund scheme is assessed with reference to a benchmark such as the Sensex, Nifty and Nifty Ultra Short Duration Debt Index . Sebi added that all the benchmarks should necessarily be total return indices (TRI). It may be recalled that in 2018, the market regulator had asked fund houses to adopt TRI to benchmark schemes, which is a more appropriate way to measure their performance. TRI includes dividends in addition to the stock price movements. Earlier, most of the schemes were benchmarked to the Price Return variant of an index (PRI) which only captured capital gains of constituents. However, the second tier benchmark is optional and shall be decided by the asset management companies . The new benchmarking guidelines will be applicable for schemes such as debt-oriented, equity-oriented, hybrid and solution, thematic, index funds and exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and Fund of Funds Schemes (FoFs). In the case of debt-oriented schemes and equity-oriented schemes, the market regulator said that under the first tier there would be one broad market index per index provider for each category. For instance, in the ultra-short duration fund category, MFs could choose from the Nifty Ultra Short Duration Debt Index or Crisil Ultra Short Term Debt Index. Similarly, a AAA bond index can be used  as the benchmark index, if a fund chooses to follow the second tier. In the case of equity schemes, the market regulator proposed that for the first tier, schemes could use one broad market index per index provider such as the S&P BSE 100 Index or the NSE 100 Index for large cap fund category. As regards hybrid and solution-oriented schemes, it said that there would be a single benchmark-broad market benchmark wherever available. Otherwise, a bespoke index will be created for schemes that would then be applicable across industry. For thematic or sectoral schemes, Sebi said there would be a single benchmark as characteristics of the schemes are already tapered according to the theme or sector. With regard to index funds and ETFs, it said that there would be a single benchmark as these schemes replicate an underlying index. Meanwhile, in a separate circular, the market regulator relaxed the framework governing the issue of shares with superior voting rights (SR shares), a move that is expected to help new-age technology companies. Sebi had announced this decision at its board meeting last month. It said that promoters with a net worth of over Rs 1,000 crore can have superior voting rights in their companies, raising the threshold from the current Rs 500 crore. While determining the individual net worth of the superior voting right  shareholder, his investment or shareholding in other listed companies shall be considered, but not that of his shareholding in the issuer company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-23
28-10-2021||India||Punjab: BJP reveals its poll strategy post-Akali Dal alliance||Warming to the 2022 state assembly elections, the BJP on Thursday sprung its poll slogan of “Nava Punjab Naal BJP”, saying the party will field candidates on all 117 assembly seats in the state and give due recognition to every section of the society. Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat made a mention of his party's new poll slogan -- Nava Punjab Naal BJP (A new Punjab with the BJP) -- while talking to reporters about the BJP's poll strategy bereft of the SAD alliance on the sidelines of a meeting with party's district-level office bearers in Chandigarh. Besides Jal Shakti Minister Mr Shekhawat, who is also the party affairs in-charge of the BJP's Punjab unit, the meeting was also attended by Union ministers Hardeep Puri and Meenakshi Lekhi, both co-incharge of the party affairs in the state. Dubbing opposition parties Congress, SAD and APP as "totally bereft of any vision to lead the state to prosperity", Mr Shekhawat said, “Punjabis are dissatisfied with the miserable performance of these parties which will be routed at the hustings.” Elaborating upon various measures taken by the Narendra Modi government in the Centre in the last seven years, Mr Shekhawat said the BJP delivered justice to the Sikhs after 35 years against the injustice meted out to them in the 1984 riots. Among other pro-Sikh steps taken by the Modi government, Mr Shekhawat recalled scrapping of the “black list” of expatriate Sikhs, the opening of the Kartarpur corridor after the partition and the abolition of GST on the ‘langar' at Harminder Sahib. Among yet other achievements of the NDA government, Mr Shekhawat listed the establishment of AIIMS at Bathinda and Amritsar, besides PGI satellite centres at Sangrur and Ferozepur. "We do deliver and not merely promise,” he said while expressing the party resolve to contest all 117 Punjab assembly seats in the upcoming assembly elections in 2022 without any alliance with SAD which walked out of the NDA amid the farmers' protest against the three central farm laws early this year. “We will go to the people with an outlined agenda of bringing prosperity and opportunity for everyone and commit that the mafia raj will be wiped out in the state," he said. On the issue of farmers' protests against the farm laws, the Union Jal Shakti Minister said already 11 rounds of talks have been held so far with farm unions and the government took the extra step of stalling the laws for 18 months. "Our initiative to address the issue can never be doubted. Our doors are always open for talks," he said. Speaking on the issue of the enlargement of the BSF's territorial jurisdiction up to 50 km inside Punjab from the international Indo-Pak border, Mr Shekhawat said the national security can never be compromised. The incidents of drug smuggling and drones carrying weapons inside Punjab had increased manifold, prompting former Punjab CM Amarinder Singh to raise this pertinent issue with Home Minister Amit Shah repeatedly. Present Chief Minister Charanjit Channi too had recently met the Home Minister and brought up this issue but stepped back owing to political pressure, he said. This November 8 assembly session is nothing but a strategy to divert people's attention from the main issue of good governance, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||Cruelty hollowing our country: Rahul Gandhi ||"Annadatas" (food providers) have been "crushed" and this cruelty is "hollowing out our country", said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday following the death of three women farmers after being hit by a truck near Haryana's Tikri border. Two women were also injured in the incident early on Thursday as they were waiting at Pakoda chowk for an autorickshaw to go to Bahadurgarh railway station. They were returning to their village in Punjab's Mansa district after participating in the farmers' protest at the Tikri border against the Centre's agri laws. "Mother India -- annadatas of the country (the food provider of the country) -- have been crushed. This cruelty and hatred are hollowing out our country. My condolences," Mr Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag "FarmersProtest". Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also slammed the BJP over the alleged problems being faced by the farmers. "There is no proper price for the crop when the farmer grows it by working hard. There is no fertilizer when the farmers prepare to grow the crop. Two farmers of Bundelkhand have died due to non-availability of fertilizers," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. She alleged that the BJP government has been unmoved by the problems of farmers and there was an "anti-farmer" attitude in both its intention and policy. Priyanka Gandhi also tagged with the tweet a video of a woman expressing problems faced by her in getting fertilizer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||Amarinder-Shah meeting over farm laws postponed||Former Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah over the farm laws was postponed on Thursday. The meeting between both leaders could not take place as Shah was to leave for Gujarat, said a source close to the former Punjab CM. Singh was supposed to meet the Union home minister to discuss possible solutions to the ongoing farmers' stir against the Centre's three farm laws. The former CM on Wednesday had said he will be meeting Shah along with some agricultural experts. "Tomorrow, I am going to meet Home Minister Shah and 25-30 people will go with me," Singh had said while addressing the media here. Singh had said he had met the Union home minister thrice in the past on farmers' issues. Singh, who had faced an unceremonious exit from the state government, had said any seat arrangement that he might make with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would be subject to the resolution of the farmers' issue in their interest. Singh had earlier also met Shah in Delhi and had discussed the prolonged farmers' stir with him while urging him to resolve the crisis urgently with the repeal of the three farm laws. A large number of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and UP, have been camping at the Delhi borders since November 26 last year, demanding the repeal of the three new farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||Kashmiri students held for celebrating Pak victory booked for sedition||Three Kashmiri students arrested in Agra for allegedly raising pro-Pakistan slogans were on Thursday booked for sedition, Uttar Pradesh Police officials said. The three students, two of them aged 20 and one 21, were also remanded in 14-day judicial custody by an Agra court, the officials said. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath earlier in the day had said the sedition law will be invoked against those celebrating Pakistan's victory against India in the recent T20 World Cup match. "The three students were arrested on Wednesday after an FIR was lodged against them at the Jagdishpura police station. They were accused of raising pro-Pakistan slogans in the wake of an India-Pakistan T20 cricket match and posting celebratory messages on social media after Pakistan's victory," a police official told PTI. On Friday, they were produced in a magistrate's court in Agra, which remanded them in 14-day judicial custody, the official said. "The FIR was initially registered under IPC Sections 153A (promoting enmity between groups) and 505 (creating or publishing content to promote enmity). Section 124A (sedition) of the IPC was included on Friday in the case," the police official said. The trio studies in a private college in Agra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||Picture not over yet, says Nawab Malik to Sameer Wankhede||After the Bombay High Court granted bail to Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, in the cruise drugs case, Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik on Thursday continued to target NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede, saying the picture is not over yet. Tweeting in Hindi, Malik said, "Picture abhi baaki hai (The picture is not over yet)." The HC granted bail to Aryan Khan and his two co-accused over three weeks after their arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB). Aryan, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha were arrested by the anti-drugs agency on October 3 and booked under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs, conspiracy and abetment. Malik, the state minority affairs minister, has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs case as "fake" and levelled various allegations against Wankhede, including illegal phone tapping and using forged documents to secure job. In a video message circulated to media on Thursday, Malik said, "The officer (Wankhede) who arrested Aryan Khan and others has now approached the Bombay High Court requesting a restraining order against Mumbai police from arresting him. He had approached Mumbai police in the last week requesting protection. He must have done something really wrong and that is why he is afraid of action against him." "The Mumbai police have informed the Bombay High Court that they would issue a notice of his arrest 72 hours prior if they intend to take any such action. I reiterate my earlier comments that this drug case is completely bogus. The kids were deliberately framed in this case," Malik said. "If the case comes before the Bombay High Court, it will get squashed," the minister added. Two other persons arrested in the case were granted bail a day before by the NDPS court, Malik said, alleging that all the arrested persons were eligible to get bail in this case, but the NCB prosecutor was making fresh claims in the case to delay the bail. Wankhede filed a petition in the high court and sought an urgent hearing, saying he feared arrest by police over allegations of extortion against him in the case related to alleged drug bust on a cruise ship. But the Mumbai Police assured the HC that it will not arrest Wankhede without giving him three days' notice. Earlier, the NCP leader had levelled various allegations against Wankhede, including illegal phone tapping and use of forged documents to secure job.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||Centre releases Rs 1.59 lakh cr to states fiscal as back-to-back loan for GST shortfall||The Centre on Thursday released the balance Rs 44,000 crore to states as loan to compensate for the GST shortfall, taking the total such amount to Rs 1.59 lakh crore this fiscal. This release of funds as back-to-back loans is in addition to the bi-monthly GST compensation being given out of cess collection. The 43rd GST Council meeting on May 28, 2021, had decided that the Centre would borrow Rs 1.59 lakh crore in 2021-22 and release it to states and UTs with legislature on a back-to-back basis to meet the resource gap due to the shortfall in compensation on account of inadequate amount collected in the GST compensation fund. This amount is as per the principles adopted for a similar facility in the last fiscal 2020-21, where Rs 1.10 lakh crore was released to states. "The Ministry of Finance has released Rs 44,000 crore today to the States and UTs with Legislature under the back-to-back loan facility in lieu of GST Compensation," the ministry said in a statement. The ministry had on July 15 and October 7 released Rs 75,000 crore and Rs 40,000 crore, respectively, to the states. With the release of Rs 44,000 crore on Thursday, the total amount released in the current financial year as back-to-back loan in-lieu of GST compensation is Rs 1.59 lakh crore, the statement added. This amount of Rs 1.59 lakh crore is over and above the compensation in excess of Rs 1 lakh crore (based on cess collection) that is estimated to be released to states/union territories with legislature during this financial year. "The sum total of Rs 2.59 lakh crore is expected to exceed the amount of GST compensation accruing in FY 2021-22," the ministry added. The Rs 44,000 crore being released now is funded from the Government of India securities issued in the current financial year, at a Weighted Average Yield of 5.69 per cent. No additional market borrowing by the central government is envisaged on account of this release. "It is expected that this release will help the States/UTs in planning their public expenditure among other things, for improving, health infrastructure and taking up infrastructure projects," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs case: Aryan Khan granted bail after three weeks||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, was on Thursday granted bail by the Bombay High Court, 25 days after his arrest by the NCB in the case of seizure of banned drugs aboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast earlier this month, a drugs bust that triggered a series of controversies and put the central agency and its officials under the spotlight. However, Aryan Khan is not likely to walk out of the Arthur Road jail, where he is currently lodged under judicial custody, immediately as the court is yet to give its operative order on the conditions imposed while granting bail. A single bench of Justice N W Sambre also granted bail to his co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha. "All three applications are allowed. I will pass detailed orders by tomorrow evening," Justice Sambre said even as Aryan Khan's counsel Mukul Rohatgi was putting forth his arguments. Aryan Khan's advocates then sought permission to submit cash bail to which the court refused and said surety is to be given. Hearing on their bail applications started on Tuesday. "I could have given the order tomorrow also. But I gave it today," Justice Sambre said. The legal team of the 23-year-old Aryan Khan will now try to complete the formalities for his release by Friday or Saturday. Justice Sambre said he would pass a detailed order assigning reasons later. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Anil Singh, appearing for the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), commenced his arguments at 2.58 pm and completed the same a little after 4.10 pm. After the NCB, Rohatgi, a former Attorney General, started his rejoinder arguments which went on for about 15 minutes. His arguments were cut short abruptly by Justice Sambre, who tossed the case related papers towards his staff and said, "All three applications are allowed." This led to a scramble in the courtroom among media persons and lawyers to exit the room. While hearing the NCB's arguments, Justice Sambre sought to know on what basis the anti-drug agency was saying that Aryan Khan had dealt with commercial quantity of drugs. To this, Singh said Aryan Khan had made an attempt to deal with commercial quantity. "WhatsApp chats show this. The NCB has also obtained a certificate under section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act to authenticate that the electronic evidence has been collected from the accused's phone," he said. Singh argued that the NCB had got "secret information" that around 11 persons were going to consume drugs on the cruise, which was raided by the central agency on October 2. "At the time of raid, out of the 11 persons, eight were apprehended and most of them were found with drugs. This cannot be a coincidence. This is why the NCB is saying it is a conspiracy," Singh said. The court then asked if the NCB's case is that of cumulative effect. Singh agreed and said, "Aryan Khan and Merchant are connected with drug peddlers and hence cumulative effect attracts section 28 and 29 of the NDPS Act." Aryan Khan, his friend Arbaaz Merchant and Dhamecha, a fashion model, were arrested by the NCB on October 3 and booked under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs, conspiracy and abetment. The NCB opposed their bail pleas and argued that the case attracted conspiracy and abetment charges. Aryan Khan's counsel Rohatgi, however, said conspiracy means there has to be a "meeting of minds". "Aryan does not know any of the other accused in the case except Arbaaz Merchant. There is absolutely no material to show conspiracy," Rohatgi argued. So far, 20 persons have been arrested in the drugs case. Singh argued that Aryan Khan and Merchant are habitual consumers of drugs. "Our record shows that Aryan Khan has been procuring drugs in bulk and commercial quantities. These are hard drugs. He (Aryan) has been in contact with drug peddlers," the ASG argued. "There is a chance of tampering with evidence or witnesses in the case. This is NCB's apprehension based on the affidavit filed by one independent witness in the case," Singh said. He further opposed Aryan Khan's arguments that there was no drug recovery from him and said there was conscious possession as he was aware that Merchant was carrying charas which was meant to be for consumption during journey on the Goa-bound cruise ship. Singh also said there was no need for the NCB to conduct a medical test on the accused to check for drugs as the agency's case is not that they had consumed drugs. "Why should the NCB test when we know that they have been caught for possession and conspiracy? The drugs were meant to be consumed later," he said. The ASG said sections 28 and 29 (of NDPS Act) for abetment and conspiracy have been applied in the case based on the material available with the NCB which include WhatsApp chats. Singh added that probe in the case was still on and the agency needs time to ascertain from where the seized drugs were procured. The ASG assailed the arguments made by Aryan Khan and Merchant's lawyers on Wednesday that till date the charges of abetment and conspiracy have not been invoked in the case. "The NCB's first remand application that was submitted to the magistrate's court on October 3, four hours after the accused persons arrest, and the other remand applications clearly say sections 28 and 29 have been applied in the case," Singh said. "The arrest memo also says that the accused (Aryan Khan) has been arrested in connection with commercial quantity. This means conspiracy. So it is not right to say that the accused was not aware of inclusion of sections 28 and 29," he added. If there had been any error then the magistrate would have noted it while hearing the remand plea, the NCB counsel argued. "If the accused are now claiming their arrest is illegal then why have they not challenged the magistrate's order remanding them to NCB custody," the ASG said. In a lighter vein, Singh said the accused persons ought not to have tried to do all this on October 2, which is considered a dry day owing to Gandhi Jayanti. "Drug menace is a serious problem in our society. It is a heinous crime that is worse than culpable homicide and hence has to be dealt with accordingly," Singh said. The drugs-on-cruise case triggered a slew of controversies related to the NCB and its officials, especially its zonal director in Mumbai Sameer Wankhede, who faced charges of extortion attempt to let off Aryan Khan. The central agency and Wankhede, who led the raid on the cruise vessel, have refuted all allegations levelled against them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||BJP won't go anywhere for next many decades, says Prashant Kishor||Political strategist Prashant Kishor, who is currently lobbying for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) for the upcoming Goa Assembly elections, has said that the BJP will remain at the centre of Indian politics and will not go anywhere for the "next many decades". He also took a swipe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for thinking that people will throw away the BJP immediately. A video clip of Kishor addressing a private meeting in Goa has gone viral. A senior leader of the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), a group led by Kishor, confirmed that the video was from a private meeting held on Wednesday in the state. In the video, Kishor is heard saying, "BJP is going to be the centre of Indian polity...whether they win, whether they lose, like it was for the first 40 years for Congress, BJP is going nowhere." "Once you secure 30 per cent plus votes at the India-level, you are not going away in a hurry. So, do not ever get into this trap that people are getting angry and they will throw away (PM Narendra) Modi," he added. "Maybe, they will throw away Modi, but BJP is not going anywhere. They are going to be here, you have to fight it out for the next many decades. It's not going in a hurry," Kishor said. Referring to Rahul Gandhi, he said, "That is where the problem lies with Rahul Gandhi. Probably, he thinks it's just a matter of time that people will throw him (Modi) away. That's not happening." Kishor had helped craft the election strategies for the TMC and the DMK in the Assembly polls in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu, respectively, held earlier this year. These parties had emerged victorious in those states. The TMC has announced that it would be contesting the Assembly elections in Goa due in February next year. TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee is scheduled to begin her three-day visit to Goa from this evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||NCB accuses Aryan Khan of being a regular consumer of drugs||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Thursday accused Aryan Khan of regularly consuming drugs and said his WhatsApp chats point at the procuring of "hard drugs" in commercial quantity, according to NDTV. The anti-drug agency argued against bail for superstar Shah Rukh Khan's son, saying bail in such cases is "an exception, not a rule", as the Supreme Court called drugs offences "worse than culpable homicide". "Accused number 1 (Aryan Khan) is not a first-time consumer," the anti-drug agency was quoted as saying by NDTV on Day 3 of arguments in the bail plea hearing that started on Tuesday. "He is a regular consumer since last few years and he has been procuring drugs," Anil Singh, the Additional Solicitor General, said on behalf of the NCB. "There is a reference of procuring drugs in commercial quantity and the drugs are hard drugs. He has been in contact with peddlers," Singh said. He pointed out that Aryan Khan was detained on October 2. "I was saying at least on Gandhi Jayanti you should have left these things," he remarked. Referring to the chart of arrest submitted by the defence, the Additional Solicitor General added: "It's a colourful chart. The party was colourful on that day." When the judge asked on what basis the agency had found him dealing in a "commercial quantity", the NCB referred to his WhatsApp chats. "WhatsApp chat I am relying on will show he had made an attempt to deal with commercial quantity. Not only that, when they were apprehended on the ship, multiple drugs were found with all eight. It cannot be a coincidence. If you see the quantity and nature of drugs it cannot be a coincidence," Mr Singh said. According to him, Ecstasy has been found in commercial quantity and there was a variety of drugs. "It cannot be said that these drugs were for personal consumption." He said the NCB had received a tip-off based on a secret note that said 11 or 12 persons would be on the ship and eight were caught. Aryan Khan has been in custody since October 3, hours after NCB raids on a cruise ship party. He has been in Mumbai's Arthur Road jail since October 8 and has been denied bail twice. His lawyers, including former Attorney General Mukul Rohatgi, have repeatedly underscored that no drugs were found on him and there was no evidence he had used drugs. In a counter to that argument, the anti-drugs agency said: "Even if he is not found in possession of the drug, there was an attempt to deal with commercial quantity and prima facie records show he is a part of conspiracy for commercial quantity." The agency also doubled down on its argument of "conscious possession" by Aryan Khan - even if he was not carrying drugs - because he knew that his friend Arbaaz Khan (Accused Number 2) had hidden charas in his shoes. This was cited by a special court that denied him bail last week. "We have argued for the principle of conscious possession. If one person is aware that the other person is carrying drugs and they are going to consume it together, it will be conscious possession," said the agency, adding that the two were childhood friends and were to stay in the same room.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||Parin Majithia’s YourHomes is the Hub of Innovative and Creative Creations||Every human being dreams of a place to call his own. However, in today’s scenario, building a home is not as easy as it sounds. People have to go through immense challenges and struggles before they can even start building their homes. So, by the time they go through the entire process, they are too tired to enjoy their new home. The problem does not exist for building homes only, but any construction today is a big challenge for individuals and companies. YourHomes is an architectural and interior design consultancy firm that aims to build your dream home with aesthetically pleasing and dynamically functional elements. Parin Majithia’s YourHomes is a Mumbai-based company recognized for its architectural marvels and astounding interior designs. The organization is full of professionals and experts who are budding with innovative ideas and creative designs. They, then, cater their services to the clients according to their requirements. Moreover, they are known for their unbiased opinions and services towards their clients. The team does not just do its job but also dedicate their time and energy to finding the design that best works for you and bringing it into life. According to their clients, they do not just build functional structures but also add emotional value to their creations which makes a long-lasting impact on the receivers. YourHomes believes that their growth is directly proportional to customer satisfaction. If the customer is content, that is considered a major success by the company. Parin Majithia is a successful architect, designer and an entrepreneur. From the establishment of YourHomes to this day, he has been continuously striving hard to take the company to great heights. His years of experience and expertise in the field are easily visible through his immaculate and impressive projects done for many famous and known personalities and businesses. He says that his success is a reward of years of hard work, devotion, and sacrifices. He spent hours to achieve perfection and reach the peak of his career. His message to the upcoming architectures and interior designers is to treat each project as if building for themselves, with utmost care and respect. Then, it is unlikely for them to make silly mistakes. In addition, it will help them come up with new ideas to make it different from others while winning the heart of the client and achieve success.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-80
28-10-2021||India||Vinay Sharma is an incredible talent-boosting the Photography industry||What is significant for a person is to create out of nothing with his or her optimistic belief system. Vinay Sharma is an exclusive personality who has thrilled his fans with his outstanding photographs. It is truly said says Vinay "make your destiny rather than blaming it". Vinay has been emerging as the best fashion, celebrity, and paparazzi photographer in B-Town. The main factor of his victory is his talent of capturing emotions and moods in the photos giving life to the picture. This is what has inspired several famous celebrities to engross themselves with the young talent that Vinay possesses. What makes him dive into the ocean of photographing industry is his passion as he was always curious about the clicks. He always believed in clicks that admire the beauty with the natural look. However, his innovative techniques have sparked the celebrities' personalities. "No success is without thorns," says Vinay. He was also a struggler but with his optimistic approach and self-belief, he has astonished people. Moreover, he adds that if you are willing to transform the world you have to be always ready to experiment with new innovative ideas. He says "Success is fake without hassles" you have no value of your success unless you run the path filled with stones. Vinay trusting his passion bought an ordinary camera and with some cheap lights use to click. However, the cheap lights have no power to stop the burning talent of Vinay. He came out with new ideas and techniques which enhanced his pictures with miraculous results. Hence, these marvelous talents added more followers to his social media platform. Vinay is surprising his viewers with magical pictures that could deliver celebrities' emotions and feelings. To know more about his glittering work follow him on Instagram @vinaysharma||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||Kunal Devani's meteoric rise with Waffle Affairs makes him a noteworthy success story||Having a strong self-belief and the "hunger" to get to the next level of success helps individuals face all odds on their path and helps them get moving ahead on their respective journeys towards success, believes Kunal Devani, a young entrepreneur, who has been shining bright consistently in the food and beverage industry with his extensive restaurant business that he has been spreading across Delhi, India. He believes that having the right mindset can help people tread on their path fearlessly and make them more determined each day as they take a step closer to their visions and aspirations in life. Kunal Devani highlights how he placed maximum focus on developing the right mindset, which eventually led him to the success he enjoys today as the owner of "Waffle Affairs" (Instagram - @waffleaffairs), a dessert shop and quick-service restaurant, serving food lovers outstandingly with mouth-watering food items. With Waffle Affairs, Kunal Devani entered the ever-evolving, competitive restaurant and food sector, but one thing that he was confident about was his determined efforts and his visions which he believed he could turn into reality. Today, it won't be wrong to say that he is living his reality and also finding ways to further grow his career as a young foodpreneur of Delhi. Waffle Affairs has become one of the most favourite food outlets in the city, known for helping people fill their souls with its flavoursome food items and luscious desserts. "The entrepreneurial world is not an easy space to be in. Getting up every day, planning things out, managing teams and staff, and taking care of other necessary departments can all seem very intimidating. However, I only kept going forward without thinking much of how others were doing in the business. This stern focus on me and my work helped me hone my skills, and turn my restaurants into successful ventures," says Kunal Devani, who not only owns Waffle Affairs but also other food ventures like "The Second Affair", Showstopper, SkyNest, the terrace café and Lean Kitchen, a fitness food takeaway outlet. "GK Hospitality" is also his brainchild, which takes care of the interiors of offices and cafes. Kunal Devani's massive contribution to the industry was also recognized with the "Public Choice Awards". Find out more through his Instagram @kunal_devani.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||Won't arrest Sameer Wankhede without giving prior notice, Maharashtra govt tells HC||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Thursday that it will not arrest NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede without giving him a prior notice of three working days, in connection with the allegations of extortion and corruption levelled against him. Wankhede also moved the Bombay High Court on Thursday, seeking interim protection from arrest or any coercive action against him. He sought an urgent hearing of his plea challenging the Mumbai police's decision to form a four-member team to investigate the allegations of extortion and corruption against him, in the aftermath of the cruise drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested. The Maharashtra government initially opposed the plea but subsequently, chief public prosecutor Aruna Pai assured the court that it will give prior notice of arrest to Wankhede. "We assure the court that three working days' notice will be given (to Wankhede) before arresting by Mumbai Police," Pai said. The HC disposed of the plea following the state government's statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||Five arrested in Uttar Pradesh for celebrating Pakistan's victory against India||Five people have been taken into custody on Thursday in Uttar Pradesh for allegedly celebrating Pakistan's victory in the T20 World Cup match against India, according to police. They were also accused of using indecent words against the Indian cricket team. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said that sedition law will be invoked against those celebrating Pakistan's victory against India in the recent T-20 World Cup match. "Those celebrating Pakistan's victory will face sedition," a tweet posted on the official handle of Adityanath's office said. A man from Budaun was arrested in a sedition case on Wednesday, Senior Superintendent of Police OP Singh said. Niaz had posted the picture of Pakistani flag and wrote objectionable comments in support of Pakistan on Facebook after the match, according to a complaint filed against him by Punit Shakya of Hindu Jagran Manch. The SSP said Niaz posted a picture of Pakistan's flag on his Facebook account and captioned, "I love you Pakistan, I miss you Pakistan, Jeet Mubarak Pakistan". Niaz was booked for sedition and under relevant sections of the Information Technology Act on Tuesday and sent to jail on Wednesday, the officer said. Pakistan on Sunday had drubbed India by 10 wickets in a Super 12 game for their first win in 13 attempts over their arch-rivals India in a World Cup match.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||Siby Varghese the multi-entrepreneur astounding the world||Victory only leads if you are a glowing ball of passion and stubborn says, Siby Varghese. A dynamic and enthusiastic personality who has radiated the several businesses with his dazzling skills of the entrepreneur. Siby has several sources of income, including his practice in financial planning, forex trading, blogging, income investment, and his online courses in this business segment for the next generation, shining their glorious future with his guide and advice. Siby as always keen and excited to try his chance in multiplying his revenue has taken him to the next level. His optimistic approach and courage in taking risks have stood him apart from others. He always believed in investing to escalate his income. He believed to expand his income through savings and investing inspiring others to give chance to their ability and start their own business. He does not believe in relying upon one income. He says "Money grows by watering" thus taking risks and trusting the ability will definitely lead to unbeatable success. Siby believes if you want to live a healthy and wealthy life start earning at a young age because failing and improving takes time. Thus, making money and multiplying is what leads you to a fascinating world of peace. Moreover, as having experience in long-term investment, he believed that to gain high profits it is significant that you reap seeds in long-term investment. As a successful entrepreneur, he has invested and has upsurged his income through various sources and has become one of the best serial entrepreneurs in the world. It is only his dedication and stubborn personality that has sparked his future motivating other entrepreneurs to believe and work hard to gulp the victory fruit. His entrepreneur journey has encouraged several youths to try their luck in the field that they are confident in and multiply their income through several investments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||32 students in Karnataka school test positive for Covid||In the latest scare amid the falling coronavirus numbers, thirty-two students from Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Karnataka’s Kodagu district, have tested positive for the virus. 22 boys and 10 girls, all students of classes between 9 to 12, are being treated at the district hospital, NDTV reported. The majority of the students are asymptomatic, with 10 students showing some symptoms. A staff member of the school has also tested positive and remains symptomatic. “Their condition is improving; there is nothing to worry about. The entire campus has been sanitised and other precautionary measures are being taken. The interaction between students and teachers is going on though it has affected the smooth functioning of the school," The school’s Principal, Pankajashan, was quoted as saying in the NDTV report. All 270 of the total students in the school have now been made to undergo the covid test.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||Govt seeks details of processes used by Facebook amid hate speech allegations: Sources||The government has written to Facebook seeking details of the algorithms and processes used by the social media giant, following allegations that the platform failed to check the spread of fake news and hate speech, sources said. The move assumes significance as a series of reports recently citing internal documents showed "a struggle with misinformation, hate speech and celebrations of violence" in India - Facebook's biggest market with over 40 crore users. Researchers at the social media giant had pointed out that there are groups and pages replete with inflammatory and misleading content on its platform, as per US media reports. According to sources privy to the development, the Ministry of Electronics and IT (MeitY) has written to Facebook asking for information around the algorithms and processes used by the platform. The government has also asked Facebook to provide details of steps taken to safeguard users, they added. When contacted, Facebook declined to comment. As per data cited by the Indian government earlier this year, there are 53 crore WhatsApp users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers and 21 crore Instagram account holders. It is pertinent to mention here that India enforced new IT intermediary rules earlier this year, aiming to bring greater accountability for big tech companies, including Twitter and Facebook.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||Sameer Wankhede's sister files police complaint against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik||Yasmeen Wankhede, the sister of Narcotics Control Bureau's (NCB) Mumbai zonal director Sameer Wankhede, has filed a police complaint here seeking registration of an FIR against Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik for allegedly defaming her, an official said on Thursday. Sameer Wankhede is in the eye of a political storm following allegations of extortion in the high-profile cruise drugs case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan was arrested. The officer is facing the departmental vigilance probe. In her two-page complaint submitted to the Oshiwara police here, Yasmeen Wankhede claimed her family was being targeted on social media and that Malik had also called their family trip to Maldives as a "vasooli (extortion) trip", the official said. She alleged that Malik was trying to defame her and her family members. She also claimed that she was being stalked online and the minister was illegally distributing to media persons her personal photographs posted on her social media handles like Instagram and Facebook, according to the complaint filed recently. An official from the Oshiwara police station said they received a written complaint from Yasmeen Wankhede last week, but no FIR has been registered so far. Yasmeen Wankhede also filed a complaint with the National Commission for Women (NCW) and requested it to direct the police to register a case for the alleged offences of stalking, defamation, criminal intimidation and insulting a woman's modesty, as well as relevant sections of the Information Technology Act for violating her privacy and under sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Malik has repeatedly termed the cruise drugs case as "fake" and levelled a string of allegations against Sameer Wankhede, including illegal phone tapping and forging documents to secure jobs. The NCB official has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||SC permits NTA to declare results of NEET, 2021 for admissions in UG medical courses||The Supreme Court on Thursday permitted the National Testing Agency to declare the National Eligibility Entrance Test (NEET) results for admission to undergraduate medical courses across the country. A bench comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao, Sanjiv Khanna and B R Gavai stayed the Bombay High Court's recent order asking the NTA not to declare the NEET results and conduct re-examination for two aspirants whose question papers and OMR sheets had got mixed up at a centre in Maharashtra. "We stay the high court judgement. The National Testing Agency can announce the results," the bench said after taking note of the submissions of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who represented the NTA. "We will decide what happens to the two students upon reopening (after Diwali vacation). In the meanwhile, we issue notice and file a counter. But we cannot hold the results of 16 lakh students," the bench said. In an unprecedented order, the Bombay High Court on October 20 directed the NTA, set up in 2018 for conducting NEET for admission to undergraduate medical courses, to hold fresh exams for the two students and declare their results along with the main results of the test conducted on September 12. The high court had taken note of the fact that the test booklet and OMR sheet of two medical aspirants -- Vaishanavi Bhopali and Abhishek Shivaji got mixed up at the examination centre before the start of the test and ordered that they be given a fresh opportunity to appear. The NEET Entrance Exam was conducted on September 12, for "16,14,777 candidates, involving 3,682 centres in 202 cities, 9,548 Centre Superintendents/ Deputy Superintendents, 5,615 Observers, 2,69,378 Invigilators and 220 City Co-ordinators," the NTA said in the plea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||Active Covid cases in country lowest in 243 days||With 16,156 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,42,31,809, while the active cases declined to 1,60,989, the lowest in 243 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,56,386 with 733 fresh fatalities including 622 from Kerala, according to the data updated at 8 am. Of the 622 deaths in Kerala, 93 were reported in the last few days, 330 were those which were not confirmed until June 18 last year due to lack of adequate documentation and 199 were designated as Covid deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and Supreme Court directions, a state government release said. The ministry said the daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 34 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 123 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.47 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.20 per cent, the highest since March 2020, it said. A decrease of 1,672 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. According to the ICMR, 12,90,900 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 60,44,98,405. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.25 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 24 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.19 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 34 days, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,36,14,434, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.33 per cent. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 104.04 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. A total of 4,56,386 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,098 from Maharashtra, 38,037 from Karnataka, 36,060 from Tamil Nadu, 29,977 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,899 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,096 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-81
28-10-2021||India||NCB witness in cruise drugs case held in Pune in 2018 cheating case||Pune police have detained Kiran Gosavi, an independent witness of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in the drugs-on-cruise case, in connection with a 2018 cheating case registered against him here in Maharashtra, officials said on Thursday. Gosavi, said to be a "private investigator" whose photos and videos with actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan went viral on social media after the NCB's raid on the cruise ship off the Mumbai coast on October 2, had been absconding. Recently, another witness in the drugs case, Prabhakar Sail, told media persons that he had overheard Gosavi telling Sam D'Souza over the phone, after Aryan Khan was brought to the NCB office following the October 2 raid on the cruise ship, about a demand of Rs 25 crore and "to settle at Rs 18 crore as they have to give Rs eight crore to Sameer Wankhede". On Monday, Gosavi had refuted the extortion claims made by Sail, and said he will surrender before Lucknow police. Pune Commissioner of Police Amitabh Gupta on Thursday said they have "detained" Gosavi in connection with the 2018 cheating case. The official denied that Gosavi had surrendered before the police. Gosavi was apparently present during the cruise ship raid and was seen at the NCB office when Aryan Khan was taken there. His selfies and videos with Aryan Khan have appeared on social media. Gosavi has been called an "independent witness" by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is probing the drugs case in which nearly 20 people were arrested. The Pune police had earlier arrested Gosavi's assistant Sherbano Kureshi in connection with the cheating case, filed by one Chinmay Deshmukh who had alleged that Gosavi cheated him of Rs 3.09 lakh under the pretext of providing him a job in Malaysia in the hotel industry. Kureshi had received the money in her account. The case was registered at Faraskhana police station here.Earlier, a lookout circular was also issued by the police to prevent Gosavi from leaving the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||Sitharaman to attend G-20 joint finance, health ministers meet in Rome||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will attend the G-20 joint Finance and Health Ministers meeting in Rome on October 29, which among other things will discuss COVID pandemic prevention and response. Union Finance Minister Smt. @nsitharaman embarks on an official visit to attend #G20 Joint Finance & Health Ministers meeting in #Rome to discuss measures to strengthen #COVID19 #PandemicPrevention, #preparedness & #response. The meeting precedes #G20RomeSummit, the Finance Ministry tweeted. Finance and health ministers will discuss how to keep momentum on response to pandemic and build on further coordination arrangements between health and finance ministries. On October 29, G20 Finance and Health Ministers will gather in Rome for their first joint meeting under the Italian G20 Presidency. The meeting will be co-chaired by Daniele Franco, Italian Minister of Economy and Finance and Roberto Speranza, Italian Minister of Health. The meeting will be held on the eve of the G20 Leaders' Summit taking place in Rome on October 30-31, 2021.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||Pegasus: SC constitutes panel to look into snooping allegations||The State would not get a free pass every time the spectre of national security is raised, the Supreme Court declared on Wednesday and constituted a committee headed by a former judge to look into all the questions swirling around the Pegasus spyware controversy that the Narendra Modi government has been stonewalling. Former Supreme Court judge Justice R.V. Raveendran will head the six-member committee that includes technical experts. The panel has been preliminarily given two months to submit its report to the court. The terms of reference cover questions such as whether the Centre or any state government had acquired the Israeli spyware that can be bought only by State-run agencies. The committee has also been asked to collect details of any victims affected by the spyware attack. In July, information revealed by a media collective that included The Wire news portal and The Guardian newspaper suggested that the list of potential Indian targets covered citizens in every sphere that is expected to act as a check and balance in a democracy. Judges, politicians, journalists, social activists and industrialists were on the potential list. Citing national security, the Modi government had so far not even acknowledged whether it had indeed access to Pegasus or not. On Wednesday, a bench of Chief Justice N.V. Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli rejected the Centre’s sustained argument that the government can neither admit nor deny the snooping charges in national interest. The court pointed out that “national security cannot be the bugbear that the judiciary shies away from by virtue of its mere mentioning”. The CJI said the “mere invocation of national security by the State does not render the court a mute spectator”. “If the respondent — the Union of India — had made their stand clear, it would have been a different situation and the burden on us would have been different. Such a course of action taken by the respondent — the Union of India — especially in proceedings of the present nature which touches upon the fundamental rights of the citizens of the country cannot be accepted,” the top court said. The bench said it was a settled position of law that in matters pertaining to national security, the scope of judicial review was limited. “However, this does not mean that the State gets a free pass every time the spectre of national security is raised,” the apex court said. “Although this court should be circumspect in encroaching upon the domain of national security, no omnibus prohibition can be called for against judicial review,” it added. The bench disposed of a batch of PILs filed by civil liberties activists, journalists and others seeking a court-monitored probe into the alleged illegal surveillance on electronic devices such as mobile phones and laptops with Pegasus. The petitioners had contended that Pegasus could also be used to plant incriminating materials to implicate an individual in false cases. The court noted that in the present world of conflicts, it was an extremely uphill task to find and select experts who were free from prejudices and were independent and competent. It rejected the Centre’s offer to appoint an expert panel on its own, saying such a course would violate the settled judicial principles against bias. The Supreme Court said it had shortlisted the committee members based on their biodata and information collected independently. The committee will have the following composition: ⚫ Justice R.V. Raveendran, former Supreme Court judge. ⚫ Alok Joshi, former IPS officer of the 1976 batch. ⚫ Sundeep Oberoi, cyber expert and chairman, sub-committee, at the International Organisation for Standardisation/ International Electrotechnical Commission/ Joint Technical Committee. The sub-committee develops and facilitates standards in software products and systems. ⚫ Naveen Kumar Chaudhary, professor (cyber security and digital forensics) and dean of the National Forensic Sciences University at Gandhinagar, Gujarat. ⚫ Prabaharan P, professor at the School of Engineering of the Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham at Amritapuri, Kerala. ⚫ Ashwin Anil Gumaste, the Institute Chair Associate Professor (computer science and engineering) at IIT Bombay. The last four members will look into the technical aspects. The terms of reference of the committee will be to inquire, investigate and determine whether: ⚫ The Pegasus spyware was used on phones or other devices of Indian citizens to access stored data, eavesdrop on conversations, intercept information and/or for any other purpose. ⚫ The details of the victims and/or persons affected by such a spyware attack. ⚫ What steps/actions have been taken by the government after reports were published in 2019 on the alleged hacking of WhatsApp accounts of Indian citizens using Pegasus. ⚫ Whether the Pegasus spyware was acquired by the Centre or any state government, or any central or state agency for use against Indian citizens. ⚫ If any government agency has used the Pegasus spyware on citizens, under what law, rule, guideline, protocol or lawful procedure was such a deployment made. ⚫ Whether any domestic entity/person has used the spyware on citizens, and if that was authorised. ⚫ Any other matter or aspect that may be connected, ancillary or incidental to the other terms of reference that the committee may deem fit and proper to investigate. The committee is also expected to look into the following issues and make recommendations: ⚫ Whether a new enactment or amendment is needed to existing laws and procedures on surveillance and for improving the right to privacy, and steps that can be taken. ⚫ Whether the cyber security of the nation and its assets needs to be enhanced and improved, and how to go about it. ⚫ How to prevent unlawful invasion of the citizens’ right to privacy by State and/or non-State entities through spywares. ⚫ Whether a mechanism needs to be put in place for citizens to raise grievances about or suspicion of illegal surveillance on their devices. ⚫ If a well-equipped and independent premier agency needs to be set up to investigate cyber security vulnerabilities, threat assessment of cyberattacks and allegations of such online targeting. ⚫ Whether the Supreme Court needs to make an ad hoc arrangement as an interim measure to protect citizens’ rights till such time Parliament initiates relevant steps. ⚫ Any other ancillary matter that the committee may deem fit and proper. The committee is authorised to: ⚫ Devise its own procedure to effectively implement and answer the terms of reference. ⚫ Hold such enquiry or investigation as it deems fit. ⚫ Record statements of any person in connection with the enquiry and call for the records of any authority or individual. Justice Raveendran is at liberty to take the assistance of any serving or retired officer, legal expert or technical expert. He shall fix the honorarium of the committee members in consultation with them. This amount will have to be paid by the central government. The Centre, all state governments, as well as the agencies and authorities under them have been directed by the Supreme Court to extend all facilities to the committee. Virender Kumar Bansal, officer on special duty who is the Supreme Court registrar, will coordinate between the committee and the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||Pegasus: SC emphasises 'sacred private space of individual'||When Pegasus, the biggest of all Big Brothers, takes wing in judicial discourse like the mythical horse the spyware is named after, a nod to George Orwell is in order. “If you want to keep a secret, you must also hide it from yourself,” Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana said at the start of the Pegasus ruling, quoting from Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-four. The cautionary tale by the Bihar-born English novelist chronicles the consequences of totalitarianism, mass surveillance and repressive regimentation of people and behaviours within society. The book also created Big Brother, the master of mass surveillance who never lets the citizens forget that “Big Brother is watching you”. Setting up the Pegasus probe committee on Wednesday, the Supreme Court asserted that “every citizen of India ought to be protected against violations of privacy”. Reading out the order in open court, Justice Ramana said the court normally would not go by news reports. But the batch of writ petitions, based mostly on news reports about alleged snooping through the Israeli spyware Pegasus, “raise an Orwellian concern about the alleged possibility of utilising modern technology to hear what you hear, see what you see and to know what you do”. Justice Ramana said: “This court has always been conscious of not entering the political thicket. However, at the same time, it has never cowered from protecting all from the abuses of fundamental rights.” The bench of Chief Justice Ramana and Justices Surya Kant and Hima Kohli spoke of the “sacred private space of an individual”. “We live in the era of information revolution, where the entire lives of individuals are stored in the cloud or in a digital dossier. We must recognise that while technology is a useful tool for improving the lives of the people, at the same time it can also be used to breach that sacred private space of an individual,” Justice Ramana said. Invasion of privacy affects all citizens, not journalists and activists alone, he observed, adding that members of a civilised democratic society have a reasonable expectation of privacy. “Every citizen of India ought to be protected against violations of privacy. It is this expectation which enables us to exercise our choices, liberties and freedom,” the apex court said. The court acknowledged that the right to privacy could not be claimed to be absolute. “However, any restrictions imposed must necessarily pass constitutional scrutiny.” The bench said surveillance may be essential for fighting violence and terror when a need may arise to interfere with the right to privacy of an individual, provided it is carried out only when it is absolutely necessary to protect national security and is proportional. The court referred to the need to protect sources of journalists. “Having regard to the importance of the protection of journalistic sources for press freedom in a democratic society and the potential chilling effect that snooping techniques may have, this court’s task in the present matter, where certain grave allegations of infringement of the rights of the citizens of the country have been raised, assumes great significance,” Justice Ramana said. The CJI added: “In this light, this court is compelled to take up the cause to determine the truth and get to the bottom of the allegations.” The court said the materials placed on record by the petitioners — the Editors Guild of India, journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar and others — “prima facie merits consideration”. “There has been no specific denial of any of the facts averred by the petitioners by the… Union of India. There has only been an omnibus and vague denial in the ‘limited affidavit’ filed by the… Union of India, which cannot be sufficient.” The following are some of the “compelling circumstances” that prompted the bench to set up the probe committee: ⚫ The right to privacy and freedom of speech are alleged to be impacted, which needs to be examined. ⚫ The entire citizenry is affected by such allegations due to the potential chilling effect. ⚫ The Centre has not taken a clear stand regarding actions taken by it. ⚫ The seriousness accorded to the allegations by foreign countries and the alleged involvement of foreign entities. ⚫ Possibility that some foreign authority, agency or private entity is involved in placing Indian citizens under surveillance. ⚫ Allegations that the Centre or state governments are party to the rights’ deprivations of citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||India breaks its silence on China’s new land boundary law ||India on Wednesday broke its silence on China’s new land boundary law and urged Beijing to avoid using it as a pretext to take action that would unilaterally alter the situation on the unresolved frontier. The official Indian response to China’s land boundary law came four days after the neighbouring country’s top legislative body, the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress, passed the legislation for the “protection and exploitation of the country’s land border areas”. The new law will come into effect from January 1. The external affairs ministry said in a statement on Wednesday:  “It may be noted that India and China have still not resolved the boundary question. Both sides have agreed to seek a fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable resolution to the boundary question through consultations on an equal footing.” The external affairs ministry added: “We have also concluded several bilateral agreements, protocols and arrangements to maintain peace and tranquillity along the LAC in India-China border areas in the interim. “Such a unilateral move will have no bearing on the arrangements that both sides have already reached earlier, whether it is on the boundary question or for maintaining peace and tranquillity along the LAC in India-China border areas. We also expect that China will avoid undertaking action under the pretext of this law which could unilaterally alter the situation in the India-China border areas.” India also took the position that the law does not confer any legitimacy to the “so-called” China-Pakistan Boundary Agreement of 1963 that New Delhi has consistently termed illegal and invalid. India claims sovereignty over part of the land China and Pakistan had ceded in favour of each other through the deal, including in northern Kashmir and Ladakh. A 3,488km India-China land boundary remains disputed and both countries have spent over a year trying to de-escalate after the biggest flashpoint along the Line of Actual Control, in eastern Ladakh, in 50 years. The new law gives more powers to the Chinese People’s Liberation Army to counter any invasion, encroachment, infiltration or provocation on any of the country’s borders with 14 nations and also provides for more stringent border closures if Beijing deems fit. The provision for stricter border closures also appears to be a response to the situation in Afghanistan, with which China shares a 74km border in the Xinjian-Uyghur Autonomous Region. Beijing is concerned about the Taliban’s links with the East Turkistan Islamic Movement, an Uyghur extremist organisation, and has asked Afghanistan to crack down on the group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||IAF officer echoes BJP on Kashmir||Senior Indian Air Force officer Air Marshal Amit Dev on Wednesday blamed the intervention by United Nations for helping Pakistan take over a part of Kashmir, appearing to echo the BJP’s claim that first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru was responsible for ceding territory. Air Marshal Dev was here to commemorate the 74th anniversary of the air force landing on October 27, 1947, which came a day after Kashmir’s then Dogra ruler Maharaja Hari Singh acceded to India. “If the UN had not intervened, perhaps entire Kashmir would have been ours,” Air Marshal Dev said in Srinagar, without making any reference to Nehru. Nehru had approached the UN in December 1947 for intervention in the Indo-Pakistan war in Kashmir, although the ceasefire was not effective for another 13 months till January 1949. Air Marshal Dev then said that PoK (Pakistan-occupied Kashmir) would someday return to India. “All the activities which were carried out by the Indian Air Force and the (Indian) army resulted in ensuring freedom of this part of Kashmir,” Air Marshal Dev, who heads the Western Air Command, said. “I am sure that someday, Pakistan-occupied Kashmir will also join this part of Kashmir and we will have the whole of Kashmir in years to come.” Later, in response to queries from reporters, he clarified that India had no plans at the moment to capture PoK but claimed the situation on other side was grim and the people there were not treated fairly. The officer said celebrating 75 years (74 years) of the Budgam landing of the air force was a historic occasion. “After the instrument of accession was signed, we moved in our troops quickly and the Srinagar airfield was saved. Thereafter, we launched further offensive and pushed the Pakistani military, which came as Kabalis (tribals), further back,” he said. The BJP-RSS camp keeps accusing Nehru for allegedly ceding a part of Kashmir to Pakistan. Last year, Union home minister Amit Shah had said Nehru’s approach to the UN over Kashmir was a “Himalayan mistake”. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said all of Kashmir would have been India’s, if Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, instead of Nehru, had been allowed to become the first Prime Minister. Former Congress minister Saifuddin Soz, however, contends in a book that Patel was happy to let Kashmir go to Pakistan in exchange for Hyderabad but Nehru’s insistence kept it with India. Defence spokesman in Srinagar, Colonel Emran Musavi, said in a statement that the Budgam landings are the first military operations of independent India and the defence forces “changed the course of the war”. But he did not mention the UN intervention. “…wherein people and soldiers of State Forces of Jammu & Kashmir and the Indian Army fought alongside valiantly, to evict Pakistani Forces, driving them out of most of Jammu and Kashmir till ceasefire on January 5, 1949,” he said, suggesting that forces were free to act for more than a year after Nehru had approached the UN.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||SC Pegasus ruling vindicates Opposition stand: Rahul||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the Supreme Court’s decision in the Pegasus case vindicated the Opposition’s stand, iterating that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s role in illegal snooping needed to be probed. Addressing the media after the Supreme Court formed a committee to look into the matter despite stubborn resistance from the Modi government, Rahul said: “We welcome the order. This is a big step. Pegasus is an attempt to crush Indian democracy. It is an attempt to make sure that the vibrancy of democracy, the conversation that takes place in democracy, is crushed and people are controlled.” The Opposition parties had jointly blocked Parliament in the last session, demanding a debate on the illegal snooping while the government stonewalled any questioning on the issue. Rahul repeated the key questions that need to be answered: “Who purchased, authorised use of Pegasus? Who were the targets? And was the data (collected through this process) available to other countries?” He said: “Central institutions of this country were attacked by Pegasus. We all know that’s not the only attack that is taking place. There are different ways in which the idea of India is being attacked. Pegasus is of course a particularly nasty, subversive way of doing it. It is a way to control the politics of the country, to frighten people, to blackmail them into not doing what they are supposed to do. Not allowing the democratic processes to work.” Arguing that Parliament should still debate the issue, the Congress leader said: “Pegasus could have been ordered either by the Prime Minister or the home minister. No other person can do this. If the Prime Minister has connived with some other country to attack our country, then he should explain why he did it. Snooping by Pegasus is illegal. Why is the Prime Minister doing an illegal act? He is not above the nation, above institutions.” He wanted to know whether the data collected by Pegasus was given to the Prime Minister or the home minister. “If the data of election commissioners, Opposition politicians is going to the Prime Minister, it is a criminal act. This is a deeper problem. If the Prime Minister is using Pegasus as a personal tool, it is truly criminal. Governments have been toppled using Pegasus. In Karnataka, the government was toppled using Pegasus.” Asked about the government’s reluctance to answer questions because the issue is related to national security, he said: “This issue is the opposite. This is an issue where the government is attacking the national security of the country. Our data, of senior people, being handed over to a foreign country is an attack on national security. If it is true, that data is held outside India, then the Government of India itself is attacking India.” He insisted this is not a political but an existential matter for India and the attack has been masterminded by two persons. The Congress is now not insisting on its original demand for a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) probe and it is viewing the court’s ruling that something terrible had happened and the government cannot hide behind the shield of national security as a huge political victory. Unlike in the Rafale case when the court gave its ruling on the false claim of the government that the public accounts committee of Parliament had examined the CAG report, judges this time refused to accept the government’s argument that it needn’t answer the basic question — whether it ordered Pegasus or not — because of national security. The Congress has now got the licence to tell the nation that something was being hidden by the government because Modi did something unlawful. This narrative will force the BJP on the back foot in the elections in five states, the campaigning for which will start in a few days. Rahul has already clubbed the Pegasus snooping scandal with the misuse of the Enforcement Directorate, the CBI and other central agencies to blackmail and control Opposition leaders. This episode is bound to give credence to the allegation that democracy is under threat in the Modi regime.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||Covid: Govt data shows over 103 million overdue for second dose||Over 103 million people across India have not turned up for their second doses of Covid-19 vaccines after the prescribed gaps, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday, urging states to work towards covering all adults with first doses by November 30. For the second time over the past week, the health ministry urged states to accelerate the pace of the vaccination campaign and execute district-wise plans to ensure that those overdue for their second doses get immunised, asserting that adequate vaccine doses are available. “No district should be without full vaccination,” Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said while chairing a review meeting on the campaign with state health ministers and asking states to conduct door-to-door visits to seek out overdue second dose recipients. Health experts said the large count of 103.4 million people overdue for second doses pointed to vaccine truancy that could further delay India’s goal of fully vaccinating all adults as early as possible, already delayed by limited vaccine supplies in the campaign’s early months. The campaign had until Wednesday administered first doses to 725 million, or to 77 per cent of the estimated 944 million adults, and second doses to 316 million people, or 34 per cent. At its current pace, the campaign will not achieve its goal of fully vaccinating all adults by December 31. Mandaviya told the ministers that the country has adequate doses of vaccines and more than 120 million doses remain unused with the states, urging them to make state-level plans to reduce the counts of people overdue for second doses. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had last Saturday urged states and Union Territories to use district-level line lists of recipients to focus on beneficiaries who have not taken their second doses yet even though their dose-gap intervals were over. Bhushan had said district magistrates should use line lists of beneficiaries available on CoWIN — the digital platform being used to manage the vaccination campaign — to execute time-bound plans to administer the second doses to all eligible beneficiaries. Public health experts have expressed concern that the campaign at some point may begin to slow down after it has covered all easy-to-reach populations and as the epidemic continues to shrink and people no longer perceive Covid-19 as a major threat to their health. Vaccine hesitancy among sections of the population would be expected to manifest as a decline in the demand for first doses. But experts say recipients staying away from their second doses could be viewed as vaccine truancy precipitated by either inability to return for second doses or lack of fear of Covid-19. Vaccination data show gaps between first dose and second dose recipients in multiple states. In Uttar Pradesh, for instance, 97 million have received the first dose while 31 million have received the second dose. In Maharashtra, 66 million have received the first dose while 30 million have received the second. In Bengal, over 53 million have got first doses and 20 million their second.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||Bihar: Lalu tears into BJP at rally after six years||Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad returned to the Bihar stage on Wednesday six years after he last addressed an election meeting. Lalu vowed to never bow down before the communal forces and tore into the Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance government in Bihar. The crowd went berserk as Lalu, brimming with confidence and carrying his well-known rustic charm, strode to the stage at Tarapur in Munger district, an Assembly constituency that goes to bypolls along with Kusheshwar Asthan in Samastipur on October 30. His younger son and former deputy chief minister Tejashwi Prasad Yadav was by his side. Barricades buckled as the people who had assembled to see and hear Lalu invaded the security area in front of the dais at the Idgah Maidan. A sea of mobile phones tracked his movements to capture the moment. Slogans rent the air in such a manner that at times they drowned Lalu’s voice coming out of the loudspeakers. Asking people to stay united and in harmony, Lalu said: “I got Lal Krishna Advani arrested. I never accepted defeat in front of communal forces. I will never compromise with communalism. They (alluding to BJP) cheat people. People have understood them and will not tolerate them any more.” The RJD chief attacked the BJP-led government at the Centre for selling off public assets. “Everything, be it rail or aeroplane, is being sold under its rule. It has not given anything to the people except promises of sending Rs 15 lakh to their bank accounts. What happened to it?” he asked. Lalu also raised the demand for a caste census that has been rejected by the central government. “It’s necessary because the population of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and backward castes has increased. The reservation given to them will have to be increased. This is the reason it (BJP) is refusing it. We will have to fight for it (caste census),” he said. Lalu pointed out that chief minister Nitish had vowed that he would prefer turning to dust but would not shake hands with the BJP. “He went with the BJP saying that it will grant special status to Bihar and give a ‘double-engine government’ (same government at the Centre and state). But see what has happened. The BJP did not give special status and the engines are pulling in different directions,” Lalu said. Asserting that the public in the state had given the mandate to form the government to Tejashwi, the RJD chief pointed out that his party and allies lost many seats in the 2020 Assembly polls with a slender margin. He accused Nitish of tinkering with the results and cheating Tejashwi of the opportunity to form the government and swore revenge. “I was in jail at that time. Had I been outside, he (Nitish) would not have dared to do so. I will take revenge for this. I had made him chief minister at a time (2015) when the RJD had more seats than his party (Janata Dal United),” Lalu added. The RJD chief iterated that Tejashwi has already uprooted the government in the state, while he (Lalu) has come for its immersion. “When I told this recently, Nitish said I will get shot. Is this Lalu’s work? Why would I get you killed? You (Nitish) will die on your own,” Lalu said and added that Nitish was a worried man because no work has been done under his rule and unemployment reigned supreme. “The bypoll is a fight between the government and the people. Nobody can stand against democracy,” he said. Lalu returned to Patna on Sunday after over three years. He was incarcerated after being convicted in several fodder scam cases and got bail in April this year, but was stuck in Delhi because of health problems. The RJD chief also made fun of prohibition in the state where rats have been blamed for drinking seized liquor kept at the police stations. Asking the people to vote for the RJD candidate Arun Kumar Sah in Tarapur at the end of his 10-minute address, Lalu flew to address his second rally at Kusheshwar Asthan. Bypolls in the two constituencies were necessitated by the demise of their representatives earlier this year. The main contest for both the seats is between the JDU and the RJD, though the Congress, which recently broke away from the Opposition Grand Alliance, has also fielded candidates. Later, Lalu tweeted his happiness about the large number of people who attended his election rallies and said that he was feeling energised after seeing the crowds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||Naveen virtually launches Fifa Football for Schools programme||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik virtually launched India’s first Fifa Football for Schools programme at the Kalinga Institute of Social Sciences (KISS) on Wednesday. Football for Schools (F4S) is a worldwide programme run by the Fifa, which aims to contribute to the education, development and empowerment of around 700 million children. It seeks to make football more accessible to both boys and girls across the globe. Inaugurating the programme, an outcome of a partnership between Fifa and the institute, Naveen said: “Investment in sports is investment in youth. And investment in youth is investment in the future. Such collaboration to incorporate football activities into the education system will make football more accessible to both boys and girls at the grassroots.” The chief minister congratulated the KIIT (Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology) and KISS for sustainably creating a conducive ecosystem in channelising passion for sports and nurturing sporting talent and promoting it for the last two decades. Achyuta Samanta, founder, KIIT and KISS, had been in touch with Fifa president Gianni Infantino for the last one and a half years for bringing the Football for Schools programme to India, officials said. The launch ceremony was virtually attended by Nik Gugger, Switzerland member of Parliament, and Infantino. In his virtual address, Gugger said: “Odisha, under the leadership of Naveen Patnaik, has been promoting sports in a big way and has created an example for the whole country.” Commending Samanta’s contributions to sports, he said: “Dr Samanta has created unparalleled sports infrastructure and invested in sports and sportspersons that is now yielding returns. “This first-ever initiative of the Football for Schools programme by Fifa in the world is an outcome of his relentless contribution in the field of sports.” Infantino said: “We are delighted to see Football for Schools launching in India today, one of the first countries in the world in which it has been introduced. Football for Schools is a programme which unites football and education. It has been created to support schools and teachers in inspiring children to learn life skills through fun football sessions.” In his address, Samanta said: “Under the visionary leadership of Naveen Patnaik, Odisha has become a sports hub and Bhubaneswar a sports capital. He has not forgotten to nurture sports at the grassroots.” The revolutionary initiative of the Fifa president will make football accessible to all boys and girls in India, he said, while promising all support from KIIT and KISS for implementation of the programme. In the run-up to the launch of the programme, a three-day capacity-building workshop — “Train the Trainer” — was conducted by Fifa at the KISS from October 25. As many as 100 physical education teachers from all Odisha districts and over 100 football players from KIIT and KISS participated in the training programme, which included both classroom as well as field sessions. Minister for sports and youth services Tusharkanti Behera, All India Football Federation general secretary Kushal Das, Fifa Foundation chief executive officer and former footballer Youri Djorkaeff, sports and youth services secretary R. Vineel Krishna, Football Association of Odisha president Debashish Samantaray, FAO secretary Asirbad Behera, Fifa Football for Schools project leader Alexandre Gros and other senior officials of Fifa were present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-82
28-10-2021||India||Four-year integrated UG and BEd courses on offer||School pass-outs will from this academic session be able to pursue a four-year integrated course combining undergraduation and Bachelor of Education (BEd). The teacher education regulator, the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) under the education ministry, has notified the four-year Integrated Teacher Education Programme (ITEP) under which a student will be able to pursue dual-major bachelor’s degrees offering BA-BEd, BSc-BEd or BCom-BEd. The NCTE had in 2018 notified a similar regulation to roll out the ITEP but it had not been implemented. The regulation was later withdrawn pending the formulation of the National Education Policy (NEP). “As per the NEP, 2020, teacher engagement from the year 2030 onwards will be only through ITEP. It will be offered in pilot mode initially in about 50 selected multidisciplinary institutions across the country,” said a media release from the education ministry. According to the curriculum of the new course devised by the NCTE, a student will be able to pursue a specialised discipline such as history, mathematics, science, arts, economics or commerce along with BEd. The NCTE, which gives approval to teacher-training colleges, allows courses like the two-year Diploma in Education (DEd) for Class XII pass-outs, two-year BEd for graduates and the two-year MEd for postgraduates. “The existing courses will continue even though the ITEP will be launched. Over the years, the ITEP may become the dominant programme and the diploma courses may be discontinued,” an education ministry official said. Some academics had earlier picked holes in the proposed ITEP courses. Prof. Poonam Batra, a former member of the NCTE, had told this newspaper in 2018 that the proposed BSc/BA-BEd programme was pedagogically unsound. “The current model of training secondary and senior secondary teachers after graduation (BEd after BA/BSc) is critical to maintain rigour of disciplinary knowledge in sciences, social sciences and mathematics among schoolteachers. To reduce teacher training to a four-year model after higher secondary will most certainly dilute teachers’ disciplinary knowledge base, a challenge we are already facing in the light of diluting standards of higher education itself,” Batra had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
28-10-2021||India||Zakia Jafri seeks SIT probe into post-Godhra communal riots||Zakia Jafri, wife of slain Congress leader Ehsan Jafri, on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that the “larger conspiracy” behind the post-Godhra communal riots should be further probed by a special investigation team (SIT), not just the Gulbarg Society case in which Narendra Modi was among those given a clean chit. Resuming his arguments a day after claiming on behalf of Zakia that a Supreme Court-appointed SIT had ignored crucial evidence to give a clean chit to then Gujarat chief minister Modi in the larger case of conspiracy, senior advocate Kapil Sibal assailed the probe team for “ignoring” evidence while filing the closure report. Sibal said the SIT had relied on evidence provided by journalist Ashish Khaitan, who was at that time working for the Tehelka magazine, in various other Godhra-related cases but ignored the proof submitted by him in the Gulbarg Society matter. “This particular sting operation was done by Ashish Khaitan who was a prosecution witness in one of the other cases. The SIT relied on that sting in relation to other accused. This tape was authenticated by the CBI as genuine… but there the tape wasn’t taken into consideration…. The closure report was filed, that was it,” Sibal told the bench headed by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar. Khaitan had conducted sting operations on accused persons and others to establish the contention that there had been a conspiracy. “If it’s only about Gulbarg Society, then that’s the end of the case. The larger conspiracy has to be investigated or not?” Sibal asked while pleading that several incriminating materials were not looked into by the SIT while filing the closure report. These materials were also part of the protest petition filed by Zakia before the trial court, which disregarded them and accepted the closure report, Sibal argued. The Supreme Court bench that also has Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and C.T. Ravi is dealing with an appeal filed by Zakia challenging the closure report. After the trial court, Gujarat High Court had upheld the closure report. Sibal also questioned the need for handing over the bodies of the 54 Godhra train carnage victims to Jaydeep Patel, a Vishwa Hindu Parishad functionary. The advocate said this was a serious matter that too was not considered by the SIT. Patel was one of the main accused in the 2002 riots that followed the torching of the Sabarmati Express in Godhra. “By the time these bodies reached Ahmedabad a crowd had already gathered. Who made phone calls? How did anyone know that Patel was taking dead bodies? Who made these calls? I don’t know, but these have to be investigated,” Sibal said. “Is this the fashion of investigation being done? Should the magistrate not have said ‘further investigate’? Your Lordships are far too experienced for me to even make submissions on this,” Sibal said. The court adjourned the matter to November 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
28-10-2021||India||Mumbai police to probe allegations against Sameer Wankhede||Mumbai police on Wednesday appointed an additional commissioner-level officer to probe the allegations against Narcotics Control Bureau’s zonal director Sameer Wankhede, the lead investigator in the cruise ship case in which actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan is in jail. Aryan’s bail hearing in Bombay High Court will continue on Thursday. “Tomorrow we will try to finish it,” Justice N.W. Sambre said after Wednesday’s hearing. The NCB had earlier ordered a vigilance probe after independent witness Prabhakar Raghoji Sail alleged in a notarised affidavit that he had overheard plans for a demand for bribe, of which Rs 8 crore was to be paid to Wankhede. Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik has also levelled serious charges against Wankhede, including that he used a fake caste certificate to get the Indian Revenue Service job under the Scheduled Caste quota. Malik had shared on social media a birth certificate that purportedly shows that Sameer Wankhede was born Sameer Dawood Wankhede and that his father’s name was Dawood Wankhede, suggesting he was a Muslim and not from a Scheduled Caste. The minister also shared a photograph of Wankhede and his first wife Shabana Qureshi. Wankhede then said his father was Hindu and his mother Muslim and that his first marriage was registered under the Special Marriage Act, suggesting that it was an inter-faith marriage. He said his father’s name was Dnyandev. But Malik on Wednesday shared a copy of Wankhede’s “nikah nama” or marriage certificate issued on December 7, 2006, showing that the wedding took place according to Islamic rituals. The “nikah nama” gives Wankhede’s name as Sameer Dawood Wankhede. On television, Wankhede’s father acknowledged the nikah nama and his signature on it but said he did not know that his name was given as Dawood Wankhede there. Wankhede on Wednesday accepted a nikah was held to honour his mother’s wishes but said he was Hindu. The qazi who conducted the nikah, however, told television channels the wedding could be solemnised according to Islamic rituals because both the bride and the groom were Muslim. Malik said he had received a letter from an unnamed NCB official stating that Wankhede had framed innocent people in 26 fake drug cases. Malik said he had forwarded the letter to NCB director-general S.N. Pradhan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
28-10-2021||India||Centre requests media platforms to display Azadi logo||The information and broadcasting ministry on Wednesday issued an advisory to all media platforms — be it print, electronic or digital — requesting them to display the logo of Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav, the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of Independence. The advisory is a near repeat of the one that was sent out in the early months of the Narendra Modi government for airing the Prime Minister’s monthly radio programme, Mann ki Baat. Though technically it was a request, almost all channels and radio stations had complied with that advisory. Pointing out that the 75-week commemoration of this milestone in modern Indian history has already begun and will continue till August 15, 2023, the advisory said: “Media platforms may consider displaying the official ‘Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav’ logo during news programmes, reports, bulletins, especially while reporting on 75 years of India’s Independence so that viewers may be informed about the campaign and they take forward the spirit of ‘Jan Bhagidari’ (public participation) envisaged under the Mahotsav.”. Further, the advisory places on record that private media has consistently taken the lead in celebrating India’s patriotic spirit and national achievements. “It is advised to use the logo during the period of celebrations so that citizens are made aware of India’s rich history and commitment to a bright future,’’ it said. Since this commemoration programme was launched on March 12, the Modi government has been promoting the use of the logo at various levels. Last month, the Supreme Court’s registry objected to the image of the Prime Minister popping up as part of the logo in emails sent from its official email account. The National Informatics Centre (NIC) which provides email services to the Supreme Court was asked to drop the image of the Prime Minister from the footer of the emails originating from the apex court. The NIC has since complied with the Supreme Court’s directions and is now using a picture of the apex court instead. Some lawyers who had received the Supreme Court’s email with Modi’s image in the footer had objected to this on the premise that the judiciary is independent, and not a part of the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-83
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Congress limits itself to Twitter space : Trinamul Congress||The Trinamul Congress (TMC) on Thursday launched a fresh attack on the Congress, accusing the grand old party of "limiting itself to Twitter space" instead of firming up an opposition alliance against the BJP. As West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee embarked on her three-day visit to poll-bound Goa, the party in its mouthpiece "Jago Bangla" iterated that it would venture out to other states to expand its base and put up a formidable fight against the BJP. "We want an alliance to be formed against the BJP. We have said this to the Congress, too. But it is least bothered and shows a lackadaisical approach," an editorial in the TMC mouthpiece said. Referring to the proposal of setting up of a joint steering committee by Banerjee during the August 20 opposition meet convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, the editorial said nothing has moved forward since then. "The Congress is limited to the Twitter space. The party has taken no initiative to build an opposition alliance. In 2014 and 2019, too, the Congress had done the same," it said. The editorial further clarified that the TMC would continue to bolster its strength, while keeping the "doors of alliance with the Congress open". "We have never said that an opposition alliance will be forged without the Congress. But we will not waste our time for them by sitting idle," it added. The TMC, of late, has been criticising the grand old party over its alleged failure to take on the BJP. Earlier this month, the Mamata Banerjee-led party took a dig at Rahul Gandhi's defeat at Amethi in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, as it wondered if the Congress could erase the setback through a Twitter trend. The relationship between the Congress and the TMC seemed to have soured after the ruling party in Bengal, in its mouthpiece, claimed that party supremo Mamata Banerjee, and not Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, has emerged as the face of the opposition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Cops take strict action against Covid norm violators as cases surge in Bengal||The police are keeping a close watch on public movements in Kolkata, South 24 Parganas, North 24 Parganas and Hooghly places that have largely contributed to the spike in COVID-19 cases post Durga puja -- and have arrested people in parts of the state for violating health protocols. At least 72 people have been arrested in South 24 Parganas for not wearing masks -- 30 in Narendrapur and 42 in Sonarpur, a police officer said. The state government has earmarked 24 containment zones in Sonarpur and Narendrapur, shutting down marketplaces and non-essential shops for three days to curb the spread of the disease. At Chandannagar in Hooghly district, 16 wards have been declared as micro-containment zones and people without masks on roads were asked to do sit-ups in public, the officer said. In Barasat, North 24 Parganas, some locals were detained for flouting COVID norms. In the city, too, the police distributed masks and warned people of consequences for violating the protocols, the officer added. Bengal currently has 129 containment zones, 43 of which are in South 24 Parganas district. The state is experiencing a surge in Covid-19 cases since the culmination of Durga Puja. The state reported 976 new cases on Wednesday, pushing the tally to 15,89,042. In a letter to the West Bengal government on October 22, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the state has reported 20,936 infections and 343 fatalities in the last 30 days, accounting for 3.4 per cent of the country's new cases and 4.7 per cent of fresh deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Supreme Court silent on Pegasus probe commission set up by Bengal govt: panel member||A two-man commission set up by the Mamata Banerjee government to investigate alleged phone tapping of various persons of West Bengal using Pegasus software is functioning as usual as the Supreme Court did not say anything on the panel in its Wednesday's order, one of its members, Justice (retd) Jyotirmoy Bhattacharya, said. The apex court on Wednesday appointed a three-member panel of cyber experts to probe the alleged use of Israeli software Pegasus for surveillance of certain people in India. "Since the Supreme Court order of Wednesday did not refer to us (the two-man commission) or touch upon us, there is no restraint order on our activities," Justice (retd) Bhattacharya said on Thursday. The former Calcutta High Court chief justice told PTI that the commission is working as usual as per its mandate. The other member of the commission is former Supreme Court judge Justice (retd) Madan B Lokur. The commission set up in July had invited statements from the public with regard to the alleged interception of mobile phones of various police officials, politicians, journalists, members of the judiciary and activists in West Bengal. According to reports, Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee, a nephew of the West Bengal chief minister, and poll strategist Prashant Kishor were among the potential targets of the spyware during the assembly elections held earlier in the state. The Justice Lokur and Justice Bhattacharya Commission of Inquiry has been mandated to enquire into whether "any incidences of reported interception have occurred," state and non-state actors who were involved in such reported interception and mechanism used for "such reported interception." It is also mandated to enquire into "whether any software such as Pegasus of NSO Group Technologies located at Herzliya, Israel, and/or any spyware and/or malware of any other organisation had been in use and/or currently being used to conduct such reported interception." The commission will also enquire into the legality of any such alleged interception, if found to be true.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Bengal logs 976 new infections and 15 deaths||Bengal on Wednesday reported 976 new Covid-19 infections, 837 recoveries and 15 deaths, resulting in a rise by 124 in its active cases to 7,973. Bengal now has 5.02 per cent of the national total of active cases, or Covid patients under treatment, and is fifth among states with the most such numbers. In the 32 days since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26, there has been a net rise of 299 in the state’s total active cases, from the 7,674 of September 25. A minister said new infections reported on Wednesday were indicative of people who got infected between October 18 (Troyodoshi) to 22 (three days after Lakshmi Puja). Calcutta reported 272 new infections and four deaths on Wednesday. North 24-Parganas reported 159 new infections and three deaths. These were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Seven districts reported a single-digit figure. Eighteen districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia, which accounted for 707 or 72.44 per cent of the new infections detected on Wednesday. The state’s recovery rate is 98.3 per cent now, while that of India is 98.16. Its daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.25 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has more than 15.89 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.62 lakh recoveries and 19,096 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||CPM leader Asok Bhattacharya’s wife passes away||Ratna Bhattacharya, the wife of veteran CPM leader and former MLA and mayor of Siliguri Asok Bhattacharya, died at a private nursing home in Calcutta on Wednesday morning. She was 69. Party leaders said she was ailing for some time. Sharing the news on social media, Asok wrote: “I have lost my life partner who was with me for the past 41 years.” She had excellent relations with several people, including politicians and sports personalities, many of whom  called her kakima, he added. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee expressed her condolences. Jibesh Sarkar, the CPM district secretary of Darjeeling, said her mortal remains would be brought to Siliguri on Thursday for last rites. “We will pay homage to her at the district party office and then arrangements would be made for her last rites,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP acid test in Dinhata bypoll||The Dinhata bypoll on October 30 is an acid test for the saffron camp in Cooch Behar. At the Assembly elections this year, the BJP had fielded Nisith Pramanik, its Cooch Behar MP, from the seat. Pramanik managed to topple Udayan Guha, the Trinamul candidate and then sitting MLA, by a wafer-thin margin of 57 votes. The seat became vacant as the BJP asked Pramanik to continue as MP. An observer said that the slender victory margin a few months ago made this Dinhata bypoll crucial for the BJP, although Cooch Behar district as a whole was a BJP stronghold. “In 2019, the BJP was ahead of Trinamul by 15,539 votes in the Dinhata Assembly segment, but in the state polls this year, the BJP won by 57 votes in this seat,” he said. Cooch Behar voters elected Pramanik as MP in 2019 and seven BJP MLAs of nine in the district this year. Trinamul in Cooch Behar is beset with infighting. Observers, however, pointed out that in Dinhata, Trinamul leaders had tried to revive their support base. A senior functionary of BJP admitted Dinhata was important for them as it is the stronghold of Pramanik, now Union minister of state. For the bypoll, BJP has fielded Ashok Mondal, a former Trinamul MLA who  defected to the saffron camp. Trinamul fielded Guha again. Abdur Rauf of Forward Bloc is also in the fray. The BJP is trying to play the polarisation card, with its leaders referring to the violence in Bangladesh. Trinamul is underscoring the recent notification of the Union home ministry that has extended jurisdiction of the BSF from 15km to 50km inside Indian territory from the international border. “Dinhata is close to the India-Bangladesh border and both these parties are playing their own cards,” said an observer. Both Guha and Mondal are confident of victory. “People of Dinhata elected an MLA (Pramanik) who shunned them. They will not vote for the BJP,” said Guha. Mondal said if people are “allowed” to vote, the BJP will win. “Trinamul is trying to intimidate voters. If people vote fearlessly, Trinamul can never win in Dinhata,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Five tourists from West Burdwan die in Uttarakhand, seven injured||Five tourists from West Burdwan were killed and seven injured when their van fell into a gorge after ramming into another one of their convoy that had turned turtle on a hilly road in Uttarakhand’s Bageshwar district on Wednesday afternoon. Sources said 12 tourists from Raniganj, Asansol and Durgapur were in a Tempo Traveller that fell in the gorge in Shama village in Bageshwar. They were part of a group of 30 tourists in three Tempo Travellers. “We were returning to Kausani from Munsiyari (popular tourist spots in Uttarakhand) in three separate vehicles. Suddenly one of the three vehicles overturned in the middle of the road at Shama. The driver of our vehicle somehow managed to steer past. However, the third vehicle in our convoy rammed into the overturned vehicle on the narrow hill road and fell into the gorge,” said one of the tourists. Initially, fellow tourists tried to rescue the passengers from the gorge. Soon, local people and a rescue team from the administration joined them.. All the 12 occupants of the vehicle were rushed to nearby hospital in Kapkot, where five were declared brought dead. Seven persons, who were injured, were admitted to the Kapkot community health centre. Sources said two are critical. The news reached the West Burdwan district administration on Wednesday evening.  District officials said the deceased were identified as Subrata Bhattacharya, 61, and his wife Runa, 55, of Durgapur town,  Kishor Ghatak, 59, and Chandana Khan, 64, of Raniganj town and Srabani Chakraborty, 55 of Asansol. “We are in touch with the administration there to bring back the bodies as well as those who are injured,” said a West Burdwan district official. Citu state committee member from Durgapur Pankaj Roy Sarkar said one of the deceased, Kishor Ghatak, was a district secretariat member of the CPM’s trade union wing and an employee of Eastern Coalfields Limited. “I cannot believe he is no more. Only a few days ago we met at our state conference at Jamuria. He was our trade union leader in the coal sector. I am shocked,” said Roy Sarkar. Sources said the manager of a tour operating company that hired the vehicles was arrested by Uttarakhand police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Raiganj MLA who quit BJP joins Trinamul||Krishna Kalyani, the Raiganj MLA who won the Assembly polls on a BJP ticket, but quit the party on October 1, joined Trinamul on Wednesday. By doing so, he became the fifth MLA to defect from the saffron camp since this summer elections, lowering the BJP’s Bengal Assembly tally of legislators to 70. On Wednesday, the MLA told journalists that “no self-respecting individual” could  work in the BJP. Reacting to his decision, state BJP chief and Balurghat MP Sukanta Majumdar said that the people of Raiganj would give Kalyani a befitting reply in the future. Kalyani had left Trinamul to join the BJP ahead of this year’s Assembly elections. However, within months differences arose between him and the party leadership in North Dinajpur district. He finally quit the BJP on October 1, citing differences with the saffron party’s Raiganj MP Debasree Chaudhuri.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court asks why Alapan case was sent to Delhi||A division bench of Calcutta High Court on Wednesday questioned the lawyer representing the principal bench of Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) on his client’s urgency to shift the case filed by Alapan Bandyopadhyay, former chief secretary and now chief adviser to the chief minister, to its bench in New Delhi from Calcutta. The case came up for hearing after Bandyopadhyay moved the high court on Tuesday challenging the decision. Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharya asked the principal CAT lawyer: “How could your client come to know that all relevant documents in connection with the case... were lying in New Delhi and not in Calcutta?” Bandyopadhyay’s lawyer said his client was being harassed by the Centre on the charge that he had not attended a meeting of Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Kalaikunda on May 28. “After shifting the case from Calcutta to New Delhi, the principal tribunal fixed the case for hearing on October 27 but the hearing was adjourned today (Wednesday),” the lawyer said, adding that the department of personnel and training had set up an inquiry committee against his client and he had been asked to appear before it on November 2. The division bench of Justices Bhattacharya and Rabindranath Samanta said the verdict would be delivered on November 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Flood cloud on school reopening in East Midnapore||Administrators of several schools in parts of East Midnapore are unsure of how to implement the Bengal government’s plan to reopen schools in mid-November as many school buildings are still waterlogged from the floods of last month or used as flood relief shelters. “Around 113 of East Midnapore's 181 Madhyamik schools are now relief centres for flood-hit people,” said a district official, adding that standing water from rains in mid-September had still not fully receded in many places. Patashpur and Bhagabanpur blocks stand as the most prominent examples, where school officials have been asked to prepare classrooms of students between Classes IX-XII by November 15, but a cursory glance at many of these school grounds on Wednesday revealed cows tied under tarpaulins sheds. “Even now, many people can’t go back home (washed away by floods). They are staying in schools that are used as relief centres. How can students  come to these buildings?” asked Bhagabanpur panchayat samiti functionary Sheikh Raeesuddin, adding that Moyna, Panskura and Kolaghat were also affected by floods though in lesser measure. At the Ektarpur High School in Bhagabanpur, middle-aged farmer Arabinda Giri lay under a tarpaulin with his wife and son, a student of Class X. “I lost four bighas of land  in the floods. I want my son to go back to school, certainly, but we need to have a roof over our heads first,” he said. Nearby, Class X student Dipannita Rana wondered when her home will be repaired. “I want to sit Madhyamik (in 2022). But I don't know how our home will be repaired before that,” she said. “She is a little immature and so she thinks everything will fall into place,” smiled her mother. “Our present reality is that we don’t even know where our next meal is coming from, outside of this school.” District officials at the Ektarpur school camp said surveys were being held to estimate how many people could be shifted from school buildings by mid-November. On Wednesday afternoon, the Ektarpur  school administrators and East Midnapore district officials cut a strange picture as the former held ground surveys for reopening of schools and the latter manned relief counters. In the open hallway, scores of tied cattle lay chewing grass. Most of their owners were inhabitants of the school-turned-relief camp. A few of their older children who had attended the Ektarpur school viewed their present reality with embarrassment. One of the teachers of Ektarpur High School Abhijit Das said he was not sure if they will be able to meet the state’s November 16 deadline to start classes as the relief centre continues to operate at the institution. “The relief camp at our school still has around 150 people. We cannot force them out,” Das said, adding that only if the premises were vacant could the mandatory Covid safety protocols such as sanitisation of classrooms be done before letting the students in. District inspector of schools (secondary) Subhasish Mitra said he was aware of the situation in schools of the flood-hit areas. “Schools need to reopen now, that’s a fact. But the persons displaced by floods will have to be rehabilitated as well,” Mitra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Two organisations launch project to curb trafficking in tea gardens||The Dooars Branch of Indian Tea Association (DBITA) has launched a project in association with the Unicef to prevent human trafficking, especially of women and children, from the Dooars tea belt. The pilot project to curb trafficking of women and children by involving tea estate dwellers, along with the Calcutta office of the Unicef, was taken after a webinar was hosted by the Indian Tea Association (ITA) in July this year. In the webinar, discussions were held on the need to pay attention to the tea gardens of north Bengal to limit trafficking of children and women to distant places in the pretext of jobs. “A section of the tea population is vulnerable to trafficking and illegal migration. These incidents often go unnoticed as the victims remain silent and in some cases, their families do not report to authorities. This makes it virtually impossible for the management of tea gardens to keep track and take remedial measures. That is why, this initiative has been taken,” said Sanjay Bagchi, the DBITA secretary. In Dooars, tea estates are spread over 250km — starting from Jalpaiguri district and up till the Bengal-Assam border. “The idea is to evolve and strengthen community-based child protection mechanisms. Initially, the project would be implemented in 26 tea estates of the Dooars and four tea estates of the Terai. A local person from each garden has been selected as ‘community mobiliser’ who will enumerate the data pertaining to the local population and will act on a set of guidelines mooted by experts of the Unicef. They will be in touch with the management and other concerned persons,” said a source. On Wednesday, the programme was launched at a meeting at the Central Dooars Club in Jalpaiguri. Representatives of the Unicef and the DBITA were present at the event, along with the managers and labour welfare officers of the 26 tea estates of Dooars where the project would be initiated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||Too few teachers in Urdu-medium schools in Bengal||A large number of Urdu medium schools in the state may find it difficult to hold classes when they reopen on November 16 because of shortage of teachers allegedly because of the state government’s reservation matrix. The state has at present 80 Urdu medium schools with around 1,400 sanctioned posts of teachers. The All-Bengal Urdu Medium School Association claimed around 65 per cent of these posts were vacant for years and most belonged to the reserved categories. A leader of the association said a large number of posts of teachers had been lying vacant in most of these schools for the past couple of years as a state government rule adopted in 1990 earmarked a major part of these posts for reserved category (SC/ST) candidates. After much persuasion by the association, only 101 out of 1,400 sanctioned posts were exempted from reservation by the backward classes welfare department in 2010. But this hardly changed the situation. President of the association Aftab Alam, also headmaster of Urdu-medium Howrah High School, said: “We fear the shortage of teachers may lead such schools to lose board recognition.”” Alam’s school has 10 vacant posts and he said that the association had once again made a written appeal to the state minority affairs and madrasa education minister Md Ghulam Rabbani to fill up vacant post of teachers. Teachers said a fresh appeal had been made to Rabbani though repeated appeals to the education and backward classes welfare departments, and to state government officials failed to yield results. In the last few years, the West Bengal Central School Service Commission could not recommend suitable teachers from the reserved caste categories to Urdu medium schools that led to the posts remaining vacant and crippling  these institutions affiliated to state secondary and higher secondary boards. Insiders in the education department claimed the problem had its roots in a March 1990 order through which the then Left government introduced reservation for Urdu medium teachers. The scenario did not change with Trinamul in power in 2011 as the Mamata government stuck to the same recruitment matrix. A recent survey by the association shows that in eight north Bengal districts 57 per cent of posts are vacant of which 35 per cent belong to the reserved category. The rest 22 per cent are for general category candidates. Another survey indicates that in Calcutta 353 posts of teachers out of 599 are vacant in 27 Urdu medium schools. In North 24-Parganas, 79 posts are vacant out of 174 posts in 11 schools. Around 51 posts out of 79 vacant posts are in the reserved categories. South 24 Parganas district has only one Urdu medium school in which out of the 12 sanctioned posts 10 are vacant and five of them are reserved. Narrating the plight of Urdu-medium schools, Shamima Khatoon, a teacher in charge of Kankinara Urdu Girls’ High School (HS), said: “We have 33 sanctioned posts of teachers for 1,763 students. But prior to lockdown, only 10 teachers were physically available. Now five of them have been transferred. I don’t know how to manage the situation with only five teachers.” “We are not against reservation but students belonging to a linguistic minority should not be debarred from the right of education because of non-availability of Urdu speaking teachers,” she added further. Speaking to The Telegraph, state minority affairs & madrasah education minister Md. Ghulam Rabbani acknowledged the grievance as “genuine” but expressed his helplessness while accusing the Centre for the problem. “The reservation matrix was created by the Centre and the state government has been following it. We cannot change the rule,” he said. “However, I have taken up the issue with the education minister, chairman of Urdu Academy and also informed the chief minister about the problem. We also tried to take up the matter with the Centre, but there has been no response. Now we have referred the matter to our law cell and asked our officers to find a way out,” Rabbani added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-33
28-10-2021||West Bengal||State government meeting affects hill traffic||Commuters between the Darjeeling hills and the plains were beleaguered with the state government holding an administrative meeting in Kurseong, as the local administration decided to divert most vehicles through the Mirik route. This meant travellers from Darjeeling to Siliguri, and vice-versa, had to travel for two extra hours. Kurseong lies midway between Darjeeling and Siliguri and is the main route for commuters between the two towns. Those travelling through the Kurseong hill have three routes to choose from: National Highway 55, Rohini Road and Pankabari Road. But all pass through Kurseong town. The administration limited traffic on all three routes on Tuesday and Wednesday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee held an administrative meeting in Kurseong on Tuesday and stayed over on Wednesday. “Since yesterday (Tuesday) we have been directing almost all the vehicles travelling between Darjeeling and Siliguri through Mirik,” said a traffic constable at Jorebunglow. On a normal day, people reach Siliguri from Darjeeling within two-and-a-half hours. Mirik is situated on the opposite hill of Kurseong, and it normally takes four-and-a-half hours to reach Siliguri from Darjeeling via this route. People had to pay higher fares too. “Yesterday (Tuesday), people travelling from Gangtok to Siliguri, and vice-versa, had to pay almost Rs 9,000 instead of the normal fare of Rs 3,500 to hire a car,” said a travel agent from Gangtok. This is because following the closure of NH10, which connects the Himalayan state with the rest of the country, traffic was being diverted through Teesta-Jorebunglow-Kurseong to reach Siliguri. “This earlier diversion meant that the fare had been hiked from Rs 3,500 to Rs 6,000,” said the travel agent. However, the Darjeeling administration further diverting the vehicles via Mirik meant an extra expense. The NH10 route was opened at around 4.30pm on Tuesday. Travellers from Darjeeling to Siliguri, who would have normally paid Rs 2,500, had to pay Rs 4,000. Even commuters within Kurseong town faced inconvenience, as traffic along the town’s two main roads was limited. A policeman was seen using his official vehicle to ferry an old woman from the Zero Point to the Giddepahar area in town on Wednesday morning, as movement of local taxis was limited. Lower rung officers also lamented about lack of infrastructure. “There are only a handful of hotels in Kurseong and accommodation is a problem. Moreover, we could not take all the rooms and had to leave aside 30 per cent of the rooms to the hotels,” said an official. Many employees who travel from Siliguri to Kurseong on a daily basis also had to take leave because of paucity of vehicles to Kurseong. Darjeeling and Kalimpong, however, do not have problems like Kurseong. On Wednesday morning, Mamata Banerjee took a walk to the Mahanadi, covering a to and fro distance of about 10km from the circuit house where she was staying. Bengal minister and singer Indranil Sen sang a song penned by Mamata, as she sipped tea at a roadside stall along NH55, along with their cabinet colleague Aroop Biswas. Sources said the chief minister also bought a child-sized pair of shoes and slippers at the Mahanadi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
28-10-2021||West Bengal||CII aid to enhance farmer income in north Bengal||The north Bengal zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has taken up the task to help hill farmers and others who produce various items by linking them to markets and giving them technical inputs to increase their income. “We have developed rural entrepreneurship hubs by giving market linkages to over 150 farmers, including those in self-help groups, in the hills. The plan is to help them merchandise their produce. The initiative is helping in the growth of agro-based units,” said Sanjay Tibrewal, chairman of the CII, north Bengal. According to him, large cardamoms, soft brooms, mushrooms, honey, “dalle khursani” (a variety of chlli), turmeric, ginger and avocado are being produced in Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts. “Earlier, people found it tough to get buyers who offer an apt price for their products. Now things have improved. More people are getting attracted to this sector,” he said. The initiative by the CII comes at a time when chief minister Mamata Banerjee is underscoring the need for jobs in the state, including the hills. On Tuesday, at the review meeting in Kurseong, Mamata said trade bodies and state government officials should explore options for people to earn here without having to migrate. She asked trade bodies and political leaders to prepare a roadmap for industrial investments in the hills and north Bengal as a whole. “In past five years, we have seen growth in the MSME sector in all eight districts of north Bengal. We want the state government to set up an industrial park in Dabgram (on the south end of Siliguri) where unused land of the housing department is available. Many investors want to open MSME units here and such a park will help them,” Tibrewal added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-34
28-10-2021||North East||EC lets off Himanta Biswa Sarma with a warning over model code||The Election Commission on Wednesday let off Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma with a warning for not adhering to its model code of conduct while campaigning for the October 30 by-elections in the state. Besides warning the BJP’s “star” campaigner, the commission also told Sarma to be “more careful” and “exercise restraint in future” and “strictly follow” the provisions of its model code of conduct while “making public utterances”. This is the second time since April that the commission has ticked off Sarma for violating its code of conduct which comes into effect the moment it announces the election schedule. The commission had announced the dates for bypolls to five Assembly seats in Assam on September 28. On April 2, the poll panel had barred Sarma from campaigning for 48 hours for threatening Bodoland People’s Party chief Hagrama Mohilary while campaigning for the Assembly polls which the BJP-led alliance won convincingly for a second straight term at Dispur. The commission passed Wednesday’s order while acting on complaints lodged by state Congress leaders Debabrata Saikia and Bhupen Kumaer Borah, accusing Sarma of violating the model code of conduct. The Congress duo had also sought a bar on the chief minister from campaigning further for the bypolls. Campaigning for the bypolls ended on Wednesday evening. In its Wednesday’s order, the poll panel said Sarma responded to its notice to explain his position within the stipulated timeframe (5pm on Tuesday), denying the allegations levelled by the Congress leaders on October 22 and 23 respectively. In his submission to the commission, Sarma denied the allegations on the ground that the announcements of development work and financial assistance to self-help groups of tea garden workers during campaigning in Bhawanipur, Thowra and Mariani Assembly seats “are either ongoing projects or had already been announced by the state government in the budget speeches of 2020-21 and 2021-22 in the state Assembly”. Sarma also submitted before the commission that no new or fresh announcements as alleged by the complainants were made by him. “He has also cited documentary evidence of the same,” the commission’s order said. However, after “carefully considering” the matter and the documents/materials related to budget announcements and ongoing schemes, and having taken note of Sarma’s submission of seeking unconditional apology in case of any inadvertent commission/omission of any provision of the model code of  conduct, the commission issued a warning. The poll panel was of the “considered view” that the chief minister has “acted in contravention to the spirit of the advisory/instruction issued by the Commission vide its letter dated 07.01.2007 concerning Model Code of Conduct…” The Congress welcomed the order with Assam PCC president Borah claiming that it was a “slap on the face of Sarma” as he had to “tender an unconditional apology” before the commission. Saikia said his stand had been vindicated but he expected something “more than a warning” as Sarma had violated the commission’s model code of conduct for the second time since April.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
28-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Culled life||With the advent of the Covid-19 pandemic, normal life — in India and across the world — has been fundamentally disrupted. More worrying is the fact that the virus has also adversely affected life expectancy. A recent study has revealed that life expectancy at birth of both men and women in India decreased by around two years — from 69.5 years and 72 years in 2019 to 67.5 years and 69.8 years, respectively — in 2020 owing to Covid-19. The term refers to the average number of years that a newborn is expected to live if the mortality pattern at the time of birth remains constant in the future. Given that the number of Covid deaths in the country has by now crossed 4.5 lakh — this is the official tally — the drop in life expectancy is not surprising. The pandemic has even undone a decade’s efforts to increase life expectancy in the country — it has now regressed to the 2010 figures. But this is no reason to lose heart. Experts argue that such a decline is not uncommon after a health crisis of a massive scale — life expectancy in Africa had dropped drastically owing to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, but it recouped in a few years. The parity in the decline in life expectancy across the gender divide can be misleading: the impact of the pandemic on men and women has been far from equal. Globally, as in India, more women lost their jobs during Covid-19 than men. During the lockdown, this difference amounted to 40 percentage points. The burden of unpaid care work at home, exacerbated by the pandemic, also fell disproportionately on female shoulders. However, government outreach and palliative measures have not been weighted appropriately to correct this imbalance — even as India administered one billion jabs, official data indicate that 6 per cent fewer women are getting vaccinated. Other marginalized constituencies are being affected unevenly too. The pandemic’s wrath has fallen even more harshly on the transgender community — many have reportedly been deprived of even the subsistence allowance of Rs 1,500 pledged by the Union government. The inoculation campaign has, thus, been smeared by existing social cleavages. That the pandemic would curtail life was expected; but it is the duty of the government to ensure vulnerable constituencies are not disenfranchised — socially, economically and in terms of health. Vigilance and closer monitoring of the health and rightful benefits of women and those on the margins are key to equitable healthcare and quality of life.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
28-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: Calcutta Metro bids farewell to non-AC rakes||Final goodbye Sir — The Metro Railway in Calcutta has formally bid farewell to the non-air conditioned rakes, some of which had been in service since its inception in 1984. When the AC coaches were first introduced, many of us were eager to travel on these as they provided respite from Calcutta’s sweltering heat and humidity. Over time, it became clear that the non-AC rakes provide much better ventilation when the coaches get crowded during rush hour. The rakes were, however, old and rickety and certainly needed to be retired. But those of us who have grown up with the old Calcutta metro — from going to college to ultimately braving the crowd for office — will always fondly remember the older coaches. Ananya Chakraborty,Calcutta Rough roads ahead Sir — Days ahead of the United Nations Climate Change Conference, 2021, a report from the UN has stated that the current commitments to cut down on greenhouse gas emissions are not enough and has predicted an about 2.7 degrees Celsius temperature rise for the planet in this century. It further revealed that countries will need to “redouble their climate efforts if they are to prevent disastrous global heating in the future”. This is a scary revelation and proves beyond doubt that the nations who were party to the Paris Agreement have failed to uphold their pledges. Australia, one of the world’s top polluters, has finally agreed to move towards zero carbon emissions by 2050 and Saudi Arabia, the biggest oil exporter, has committed to net zero emissions by 2060. According to experts, the countries should have set a much earlier date for achieving net zero emissions. Many other countries, including India, are yet to set a date. If this lackadaisical attitude does not change, there is no way that climate change can be stopped. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur Sir — Every time a new report is released on the lack of progress made on mitigating climate change, countries around the world sit up and pledge to do better. But in reality, nothing changes. We are already heading towards catastrophe that will leave nations and communities struggling to survive. Unless countries collectively prioritize tackling climate change, the situation will get worse. Ritobroto Sinha,Calcutta Sir — The latest report on climate change by the UN is cause for concern. Many people who are sensitive to the needs of the planet argue for a transition from diesel and petrol-run vehicles to electric vehicles. But does it make sense to opt for EVs if the electricity comes from fossil fuel-powered plants? If we truly want to make a difference, countries must first transition from primary fossil fuel energy sources to renewable energy. This should be coupled with a drastic reduction in privately-owned vehicles. Anwar Saeed,Calcutta Sir — There is no doubt that EVs are the future of travel, but it is also time to reduce the number of private cars altogether. The pandemic has shown us that cycles are a sustainable, yet speedy, way of travelling across the city. We should adopt such measures without being prodded by the government if climate change is to be checked. Nitya Srivastav,New Delhi Tangled mess Sir — The accusations of intimidation and extortion in the Aryan Khan case should be a wake-up call for the country (“Aryan bail hearing continues”, Oct 27). While it is too early to gauge the entire truth, reports indicate that there is a larger conspiracy to implicate Khan and that the Narcotics Control Bureau officials are guilty of misconduct. Ever since the National Democratic Alliance came to power in 2014, the country has witnessed a trend of Central agencies selectively targeting political rivals and critics of the regime. Irrespective of which political party is in power, such blatant misuse of government agencies will destroy their credibility in the eyes of the people. Whether Khan is guilty or not is a matter of investigation and the courts will decide on the veracity of the charges. India is a democratic nation and one expects the custodians of law to conduct themselves accordingly. N. Sadhasiva Reddy,Bangalore Sir — The arrest of Aryan Khan on drug charges has captured the attention of the nation with news channels sensationalizing the story to maximize viewership. With new details emerging every day, the case has become a Bollywood drama in itself. Strikingly, Khan neither consumed nor possessed drugs but continues to be denied bail on the flimsy ground of ‘conscious possession’; the former attorney-general, Mukul Rohatgi, who appeared on behalf of Khan, argued that ‘conscious possession’ cannot be held against his client and that the small quantity of drugs recovered from Arbaaz Merchant, Khan’s friend who has been arrested for possession, is not enough to keep Khan in jail. The case is getting murkier and the charges levelled against Mumbai zonal director of the NCB, Sameer Wankhede, by one of its own witnesses has added a new twist. It will certainly be a long road to justice for Khan. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The politicization of the Aryan Khan case has complicated matters. It is up to the courts to decide whether a person is guilty; yet many seem to be passing verdicts on a matter that is sub judice. This includes the Nationalist Congress Party leader, Chhagan Bhujbal, who remarked at a public event that drugs would become sugar powder if Shah Rukh Khan were to join the Bharatiya Janata Party. Whatever may be the truth, politicians should refrain from making such polarizing statements. K.V. Seetharamaiah,Bangalore Sir — The charges against Sameer Wankhede, if proven, will complicate the Aryan Khan case further. They must be cleared up at once. Shiuli Ghatak,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
28-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Unnecessary||Barely a few days after the Union home minister extended the Centre’s ‘hand of friendship’ to the youth of Kashmir, pleading with them to take an active role in dousing the fire of militancy, the Narendra Modi government has applied the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act — it is usually put in force to thwart terrorists — against students of two medical institutions in Kashmir for celebrating Pakistan’s victory over India in a recent cricketing contest. This is exactly the kind of provocative behaviour that restive elements have employed as bait. Unfortunately, India’s current rulers are only too eager to fall for it. The gains, presumably, are mutual. For Kashmir’s mischief-mongers, including extremists and lobbies sympathetic to them, India’s iron hand approach is profitable since it alienates large parts of the civilian population from the State. As for the Bharatiya Janata Party, it believes that unleashing the might of the State against a Muslim-majority province brings ready electoral benefits in other parts of India. The resultant civilian anomie and a dangerous political drift in the former state are of little concern to the party. The point made by the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti, merits examination in this context. Instead of being baited by hollow acts of provocation — a few pro-Pakistan slogans are unlikely to weaken Kashmir’s willing, historical embrace of India — the Centre must engage with representative stakeholders to identify and then eliminate the conditions that are the root cause of the incitement. But that would take an ideological somersault that the BJP is unwilling to perform. What is worrying is that the BJP and Kashmir’s provocateurs get away with this trick. This is indicative of the larger challenge confronting the Republic. Years of patient indoctrination as well as failures of liberal politics have resulted in the creation of a shrill nationalism that has, indeed, turned out to be the proverbial Tebbit test for patriotism. Be it the disproportionate show of strength in Kashmir or the vicious trolling of an Indian Muslim cricketer, each act is consistent with the larger polarization that the BJP has engineered across the nation’s body politic. A number of sporting personalities have condemned the targeted humiliation of Mohammed Shami but the Board of Control for Cricket in India was not among them. Does the BCCI’s pusillanimity have anything to do with its present office-holders? It is this kind of timidity, from influential institutions as well as civilians in general, that has veered India to the edge of a precipice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
28-10-2021||Opinion||Celebrating the spirit of cricket||Last month was difficult for Pakistan after New Zealand pulled out from its tour to Pakistan minutes before the first match was about to start. England, too, decided to cancel its tour following New Zealand’s decision. It made Pakistani cricket fans angry and dejected. Pakistan’s players were also disappointed. Yet, despite these happening just a month before the T20 World Cup, Pakistan’s players did not lose hope. These incidents seem to have strengthened their resolve as has been evident from the first two games of the tournament. Pakistan played against India in their first match at the T20 World Cup on Sunday. Their bowlers took wickets at the right time, restricting India to 151 runs in spite of India’s strong batting line-up. Shaheen Afridi and others bowled extremely well. Pakistan are a young and inexperienced side. Yet the opening pair chased the target without losing their wickets, helping Pakistan break the jinx against India. The rivalry between Pakistan and India on the cricket pitch is legendary. A match between the two neighbours gets the most eyeballs and generates an adrenaline rush. Pakistan and India don’t get to play against each other except in ICC tournaments. The absence of Pakistani players from the Indian Premier League as well as the discontinuation of bilateral series with India is unfortunate. We saw Virat Kohli’s graceful gesture after India’s defeat against Pakistan and everyone appreciated the camaraderie between him and Pakistan’s opening duo at the end of the match. This is what sportsmanship and the spirit of cricket are all about. Mohammad Rizwan tweeted his support for Mohammad Shami because he understands the “pressure, struggles & sacrifices a player has to go through for his country”. Rizwan said that Shami is one of the best bowlers in the world and should be respected: “This game should bring people together & not divide ‘em.” And this is why when New Zealand abandoned their tour of Pakistan last month, their captain, Kane Williamson, had called it a “real shame”. As a player, he understood what Pakistan’s players must have gone through. On Tuesday, Pakistan beat New Zealand in a game that was being touted as a ‘grudge match’. To win two games in a row under the circumstances that Pakistan has had to face — from discrimination from the ICC when it comes to Test matches and other competitions to top cricket teams refusing to tour Pakistan — shows the resilience of the side. They have proved that they are a force to reckon with on account of sheer hard work and talent. Of course, many matches remain to be played in the T20 World Cup but the first two wins have given Pakistani fans something to celebrate after a long time. The Pakistan Super League has obviously helped the youngsters. It has given them exposure to international players and coaches. From improving their fielding to polishing their raw talent when it comes to bowling and batting, Pakistani players have come a long way. This league has brought young stars under the limelight. Haris Rauf, who comes from a humble background, being a case in point. To see him where he is today makes cricket special. Sports should be above politics and favouritism. Sport unites people; it should be celebrated as such. The Big Three should not have a monopoly over the game just because they bring in the most revenue. All cricketing teams work hard and want to give the game their best. Cricket brings us joy as well as heartbreak. We have witnessed a number of heart-breaking moments in our cricketing history but even then we continue to watch the game, get excited when things are going well, and bite our nails, pull out our hair and wear our hearts on our sleeves when things don’t. Cricket is worth all the tears and celebrations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
28-10-2021||Opinion||Selective outrage||The attacks on Bangladeshi Hindus and their religious institutions that began with the desecration of a Durga Puja in Comilla district, quite expectedly, provoked a strong emotional reaction in West Bengal. Although the reaction was nowhere as profound as some militant Hindu organizations and the state Bharatiya Janata Party had hoped for, it was still significant enough to warrant a mild diplomatic reaction from the ministry of external affairs in Delhi. What perhaps contributed to the emotional outbursts in West Bengal being kept under check was the evidence that — notwithstanding ugly manifestations of jihadi fervour in the districts — the Awami League government of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina Wajed had taken strong measures to prevent Bangladesh from being engulfed in a one-sided communal conflict. Certainly, the discovery that the provocative act of placing a copy of the Quran at the feet of Hanuman was the responsibility of a local Muslim helped bring the situation under control. It is entirely possible that the present round of attacks on Hindus which led to temples run by Iskcon and the Ramakrishna Mission being vandalized, not to mention the destruction of reportedly 400 to 500 Hindu homes, will have only a nominal effect on the political narrative in West Bengal. There is a significant section of the population in eastern India — but particularly in West Bengal, Assam and Tripura — that comprises people whose families were uprooted from East Pakistan/Bangladesh at different points from 1947 to now. Mainly Hindus and Buddhists, they were the victims of religious persecution. They left their ancestral homes to avoid forcible conversion and maintain their traditional ways of life in India. From the 1950s to the 1970s, the refugees — particularly those from bhadralok background — had been the mainstay of the Left mobilization in Calcutta, the 24 Parganas and Nadia districts. Indeed, the communist movement in West Bengal can be said to have been nurtured by the erstwhile refugees. That, however, was a long time ago. There is feeble evidence to suggest that a generation which grew up in the shanty refugee colonies on the periphery of Calcutta and heard countless tales of the bitter experience of Partition and its aftermath from their parents and grandfathers feels sufficiently for those Hindus who chose to stay put in Bangladesh. This relative disinterest cannot be explained by any political apathy. The refugee movement that gave the Congress governments of B.C. Roy and Prafulla Chandra Sen a torrid time with its demands for squatter rights were by no means apolitical or (to use Marxist terminology) narrowly economistic. This movement, after all, supplied the leadership of all the Left and ultra-Left parties. Perhaps the reason can be located in the manner in which the communist parties manipulated the refugee anger. It is significant that the thrust of the refugee movement was directed at improving the living conditions of the uprooted peoples and securing them rights over the land they had occupied after coming to Independent India. The communist parties tried to breed an internationalist outlook among their supporters. But whereas this ranged from denouncing American imperialism and expressing solidarity with the struggles in Korea, Vietnam, South Africa and, of late, Palestine, there was no attempt whatsoever to ask why they had become refugees in the first place. The entire experience of being uprooted from eastern Bengal and the migration to India was sought to be masked in silence and denial. Unlike northern India where popular novels such as Tamas and Train to Pakistan played an important role in shaping consciousness, the focus in Bengal — witness the films of Ritwik Ghatak — was on the experiences and struggles in the refugee camps. There was no pre-history to people becoming refugees. Very few people, for example, were ever to know that one of the more prominent CPI leaders of North Calcutta had been brutally gang-raped by Muslim League vigilantes while fighting for peasant rights in East Bengal. They were not to know that the father of a CPI(M) leader, who subsequently became mayor of Calcutta, had been buried alive by a vengeful mob during the Partition riots. These and other stories, particularly the tales of the horrific riots after 1950, were conveniently erased from the popular imagination. Indeed, it wasn’t until recently that the selective targeting of East Pakistan’s Hindu minority by the Pakistan army and local Razakars during the liberation struggle was formally acknowledged. Facets of the history of the Hindu minority on the wrong side of the Radcliffe Line were no doubt unearthed during the debates that raged in the wake of the passage of the citizenship laws in 2019-20. However, even this was subsumed by the shrill and specious propaganda that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act sought to deprive Indian Muslims of citizenship rather than formalize Indian citizenship for those who fled religious persecution in the aftermath of Partition. The argument that too much dissection of history will promote communal polarization is a theme that resonates in West Bengal. It is intimately linked to the vagaries of electoral politics that saw the Trinamul Congress win a resounding majority in the assembly elections earlier this year based on its ability to secure near-total support of the 27 per cent Muslim electorate. The fear that highlighting the precarious condition of Hindus across the border will heighten the consolidation of Hindus behind the BJP was undoubtedly behind the indifference of the state’s otherwise vocal intelligentsia and civil society organizations to the recent incidents in Bangladesh. Whereas there were spirited protests by ‘secular’ Bangladeshis against the attacks on Hindus, their compatriots in Calcutta chose to look the other way, even explaining away the attacks as similar to what Muslims experience in India. The notables in West Bengal appear to have taken their cue from Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her party functionaries who didn’t react to the turbulence in Bangladesh. Unlike the Narendra Modi government at the Centre, the state government didn’t even have to be mindful of geo-strategic complications. The historical and political narratives in West Bengal centred on Hindu Bengalis suffer from an imbalance. Unless this is addressed both politically and intellectually, the collective interests of the community are calculated to be relegated to the footnotes of statecraft.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
28-10-2021||Jharkhand||Anjana Deogam's quest to educate village girls ||Anjana Deogam regularly visits villages at the Potka block of East Singhbhum. Her initiative would fill any girl of her age with pride, and she is leading by example. Her visit to these villages is aimed at educating village girls about their health issues, including sex education and reproductive health. The 25-year-old Anjana, who resides in Sarjamda on the outskirts of Jamshedpur, covers 40 km (up and down) to bring about a change in villagers' life. Anjana is associated with Kriya Foundation, and is educating and spreading health and hygiene awareness among village girls. Kriya Foundation, an NGO, strives to empower every woman and child in their career growth in order to  help them make informed decisions about their physical and mental strength. Anjana is educating the village girls through "It's my body" programme. "I travel alone in my scooty and visit Heselbera village at Potka block. It's a weekly exercise which I have been into for the past two years. I think educating and spreading health awareness among village girls is of paramount importance since they are very ignorant about it. Besides overall health, I also try to focus on reproduction, menstrual cycle and also educate the girls about their rights," Anjana said. According to her, there are changes which take place in the  body of an adolescent girl which they are not aware of. As a result, they face multiple physical and social problems. "Besides Heselbera, I also cover three more nearby villages. I educate around 700 girls through this programme," Anjana informed. She said girls were initially very hesitant in the initial period of her visits to the villages. The girls are least aware about sex and reproduction. "However, now the hesitancy is a thing of the past and girls have become very forthcoming and inquisitive about their health issues. They are keen to know and get educated about sex and reproduction. I am very happy with the changes," Anjana said. Anjana added she faced problems since parents of girls were not interested in making their wards a part of the health programme. "However, it took a lot of convincing from my side before they relented. I told the parents about the importance of health education and how it would benefit their children. The elders in the village are slowly and steadily understanding the importance of health education but I think a lot more needs to be done," she elaborated. "We got to know about our rights ever since didi (Anjana) started visiting our village. We now tell our parents that like boys, girls can also do all the work," said Dukhni Soren of Heselbera village. "Our parents did not allow us to leave home and play games. But now we are playing football and also becoming aware about the menstrual cycle and taboo attached to it. We are no less than boys and have all the right to make progress in life. This happened due to Didi (Anjana)," said Rakhi Murmu of Heselbera.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
28-10-2021||Jharkhand||BIT Sindri students excel in Innovation Cafe Hackathon||A team of BIT Sindri B Tech Students titled Ursa Major comprising three B Tech Students, including Sakshi Srivastava (Production Engineering), Subhada Mandavi  (Electronics and Communication Engineering) and Ayushi Priya (Electrical Engineering) bagged the first runners up position in Innovation Cafe Hackathon organized by Hindustan Unilever the results of which were announced this evening. The team which offered a solution to a problem statement, Alternate Feedstock Choices for  FMCG products got a cash prize of Rs 50 thousand besides a certificate for their achievement in competition  during which the IIT Madras team got the first prize. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Sakshi Srivastava said, “Altogether 3,560 students from across the country participated in prelims round held in September after which only 70 students qualified for the 2nd round and after the 2nd round 12  qualified for the final round which was held on  October 22 the results of which were announced today. Expressing satisfaction at the achievement of students, Ghanshyam Rai, Head of Department of Physics of BIT Sindri who is also the Training and Placement Officer (TPO) of the institute, said, “the  institute is very happy with the achievement of our students as it will inspire more students to participate in such competition." Meanwhile, Kumar Bharat, a 3rd year B Tech student of BIT Sindri also excelled in regional level event of India Skill Competition held in Patna during which students of eight different states including, Jharkhand, Bihar, Bengal, Odisha, Assam, Tripura, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar took part earlier this week. Bharat’s  work on Computer Numerical Control (CNC) Turning helped him to get certificate of merit from Phagu Chauhan, Governor of Bihar during the event held from October 23 to 28 organized by National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) Rai while Talking to The Telegraph Online, said, Bharat a student of B Tech Mechanical Engineering earlier secured 1st rank in state level event of India Skill Competition held  during August 24 and 25 at Ranchi and received certificate of merit from state skill development minister Sayanand Bhokta and also got prize from Jharkhand Skill Development Mission Society (JSDMS). Rai, while elaborating about the work of Bharat, said, “Bharat’s intervention  was in the field of CNC Turning which is a subtractive machining process where a cutting tool is placed against a spinning piece to take material off.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
28-10-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Over 2 lakh recipients fail to turn up for second jab in East Singhbhum||East Singhbhum district administration is on a text message sending spree to about two lakh individuals who failed to turn up for their second dose of Covid vaccine. The administration was prompted to issue such requests as people failed to turn up for their second shot. The officials are now engaged in convincing them to take the second dose, despite having missed taking it within the stipulated gap. In the SMS sent to the recipient, the district administration is seen earnestly requesting them to get their second dose despite having missed the due date. District disease surveillance officer, Sahir Pall said, “Maybe those who did not turn up for the second dose have stopped fearing of getting infected with Coronavirus. There could also be some other reason for them having missed their second jab, but it is the responsibility of the district administration to have them completely vaccinated,” said Pall while talking to The Telegraph Online. According to the data shared by the district health department, on Thursday, 13,20,717 people had taken the first dose of the Covid vaccine in the East Singhbhum district and 5,66,890 people their second dose. It also revealed that two lakh people failed to take their second dose. Around 80 percent of the total recipients had taken Covishield vaccine which requires a period of 84 days’ gap to be eligible for the second dose. The remaining 20 percent recipients had taken Covaxin vaccine which has a waiting period of 28 days for the second shot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
28-10-2021||Jharkhand||Simdega: Jharkhand to play Haryana for junior women's championship||Jharkhand stormed into the finals of the 11th Hockey India junior women championship underway in Simdega by thrashing mighty Maharashtra 3-1 on Thursday, making an entry into the penultimate stage of the prestigious event for the third time in a row. Hosts Jharkhand will take on Haryana for the summit clash on Friday. On Thursday, an aggressive Jharkhand, however, restricted them to play defensive right from start and also managed to pick the net at regular intervals to outshine the rivals. All three Jharkhand goals came in the form of penalty corners in the 14th, 42nd and 50th minute of the game. Maharashtra scored their only goal in the 17th minute. In another semi-final clash, Haryana defeated Chandigarh 3-2, sealing their berth in the finals. Hockey Jharkhand president Bhola Nath Singh said that going by the current performance of the team, Jharkhand was sure of lifting the champions trophy. “The players have been on a winning streak since the start of the tournament. Now, it’s just a matter of one final match. Even though two best teams have made it to the finals, our players are in good shape. We are hoping of a memorable outing on Friday,” he said. Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi said the final would be played from 3pm. State sports minister Hafizul Hassan will be present as the chief guest. During the inauguration of tournament on October 20, chief minister Hemant Soren rolled out several projects for the promotion of the game in Simdega, regarded as the nursery of hockey. “The final challenger will be played from 3pm and the game for the fourth position between Chandigarh and Maharashtra will be played from 9am in the morning (Friday),” said Konbegi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
28-10-2021||Jharkhand||NHM sanctions Rs 94 cr to pay salaries of local health workers ||The National Health Mission (NHM) has sanctioned Rs 94 crore for disbursement of salary to district-level contractual healthcare workers following a strike threatened by unpaid healthcare workers deployed at railway stations, bus stands, airport and other strategic points in the state capital for Covid testing. “A sum of about Rs 94 crore has been sanctioned by the government for the payment of salary to district level contractual workers. The payment will be made soon,” Managing Director of NHM Dr Bhuvnesh Pratap Singh said on Thursday. Earlier this week, contractual healthcare workers deployed at various points in the state capital for conducting Covid tests had threatened to go on a strike over non-payment of salary for two months. Ranchi Civil Surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar admitted that contractual healthcare workers involved in Covid-related duties in Ranchi did not receive their salaries for two months. The civil surgeon had also written to NHM and the district administration to ensure payment of salary to contractual healthcare workers in the district. At present, about 700 contractual workers are deployed across Ranchi district to conduct RAT and RT PCR tests at railway stations, bus stands, the Birsa Munda Airport and other locations in the state capital. Rs 5 crore has been sanctioned for payment of salary to contractual workers in Ranchi. East Singhbhum, Deoghar, West Singhbhum, Giridih, Godda and Hazaribag were also allotted Rs 5 crore each, while Bokaro, Chatra, Dhanbad, Dumka, Garwah, Gumla, Sahebganj and Saraikela were allotted Rs 4 crore each. Rs.3 crore was sanctioned for each of the remaining nine districts in Jharkhand. Several thousand contractual workers under NHM have already been on strike since October 10 demanding reinstatement of a terminated employee and implementation of an HR policy. The striking healthcare workers have claimed that the NHM did not pay salaries on time to several contractual workers despite having funds. The funds sanctioned recently will not be used for payment of state level NHM workers, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
28-10-2021||Jharkhand||IMD forecasts rain-free Diwali in Jharkhand||The weather won’t play spoilsport in Jharkhand this Diwali, IMD officials have confirmed. Both IMD’s Ranchi and Patna Met Centres predicted on Thursday rain-free days in Jharkhand till November 5. This year, Diwali will be celebrated on November 4. IMD forecasts say dry weather, most likely with mainly clear sky, will prevail in most districts of Jharkhand till the first week of November. "We are expecting dry weather during Diwali as no significant synoptic situation prevails over Jharkhand, " said Abhishek Anand, head of IMD’s Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The Ranchi Met Centre also predicted no significant change in night readings during the next 24 hours. However, the forecast indicates a fall in night temperature by two to three degrees Celsius from Saturday. Some places were, however, Thursday witnessing formation of low clouds on Thursday due to the impact of an anti-cyclonic circulation over Gangetic Bengal, said weathermen. The maximum temperature in Ranchi and Jamsehdpur was hovering between 27 degrees Celsius and 31degree Celsius for the last two days, which is normal during this time of the season. In Deoghar, Sahebganj and Pakur, the day’s reading was slightly higher than the average normal recorded during this time of the season. Night temperatures in most parts of the state were two to three degree Celsius above normal in the last couple of days. Ranchi and Chaibasa in neighbouring West Singhbhum recorded the lowest minimum temperature of 18.2°C in last 24 hours. Weathermen hinted at change in wind pattern to northerly, which would help in bringing down night readings after 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
28-10-2021||Jharkhand||Weekly Covid positivity rate doubles in a month in Jharkhand||The weekly positivity rate and fresh cases of Covid-19 have doubled in the past one month, indicating a steep rise in the coronavirus trajectory in Jharkhand during the festive season, figures compiled by the health department highlighted on Thursday. As per weekly data calculated by the health department, as many as 78 people were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus in Jharkhand from September 20 to September 26. The count of fresh Covid cases reported in the state jumped to 197 in the period between October 18 to October 24, government data further revealed, indicating a more than two-fold spike in weekly Covid cases. The positivity rate too rose from 0.03 per cent in the period between September 20 to September 26 to 0.07 per cent in the days between October 18 to October 24. Jharkhand tested as many as 3,09,744 swab samples for Covid-19 from September 20 to September 26, while 2,67,125 samples were tested from October 18 to October 24. The positivity rate as well as the count of fresh cases rose most significantly in Ranchi in the past one month, government data revealed. Ranchi alone accounted for 42 of to 78 Covid cases reported from September 20 to September 26, and 129 of the 197 cases reported from October 18 to October 24. The positivity rate here jumped from 0.10 per cent in the last week of September to 0.27 per cent from October 18 to October 24. “Ranchi has reported the bulk of fresh Covid cases in the past one month. The positivity rate has also increased in the district, which could be a concern if Covid protocols are not followed sincerely in the days to come,” said state epidemiologist Dr Praveen Kumar Karn. Despite the rise in cases, the fatality rate was zero per cent in Jharkhand during the period between October 18 to October 24. Experts believe that vaccination against Covid-19 may have played an important role in saving lives of people who got infected recently. “There have been cases where vaccinated individuals have tested positive for Covid-19. But they did not suffer from severe symptoms and recovered without hospitalization,” said Ranchi civil surgeon Dr Vinod Kumar. As per government data, over 1.43 crore residents have received at least one dose of the Covid vaccine in Jharkhand so far, while close to 50 lakhs of them have also received the second dose. The active Covid caseload in the state, as per government data, was 162 on Thursday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
28-10-2021||Jharkhand||Teacher’s stick hurts student’s eye in class in Ramgarh district ||A student of Class VI has suffered an eye injury accidentally after a para-teacher allegedly wielded a stick to control commotion in a government school in Ramgarh district of Jharkhand. The parents of the injured boy alleged that the para-teacher had used the stick to beat some students on Tuesday and also thumped it on the bench when a portion broke away and struck the right eye of their son. Ashok Karmali, a resident of Sargadih under Gola block, said his 11-year-old son Vivek studies in Class VI at the Upgraded Middle School. The area is around 60km from state capital Ranchi. “We were informed at around 2pm about the incident. My son came home with blood oozing from his right eye. He told me that para-teacher (appointed on a contract basis in Jharkhand) Karpoori Pramanik Thakur was agitated as the students were shouting while he had gone out to attend a call on his mobile phone. In a fit of rage, the para-teacher shouted and took up the stick to beat students and also banged it on the bench. A portion of the stick then broke away and flew into my son’s eye,” said Ashok. The parents said the boy was taken to a local eye hospital in Peterwar where he received primary treatment and was referred to Ranchi. The boy was on Tuesday night referred from an eye hospital in Ramgarh to the Kashyap Memorial Eye Hospital in Ranchi for advanced treatment. The parents have not lodged any complaint in connection with the incident in the local Barlanga police station so far. The Ramgarh district administration has ordered a probe into the incident. “On the basis of the information received, we have asked the block education officer (Mahabir Prasad) and block development officer Santosh Kumar to probe into the incident and submit the report within a day. We will take action against the para-teacher on the basis of the report,” said district superintendent of education-cum-district education officer Sushil Kumar. “I was accompanied by the BDO, the village mukhiya (chief) and up-pramukh (deputy chief) during our visit to the school where we interacted with the students as part of the investigation. The students told us the para-teacher used the stick while explaining lessons. As the students were shouting he had banged the stick on the bench during which a portion had broken away and struck the eye of the boy. Though it was an accident, we would recommend action against the teacher for carrying a stick to class,” said Prasad. Section 17 of the Right to Education Act, 2009, prohibits any child being subjected to physical punishment or mental harassment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-17
