29-10-2021||Business||Indian Bank and Uco Bank slippages shoot up during second quarter||Indian Bank and Uco Bank’s fresh slippages have shot up during the second quarter of 2021-22 as the banks classified their exposure to Srei group accounts as non performing assets. The two public sector lenders have recognised aggregate stressed exposure of around Rs 2,820 crore during the second quarter in Srei Infrastructure Finance and Srei Equipment Finance, where the Reserve Bank of India has superseded the boards and accounts have been admitted for resolution with the NCLT. While Indian Bank’s total fresh slippages during the quarter were at Rs 3,952 crore, Uco Bank’s fresh slippage was at Rs 2,389 crore. However both lenders saw an overall reduction in their gross and net non performing assets despite the slippages on account of higher provisions. Gross NPA of Indian Bank was at 9.56 per cent during the July-September quarter compared with 9.89 per cent a year ago. Gross NPA of Uco Bank was at 8.98 per cent during the quarter compared with 11.62 per cent in the corresponding quarter of the previous fiscal. “There are two accounts of this group where we are having exposure with an aggregate outstanding of Rs 1,820 crore. Earlier the accounts were not classified as NPAs because of court orders. We have made provision as well as interest reversal,” said Shanti Lal Jain, managing director and CEO of Indian Bank. In its regulatory disclosure to the stock exchange, Uco Bank said the NBFC accounts have been classified as NPA after vacation of stay of NCLT, Calcutta by NCLAT, Delhi on September 21, 2021. “Two accounts of the same group we have recognised during the quarter where the exposure is around Rs 1,000 crore. We were aware these accounts will be recognised as NPA in times to come and made provisions,” said Atul Kumar Goel, managing director and CEO of UCO Bank. Profit surges Indian Bank posted a net profit of Rs 1,089 crore for the second quarter, a year on year growth of 164 per cent over Rs 412 crore in the corresponding quarter a year ago. The growth in bottomline was aided by a 26 per cent jump in non-interest income that included recovery of bad debts of Rs 778 crore during the quarter. Uco Bank has posted a net profit of Rs 205.39 crore during the second quarter against a net profit of Rs 30.11 crore a year ago, a growth of 582.12 per cent. Goel said a combination of a rise in net interest income of 14.68 per cent and other income of 31.37 per cent aided the rise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
29-10-2021||Business||Sensex slumps 678 points to close over 59,300||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked 678 points on Friday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and HDFC Bank amid a weak trend in global markets. The 30-share index plunged 677.77 points or 1.13 per cent to end at 59,306.93. Similarly, the NSE Nifty fell 185.60 points or 1.04 per cent to 17,671.65. Tech Mahindra was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 3 per cent, followed by NTPC, IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, UltraTech Cement, Tata Steel, Maruti, Titan and Dr Reddy's were among the gainers. "The domestic market continued to witness selling as energy and private bank stocks remained under pressure following dull global sentiments," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. European markets opened weak even as the ECB decided to keep policy rates unchanged despite the inflationary pressure. US futures were trading in red following slow GDP growth and disappointing earnings from tech giants, he noted. "Decisions of the Fed in its meeting next week will be a major factor that will drive global equities in the coming days," Nair added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo ended with gains, while Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.23 per cent to USD 83.85 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
29-10-2021||Business||Shaktikanta Das given three year extension as RBI governor||The government has extended the term of Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das by another three years upto December 2024, according to an official order. Das was appointed the RBI's 25th governor on December 11, 2018, initially for a period of three years. An official order dated October 28 said the government has reappointed Das as the governor of the central bank for a period of three years beyond December 10, 2021. The decision was taken by the Appointments Committee of Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. With the second term of three years, Das will head the RBI till December 2024.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
29-10-2021||Business||Sensex plunges over 700 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tanked over 700 points in early trade on Friday tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, HDFC twins and ICICI Bank amid persistent foreign fund outflow. The 30-share index was trading 704.22 points or 1.17 per cent lower at 59,280.48 in initial deals. Similarly, the Nifty fell 181.70 points or 1.02 per cent to 17,675.55. HDFC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 4 per cent, followed by IndusInd Bank, Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, Reliance Industries and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Tata Steel, Titan, ITC and HCL Tech were among the gainers. In the previous session, the 30-share index tanked 1,158.63 points or 1.89 per cent to close at 59,984.70, while Nifty plummeted 353.70 points or 1.94 per cent to 17,857.25. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market, as they offloaded shares worth Rs 3,818.51 crore on Thursday, as per exchange data. With Nifty moving below the 20-Day Moving Average, the market has turned distinctly weak. The major drag on the market now is the sustained FII selling, said V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services. This comes after foreign brokerages like Morgan Stanley, Nomura and UBS downgraded India on excessive valuations. "When smart money selling turns aggressive, retail exuberance would be overwhelmed. This is happening now," he noted. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong and Seoul were in the red. Stock exchanges in the US ended on a positive note in the overnight session. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.27 per cent to USD 83.89 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
29-10-2021||Business||IndiGo posts seventh straight quarterly loss||IndiGo, the country’s largest budget carrier,  posted its seventh straight quarterly loss, impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic and a spike in the cost of aviation fuel . InterGlobe Aviation Limited, the parent of IndiGo, reported a net loss of around Rs 1,436 crore in the quarter ended September, which was 20 per cent higher than the net loss in the corresponding period of the last fiscal. The airline’s scrip closed 0.6 per cent lower at Rs 1,996.8 on the Bombay Stock Exchange. IndiGo had last reported profit in October-December 2019 at Rs 496 crore. The losses, however, were much lower than the Rs 3,174.2 crore loss reported in the first quarter of the fiscal. Revenue from operations crossed Rs 5,600 crore against Rs 2,741 crore. Other income of Rs 190 crore took the total income to nearly Rs 5,799 crore. Expenses rose to Rs 7,234 crore from Rs 4,224 crore and expenditure on fuel almost tripled to nearly Rs 1,989 crore. “We are encouraged by the pace of revenue recovery. We continue to work towards return to profitability in order to strengthen our balance sheet. With a modern fleet, dedicated employees and a stronger economic environment, we are well positioned to leverage all the growth opportunities around us,” Ronojoy Dutta, CEO of IndiGo, said. The airline has total cash reserves of Rs 16,553.9 crore  — Rs 6,351.6 crore of free cash and Rs 10,202.3 crore as restricted cash at the end of September 2021. IndiGo’s total debt is Rs 32,335.3 crore IndiGo has 279 aircraft with a net increase of 2 aircrafts during the quarter. It operated a peak of 1,209 daily flights and a minimum of 759 flights during the quarter including non-scheduled flights. It provided scheduled services to 69 domestic destinations and various international locations through passenger charters and   bubble flights. Fewer flights SpiceJet and IndiGo along with Air India will fly fewer flights during the winter schedule starting October 31 compared with the pre-Covid level. Vistara will have a higher number of flights, according to the winter schedule approved by regulator DGCA. The 11 scheduled domestic airlines will fly 22,287 flights a week during the period starting October 31 and ending March 26 next year. The approved number of flights is nearly 4 per cent lower than the schedule two year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
29-10-2021||Business||MTNL to amend articles of association to monetise land assets||The Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Ltd (MTNL) is taking shareholders’ approval to amend its articles of association (AoA) to monetise its land assets. Shareholders of the company will vote on this proposal at its annual general meeting on November 25. MTNL plans to lease these assets for a period of up to 30 years. In its communication to shareholders, MTNL said that the Group of Ministers (GoM) had on December 21, 2020 decided that for any property with a value of Rs 10 crore or less, it  will not require approval of the GoM. “In view of this decision , the DoT has directed MTNL to change its AoA,” it said. MTNL added that if this proposal is approved, it will be able to monetise its land and building assets faster and generate some funds to reduce debt and meet the capex and opex  requirements. The board of directors of the company had on June 29, 2021 approved this alteration in its AoA. Shares of the company on Thursday ended at Rs 18.30 — a gain of 2.81 per cent over Wednesday’s close.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
29-10-2021||Business||Investment, trading framework for AMC employees and MF trustees ||Market regulator Sebi on Thursday came out with a new framework for investment and trading in securities by the employees of asset management companies (AMCs) and trustees of mutual funds. The framework will help in avoiding any actual or potential conflict of interest or any abuse of an individual’s position of trust and responsibility. In a circular, Sebi said it has tweaked the guidelines pertaining to “access person” and “cooling off" period of such a person in respect of investments made by them in securities traded through the secondary markets. Access Person means the head of the AMC (CEO/managing director/president), executive directors, chief investment officer, chief risk officer, chief operation officer, chief information security officer, fund managers, dealers, research analysts, all employees in the fund operations department, compliance officer and heads of all divisions. The new framework will be applicable from December 1, 2021 while those related to refraining from profiting from the purchase and sale of any security within a period of 30 calendar days will become effective from Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
29-10-2021||Business||Volvo Cars India to launch first fully electric vehicle next year||Volvo Cars India will launch its first fully electric vehicle, the XC40 Recharged, next year and will follow it up with one fully electric vehicle launch each year so that by 2025 it will have a fully electric portfolio. Right now, the Swedish company is transitioning to a petrol only portfolio by phasing off its diesel vehicles. When asked if the company was thinking of any alternative fuel given the rising price of petrol, Rajeev Chauhan, director, network & product, Volvo Car India, said: “We are transitioning to EVs and by the next three to five years most of our cars will be EVs.” Chauhan was in the city to unveil the petrol mild hybrid cars S90 and XC60 at its showroom SPL Volvo, New Town, Rajarhat. Both the vehicles will retail at Rs 61,90,000, ex showroom. The flagship SUV XV90 will be launched in petrol soon, he added. Tata Motors bullish Girish Wagh, executive director, Tata Motors, on Thursday said since the Covid second wave there has been a demand recovery in intermediate, heavy and light commercial vehicles. He was speaking at the launch of 21 new commercial vehicles and variants for 2021. “The second half of 2021 will do better than last year,” said Wagh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
29-10-2021||Business||Rs 923cr Airtel claim nixed by Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday set aside a Delhi high court order which allowed Bharti Airtel’s plea to rectify the input tax credit claim of excess goods and services tax (GST) paid of around Rs 923 crore from July to September 2017 saying that the rectification of errors and omissions is permissible only at the initial stages. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari allowed the appeal filed by the Centre against the high court’s May 5, 2020 judgment which permitted Airtel to rectify Form GSTR-3B, the GST summary return form for the period. The apex court said an assessee cannot be permitted to unilaterally carry out rectification of his returns submitted electronically in Form GSTR-3B, which inevitably would affect the obligations and liabilities of other stakeholders because of the cascading effect in their electronic records. “The law permits rectification of errors and omissions only at the initial stages of Forms GSTR-1 and GSTR-3, but in a specified manner. It is a different dispensation provided than the one in the pre-GST period, which did not have the provision of auto-populated records and entries,” the bench said. The apex court said the challenge to the impugned Circular No. 26/26/2017 GST issued by the Commissioner (GST) dated December 29, 2017 is unsustainable. The apex court, however, rejected the Centre’s submission regarding the jurisdiction of the Delhi high court to entertain the writ petition. “As regards the jurisdiction of the Delhi high court, the registered office of respondent No. 1 is in Delhi. The appellant (respondent in the writ petition) also has its office in Delhi. The relief claimed in the writ petition amongst others, was to challenge provisions of the Central Act and the circulars issued by the competent authority having its office in Delhi. Hence, the jurisdiction of the Delhi high court cannot be a matter of any doubt,” the bench said. Reacting to the judgment, the telecom operator said the matter pertains to 2017, when GST had just been introduced, and the company paid excess cash towards GST to the tune of Rs 923 crore instead of utilising the available input tax credit as there was no automated reconciliation available at that time. “In its order passed today, the Hon’ble Supreme Court has maintained that the company has the freedom to avail the amount of Rs 923 crore as input tax credit in the subsequent returns, which the Company had duly done,” the company said in a release. Payout to states The Centre on Thursday released the balance Rs 44,000 crore to states as a loan to compensate for the GST shortfall, taking the total such amount to Rs 1.59 lakh crore this fiscal year. This release of funds as back-to-back loans is in addition to the bi-monthly GST compensation being given out of the cess collection. The ministry had on July 15 and October 7 released Rs 75,000 crore and Rs 40,000 crore, respectively. The 43rd GST Council meeting on May 28, 2021, had decided that the Centre would borrow Rs 1.59 lakh crore in 2021-22 and release it to states and UTs to meet the resource gap because of the shortfall in GST compensation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
29-10-2021||Business||Isha Ambani appointed to Smithsonian’s board of trustees||Isha Ambani, directors of Reliance Jio Infocomm and Reliance Retail, has been appointed to the board of trustees of the well known Smithsonian’s National Museum of Asian Art, part of the Smithsonian Institution, the world’s largest museum, education and research complex, based in the US. Her appointment was approved by the Smithsonian’s board of regents, led by US chief justice John G. Roberts, and vice-president Kamala D. Harris (ex officio). Isha will serve a term of four years as one of the youngest board members of the National Museum of Asian Art, which was the Smithsonian’s first dedicated art museum and opened as the Freer Gallery of Art in 1923. Apart from Isha, the Smithsonian’s National Museum of Asian Art also announced the appointment of Carolyn Brehm, founder and CEO of consulting firm Brehm Global Ventures LLC, and Peter Kimmelman, who established Peter Kimmelman asset management LLC in 1979, as the new members of its board of trustees. Two years ago, Isha’s mother Nita Ambani became an honorary trustee of New York's 149-year-old The Metropolitan Museum of Art. She was the first Indian to be elected to the position. “On behalf of my colleagues at the museum and across the Smithsonian, I am delighted to welcome these distinguished new members to our board,” said Chase F Robinson, the museum’s Dame Jillian Sackler Director.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
29-10-2021||Business||Future Retail and promoters move Delhi HC to stymie SIAC order||Future Retail Ltd (FRL) and its promoters have moved the Delhi High Court again in an effort to stymie any move to enforce the recent order passed by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) that had gone in favour of Amazon Inc. Last week, the SIAC has rejected a plea from Future Retail Ltd (FRL) to lift the interim stay on its Rs 24,713 crore transaction with Reliance Retail. In October last year, the emergency arbitrator (EA) of the Singapore tribunal had handed down an interim award in favour of Amazon, effectively barring the Kishore Biyani-run entity from taking any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issue any securities to secure any funding from a restricted party. In a regulatory filing with the stock exchanges, FRL said has it has filed an appeal before the Delhi High Court against the October 21 order passed by the SIAC and tagged it on to its application seeking to vacate the interim award of the EA issued on October 25 last year. FRL said it had requested the High Court to stay and set aside the operation of the October 21 order and allow the company to convene a meeting of its shareholders and creditors as directed by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) Mumbai in September. The company added that Future Coupons Pvt Ltd (FCPL) -- which had signed the deal with Amazon under which the latter acquired a 49 per cent stake in the company in December 2019. Amazon claimed that this deal included a call option that allowed it to acquire all or part of the Promoters' shareholding in Future Retail Limited (Company). The option was exercisable between the third to the tenth years, in certain circumstances, and subject to applicable law. Future Coupons currently holds a 9.82 per cent stake in Future Retail. The battle between the Future group and Amazon broke out when Biyani struck a deal with Reliance Retail Ventures Ltd (RRVL) in August 2020 under which it intended to sell the group’s retail, wholesale, logistics and warehousing assets. Shares of FRL today ended 2.33 per cent lower at Rs 48.25 in the BSE. The battle between Amazon and Future Retail has been playing out in various legal forums. On September 9, the Supreme Court had stayed all proceedings relating to the dispute between the two sides for four weeks. However, on September 28, the NCLT permitted Future Retail to hold meetings of its shareholders and creditors to seek their approval for the sale of the retail business to Reliance Retail. The NCLT had claimed that the Supreme Court order had only restrained it from pronouncing a final order in the suit. Meanwhile, the main hearing on whether there has been a contractual breach by Future Group, as alleged by Amazon, is likely to commence before the Singapore arbitration council in November this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
29-10-2021||Business||Sensex plummets 1159 points to post biggest fall in over six months||The benchmark Sensex plummeted 1159 points to post its biggest fall in over six months as investors went on the backfoot amid a rush of IPOs that are set to raise over Rs 29,000 crore over the next few days. The broad-based selling saw the market capitalisation of the BSE eroding Rs 4.82 lakh crore. Coming on the monthly F&O expiry day, the 30-share gauge crashed 1158.63 points, or 1.89 per cent, to close at 59984.70, the biggest fall since April 12 when it plunged 1708 points. The broader NSE Nifty nosedived 353.70 points, or 1.94 per cent, to finish at 17857.25. Experts pointed to multiple reasons behind the crash. So far in this calendar year, the domestic markets have outperformed many of their global peers with the Sensex ratcheting up gains of almost 28 per cent, based on Wednesday’s close. However, with corporate margins affected by rising raw material prices, doubts are swirling over the justification of the current valuations in the markets. Global brokerage Morgan Stanley followed peers such as UBS when it downgraded domestic markets to equal-weight from over-weight on expensive valuations. Its analysts said that though India’s “fundamental leading indicators are positive, we see valuations as increasingly constraining returns over the next 3-6 months’’. Variable reverse repo The valuation worries were  not the only reason behind the crash. In another step towards policy normalisation, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) announced a 28 day variable rate reverse repo (VRRR) auction for Rs 50,000 crore on November 2. The central bank has been mopping up surplus liquidity from the system through the 14-day VRRR auctions. At its monetary policy announcement earlier this month, the RBI said it would gradually increase the size of the 14-day VRRR to Rs 6 lakh crore by December. Many in the markets feel the announcement of a 28-day VRRR is a precursor to a reverse repo hike in December. The reverse repo now stands at 3.35 per cent. The RBI’s move led to yields on the benchmark 10 year security rising to 6.367 per cent from the previous close of 6.336 per cent. Banking stocks were impacted by the VRRR announcement with the Nifty Bank index crashing 3.34 per cent. Observers added that there was a lack of buying support at lower levels which dragged down the stocks. This has been partly attributed to the upcoming IPOs. “On one hand, we have worries over expensive valuations in the secondary markets and on the other, there are IPOs like FSN E-Commerce Ventures Ltd, Paytm and PB Fintech. Investors are either offloading their positions in the secondary markets or setting aside liquidity to invest in these offerings,’’ an analyst said. The IPO of FSN E-Commerce which runs the beauty and personal care brand Nykaa opened on Thursday and was subscribed 1.55 times. The retail portion was subscribed 3.5 times while that meant for QIBs (qualified institutional buyers) subscribed 1.39 times. ITC was the top loser in the Sensex pack, crashing 5.54 per cent, after it reported a lower-than-estimated rise in consolidated net profit for the second quarter ended September 30. ICICI Bank, Kotak Bank, Axis Bank, Titan, SBI and HDFC Bank were among the other laggards, falling as much as 4.39 per cent. Only six Sensex counters managed to close in the green. “Relentless selling by FIIs over the last two weeks has led to weakness in the market. They have sold over Rs 10,000 crore in Indian equities in the past five sessions,” Siddhartha Khemka, head-retail research, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, said. “Further, mixed earnings season along with premium valuations exerted pressure on the market as there is little room for disappointment. Global cues continue to be weak,’’ Khemka said. However, there was some good news at the forex markets. Despite poor cues from equities, the rupee closed with gains of 11 paise at 74.92 to the dollar because of  easing crude oil prices.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-22
29-10-2021||India||No Friday release for Aryan Khan , Juhi Chawla stands surety||Despite securing bail from the Bombay High Court in a drugs case, Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, will spend one more night in Mumbai's Arthur Road prison as documents related to his release did reach jail authorities in time on Friday, while the HC imposed 14 conditions on him, including bond payment of Rs 1 lakh and weekly visit to the NCB office here. In the evening, a special court issued the release memo for Aryan Khan, granted bail by the HC on Thursday after 25 days of arrest in the case related to alleged seizure of drugs onboard a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast earlier this month, but his legal could not meet the deadline for submission of papers. Shah Rukh Khan's actor-friend Juhi Chawla stood as surety for his 23-year-old son before the special court, designated to hear cases related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). We won't give special treatment for anyone. The law is the same for all. The deadline for receiving the bail papers was 5.30 pm. That has passed. He won't be released today, senior jail official told PTI. The HC on Friday afternoon made available its operative order in which it imposed 14 bail conditions on Aryan Khan and his co-accused in the case, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were also granted bail, stipulating their release on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh each with one or two sureties of the same amount. In the five-page order, signed by Justice N W Sambre, the high court said the trio will have to surrender their passports before the NDPS court and shall not leave India without taking permission from the special court and that they will have to attend the NCB office each Friday between 11 am and 2 pm to mark their presence. The judge will give a detailed bail order with reasons next week. The HC said if the trio violate any of the conditions imposed then the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is probing the cruise drugs case, shall "straightaway apply to the special judge/court for cancellation of their bail." "Each of the applicants/accused shall execute personal bond of Rs 1 lakh with one or more sureties in the like amount," the order said. The HC said the accused shall not personally or through anyone make any attempt to influence witnesses or tamper with the evidence. The high court directed the trio to surrender their passports before the special NDPS court and shall not leave India without taking permission from the special court. The accused should give prior intimation to the NCB before leaving Mumbai and shall provide with their itinerary. It added that Aryan Khan, his friend Merchant and Dhamecha, a fashion model, shall not indulge in any activity similar to the activities on the basis of which the present case stands registered against them for offences under the NDPS Act. The HC further said the trio shall not establish any contact with any of the co-accused in the case or anyone involved in similar activities, and join the investigation as and when called by the NCB. "Once the trial begins, the applicants/accused shall not in any manner try to delay the trial," the court said. While Aryan Khan and Merchant are lodged at the Arthur Road prison in central Mumbai, Dhamecha is at the Byculla women's prison. Chawla arrived at the special court along with Aryan Khan's legal team, including advocate Satish Maneshinde, and submitted the surety and necessary documents. They appeared before special Judge V V Patil where Maneshinde said Chawla would be standing as surety and submitted her Aadhaar card for verification. While Chawla stood in front of the judge, Maneshinde told the court that the actress knows the applicant (Aryan Khan) since his childhood and that she and his father (Shah Rukh Khan) are professionally associated. The court, after verification, accepted the surety following which Chawla was asked to go to the court's registry department to sign the necessary papers. Once there, a crowd gathered to click photos with the actress. After Chawla signed the papers, they were sent back to the court for the judge to sign the surety bond and issue the release memo. While leaving the court building, Chawla told reporters, "There is a sense of relief in the family. We are all happy it is over." Aryan Khan's legal team later left the court with the memo for the Arthur Road prison, but failed to meet the 5.30 pm deadline for jail officials to accept release documents. Earlier, Aryan Khan's legal team had indicated that a slight postponement till 7 pm" was possible. Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha were arrested by the NCB on October 3 and booked under relevant sections of the NDPS Act for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs and conspiracy and abetment. Their arrest came a day after the NCB raided the cruise ship and claimed to have seized banned drugs. So far, 20 people have been arrested in the case and two of them were granted bail by the special NDPS court earlier this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
29-10-2021||India||India will use margin of persuasion to cut down fuel prices: Minister||India will use whatever “margin of persuasion” it has while talking to oil-producing nations to make sure the fuel prices are down in the country, oil minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Friday. He added that India's dependence on traditional energy sources such as petrol and coal will remain for a very long time and the transition to green energy sources will be orderly only if their prices are affordable. In his speech at the Indo-Pacific Regional Dialogue organised by the Indian Navy, Puri said, "As a minister, the government is very sensitive to prices. And I can tell you, with total confidence, that we will use whatever margin of persuasion we have, bilaterally with my counterparts, or multilaterally or plurilaterally, to make sure the prices are down." A week back, the minister had said India is looking to bring together public sector undertakings (PSU) and private sector refiners to seek better crude oil import deals from Saudi Arabia and other nations. International oil prices climbing to a multi-year high of USD 85 per barrel has sent local retail petrol, diesel and LPG prices to record levels. India, which imports 85 per cent of its oil needs and is the world's third-largest energy-consuming and importing country, has been impressing upon producers to raise output to help stabilise rates at affordable levels. The minister also said, "We are going to make the transition to green and sustainable energy very quickly but out dependence on the traditional energy is going to be around for a very long time. Let's make no mistakes on that." "If we don't get the price right, and if we don't allow energy access at affordable prices, we are going to have a problem in ensuring that the transition from here to green energy will be orderly," he mentioned. India is the only country where as the per-capita energy consumption is one-third of the global average, the growth will be exponential in terms of energy requirement, he mentioned. There is a positive and negative side to it, Puri said. If the prices by the main producers remain high and more oil is not put in the market, it will at some stage affect us, the minister added. Today, India's petrol consumption and diesel consumption is 20 per cent and 12-14 per cent higher than before the Covid-19 pandemic, respectively, he stated. “This means that the economy is firing away on all six cylinders,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
29-10-2021||India||DRDO, IAF conduct successful flight test of long-range bomb||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Indian Air Force (IAF) jointly conducted a successful flight test of a long-range bomb (LRB) in Odisha on Friday, the Defence Ministry said.  "The LRB, after release from the IAF fighter aircraft, guided to a land-based target at a long range with accuracy within specified limits," the ministry said in a statement.  All the mission objectives were successfully met, it mentioned.  "The flight of the bomb and the performance were monitored by a number of range sensors, including electro optical tracking system (EOTS), telemetry and radar," it noted.  The LRB has been designed and developed by DRDO labs, it stated.  Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday congratulated DRDO, IAF and other teams associated with successful flight trial and stated that this will prove to be a force multiplier for India's armed forces.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||TMC is national party, stands for 'temple, mosque, church', Mamata Banerjee says in Goa||Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee, on a visit to Goa where polls are due next year, on Friday said her party is national and "can go anywhere", and its initials -- TMC -- also stand for "temple, mosque and church."  The BJP calls her "anti-Hindu", but it has no right to issue a "character certificate", the West Bengal chief minister said.  Asked whether she was eyeing the prime minister's post in 2024, she evaded reply.  The West Bengal chief minister, who arrived in the BJP-ruled Goa on Thursday evening on a three-day visit, said the TMC did not intend to divide votes in the coastal state, and if it came to power, Goa will not be run from Delhi.  On Friday, she met local party leaders and also interacted with members of the fishing community at Malim Jetty near here.  Tennis player Leander Paes, actor Nafisa Ali and entrepreneur Mrinalini Deshprabhu joined the TMC in her presence.  Addressing local TMC leaders at another event, Banerjee said, "When I come to Goa, they deface my posters. You (BJP) will be blacklisted by the people from the country.  "You deface us, show black flags, refuse to grant permission (to hold event) because you know that TMC will die but will never compromise," she further said.  If the TMC won power in Goa, it will not pursue an agenda of revenge but work for the state, she said.  Listing various welfare schemes implemented by her government in West Bengal, she said her party can do it in a smaller state like Goa too.  "I will be happy to do it. I am not going to be the chief minister of Goa, but I will see to it that there is a policy, mechanism and no corruption in the government," Banerjee added.  The TMC is a national party and "it can go anywhere," she asserted.  "We will work for Goa in a resolute way. It is not that we want to divide votes. You have given opportunity to all (other) parties, now give opportunity to the TMC," Banerjee said.  "BJP calls me anti-Hindu, but they are no one to give me character certificate. They should first decide their own character certificate," she said.  The TMC doesn't divide people on the basis of religion but "we unite people," and the party's initials "stand for temple, mosque and church," Banerjee added.  Recalling her stint as a Union minister in the past, the TMC chief said she has travelled across the country. "I know India very well," she said.  The West Bengal Chief Minister on Friday deflected questions about whether she will be in the race for the prime minister's post in the next general elections.  "If I tell you everything right now what I will tell later?" she told reporters while responding to a question if she is running for the country's top post in 2024.  Speculation is rife that after her party Trinamool Congress's resounding victory in the West Bengal Assembly polls earlier this year, Banerjee eyes to take up a larger role in national politics prior to the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. When asked whether the motive behind her party TMC contesting the upcoming Goa polls was part of larger plan of the next Lok Sabha elections, Banerjee said, "We will contest the elections in 2024."  "We are transparent. We don't play hide and seek. We are a transparent party," she asserted.  When another journalist asked the same question, Banerjee said in a lighter vein, "Why don't you contest the election for PM's post. You are media, you can also contest."  TMC's poll strategist for Goa elections, Prashant Kishor, had recently said the BJP will remain at the centre of Indian politics for the next several decades and the party will not go anywhere irrespective of whether it wins or loses.  When asked about his statement, Banerjee said that instead of asking her about it, the reporters should raise the query with Kishor.  "Maybe, he means to say that if we don't do it properly, BJP is going to stay," she said.  Founded in 1998, the TMC, which currently rules West Bengal, has announced that it will contest all 40 seats in Goa in the upcoming polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||Delhi eases Covid norms, allows cinema halls to reopen with full seating capacity||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday issued an order allowing full-seating capacity in cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes, and also raised the number of people allowed to attend weddings and last rites from 100 to 200.  The order, listing various allowed and restricted activities because of the Covid pandemic, will come into effect from November 1.  It stated that owners of cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes will be responsible for strict adherence to standard operating protocol (SOP), official guidelines and Covid-appropriate behaviour at the premises.  "In case any violation is found, strict penal, criminal action shall be taken against the owner of the restaurant, bar, cinemas, theatres and multiplexes," said the order.  Cinemas, theatres, multiplexes in the city were closed with the imposition of lockdown in April amid a raging second wave of Covid infections. They were allowed to reopen with 50 per cent seating capacity in the last week of July.  The order also allowed meetings and conferences in banquet halls of the city. So far, only marriages and exhibitions were allowed there.  The order permitted funeral and marriage-related gatherings with a ceiling of 200 people. During the Covid surge in April, attendance at funerals was scaled down to 20 while marriages were permitted with the presence of 50 people.  With improvement in the Covid situation, 100 people were allowed in both types of gatherings.  All classes in schools will also resume from November 1 according to the order. This decision was taken in a meeting of DDMA earlier this week because of appreciable improvement in the Covid situation in the city. Senior classes (nine to 12) were restarted earlier with a maximum 50 per cent seating capacity.  All social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious gatherings will remain prohibited. However, festival-related gatherings will be allowed according to the DDMA's September 30 order.  Restaurants and bars will continue to open with a 50 per cent seating capacity. Delhi Metro and public transport buses will ply with full seating capacity but no standing passengers will be allowed, stated the order.  All the allowed and restricted activities will be permitted till the intervening night of November 15-16 or till any further orders, it added. The DDMA on Friday allowed Chhath Puja celebrations at designated sites in the city except the banks of Yamuna river.  The directions were issued in an order released on Friday.  The celebration of Chhath Puja during the month of November shall be allowed only at designated sites outside containment zones with requisite permission from the district magistrate. No site shall be designated on the bank of river Yamuna, the DDMA order said.  The DDMA had on Wednesday given its nod to Chhath Puja in Delhi.  The authority further said designated sites shall be identified and managed by the respective district magistrate in coordination with departments and agencies concerned.  Chhath, celebrated after Diwali by people belonging to Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh, involves offering of 'Arghya' by fasting women to the Sun god in knee-deep water.  The order clearly stated that strict adherence of Covid-appropriate behaviour, which include wearing mask, social distancing, and use of sanitiser, is mandatory.  The order said at designated sites, puja material offered by devotees should be collected by the municipal authorities concerned and other relevant agencies for immediate and proper disposal in a scientific manner.  "All devotees shall be strictly prohibited from throwing puja material like food grain, oil etc into river Yamuna.  "It shall be ensured that no such material is permitted to join the main stream of river at any point," the DDMA order stated.  It also asked all organisers of Chhath Puja to submit an undertaking to the district magistrate of the area in respect of strict adherence of the guidelines of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and the Yamuna Monitoring Committee.  The DDMA order also said that people, including devotees and organisers, will have to follow guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in October last year.  On October 6, 2020, the Union Health Ministry has issued standard operating procedure for festival season where it had said that individuals shall maintain minimum six feet distance in public places.  It had also made mandatory wearing of face masks. It had asked authorities for pre-planning in case of mass gathering and ensure separate entry and exit of visitors.  Earlier, in an order issued on September 30, the DDMA had prohibited Chhath celebrations at public places, including at riverbanks, water bodies and temples, in view of the threat posed by COVID-19.  Following this, the BJP staged protest and also at the residence of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and demanded that Chhath celebrations should be allowed.  Later on October 14, Kejriwal wrote a letter to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to allow Chhath Puja in Delhi.  The DDMA earlier this week allowed Chhath Puja celebrations in Delhi in a meeting attended by Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal and Kejriwal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||Celebration cannot be at cost of others' health: Supreme Court||Celebration cannot be at the cost of others' health, the Supreme Court said on Friday and clarified that while there is no total ban on use of firecrackers, those fireworks which contain Barium salts are prohibited.  Warning that top officials at various levels "shall be held personally liable" for any lapses, the apex court said it is unfortunate that despite various directions issued by it there is a blatant violation going on.  Despite the ban on use of Barium Salts in the firecrackers, prohibited crackers are being manufactured, transported, sold and used, it said.  A bench of Justices M R Shah and A S Bopanna said that no authority can be permitted to violate the directions issued by it and allow banned firecrackers in the guise of celebration.  Everybody including the implementing agencies are bound to see that the directions issued by the courts are implemented and followed in true spirit and in toto, the top court said.  Prima facie it appears that the implementing agencies of the concerned states either lack desire to implement the directions issued by this Court or they close their eyes for whatever reasons, it said.  The apex court further asserted that celebration cannot be at the cost of the other's health.  Under the guise of celebration, nobody can be permitted to infringe the right to health of others, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India and nobody can be allowed to play with the life of the others, more particularly the senior citizens and the children, it said.  "It is made clear that there is no total ban on use of firecrackers. Only those firecrackers are banned, as directed hereinabove, which are found to be injurious to health and affecting the health of the citizens, more particularly the senior citizens and the children," the bench said.  It further noted that under the guise of 'green crackers' banned chemicals firecrackers are being sold and there is a mislabelling on the boxes and even the QR codes provided on the boxes of 'green crackers' are alleged to be fake.  "There is a report submitted by the CBI submitted pursuant to the earlier directions/orders passed by this Court and it prima facie appears that there is a blatant violation of the directions issued by this Court by the respective manufacturers and the banned firecrackers are being sold and used in the markets. The allegations, if found to be true, are very serious and cannot be tolerated," the apex court said.  The court reiterated the directions issued by it earlier including banning the use of Barium Salts in the firecrackers and manufacturing and selling joined firecrackers.  It directed all the states/Union Territories to see that the directions issued earlier by it as also on Friday are strictly complied with in true spirit and in toto.  "Any lapse on the part of the State Governments/ State Agencies and UTs shall be viewed very seriously and if it is found that any banned firecrackers are manufactured, sold and used in any particular area, the Chief Secretary of the concerned State(s), the Secretary (Homes) of the concerned State(s) and the Commissioner of Police and DSP of the concerned area and the SHO/Police Officer in-charge of the concerned police station shall be held personally liable," the bench said.  Nobody can be permitted to flout and disobey the directions issued by the top court, it said, adding that any wilful and deliberate disobedience shall have to be viewed very seriously.  It directed all the states/UTs to give due publicity through electronic/print media and local cable services to make the people aware of the directions issued by the court on manufacture, use and sale of banned firecrackers.  The matter is listed for further consideration on November 30.  The SC Thursday had dispelled the impression that it was against a particular group or community by banning firecrackers and said it cannot allow violation of rights of citizens under the guise of enjoyment.  It had made it clear that it wants full implementation of its orders to send a message that it is here to protect the rights of people and can even pass an order for CBI investigation concerning those manufacturers who are selling fake green crackers.  "Under the guise of enjoyment, you (manufacturers) cannot play with the lives of citizens. We are not against a particular community. We want to send a strong message that we are here for the protection of fundamental rights of citizens," the bench had said.  The bench had said that it is not averse to the celebration but not at the cost of the life of other citizens.  The apex court said that celebration does not mean the use of loud crackers and it can also be from "Fuljhaddi" etc which are not noisy. It had ordered six manufacturers to show cause why they should not be punished for contempt of its orders.  It had said it cannot infringe the right to life of other citizens under the guise of employment while considering a ban on firecrackers and its prime focus is the right to life of innocent citizens.  The apex court had earlier refused to impose a complete ban on the sale of firecrackers and said that sales can happen through only licensed traders and that only green crackers can be sold. The online sale of firecrackers has been completely banned.  The verdict had come in response to a plea seeking a ban on the manufacturing and sale of firecrackers across the country to curb air pollution.  In the past, the apex court had said that while deciding on a ban on firecrackers, it is imperative to take into account the fundamental right of livelihood of firecracker manufacturers and the right to health of over 1.3 billion people of the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||Around 30 detained for attempting to disrupt Friday namaz in Gurugram||Around 30 people were detained by police for allegedly gathering to disrupt Friday namaz offered by Muslims in Sector 12 area here.  Amid a heavy police presence in the area, the protesters, mainly from various Hindu outfits, gathered and raised 'Jai Shri Ram' and 'Bharat Mata ki Jai' slogans even as the members of the Muslim community were arriving at the spot to offer prayers.  Carrying placards in their hands, they also raised slogans against the administration for allowing the Muslim community to offer namaz at designated open places in the city.  Though the situation remained peaceful, a police official said that around 30 protesters had been taken into preventive detention.  Talking to reporters, Sub Divisional Magistrate of Gurgaon Ankita Choudhary said, On this place people have been offering namaz for the last two years."  "There were some people from other group who were trying to stop them. So we asked them not to create nuisance and (affect) law and order situation. When they didn't listen to the administration and the police even after repeated warnings, they were detained just to maintain order, she said.  They were detained as a precautionary measure, she added.  Asked who were those who had been detained, she said investigation is going on in this regard.  Earlier in the day, police personnel had been deployed in strength following threats from some Hindu groups to disrupt public order if prayers are offered in the open.  Three years ago, the district administration had designated 37 sites in the city for Muslims to offer Friday namaz, after which there were protests by some Hindu groups.  A few months ago, one group started protests against the prayers offered in the open after which there have been protests on Fridays during this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan to spend one more night in Mumbai prison as release papers miss deadline||Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, will spend one more night in Mumbai's Arthur Road prison as a senior jail official said his release papers did not reach them within the stipulated time.  We won't give special treatment for anyone. The law is the same for all. The deadline for receiving the bail papers was 5.30 pm. That has passed. He won't be released today, the official told PTI.  The assertion by the prison official came even as there were indications from Aryan's legal team that a slight postponement till 7 pm" was possible.  While granting Aryan bail on Thursday in the drugs-on-cruise case, the Bombay High Court imposed 14 bail conditions on him, paving the way for his release from jail.  In the five-page order, the high court said that Aryan Khan and and his two co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were also granted bail, shall be released on a personal bond of Rs one lakh each with one or two sureties of the same amount.  As per the conditions set by the high court, the trio will have to surrender their passports before the special NDPS court and shall not leave India without taking permission from the special court and that they will have to attend the NCB office each Friday to mark their presence.  The HC had granted bail to Aryan Khan, 25 days after he was arrested during a drug raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||Modi 24-carat gold, no single stain of corruption on him: Rajnath Singh||Hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi as "24-carat gold", Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday said he is perhaps the only leader after Mahatma Gandhi with deep understanding of Indian society and its psychology.  Singh, a former BJP president, said Modi's political journey of last two decades as head of government should be taught in management schools as a case study on "effective leadership and efficient governance".  Speaking at length about the last two decades of Modi's political journey, Singh said, "A true leadership is identified by its intent and integrity and in both cases, Modiji is 24-carat gold. There is not a single stain of corruption on him even after being the head of a government for 20 years."  He was speaking at the valedictory session of a national conference on 'Delivering Democracy: Reviewing 2 Decades of Narendra Modi as Head of Govt'.  Singh said Modi is not merely a person, but an idea, a thought.  "If we look at his political journey of the last two decades, we will find that new challenges kept coming before him. But the way he faced those challenges should be taught in management schools as a case study on effective leadership and efficient governance," the defence minister said.  Singh said the way Modi overcame challenges, it shows his deep understanding of Indian society. "He is perhaps the only leader after Mahatma Gandhi with deep understanding of Indian society and its psychology."  Referring to the systematic changes that the Modi government is trying to bring in, Singh said the government has changed many times in this country, "but for the first time efforts are being to made change the system. You can find loopholes in this effort but Modiji's intent cannot be disbelieved."  Touching upon the government's agenda of a self-reliant India, the defence minister said hundred years ago Mahatma Gandhi spoke about 'Swadeshi' and after him, Deendayal Upadhyaya spoke about it.  "Now Modiji has brought Swadeshi 4.0 with new context and subtext. This is not a campaign against anyone but a positive effort to strengthen local products and brands," Singh said.  Talking about Modi's tenure as Gujarat chief minister, Singh said he took the state on the path of holistic development and worked for the progress of every section of the society.  The defence minister said Modi gave the mantra of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' and then as prime minister added 'Sabka Vishwas, Sabka Prayas' to it.  "Yeh nara 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas' dete huiyae Narendra bhai Modi ne Gujarat mein panth nirpekshta ki ek nai ibarat likh di (By giving this slogan of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas', Narendra Bhai Modi in Gujarat wrote a new chapter of unbiasedness towards any religion)," Singh said, adding secularism does not mean unbiasedness towards any religion.  Singh also cited various reforms and schemes started by Modi as Gujarat chief minister.  Stating that there is no difference between Modi's words and deeds, the defence minister said he accepted the crisis of credibility in Indian politics as a challenge and overcame it.  Discussing Modi's commitment to development, Singh said for a long time, promotion of trade, industry and business was avoided in this country.  "It was believed that if you stand with business and industry then your social commitment is weak. Modiji gave a tough challenge to this misconception. He recognised and respected industry and entrepreneurs in nation building, supported and promoted them also," Singh said.  Singh shared details of his long association with Modi when they were chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat respectively, and said Modi's amazing decision-making ability and imaginative power impressed him the most.  Modi served as chief minister of Gujarat from 2001 till his election as prime minister in 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||Usman Ashraf, a Rising Musician, Talks about His Accomplishments||Some people are clear and sure about their goals and what they want to achieve in their lives. And to make these goals possible, they go to any length and do not hesitate to give their best to make it happen. And when they achieve their goal, it only turns them into more supportive, humble, and kind people who understand the real struggles behind any success. Usman Ashraf, a talented musician with lots of successful music pieces and thousands of fans, has such a humble and positive persona. His success and fame only made him into a people’s loving person. With family support and good financial status, Usman’s life was not really that hard, but he faced many bumps on his road to achieving his dreams. Since the age of six, music was all he loved and cared about. It was his passion and everything he had. Acknowledging his passion, his parents got him a guitar on his birthday, and that was the day when a six years old kid knew exactly what he wanted to do in his life. Usman showed no interest in hanging out with his friends in the parks or running on the streets. He would simply pick his guitar and sit in his room making and recreating the musical rhythms and tunes. Everything was smooth until he graduated high school and had to choose a career choice. Call it peer pressure or social opinions, Usman ended up in a medical school to become a doctor for a financially stable future. As soon as he joined medical school, he realized he had made the biggest mistake of his life. He couldn’t put himself to get buried in the fat books of medicine. Instead, he would stay up all night, playing new music, and remembering how much he loves doing that. Eventually, his passion won, and he quit medical school to chase his lifelong dream of becoming a great musician. Usman wants to connect to people and inspire them with his music. He expresses his emotions and thoughts through his music and hopes people would decipher his tunes and relate to them. His music’s goal is to spread love, positivity, and hope in people’s lives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||For Modi to be PM in 2024, Yogi must win as UP CM in 2022: Shah||Scotching speculation over the BJP's chief ministerial face in the coming UP assembly elections, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday said Yogi Adityanath has to become CM in 2022 for Narendra Modi to be sworn in as the prime minister again in 2024.  The Union Home Minister made the decisive remark at a function while kickstarting the BJP's membership expansion drive here at the Defence Expo Ground and addressing the BJP's Shakti Kendra conveners and in-charges of the Awadh region.  On the occasion, the former BJP president also unveiled a slogan Mera Parivar, BJP Parivar amid the party consistently dubbing its rivals and opposition parties as "family-run parties".  When Modi Ji is the prime minister, he gives all that is required by Uttar Pradesh. The foundation of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, which has to be won under the leadership of Modi Ji, will be laid in the 2022 assembly elections here, the Union Home Minister said.  Modi Ji has to be made the Prime Minister in 2024 and (for that) Yogi Ji will have to be made the UP chief minister once again in 2022, he said.  Terming the upcoming polls as elections meant to make Bharat Mata a 'Vishwa Guru' (world leader), Shah said after Deepawali, the electioneering will gain momentum and exhorted party men to work dedicatedly for it.  When the BJP men come out and walk with the lotus flag and its slogans, the opposition parties start feeling threatened, he said, further exhorting the party men to aim at winning more than 300 seats in the upcoming UP assembly polls.  Pointing out that the BJP's membership expansion drives were started earlier before the 2014, 2017 and 2019 elections, Shah said the membership campaign before the 2022 elections is being launched on Friday.  Recalling the glorious past of the state, Shah said since the Mughal rule till the BJP came to power in 2017 with a full majority, it never appeared that Uttar Pradesh is the land of Baba Vishwanath, Lord Ram and Lord Krishna.  He emphasised that the BJP worked for getting the right recognition due to the state and took it ahead to empower it further.  The BJP has proved for the first time that the governments are formed not for the family but for the poorest of the poor in the state, he said, taking a dig at various opposition parties.  Attacking opposition parties and leaders, especially Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and his poll-related activities, Shah said after the drums of elections were sounded, those sitting at home have come out in new clothes to show that their government is going to be formed .  "I ask Akhilesh (Yadav) to give an account for how many days he stayed abroad in five years, give the account to the people of UP," he said.  "These people ruled for themselves, for their families and if they had any broader thinking, for their caste men but never for anyone else, Shah further taunted.  Recalling the 1990 police firing at Kar Sevaks in Ayodhya during the Mulayam Singh Yadav regime, Shah said these people in 2014, 2017 and 2019, mocked the BJP with their slogans mandir wahin banayenge, par tithi nahi batayenge (Will build the temple there but won't tell the date when it will start) .  But the foundation stone for a grand Lord Ram Lala temple has already been laid in Ayodhya today and the construction work is on in full swing, he thundered.  Under the guidance of Modi Ji, Yogi Ji has run the government for the poor, women, youth and the unemployed, he stressed, lauding the working of the Yogi government.  Shah also attacked Gandhi and Vadra families along with the SP and BSP.  The former BJP president was welcomed by prominent leaders and ministers including Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh and Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya at the Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport Lucknow on his arrival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||Cruise drugs: HC directs Aryan Khan to execute personal bond of Rs one lakh for bail||The Bombay High Court on Friday said Aryan Khan, son of superstar Shah Rukh Khan, shall be released on a personal bond of Rs one lakh with one or two sureties of the same amount. A copy of the five-page operative order was signed by Justice N W Sambre on Friday afternoon. This would help Aryan Khan's advocates to secure his release from the Arthur Road prison in central Mumbai, where he is lodged, by evening. Aryan Khan's advocates will now take the certified copy of the HC order to the special court that is hearing the cases related to the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, along with the requisite documents and sureties. After verification, the special court will issue the release papers which would be handed over to the Arthur Road prison to secure Aryan Khan's release. In its order, the high court has imposed 14 conditions on Aryan Khan and co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were also granted bail. A single bench of Justice N W Sambre had on Thursday granted bail to Aryan Khan, 25 days after he was arrested during a drug raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. The high court had said it would provide a copy of its order on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-77
29-10-2021||India||Attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh a well-orchestrated conspiracy, claims RSS||The RSS on Friday said that the recent attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh during the Durga Puja festivities was a "well-orchestrated" conspiracy to uproot minorities and called upon the Government of India to communicate to its neighbour, the global Hindu concern and ensure Dhaka stops the attacks on minorities. Briefing the media about the resolution passed in the three-day all India Executive Committee meeting of the RSS here, its Joint General Secretary Arun Kumar said the Sangh demands the Bangladesh government should act tough against elements who orchestrated the attacks and ensure the perpetrators are handed stringent punishment. The three-day Akhil Bharatiya Karyakari Mandal Baithak of the RSS went underway here from Thursday. "The attack on Hindus in Bangladesh is a well-orchestrated conspiracy to exterminate and uproot minorities. The objective of the attack was to create religious clashes through fake news," Kumar said, referring to the resolution. The Centre should open all its diplomatic channels with Bangladesh to communicate the global Hindu concern and ask the government there to stop attacks on Hindus and Buddhists, the outfit urged. It also urged the Bangladesh government to act tough against such elements who orchestrated the attacks and ensure the perpetrators are handed stringent punishment. Further, the 'silence' of the United Nations and other human rights organisations on the issue "displays their double standards," it alleged. RSS resolved it wants the perpetrators to be punished so that Hindus, Buddhists and other minorities lead their life with dignity and peace in the neighbouring country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||Leander Paes, Nafisa Ali join Trinamul Congress in Goa||Tennis veteran Leander Paes on Friday joined the Trinamul Congress in presence of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee here. Senior actor and activist Nafisa Ali, who contested the 2004 Lok Sabha elections from South Kolkata against Banerjee, also joined the party. Banerjee, who is in the coastal state on a three-day visit, welcomed Paes into the party fold. The Trinamul Congress supremo told her party workers in poll-bound Goa that the BJP calls her "anti-Hindu" although it has no authority to give a "character certificate" to her, and added that the initial letters in her party's name - TMC - also stand for temple, mosque and church. The West Bengal chief minister, who arrived in Goa on Thursday evening as part of her three-day visit to the BJP-ruled state, also said her party wants to fight elections here not to divide votes but to make the coastal state "strong and self-sufficient" and asserted that the state will not be run from Delhi. She said her party doesn't divide people on religious lines even if they are Hindus, Muslims or Christians. The TMC has announced its decision to contest all 40 Assembly seats in Goa in the upcoming polls and started inducting several local leaders into its fold. Banerjee's tour is being seen as an attempt by her to gauge political mood in the state ahead of the Assembly polls slated in early 2022. During her maiden interaction with the TMC leaders in Goa, Banerjee accused the BJP of defacing her posters in the state and said people of India will deface the saffron party. "When I come to Goa, they deface my posters. You will be defaced from India," she said. "You deface us (our posters), show black flags, refuse to grant permission (to hold event) because you know that TMC will due but will never compromise," she said while targeting the ruling BJP in Goa. Banerjee said that if the TMC comes to power in Goa, it will not work with the agenda of revenge, but work for the state. Listing out various welfare schemes rolled out by her government in her home state, she said if the TMC can do it in West Bengal, the it can also do it the small state of Goa. "I will be happy to do it. I am not going to be the chief minister of Goa, but I will see that there is policy, mechanism and no corruption in the government," she said. Banerjee said the TMC is a national party and it can go anywhere. "We will work for Goa in a strong manner. It is not that we want to divide votes. You have given opportunity to all parties, now give opportunity to the TMC," she said. She said the initial three letters in her party's name TMC also stand for temple, mosque and church. "BJP calls me anti-Hindu, but they are no one to give me character certificate. They should first decide their own character certificate," the 66-year-old leader said. Stating that the TMC doesn't divide people on the basis of religions - be they are Hindus, Muslims or Christians, Banerjee said, "We unite people." She narrated how she has been associated with the all the religions by way of festivals and rituals. Recalling her stint as a Union minister earlier, the TMC chief said she has travelled the country. "I know India very well," she said. Calling the TMC a transparent party, she said, "If you trust us, the party will give its fullest to back to you...Goa will not be run from Delhi." Banerjee said her party wants to make Goa strong and self-sufficient and also protect the state's cultural heritage. Referring to the Congress, she said the party has contested elections for 60-70 years. "Last time (in 2017 Goa polls), you (Congress) allowed the BJP to form the government. They may repeat the same thing. How can we trust them? TMC is ready to give their blood for Goa, but it will not compromise with BJP," she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||We trust Indian industry, says WHO official on Covaxin EUL||India's Bharat Biotech has been submitting data on the EUL of Covaxin regularly and very quickly to a technical committee which hopes to have a final recommendation to the WHO next week, a top official of the global health agency said on Thursday, stressing that the UN body "trusts" the Indian industry that manufactures high quality vaccines. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, which has developed Covaxin, had submitted EOI (Expression of Interest) to the World Health Organisation on April 19 for the vaccine's Emergency Use Listing (EUL). A technical advisory group of the UN health agency which met on Tuesday has sought "additional clarifications" from Bharat Biotech for Covaxin to conduct a final risk-benefit assessment for Emergency Use Listing of the vaccine. "Let me say that Bharat has been submitting data regularly and very quickly, but they submitted the last batch of data on the 18th of October, Dr Mariangela Simao, Assistant Director General, Access to Medicines and Health Products at WHO, said at a press briefing in Geneva. She was responding to a question on the delay in granting the Emergency Use Listing to Covaxin while Chinese vaccines Sinopharm and Sinovac were given approval even with lack of data. Simao said that when the technical advisory group met on October 26 to discuss the EUL for Covaxin, they asked Bharat Biotech for additional clarifications. The technical advisory group will reconvene on November 2 for the final risk-benefit assessment of Covaxin EUL. She said WHO is in touch with Bharat Biotech and has "daily conversations and calls and meetings clarifying what additional data needs" to be submitted to the technical expert group. "Let me just clarify and without wanting to mention any specific manufacturer but saying that we have assessed an Indian manufacturer earlier in the year and it took 30 days, she said, a reference to the Serum Institute of India which manufactures the AstraZeneca Covishield vaccine. "So this is not about moving quicker with one or another vaccine We really trust the Indian industry. India produces different majority of vaccines in the world, high quality vaccines. We are right now at the last stage of the assessment by this external advisory group and we hope to have a final recommendation to the WHO next week. I hope that's well understood. She said that it is important to highlight that the process that WHO uses for issuing the Emergency Use Listing is a very transparent process and there are no secrets involved except for any confidential information. "Everything else, the procedures that WHO uses, are independent of which country is manufacturing the vaccine," she said, adding that the process is based on the best international standards available. Simao also noted that sometimes WHO needs to inspect the manufacturer, if it hasn't done an inspection in the recent term. "It wasn't the case of Bharat. We did not need to inspect Bharat, she said, adding that once the manufacturer has completed submitting all the data to WHO, it is put through for assessment by an external Technical Advisory Group, which comprises experts from six different nationalities and they look at all the data that has been collected by WHO, provided by the manufacturer in recommend the Emergency Use Listing. She noted that in the case of the two Chinese vaccines also, the group had asked for additional clarifications and the entire process was followed to assess the Chinese vaccines. One of the Chinese vaccines was issued Emergency Use Listing one month after the first technical advisory group meeting, while the second vaccine was given EUL after six weeks, she said. Simao noted that at the moment, including Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, WHO is assessing eight vaccine candidates. She said Bharat Biotech started the rolling submission on July 6. We are treating this as a very urgent matter and we have teams working seven by seven on the topic. Responding to the Covaxin question, Dr Bruce Aylward, Senior Advisor to WHO Director General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said that in the stressful situation we are all working under in this pandemic, it is so important that we're accurate in the information that we use and that we share. And we just want to highlight, be on the record, that there were a number of inaccuracies in the way the issue was presented. He added that the actual information about the EUL dates, the process is all available transparently on the WHO website. We're committed at the organisation from the very top under the Director General to move these processes as rapidly as possible. But let's be very clear, the timeline for EULing a vaccine depends 99% on manufacturers, the speed, the completeness with which they can get data to the independent groups that assesses for WHO. We just want to be very, very clear on that point. Aylward added that WHO's job is to save as many lives as possible and as fast as possible. This includes ensuring no product lies unused. While the organisation does everything, he said, we need manufacturers, the regulator agencies, others we work with to make sure they have the information they need to make those determinations. We need to make sure the products are safe and effective and produced to the right quality. And that takes a little bit of time, but it's in the interest of global safety. WHO Chief Scientist Soumya Swaminathan said that one of the reasons for the high amount of stress that people who've received vaccines which are not yet approved, either by WHO or by any of the other main stringent regulatory agencies, is because of restrictions in travel that have been imposed. She reiterated that the emergency committee that reviews the International Health Regulations met again last week and underlined their previous recommendations that countries should not use vaccination status or selective vaccination status as the sole criteria for entry for travel. Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and AstraZeneca and Oxford University's Covishield are the two widely used vaccines in India. The WHO has so far approved Covid-19 vaccines of Pfizer-BioNTech, AstraZeneca-SK Bio/Serum Institute of India, Johnson & Johnson-Janssen, Moderna, and Sinopharm for emergency use.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||Railway Ministry withdraws decision on sharing IRCTC convenience fee||The Ministry of Railways has decided to withdraw its decision on sharing of convenience fee earned by IRCTC on online bookings of train tickets, DIPAM Secretary said on Friday. "Ministry of Railways has decided to withdraw the decision on IRCTC convenience fee," DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey tweeted. The Indian Railways Catering and Transportation Corporation (IRCTC) on Thursday said that the Ministry of Railways has asked it to share 50 per cent of its revenue earned as a convenience fee from bookings on its website with the national transporter. Convenience fees charged from customers generated a sizable revenue for IRCTC. The fee is not part of the rail fare. It is for the service of online ticket booking offered by the IRCTC. Shares of IRCTC on Friday tanked nearly 10 per cent in opening trade to Rs 822.40 apiece. It recovered some ground after the government decided to withdraw its decision on IRCTC convenience fee and was trading at 887.35, down 2.89 per cent on the BSE. IRCTC listed on the stock exchanges on October 14, 2019 at Rs 644 a piece after selling shares at Rs 320 apiece in an initial public offering.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||Barricades at Ghazipur farmers' protest site being removed||The Delhi Police on Friday started removing the barricades and concertina wires it had put in place at the anti-farm laws protest site at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. Multiple layers of iron and cement barricades, and at least five layers of concertina wires were put up last year, and further strengthened after the January 26 violence this year during the farmers' protest against the three contentious farm laws. Deputy Commissioner of Police (east) Priyanka Kashyap said Friday, "The process of removing barricades on NH-9 has been started. The temporarily barricading is being removed to ease out vehicular movement. However, the National Highway 24 was already opened for the traffic." The opening of the road stretch would help thousands of commuters in Ghaziabad, Delhi, Noida as well as those travelling between the national capital and interiors of Uttar Pradesh to Meerut and beyond. Police officials and labourers were also seen removing iron nails that were studded on the NH9 at Ghazipur, where hundreds of protesters, chiefly belonging to the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), have been occupying a road stretch since November 2020. The BKU is a participant of the anti-farm laws movement spearheaded by farmers collective Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM). The removal of barricades comes after the October 21 Supreme Court direction that called for unblocking of roads which have remained out of bounds for commuters due to the protests at Delhi's border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur. While the protesting farmers have been claiming that the three laws enacted last year are against their interest, the Centre has been saying these legislations are pro-farmer. Thousands of farmers have been camping at the three borders points --- Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur --- protesting the Centre's three farm laws since November 26, 2020. About the removal of blockades at the Tikri Border on Thursday night, a senior police officer had said some layers of barricades that were placed by the police have been removed. The Supreme Court on October 21 had said farmers protesting at Delhi borders against the three farms laws have the right to agitate but they cannot block roads indefinitely.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan's lawyers await HC order copy on his bail to secure his release||Even as the Bombay High Court has granted bail to actor Shah Rukh Khan's son Aryan Khan, who was arrested in a drugs-on-cruise case, his lawyers will have to wait till they get the high court's operative order for taking further steps towards securing his release from jail. Once the high court gives the order copy on Aryan Khan's bail, his lawyers will have to take it to a special court hearing the NDPS cases along with other necessary documents, like sureties. The special court will then issue the release papers, which will have to be submitted to the jail superintendent by 6 pm to secure his release this evening. In case of any delay in the procedure, Aryan Khan will have to spend one more night at the Arthur Road jail in central Mumbai, where he is currently lodged, and could be released on Saturday. A single bench of Justice N W Sambre on Thursday granted bail to Aryan Khan, 25 days after he was arrested during a drug raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. The HC also granted bail to his co-accused and his friend Arbaaz Merchant and fashion model Munmun Dhamecha. The high court had said it would provide a copy of its order on Friday. Aryan Khan's advocate Satish Maneshinde on Friday said they are ready with all the requisite documents, including the sureties, and are waiting for the order copy from the high court. "We are prepared with our sureties. We are hoping to get the order copy from HC today. Once we receive it, we will submit the same along with all the necessary documents to the special NDPS court, Maneshinde told PTI. The NDPS court once satisfied with the sureties and other papers shall issue release papers which shall then be submitted to the jail, he added. "We hope to do it by this evening itself so that we can get Aryan Khan out of jail," Maneshinde said. As per the procedure laid down, if the formalities, which include submission of sureties, are complete and the release papers are submitted to the jail Superintendent by 6 pm, then the accused would be released on that day. Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on October 3 and were booked under the relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs and conspiracy and abetment to commit an offence. Aryan Khan and Merchant are lodged at the Arthur Road prison since October 8 after they were sent to judicial custody. Dhamecha has been lodged at the Byculla women's prison since October 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||India logs over 14,000 fresh Covid cases, 805 casualties in a day||With 14,348 people testing positive for coronavirus in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,42,46,157, while the active cases were recorded at 1,61,334, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The death toll climbed to 4,57,191 with 805 fresh fatalities, including 708 from Kerala, according to the data updated at 8 am. Kerala has been reconciling Covid deaths in the past few days, ministry officials said. Of the 708 deaths, 56 were reported in the last few days, 542 were those which were not confirmed until June 18 last year due to lack of adequate documentation and 110 were designated as Covid deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and Supreme Court directions, a state government release said on Thursday. The ministry said that daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 35 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 124 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.47 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.19 per cent, it said. An increase of 345 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,36,27,632, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.34 per cent. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.12 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 25 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.18 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 35 days, according to the ministry. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 104.82 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. A total of 4,57,191 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,134 from Maharashtra, 38,054 from Karnataka, 36,072 from Tamil Nadu, 30,685 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,900 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,105 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||Modi arrives in Italy to attend G20 Summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday arrived here in Italy to participate in the G20 Summit where he will join other leaders in discussions on global economic and health recovery from COVID-19, sustainable development and climate change. Landed in Rome to take part in the @g20org Summit, an important forum to deliberate on key global issues. I also look forward to other programmes through this visit to Rome, Modi said on Twitter soon after landing here. The Ministry of external Affairs (MEA) said in a statement that Prime Minister Modi arrived here for his visit to attend the 16th G-20 Summit. Prime Minister was received by senior officials of the Government of Italy and Ambassador of India in Italy, it said. MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Twitter that Modi arrived to a warm welcome. Arrivo a Roma! PM @narendramodi arrives to a warm welcome in the Eternal City. Looking forward to extensive engagements in bilateral and multilateral formats, Bagchi said in a tweet. In his departure statement on Thursday, Modi said he will be visiting Rome and the Vatican City from October 29-31 at the invitation of Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, following which he will travel to Glasgow, the UK, from November 1-2 at the invitation of British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. "In Rome, I will attend the 16th G20 Leaders' Summit, where I will join other G20 leaders in discussions on global economic and health recovery from the pandemic, sustainable development, and climate change," Modi said, noting this will be the first in-person summit of the G20 since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. Modi said the meeting will allow the G20 to take stock of the current global situation and exchange ideas on how the grouping can be an engine for strengthening economic resilience and building back inclusively and sustainably from the pandemic. "During my visit to Italy, I will also visit the Vatican City, to call on His Holiness Pope Francis and meet Secretary of State, His Eminence Cardinal Pietro Parolin," Modi said on Thursday. The prime minister said on the sidelines of the G20 Summit he will also meet with leaders of other partner countries and review the progress in India's bilateral relations with them. There would also be various bilateral and community-related programmes during this visit, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||Viond Rai apologises to Sanjay Nirupam over allegation||Vinod Rai, whose CAG reports on the 2G and coal-block allocation underlay portrayals of the UPA-II government as corrupt in its last years, has apologised to former MP Sanjay Nirupam for falsely accusing him of mounting pressure to remove Manmohan Singh’s name from one of the reports. The former CAG’s unconditional apology on Thursday, offered in a defamation case, prompted the Congress to describe Rai as a “fraud” and wonder what else he would have “lied” about in connection with the telecom and coal controversies that played a key role in discrediting the UPA-II and pitch-forking Narendra Modi to power at the Centre. Former Union coal secretary Anil Swarup asked whether Rai didn’t owe the country an apology “for his wrong calculations and going to town with them causing havoc in both the sectors”. After the Modi government came to power, it appointed Rai chairman of the Banks Board Bureau. He held the post from 2016 to 2018. Nirupam had filed a defamation case against Rai for alleging in interviews that the former Congress MP from Mumbai had pressured the CAG to drop then Prime Minister Manmohan’s name from the coal report. On Thursday, Nirupam said in a video message: “Rai has filed an affidavit apologising for the false charge and the court has accepted that apology. I had told Rai at that time that he was making a false allegation but he didn’t agree. But the real issue is that his 2G report was a farce. He should apologise to the nation for that fake report.” Rai’s affidavit said: “That I made certain statements against Sanjay Nirupam, particularly in 2014 in the interview given by me to Arnab Goswami with Times Now channel which was published in The Times of India and The Indian Express newspapers and an interview to Sagarika Ghose and also two other publications, subsequent to the launch of my book Not Just an Accountant: The Diary of the Nation’s Conscience Keeper.” Rai’s affidavit added: “That I have realised that in answer to questions posed to me by the interviewers, I had inadvertently and wrongly mentioned the name of Sanjay Nirupam as one of the MPs who pressurised me to keep the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s name out of the CAG report on 2G spectrum allocation during the meetings in the PAC or the sidelines of JPC.” The affidavit said: “That the statements made by me against Sanjay Nirupam, as televised and published, as above stated, are factually incorrect.” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera tweeted in Hindi: “Vinod Rai is a fraud. Imagine the lies this man would have written in his book and in the CAG reports if he lied about Sanjay Nirupam to sell his book and then tendered an unconditional apology.” Rai could not be contacted for comment despite repeated attempts by this newspaper on Thursday evening. As head of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India between 2008 and 2013, Rai had alleged the country had lost Rs 1.76 lakh crore and Rs 1.84 lakh crore, respectively, because of corruption in the allocation of 2G spectrum and coal blocks. While the UPA-II government contested the charges of corruption as well as the figures, Rai’s reports left its credibility in tatters, especially amid an anti-corruption movement led by Anna Hazare. The BJP used the reports to accuse the UPA of looting the country. But a Delhi court in 2017 acquitted all the 2G accused, a decision that has been challenged in high court. The CBI chargesheet had alleged losses of Rs 31,000 crore — about a sixth of what the CAG had calculated. The coal-block case is still in the trial court. Congress leaders underlined that what Rai had alleged against Nirupam were not off-the-cuff remarks and that he had repeated the accusation many times. They alleged Rai was working to a plan at somebody’s behest. Posting a copy of Rai’s affidavit, former coal secretary Swarup tweeted: “This is an unconditional apology issued by Mr Vinod Rai to Sanjay Nirupam for false allegations against him in the alleged Coal & 2G scam cases. Doesn’t he owe an apology to the nation for his wrong calculations & going to town with them causing havoc in both the sectors?” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The truth stands vindicated. The blatant lies to defame Manmohan Singh and Congress-led UPA stands exposed with this affidavit. Kudos to Sanjay Nirupam for his persistence. Shouldn’t the news channels apologise too? Shouldn’t Vinod Rai now resign from public office?” Rai is currently chairman of the UN panel of external auditors and an honorary adviser to the railways.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||Pegasus panel India’s internal affair: Israel||Israel’s ambassador to India on Thursday said his country allowed companies like the NSO Group, which created the Pegasus spyware, to sell their technology only to governments but refused to be drawn into commenting on its alleged use here on the premise that it was India’s internal matter. Ambassador Naor Gilon was responding to questions related to Pegasus during his first media conference in New Delhi after presenting his credentials to the President on Tuesday. Gilon was asked if the Indian government had contacted the Israeli government or the embassy regarding the use of the spyware in India, and whether the mission would work with the Supreme Court-appointed probe committee if its assistance was sought. “NSO is a private Israeli company. I was dealing with it in the past,” he said. Gilon added: “Every export of NSO or such companies needs an export licence of the Israeli government. We grant this export licence only (for) exporting to governments.… They cannot sell to non-governmental organisations. What’s happening in India is really the internal thing of India and I would rather not go into your internal affairs.” Israel has all along maintained that the Pegasus software is sold only to governments. Gilon’s remarks came a day after the apex court appointed a committee helmed by a former Supreme Court judge and including technical experts to examine allegations that the Narendra Modi government had used the Pegasus spyware to snoop on citizens. Israel too is probing allegations against the NSO Group’s controversial Pegasus phone surveillance software after Amnesty International and the Paris-based Forbidden Stories released a list of 50,000 potential targets across the world. Several other countries have initiated their own inquiries into the purported spy scandal that first came to light in 2019. Pegasus apart, Gilon dwelt at length on external affairs minister S. Jaishankar’s recent visit to Israel where he participated in the first meeting of a new Tel Aviv-led initiative for cooperation in infrastructure development among Israel, India, the UAE and the US. The Israeli ambassador described the new grouping — called the Middle-East Quad by certain quarters in India — as an offspring of the Abraham Accords but was categorical in maintaining that there was no military element to this new forum. The Abraham Accords marked the normalisation of relations between Israel and the UAE. Maintaining that ties between India and Israel are in a good place despite diametrically opposite positions on Iran — which Tel Aviv considers its main enemy — Gilon said both countries had learnt to work around this difference in opinion. “On most issues facing the world, we (India and Israel) have similar positions,” the ambassador said. On Iran, he said: “We are very much aware of India’s position. Each country puts forward its own interests and concerns. We are very clear about Iran. India spoke about its interests. Over time, we will see how it plays out. Friends work to make it more adjustable.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-78
29-10-2021||India||J&K: Authorities allot land at eight places to CRPF to build camps||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Thursday allotted land at eight places in south Kashmir to the CRPF to build permanent camps for personnel and their families, triggering fears that the force was establishing permanent enclaves in the Valley. A government spokesperson said the administrative council chaired by lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha had approved the transfer of 524 kanals or 65 acres in favour of the CRPF in Anantnag, Pulwama and Shopian for establishing “battalion camping sites”. “This will provide for safe and proper accommodation for CRPF personnel and their families,” the spokesperson said. Officials said the CRPF already had “a few” permanent camps in Kashmir, set up decades ago, along with numerous temporary camps. But this is the first time in years the force has been given large tracts of land permanently, and the bulk transfer, coupled with the changed situation, has deepened people’s suspicions. With Article 370 diluted and land laws amended to allow any Indian to buy land in Jammu and Kashmir, residents have been sniffing a government plot to settle outsiders and change the demography of the Muslim-majority Valley. CRPF spokesperson Junaid Khan denied that individual officers or jawans from the paramilitary force would get proprietary rights over the land, stressing that ownership would lie with the force. “We have a few camps here on a permanent basis, such as at Awantipora (Pulwama) or Panthachowk (Srinagar). But the IGs’ (inspectors-general of the CRPF) office in Nishat is in a rented building,” Khan said. Khan added: “The new camps will be under the ownership of the CRPF. In the permanent camps, we can undertake construction.” Officials said the permanent camps would be set up in the villages of Brah, Jummo and Bhanpahari in Anantnag; Allowpora-Sheikhpora and Zawoora-Baderhama in Shopian; and Oukhoo, Kadlabal and Koil in Pulwama. “They (CRPF men) are now mostly deployed in rented accommodations like hotels or at government buildings,” an official said. A People’s Democratic Party leader said that elected governments had been averse to handing over permanent camping sites to the forces. “But they (the government) are now free to do anything they like (after the scrapping of the special status in 2019). Such measures will further alienate people and strengthen the notion that the government is bent on changing Kashmir’s demography,” he said. A government statement said: “The land will be transferred against the payment as per the stamp duty rates notified for the year, 2021.” In a separate order, the administrative council extended relief under the Service Recruitment Rule 43 to the next of kin of non-resident victims of recent militant violence. Militants recently killed several migrants, whose families are now entitled to government jobs in Jammu and Kashmir on compassionate grounds Such employment was previously available only to local people, with most government jobs reserved for permanent residents under Article 370.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan gets bail after 25 days||Aryan Khan, son of actor Shah Rukh Khan, was on Thursday granted bail by Bombay High Court, 25 days after his arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau following an alleged drugs haul from a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. However, Aryan is unlikely to walk out of Arthur Road jail immediately as the court is yet to pronounce its operative order on the bail conditions. A single bench of Justice N.W. Sambre also granted bail to co-accused Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha. “All three applications are allowed. I will pass detailed orders by tomorrow evening,” Justice Sambre said when Aryan’s counsel Mukul Rohatgi was putting forth his arguments. Aryan’s advocates sought permission to submit cash bail, which the court refused and said surety had to be given. “I could have given the order tomorrow also. But I gave it today,” Justice Sambre said. The legal team of Aryan, 23, will now try to complete the formalities for his release by Friday or Saturday. Justice Sambre said he would pass a detailed order assigning reasons later. Additional solicitor-general (ASG) Anil Singh, appearing for the NCB, commenced his arguments at 2.58pm and completed a little after 4.10pm. Then Rohatgi, a former attorney-general, started his rejoinder arguments that went on for about 15 minutes. Justice Sambre interjected abruptly, tossing the case-related papers towards his staff and saying: “All three applications are allowed.” While hearing the NCB’s arguments, Justice Sambre sought to know on what basis the agency was saying that Aryan had dealt with a commercial quantity of drugs. Singh replied that Aryan had made an attempt to deal with a commercial quantity. “WhatsApp chats show this. The NCB has also obtained a certificate under Section 65B of the Indian Evidence Act to authenticate that the electronic evidence has been collected from the accused’s phone,” he said. Singh argued that the NCB had got “secret information” that around 11 people were going to consume drugs on the cruise, which was raided by the central agency on October 2. “At the time of the raid, out of the 11 people, eight were apprehended and most of them were found with drugs. This cannot be a coincidence. This is why the NCB is saying it is a conspiracy,” Singh said. The court asked if the NCB’s case was that of cumulative effect. Singh agreed: “Aryan Khan and Merchant are connected with drug peddlers and hence cumulative effect attracts Sections 28 and 29 of the NDPS Act.” Aryan, his friend Arbaaz and model Munmun were booked under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS) for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs, conspiracy and abetment. Rohatgi said conspiracy meant there had to be a “meeting of minds”. “Aryan does not know any of the other accused in the case except Arbaaz Merchant. There is absolutely no material to show conspiracy,” he argued. So far, 20 people have been arrested. Singh said Aryan and Arbaaz were habitual consumers of drugs. “Our record shows that Aryan Khan has been procuring drugs in bulk and commercial quantities. These are hard drugs. He (Aryan) has been in contact with drug peddlers,” the ASG argued. “There is a chance of tampering with evidence or witnesses in the case. This is NCB’s apprehension based on the affidavit filed by one independent witness in the case,” Singh said. He opposed Aryan’s argument that there was no drug recovery from him and said there was conscious possession as he was aware that Arbaaz was carrying charas that was meant for consumption during the journey to Goa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||97% people in Delhi have antibodies against Covid: Health Minister||The sixth serological survey has found that 97 percent people in Delhi have developed antibodies against coronavirus, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday.  All districts in the capital have a seroprevalence of more than 93 percent. Four districts south, central, northeast and east have recorded a seropositivity rate of 99 percent, 99.5 percent, 99.7 percent and 99.8 percent, respectively.  The minister also said only experts can tell whether Delhi has achieved herd immunity.  "We cannot say exactly if Delhi has achieved herd immunity because there are no studies or data to show that the virus won't spread after a certain percentage of population is affected," according to an official.  "However, the same variant of the virus (Delta) cannot lead to a major epidemic. So, we can say there won't be another wave of coronavirus as big as the fourth wave until a new severe variant emerges," the official said.  "Women (90.1 percent) have a higher seropositivity rate than men (88.2 percent). Those aged below 18 have a seropositivity rate of 88 per cent," Jain told reporters here.  "The sero survey has given a positive result. Almost all vaccinated people (with a history of infection) in Delhi have antibodies against COVID-19," the minister said.  Ninety-five percent of the vaccinated people who have a history of COVID-19 infection have developed antibodies as compared to 82 per cent unvaccinated ones.  According to data from CoWin app, over 2.03 crore vaccine doses have been administered in Delhi since the inoculation exercise started on January 16. Over 73 lakh people have received both doses.  Around 1.5 crore people are eligible for COVID-19 vaccination in Delhi.  The Delhi government had started collecting samples under the sixth serological survey last month to find out the percentage of the population that has antibodies against COVID-19, either through natural infections or vaccination.  A total of 28,000 samples 100 from each ward were collected during the survey.  This is the first survey to be done after Delhi was hit by a brutal second wave of the Covid pandemic in April and May. The fifth round of sero survey conducted in January had shown that 56.13 per cent of the people in Delhi had developed antibodies against COVID-19.  The first sero-survey conducted in June 2020 showed only 22.86 percent positivity, the second survey conducted in August last year depicted 29.1 percent positivity.  The third sero-survey in September showed 25.1 percent positivity, the fourth in October found 25.5 percent of the population had antibodies.  In April and May, Delhi battled a brutal second wave of the pandemic that claimed a massive number of lives with oxygen shortage and reduced supplies of essential drugs at hospitals adding to the woes.  On April 20, Delhi had reported 28,395 cases, the highest in the city since the beginning of the pandemic. On April 22 the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest so far. The highest number of 448 deaths was reported on May 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||Single jab can protect women from HPV infections in cervical cancer||A long-awaited study from India has found that a single dose of a vaccine against the human papilloma virus can protect women as effectively as two or three doses from HPV infections implicated in cervical cancer. The single dose vaccine efficacy was over 90 per cent and similar to the efficacy with two or three doses, researchers from the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) in France and collaborators from multiple Indian institutions said. The researchers said their findings could enhance the affordability of this high-cost vaccine, which the Centre has not yet included in its free immunisation programme. “Our findings may lead to a single-dose recommendation for the vaccine, which would reduce procurement cost by half,” Partha Basu, the head of the IARC’s early detection and prevention section who supervised the India study, told The Telegraph. The three-dose HPV vaccine has been available for over a decade in India’s private healthcare market where, doctors say, it is priced at about Rs 3,500 per dose. The National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) — an expert panel that advises the Centre on vaccines — had in December 2017 recommended the nationwide introduction of the HPV vaccine to address India’s high burden of cervical cancer. Cervical cancer is the second most common cancer among women in India after breast cancer. Studies have suggested an incidence of over 90,000 new cervical cancer cases and 60,000 deaths every year. But the Centre has not been able to accept the NTAGI recommendation primarily because of the vaccine’s high cost, health experts said. The India study is the world’s largest to assess a single dose and became possible because the government a decade ago stopped a clinical trial of HPV vaccines midway after two volunteer-recipients died from unrelated causes. Some adolescent girls had received only a single dose, while others had received two or three doses, when the trial stopped. This allowed researchers to continue observing the girls over the years. The vaccine generates long-term immunity against HPV, a sexually transmitted virus implicated in cervical cancer. Two types — HPV 16 and HPV 18 — account for over 70 per cent of cervical cancers. “Many of the adolescent girls who were part of the trial are now married — this allowed us to compare the effects of single dose versus two and three doses,” said Usha Rani Poli, a gynaecologist-oncologist with the Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad, and a member of the study team. The researchers found that the vaccine efficacy of a single dose against persistent HPV infections — a risk factor for cervical cancer — was 95.4 per cent, very close to efficacy levels of 93.1 per cent with two doses and 93.3 per cent with three doses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||Pune police arrest K.P. Gosav in connection with 2018 cheating case||Pune police on Thursday arrested K.P. Gosavi, the self-styled detective who has been cited as an “independent witness” by the Narcotics Control Bureau in the Mumbai cruise ship drugs case, in connection with a cheating case in 2018. Gosavi, against whom a lookout notice was issued by Mumbai police earlier in connection with the cheating case, had said he wanted to surrender to Uttar Pradesh police as he felt “threatened” in Maharashtra. Lucknow police had said he could not surrender before them as the case belonged to Mumbai police. “Gosavi has been arrested in a 2018 cheating case. He had swindled a youth out of several lakhs on the pretext of providing him a job. Gosavi is named as an accused in three more cases of cheating in Mumbai,” a police officer in the city said. Gosavi, who claims to be a private detective agent on his Facebook profile, was apparently present during the cruise ship raid on the night of October 2. He was seen in a photo clicking a selfie with actor Shah Rukh Khan’s son Aryan at the NCB office after Aryan had been taken there from the ship. Several politicians in the Maharashtra government have questioned why an “independent witness” of the agency should be present during the raid and at its office and take selfies with the “accused”. Last week, Prabhakar Raghoji Sail, who claims to be the personal bodyguard of Gosavi and is another independent witness in the case, had in a notarised affidavit alleged a move to seek a bribe of Rs 25 crore. Sail had said that shortly after the raid, he heard Gosavi speak over the phone to a man named Sam D’Souza about paying Rs 8 crore to NCB officer Sameer Wankhede, who led the raid. Sail claimed that after Aryan’s detention on October 2, he was called to the NCB office by Wankhede and asked to sign as a panch (witness) on 10 blank sheets of paper. Wankhede The Maharashtra government told Bombay High Court on Thursday that it would not arrest NCB zonal director Wankhede in connection with allegations of extortion and corruption levelled against him without giving him a prior notice of three working days. Wankhede on Thursday moved Bombay High Court seeking interim protection from arrest or any coercive action against him. He sought an urgent hearing of his plea challenging the Mumbai police’s decision to form a four-member team to investigate the allegations of extortion and corruption against him. The Maharashtra government initially opposed the plea, but subsequently chief public prosecutor Aruna Pai assured the court that it would give prior notice of arrest to Wankhede. The NCB had earlier ordered a vigilance probe after Sail alleged that he had overheard plans for a demand for bribe, of which Rs 8 crore was to be paid to Wankhede. Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik has also levelled serious charges against Wankhede, including the use of a fake certificate to get a Indian Revenue Service job under the Scheduled Caste quota.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||Vigilance officers find assets worth Rs 5 cr owned by dismissed cop||Vigilance officers on Thursday found properties worth several crores of rupees owned by a dismissed Odisha police constable accused of amassing wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income. Sources said the raids conducted at several places had revealed so far that Prasanna Kumar Behera possessed properties valued at over Rs 5 crore. Behera was dismissed from service for allegedly running a bar at a hotel in Bhubaneswar without a valid licence. The offence came to light after the murder of 30-year-old businessman Manish Anurag Das. Manish’s body was recovered from a pond on October 10 after he had visited the bar run by Behera late on the night of October 9. Following an inquiry, it was found that Behera remained in the bar and the bar continued to run till midnight in violation of Covid restrictions. Behera, who was the president of Havildar and Constable Association, was dismissed from service on October 24. He was arrested on October 23. After allegations surfaced that Behera had amassed huge properties, the vigilance sleuths raided his house and business establishments on Thursday. According to the vigilance media release, Behera owns a furniture showroom at Dumduma on a 0.250 acre plot. It had been registered in 2019 at a consideration value of Rs 1.47 crore. The actual market value is much higher, officials said. The approximate cost of the showroom is over Rs 2 crore, they said. The vigilance technical wing has roped in professional furniture manufacturers for the valuation of costly items displayed in the showroom. Officers found that even his residential quarters at Kalpana Square had illegal construction of eight more rooms (three bedrooms, one drawing room, dining room, a kitchen, one puja room and one bathroom). The vigilance technical wing are carrying out measurements and valuations of the illegal constructions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||Jammu: OT staff fired for allegedly celebrating Pakistan’s T20 win||A medical college in Jammu’s Rajouri district on Thursday fired an employee for allegedly celebrating Pakistan’s drubbing of India in the T20 World Cup match on Sunday. An order issued on Thursday by Government Medical College (Rajouri) principal Brij Mohan said he had terminated the services of an operation theatre technician over a WhatsApp status where she had apparently celebrated Pakistan’s victory. The principal said Safiya Majeed had been hired on an academic arrangement basis, which is a temporary appointment. “Whereas a viral video has come to the notice of undersigned from different media platforms and also from DySP (deputy SP, headquarters, Rajouri) who sent the same via WhatsApp in which Miss Safiya Majeed, OT technician,… seems to have posted her WhatsApp status showing celebration of defeat of the Indian cricket team against Pakistan in the T20 World Cup 2021, the activity which seems to be disloyalty towards nation,” the order reads.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||Adityanath threatens with sedition law for celebrating Pak T20 win||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Thursday that the sedition law would be invoked against those celebrating Pakistan’s victory against India in the recent T20 World Cup match. So far, five persons have been taken into custody in the state for allegedly using indecent words against the Indian cricket team, according to police. “Those celebrating Pakistan’s victory will face sedition,” a tweet posted on the official handle of Adityanath’s office said. The maximum punishment for sedition is life imprisonment. A man from Budaun was arrested on sedition charges on Wednesday, senior superintendent of police O.P. Singh said. Niaz had posted the picture of the Pakistan flag and written objectionable comments in support of Pakistan on Facebook after the match, according to a complaint filed against him by Punit Shakya of the Hindu Jagran Manch. The SSP said Niaz posted a picture of Pakistan’s flag on his Facebook account with the caption: “I love you Pakistan, I miss you Pakistan, jeet mubarak Pakistan”. Niaz was booked for sedition and under relevant sections of the Information Technology Act on Tuesday and sent to jail on Wednesday, the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||India likely to be hit worst by climate change||India is likely to be among the G20 countries hit the worst by climate change, with its heat waves lengthening and economy ravaged, an international climate report released on Thursday says. India’s heat waves are likely to “last 25 times longer by 2036-2065” given a scale of a close to 4°C global temperature rise by century end — the Intergovernmental Panel of Climate Change’s worst-case emission scenario — says the G20 Climate Impacts Atlas. The heat waves will be “over five times longer (than the current average) if global temperature rise is constrained to about 2°C, and one-and-a-half times longer if emissions are very low and temperature rise only reaches 1.5°C”, adds the report, released ahead of the October 30-31 G20 summit in Rome. Climate scientist Anjal Prakash, who has written the India-specific part of the report, told The Telegraph that India’s situation was “real red”. He said that with about 54 per cent of India’s area being arid and “extremely prone to heat waves, India stands extremely vulnerable”. Prakash added that India’s cities are “sitting on a time bomb in terms of climate change” and urged the government to take immediate action. Subimal Ghosh, an IIT Mumbai professor and a lead author of the IPCC report, said “Indian cities like Calcutta, Delhi and others are extremely vulnerable in terms of both searing heat” and extreme rainfall events. He said the density of concrete constructions relative to greenery in Indian cities “does not help the cause”. Ghosh and Prakash said most Indian cities were warming up faster than the global average. The G20 report says global warming will increase the demand for water for agriculture while lowering its availability. It warns that “without any mitigation, climate change could severely undermine the development gains made in India in recent decades”. “In a moderate climate-change scenario, India is projected to potentially lose between 0.8 (per cent) and 2 per cent of its GDP by mid-century,” it says. “By the end of the century costs could double, reaching up to almost 10 per cent of the GDP (or 237 billion EUR) under a high emissions scenario.” A senior official from the Union environment, forest and climate change ministry said: “The report is likely to push to the fore a global emissions cut agenda during the G20 summit, scheduled to be attended by several global leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” The report, prepared by a team of more than 40 scientists at the Euro-Mediterranean Centre on Climate Change, says climate change will have devastating impacts on every G20 member. “Climate impacts are already hitting the G20. Over the last 20 years, heat-related deaths have increased by at least 15 per cent in all G20 countries, while forest fires in the G20 have burnt an area one-and-a-half times the size of Canada. And if emissions keep rising, worse is to come,” the report warns. “The impacts of climate change will spiral to tear through the world’s richest economies within 30 years, without urgent action to reduce greenhouse gas emissions... from droughts, heat waves and sea-level rise, to dwindling food supplies and threats to tourism… no country is immune.” The G20 is a grouping that includes 19 countries and the European Union and works to address economic issues including those related to climate-change mitigation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||India||Kerala: SC grants bail to student arrested under UAPA two years ago||The Supreme Court on Thursday granted bail to Thwaha Fasal, an MA journalism student arrested in a terror case two years ago in Kerala for suspected Maoist links. While his family expressed relief, they demanded the CPM drop its ambivalence towards the anti-terror law UAPA, whose use against Fasal and a friend had earned Kerala’s Left government condemnation from rights activists. Kerala police had arrested Fasal and Allan Shuaib, a law student, in November 2019 under the UAPA after seizing what they suspected to be pro-Maoist pamphlets, books and diary notes from them. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) later took over the case. A Kochi NIA court granted bail to both students in September 2020 saying the agency had failed to establish even a prima facie case. Kerala High Court set aside Fasal’s bail in January this year while upholding Shuaib’s bail considering his mental health issues. While granting bail to Fasal, the Supreme Court dismissed the NIA’s appeal against Shuaib’s bail. Fasal’s elder brother Ijas Hassan, who had quit his CPM membership after his brother’s arrest, welcomed the apex court judgment. Asked to comment on the CPM opposing the UAPA elsewhere but using it in Kerala, he told The Telegraph he didn’t agree with the party “watering down its opposition to the UAPA” and would “speak more on this once the case is over”. Hassan said “certain members of the CPM and leaders of the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League supported us in our legal fight”. Unable to continue his MA journalism course from jail, Fasal has been pursuing an MA in rural development from IGNOU. “I don’t know whether he will resume his journalism course after coming out. But he has lost two precious years,” Hassan said from his home in Kozhikode. Fasal’s mother Jameela told reporters: “This (bail) is like a second birth for my son.” Shuaib told a news channel that Thursday’s apex court decision was “a strong answer to many people”, apparently hinting at the Left Democratic Front government. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had in December 2019 defended the arrests, insisting the two youths were “Maoists and not CPM workers” as some reports had claimed. Rights activist C.R. Neelakandan, who had campaigned against the arrests, hit out at the state government again on Thursday. “It was the state police that invoked the UAPA, which naturally brought in the NIA, and it was the state government that called them suspected Maoists,” he said. “Let’s not forget that eight suspected Maoists have been gunned down in three incidents in Kerala since the LDF came to power in 2016.” CPM state committee member P. Jayarajan defended Vijayan. “The chief minister had only stated the fact that they (Thwaha and Shuaib) have links with Maoists,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-79
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Local trains to run from Sunday with 50 per cent capacity in Bengal, Covid restrictions extended||The Bengal government on Friday gave the green signal to allow local trains to resume services, and also  schools and colleges to reopen, while extending Covid restrictions till the month of November. Till Friday 982 new Covid cases were detected, of which the highest 273 cases were in Calcutta. Till Thursday 6pm, the number of new Covid cases was reported by the state health department to be around 990, which was at 530, till two weeks ago during During Puja. From Sunday, local train services will resume at 50 per cent capacity from Howrah and Sealdah, the two main stations under Eastern Railway catering to Calcutta. While the Eastern Railway and South-Eastern Railway were keen on resuming services over the last few months, the state government did not share its urgency. In Mumbai, Western and Central zones of the railway have started plying 3,141 rakes from Thursday onwards. As announced by the chief minister, classes IX-XII, colleges and universities will start taking attendance from November 16 onwards instead of the virtual classes that were on since March 2020when the countrywide lockdown was declared. Cinemas and other places for public entertainment will operate with 70 per cent capacity and till 11 pm. Restrictions on movement at night will remain throughout the month of November except for the days between Nov 2-5 on the occasion of Diwali and Kali Puja and November 10-11 for Chhath Puja.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
29-10-2021||West Bengal||At 77, why Sobhandeb is still standing tall in the poll fray||The 45 kilometres between Baruipur and Khardaha, two suburban centres on either side of Calcutta, now covers the entire span of three decades of  veteran Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay's life as an undefeated MLA. The former boxer is contesting for his ninth straight term in the state Assembly from his fourth constituency in Saturday's bypoll, along with three other seats in the state. Chattopadhyay’s career appears to be scattered all over, but he is the leader who has held the Trinamul's  moral compass high. His position in the party, despite his unflinching loyalty towards Mamata Banerjee, has always been wobbly. He founded the Trinamul’s trade union wing which borrowed its name from the Congress-run INTUC, only to have it taken away by leaders who waltzed into the Trinamul currying favour with the party chief. Chattopadhyay never said a word. The ninth contest, second time this year, would not have been necessitated had Mamata not insisted, first on contesting from Nandigram, where she lost and then decided on reclaiming her old seat Bhowanipore, from where the soft-spoken Chattopadhyay had made it to the Assembly for the eighth time in a row. Mamata could have contested from Khardaha or any of the three other seats (Shantipur, Dinhata and Gosaba) which will go to polls on Saturday. It had to be Bhowanipore for her and Chattopadhyay was made to sacrifice his seat. At the age of 77, Chattopadhyay has been busy over the last few weeks familiarising himself with the neighbourhoods of Khardaha, which has for 41 years been the seat of two finance ministers in the Left and later Trinamul governments. Chattopadhyay had cut short his second term as MLA from Baruipur in 1998 when he joined Mamata’s newly floated outfit and retained his seat in a similar bypoll, while his other legislative colleagues ignored the anti-defection law with impunity and switched political camps, a legacy that continues to sully Bengal’s politics. In the three decades that Chattopadhyay has been in public life, not a whiff of scandal has touched him, though his political path has not always been free from controversy, mostly linked to  internal bickering in the party. When Trinamul wrested the Calcutta Municipal Corporation in an alliance with the BJP, the trade unionist Chattopadhyay was at loggerheads with  mayor Subrata Mukherjee, who was leading a double life as a Congress MLA and a Trinamul Mayor. Fourteen years later, Chattopadhyay found himself embroiled in a turf war with Mamata’s trusted aide Aroop Biswas, who was a minister, while Chattopadhyay was kept out of Writers’ Buildings with the government chief whip’s post in the first Trinamul government. On June 8, 2015 the state Assembly witnessed a public spat between Chattopadhyay and Biswas, over one ward which was moved from New Alipore to Rashbehari, represented by Chattopadhyay five times. Chattopadhyay’s use of "goonda raj" to admonish the Biswas siblings, Aroop and Swarup, meddling in his constituency did not go down well with Mamata. For Mamata, the Biswas brothers were more effective in election management, and therefore more important in the party than Chattopadhyay, who had no organisational role. Biswas was also heading the sports department (after minister Madan Mitra was arrested in connection with the Saradha scam) which gave him control over the clubs in the state, which have played a key role in Mamata’s repeated ride to power. The Biswas brothers, along with the younger sibling Swarup’s wife Juin extended their clout from New Alipore, Golf Green, Tollygunge, Azadgarh, Regent Park, Kudghat, Ashoknagar, Netaji Nagar Bansdroni, Naktala and Garia. Chattopadhyay on the other hand despite being a veteran trade unionist did not have any organisational role to play and was restricted to his constituency. And despite being the local MLA he found it difficult to gain control of ward 81. His onward journey as the power minister in Mamata’s second term too did not go smoothly. First, as minister he ran into trouble with his own party’s trade union that he had formed and silently witnessed being usurped. Then some of his decisions were overruled. He also fell foul of the party leadership after bringing to light a fake job racket involving some key Trinamul leaders who had promised jobs to around 20,000 youths in exchange of Rs 5 lakh each. But, Chattopadhyay survived all of these and is still standing tall in the poll fray.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
29-10-2021||West Bengal||School out of bounds for many Sunderbans girls||Teenagers Moumita Munda and Manisha Mondal of Hingalganj block in North 24-Parganas district won’t go to schools 16 when classes are set to resume on November 16 after a gap of 20 months owing to the pandemic. When schools and colleges reopen, they would have left home to work as domestic helps outside Bengal. The girls aged between 18 and 19  have no option left but to quit studies to overcome financial hardship they have been facing for over the past 18 months owing to the pandemic-induced lockdowns and the disastrous consequences of successive cyclones Amphan and Yaas. They are not the only ones. Many others in Hingalganj, Hasnabad, Haroa and other areas of the Sunderbans have dropped out of school and moved outside Bengal to work as domestic helps or cooks. Many others are preparing to take up jobs soon since most want to avoid an early marriage, which many families in rural Bengal see as a “solution” against poverty. These girls, however, want to fight poverty by taking up jobs. Till the pandemic struck, Manisha used to study at ABS Madanmohan Vidyapith at Amberia village in Hingalganj. The Class X dropout said: “During the last 18 months our family income has taken a hit. My elder sister used to give private tuitions, my mother worked as a domestic help. With the onset of Covid-19, students have stopped coming for tuitions. Taking tuitions online is a luxury as my sister doesn’t own a smartphone. My mother also lost her job. This made it difficult for me to continue my studies. Getting a job was the only option.” Manisha got in touch with a few girls in the village who had been working outside Bengal to find a job, she said. “With help from my friends working outside the state, I got the job of a domestic help in Kerala. I hope to save some money for my family.” Moumita shares Manisha’s plight. Moumita's difficulties multiplied after her father, the family’s sole breadwinner, died of Covid a few months ago. Her mother, a renal patient, is trying to support the family as a domestic help. Her sister is specially-abled. “For the past two years we have been struggling to survive. We are surviving on rations provided by the government. We need cash to buy medicines for my sister. Continuing with school is a luxury for me,” Moumita said. Local sources said several families in remote areas of the Sunderbans region have been finding it tough to survive. “The situation is alarming. Continuing with their studies is a costly affair for many. I am sure to lose many students when classes resume on November 16,” a teacher at a school in Minakhan said. Sources said by working as a domestic help, or cook or in garment factories outside Bengal, girls earn anything around Rs 10,000 per month. BDO Hingalganj S.P. Lahiri said he was unaware about so many girls in his area opting out of studies. “The picture of dropouts will be clear after November 16 when schools reopen. We will then definitely count the numbers and take steps to get students back to class,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 990 new cases, 845 recoveries and nine deaths||Bengal on Thursday reported 990 new Covid-19 infections, 845 recoveries and nine deaths, causing a rise by 136 in its active cases to 8,109. Active cases or Covid patients under treatment in Bengal are above 8,000 again since September 17, 41 days ago. Bengal now has 5.23 per cent of India’s active cases, and is fifth among states with the most such cases. The state’s recovery rate, which was 98.33 per cent even till October 20, fell to 98.32 on October 21, 98.31 on Saturday, 98.3 on Sunday, and to 98.29 on Thursday. India’s recovery rate is 98.18 per cent. In the past 33 days since the state snapped out of a 97-day streak of constant fall in active cases ahead of the Puja season on September 26, there has been a net rise of 435 in Bengal’s active cases, from the 7,674 of September 25. A minister said new infections reported on Thursday were indicative of people who got infected between October 19 (the day before Lakshmi Puja) and 23 (three days after Lakshmi Puja). Calcutta reported 275 new infections and one death. North 24-Parganas reported 164 new infections and two deaths. These were the only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found in a day. Five districts logged a single-digit figure. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 718 – 72.53 per cent – of the new infections detected on Thursday. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.18 per cent on Thursday. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta reported one, while North 24-Parganas reported two. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.33 per cent. Bengal now has more than 15.9 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.63 lakh recoveries and 19,105 casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Lakshmir Bhandar scheme checklist norms relaxed||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to relax the verification process before offering cash aid under the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme, as scrutiny of applications received so far revealed as many as 26,86,115 of them were incomplete. According to government sources, 1.79 crore applications were received under the scheme through Duare Sarkar camps held between August 16 and September 15. “But more than 26 lakh applications were found incomplete. Usually, such applications get cancelled, but we can’t do that as the chief minister had announced no eligible applicant will be left out,” said a senior official. Under the scheme, women aged between 25 and 60 years are eligible for direct benefit transfer of Rs 1,000 a month if they are from SC and ST communities or Rs 500 if they are from the general castes. Primary reports from districts suggest most women did not submit Swasthya Sathi and Aadhaar cards or caste certificates, whenever applicable, while applying for the Lakshmir Bhandar benefits. Recently, the secretary of the women and child development and social welfare department issued an order asking officials verifying the applications at the districts to conduct an inquiry on whether the applicants, who did not file required documents, were eligible to get the documents. If the applicants don't have the documents but are eligible to get them, the applications should be recommended for approval, the government decided. “If it is established on enquiry that the applicant is eligible to get the Swasthya Sathi Card/Aadhaar Card/SC or ST certificate, the verifier will recommend the Lakshmir Bhandar application for approval,” reads the order. Sources in the state secretariat said had applications been rejected, the state government could have saved more than Rs 4,000 crore annually under the scheme and the total annual outgo under the scheme could have come down to Rs 14,000 crore from Rs 18,000 crore. However, the Bengal government has not taken that route. “This (not giving benefits to those with incomplete applications) would have made a large section of women in Bengal angry with the state government. The ruling establishment does not want to take a chance ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,” said a source. A state minister said that primarily the Bengal government wants to give something to women of all the sections of society. “It is important to ensure that all eligible women get the benefit (of the state government). If anybody does not have a card (such as Swasthya Sathi), it is not her fault. We have to ensure that all eligible women get the benefit and that’s why enquiry on a case-to-case basis has been ordered,” the minister added. The state government is also working on war footing to solve another problem that has left 8.19 lakh applicants in trouble as the validation of their bank accounts failed, posing a problem in transferring the benefit. “The district magistrates have been asked to look into each of these cases. If there is any problem at the bank’s end, it has to be sorted out immediately,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Diamond Harbour: North American predatory fish trapped, dead||An alligator gar, a North American predatory fish, was trapped from a creek linked to the river Hooghly in Diamond Harbour on Thursday morning. Rupa Mistry, a homemaker, first spotted the fish floating in the Mograhat creek in a semi-conscious state. “I was stunned to see this crocodile lookalike. With the help of others, I stepped in and trapped it,” said Mistry, a resident of Lenin Nagar under ward 12 of Diamond Harbour. Sources said the 5-foot-long torpedo-shaped fish, weighing 20kg, drew huge crowds in the area. Forest officials rushed to the site but the fish died soon. An official said that it might have been smuggled. “We heard about the alligator gar in coastal Maharashtra and Kerala in the recent past. But, in coastal Bengal, this is probably the first such instance. This fish may have been smuggled,” a forester said. Tanmay Sanyal, assistant professor of zoology at the Krishnagar Government College, said: “Alligator gars are predators and a possible threat to native marine biodiversity. They remain at the top of the food chain and can survive for unusually long years given their unique biological mechanism. They are native to North America and can grow up to 8 feet in length. They can survive for long periods in high salinity as well as in fresh water. Alligator gar can seriously harm carp in freshwater and hilsa in saline water too.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee promises return to hills in November||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she would visit the hills in November again as she left Kurseong town on Thursday and headed for Goa, the BJP-ruled state in west India on which Trinamul has been steadfastly focusing for the past few months. Later in the afternoon, Mamata landed in Goa where she will stay for three days. Elections in the western state are due in February next year. “I am leaving for Goa from here. During my stay in the hills, I have communicated with the people. I will be back in the hills again next month,” the chief minister said, while leaving for Bagdogra airport from Kurseong. During her five-day visit to north Bengal — the first visit after she had assumed the chief minister’s office for the third time — Mamata spent half of her time in Kurseong, a move which indicates that Trinamul is recasting its focus on the hills. She has also addressed a number of local demands, which include the GTA and panchayat elections, and has sought proposals from the hill leaders on the issue of “permanent political solution” (PPS) in the hills. The chief minister’s assurance to her allies — the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha headed by Bimal Gurung and Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha led by Anit Thapa — indicated that she wants to counter the BJP and its allies, particularly because recently the Narendra Modi government at the Centre has picked up the hill issue and Union home minister Amit Shah held a tripartite meeting earlier this month. There are indications that another round of tripartite talks would be held in November. “She has tried to drive home the point that her party gives due importance to its allies by asking them to come up with proposals for PPS. Also, her move to address the issue and other demands like elections of local bodies in the hills shows that she does not want to leave any political space for the saffron camp,” said an observer. In the hills, the BJP and its allies like the GNLF are under pressure over the issue of PPS and also on the issue of according Scheduled Tribe status to 11 hill communities. A veteran of hill politics said that as the chief minister has clarified that elections to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration (GTA) would be held next year and the panchayat elections would be held in due course, she has taken a two-fold strategy to dent the BJP’s support base in the hills. “On one hand, she is playing the development card. On the other hand, she is putting all efforts to confirm that there is no grievance among her allies,” the political leader said. Earlier on Thursday, Mamata took a stroll through Kurseong town. Accompanied by Thapa, she met some school students and interacted with them. “Extremely pleased to interact with children in Darjeeling! Their smiling faces fills my heart with joy (sic),” the chief minister posted on social media with a video.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Performance for peace in Santiniketan||Meghbalika, an all-female band from Tripura, performed at a programme at Panchaban Art Resort in Santiniketan on Thursday (in picture) organised to promote cultural exchange and spread the message of peace between Bengal and Tripura. “Tripura has a special connection with Santiniketan because of the association of Rabindranath Tagore’s family with the Manikya dynasty. We have come from Tripura to strengthen the ties between the two states. We think music can be the best tool to handle the problem of violence and intolerance that have become major threats in the subcontinent,” said Nandita Saha, one of the band members. The Manikya dynasty ruled Twipra Kingdom and later the princely Tripura state since the early 15th century. A cultural group of Santiniketan, Geetikunja, also performed at the event that was inaugurated by eminent Rabindra Sangeet exponent Mohan Singh Khangura. Tapas Mallick, the organiser of the programme, said they will organise more such programmes in the coming days to promote cultural exchange and spread the message of peace.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal health department sanctions Rs 8.5 crore  for 7 Covid hospitals||The state health department has sanctioned Rs 8.5 crore for setting up infrastructure in Alipurduar in anticipation of a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic which is likely to lead to a spike in infections across Bengal and in the district. According to sources in the health department, the fund would be used to develop seven hospitals for Covid patients in different locations of the district. Among these facilities, a Covid hospital with 100 beds will be built on the campus of the district hospital in Alipurduar town. “The site has already been identified for construction of the new Covid hospital at the district headquarters. In addition, four other hospitals, each with a capacity of 20 beds, will come up on the campuses of four rural hospitals. Also, two six-bed facilities would be created in two other health centres of the district,” said Girish Chandra Bera, chief medical officer of health (CMOH) of Alipurduar. He said that the 20-bed hospitals will come up in Uttar Latabari, Kamakhyaguri, Madarihat and Bhatibari while the six-bed facilities will be set up at the primary health centres located in Turturi and Shishujhumra. “Around Rs 35 lakh would be spent for each 20-bed hospital, while for the remaining two facilities around Rs 20 lakh would be spent. The state PWD will soon start the construction work,” Bera said. For the 100-bed hospital, the department will spend around Rs 7 crore. “Once the pandemic is over, all these hospitals would be used as extended facilities for other patients,” the CMOH added. Residents of Alipurduar have welcomed the decision and simultaneously pointed out that unlike the state government, the Centre has not identified any district of north Bengal for construction of Covid hospitals. “...allocations should also be made for north Bengal districts so that there is no shortage of facilities if the number of Covid cases rise in the coming days,” said a resident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri: Police bust illegal call centre, six women arrested||A team from New Jalpaiguri police station under the Siliguri Metropolitan Police busted an illegal call centre operating in Shaktigarh area here on Wednesday and arrested six women. Police said the accused were running the call centre in the guise of a “friendship club” and are suspected to be fleecing people. “We acted on specific information and conducted the raid in a building at Kathaltala in Shaktigarh. It was found that they are running an illegal call centre,” said a police officer. During the past few months, the police here have launched a crackdown on such call centres. A number of such places have been raided by police and arrests have been made. Police sources said that in the past two to three months five to six raids have been conducted and around 20-25 people arrested for duping people through such rackets. “Our officers are investigating the case and trying to find out how they used to cheat people. Earlier, we have found that calls were made to people in the name of a friendship club and gradually, money was collected or stolen through various means from them,” the officer added. Those arrested are residents of different areas of Siliguri, the police said. A number of cellphones and laptops have been seized during the raid. “We suspect more people are involved in the racket. We are trying to identify them and such raids will continue,” said a police source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Englishbazar: Police seize huge cache of banned sound crackers||Englishbazar police conducted raids in two areas of Malda on Wednesday night and seized a huge cache of banned sound crackers. Police sources said they acted on a tip-off to  raid Saduallapur and Rathbari simultaneously. In all, 7,740 pieces of illegal crackers were seized. “We arrested three persons who illegally stored crackers,” said Ashis Das, inspector-in-charge of Englishbazar police station. Those arrested are Satyajit Mandal and Prasenjit Mandal, residents of Mothabari and Bijay Manda of Jhaljhalia in Malda town. Malda police, sources said, is conducting raids to prevent use of illegal crackers during Kali Puja and Diwali. In another case, the Englishbazar police recovered 10 smartphones, which are suspected to be stolen ones, from Mahadipur on Wednesday night. A person, identified as Samiul Sheikh, was arrested as he could not produce documents of the phones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||WhatsApp helpline number for paddy posers||The state food and supplies department released a WhatsApp helpline number on Thursday to maintain transparency in paddy procurement process in Bengal. From November 1, the department will buy paddy from farmers across the state. “To confirm complete transparency in the process of procuring paddy from farmers, this helpline has been introduced. Any farmer facing any issue or problem in selling his produce can contact this number and register his complaint. He can also post photographs and videos to substantiate his complaint,” Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri, said on Thursday. So far, there were two helpline numbers – 1967 and 18003455505 — where farmers can call and register their complaints. Using WhatsApp is an additional facility. “The number in which WhatsApp messages can be sent is 9903055505,” the DM added. Sources in the administration said that the main problem that farmers face in selling paddy to the state is the highhandedness of middlemen. “These middlemen in a coordinated manner force farmers to sell paddy to them at lower rates. Even after a farmer gets a bank cheque or money is transferred to the farmer’s bank, the middlemen take a part from him. This WhatsApp facility, we believe, can help reduce these activities of middlemen as farmers can click a photograph as evidence and send it to us. We can take immediate steps against any middleman trying to interfere in the sale,” said a source in the district administration. This year, paddy would be bought at Rs 1,868 per quintal and Rs 20 more would be paid as transport cost to farmers for bringing the paddy to the purchase centres. In Jalpaiguri, 20 such centres would be opened, said the district magistrate. Last year, around 1.35 lakh metric tonnes of paddy was purchased in the district and this year, there is a target to buy 1.55 lakh metric tonnes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-31
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Purulia: Man dies, four others fall ill after eating unidentified root||A 62-year-old person died and four others of a Sabar family in Purulia district fell ill after allegedly eating an unidentified root on Thursday morning. Refuting the possibility of hunger that prompted the Sabar family in Puncha area to eat the root, Purulia district magistrate Rahul Majumdar said: “We have checked that the family had no shortage of food. The family had collected their share of rations two days back.” All the four persons who fell ill have been admitted to Puncha primary hospital. All are stable, said a doctor at the Puncha hospital. Sources said Jaladhar Sabar, 62, and four of his family members from Nirbhaipur village of Puncha had eaten a boiled edible root that they had collected from forests on Thursday morning. “All of them immediately started to vomit after consuming the root. We took them to the hospital but Jaladhar died on the way,” said a villager. Police, along with district officials, started a preliminary probe to find out the cause of the death. “The sample of edible root that the Sabar family had consumed has been collected. It will be preserved in case we need to undertake further tests,” said a doctor at the Puncha hospital. District magistrate Majumdar said the tribal population in Jungle Mahal often eat such edible roots. “It might be that the root the family found and ate contained some poisonous element,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Honour for preventing 150 child marriages during past nine years||A 32-year-old youth residing in Malda district has made it to the India Book of Records for stopping around 150 child marriages during the past nine years. Jubaraj Tribedi, a resident of Chari-Anantapur area in Kaliachak-III block, has been recognised for his work by authorities of the Indian Book of Records recently with a medal, certificate and other documents. Tribedi, who is a clerk in a high school, got involved in the work from college days. “Initially, I learned acting from my uncle Parimal Tribedi and then, along with some friends, started hosting street plays across Malda district to prevent people from getting their minor girls married. Since 2012, I started working on this issue in a full-fledged manner and developed a network. These days, I get information about most of the cases and put all my efforts to stop such marriages,” said Tribedi. He immediately communicates with the police and the administration if he gets information and in most cases he rushes to the spot and tries persuade the parents to stop the marriage. “On many occasions, I had to face threats, and even assaults. But I did not give up,” said Tribedi, who has been felicitated earlier by the state government for his work. A few days back, Tribedi was taken aback as he got a call from the India Book of Records.“Due to the pandemic, they did not hold a formal function and have sent the medal, certificate and other items to me. This recognition has boosted my morale to continue work ing on the issue,” he said. Along with the prevention of child marriages, Tribedi also works for girls in erosion-affected areas of Malda. “I have spent my own money to arrange marriages of girls who are from poor families and have lost their homes and land due to erosion. I often move in the rural belts and visit households where there are minor girls, meet their parents and urge them not to get them married unless they turn adults,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Darjeeling: Trinamul leadership asked to give allies space||The state Trinamul leadership has instructed its leaders and workers of Darjeeling hills to “go slow” and refrain from any activity that can antagonise hill parties that are its allies. That Trinamul intends to maintain a close relationship with its allies was evident on Tuesday when chief minister Mamata Banerjee lambasted Shanta Chhetri, the party’s Rajya Sabha member  from the hills, for her remarks against Anit Thapa who heads the Bharatiya Gorkha Prajatantrik Morcha (BGPM). Along with BGPM, the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha led by Bimal Gurung is also an ally of Mamata’s party. Binay Tamang, who has quit the GJM and hinted at the “start of a new political chapter,” is also with Trinamul. On Wednesday, state minister and party leader Aroop Biswas held a meeting with his party colleagues in the hills at the PWD bungalow in Kurseong. “During the past few months, we have held several programmes across the hills where people from different political parties and also the civil society have joined Trinamul. In yesterday’s (Wednesday’s) meeting, we have been told to continue with such events, but without hurting political agendas of other hill parties,” said N.B. Khawas, spokesperson, Darjeeling (hills) Trinamul committee. Party insiders said this year, there have been major changes in hill politics which is drawing more people to  Trinamul. Fragmentation of political forces have been seen and prominent political faces Binay Tamang, Mahendra Chhetri and Ajoy Edwards have quit their parties. In this situation, many feel it is pertinent to join Trinamul, and the party leadership wants to give space to allies, said a hill Trinamul leader. Trinamul’s stance seems to have nudged the BJP, which is in alliance with GNLF and some other political forces of the hills. On Thursday, Sukanta Majumdar, the state BJP president who was here, said the Centre is sincere in resolving the permanent political solution for the Gorkhas. “The Centre is holding talks on the issue. Our party has always been with the hill population and has worked for their interests,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Bodies of Pritam, 4 others reach Dumdum airport on Thursday ||The bodies of Pritam and four other trekkers, which were recovered on Tuesday, reached Dumdum airport on Thursday morning. Ministers Ujjwal Biswas and Sujit Bose handed over the coffins to their family members. Pritam’s body was buried at a place adjacent to his residential plot with the permission of the local people and the Nadia administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul and BJP leaders spar before bereaved family||The ugly side of the rivalry between Trinamul and the BJP came to the fore on Thursday when representatives of both went to console the kin of a Durgapur couple, who died in an accident during their tour to Uttarakhand on Wednesday. The grief-stricken family was compelled to request both BJP MLA from Durgapur (West) Lakkhan Ghorui and Trinamul councillor Sushil Chatterjee from ward 16 in Durgapur, to leave. Both Ghorui and Chatterjee had gone to the Link Park residence of Subrata Bhattacharya, 61, and wife Runa, 55, two of the five tourists from West Burdwan district who died in the road mishap at Bagheshwar district in Uttarakhand, to console the family. Reportedly, Chatterjee and party workers were standing in front of the Bhattacharya home when the BJP’s Ghorui arrived with his followers at 11.30am. Ghorui was wearing a saffron neck scarf with BJP emblazoned on it. This reportedly angered the Trinamul councillor. Chatterjee pointed to Ghorui’s scarf and objected to it, accusing the saffron leader of coming to condole the deaths with a political motive. Ghorui refuted Chatterjee’s charges. “I am a public representative as well as a human being. I have come here to console the family as an MLA and a human being,” said Ghorui. Sources said the verbal spat between Ghorui and Chatterjee went on in front of the bereaved family members who were waiting outside their house for the arrival of the bodies from Uttarakhand. Finally, one of the relatives, Sriparna Banerjee, with folded hands, requested the sparring duo to leave. “We are already in unbearable pain and not in a position to speak to you anymore. I apologise. Please leave us (alone),” Sriparna told the leaders with folded hands according to sources. Ghorui spoke to journalists and left. Later, speaking to the media, Chatterjee questioned Ghorui for wearing the BJP’s scarf. “I also represent Trinamul in the corporation but I am not carrying my political identity. We (Trinamul) work for people and they (BJP) only believe in politics. Our chief minister has taken initiative to bring back the bodies,” he said. CPM West Burdwan district secretariat member Pankaj Roy Sarkar said the whole incident revealed the true culture of the BJP and Trinamul. “We can’t imagine that anyone can use a tragedy for political gain. Both the BJP and the Trinamul can’t see beyond politics,” said Roy Sarkar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Parties like BNP and Jamaat believe in communalism: Bangla minister||Bangladesh information minister Hasan Mahmud said on Thursday that the recent attacks on Hindus there were part of a plan by the Opposition BNP-Jamaat alliance to engineer riots and create instability in the country. “Some parties like the BNP and the Jamaat believe in communalism and they cash in on that and create instability…. Recent atrocities on the Hindu community were such an attempt through which they wanted to engineer riots across the country,” said Mahmud, who was here to inaugurate the Bangabandhu Media Centre at Calcutta Press Club. The facility set up in memory of Mujibur Rahman, the Father of the Nation in Bangladesh and known as Bangabandhu (Friend of Bengal), is the second such centre in the country, after Press Club of India in Delhi, which has come up with a grant from the information ministry of the Bangladesh government. Although the event was held to mark 50 years of Bangladesh’s independence, the birth centenary of Bangabandhu and 50 years of India-Bangladesh friendship, and celebrate the role that Calcutta Press Club and its members played in the 1971 Liberation War, the focus shifted to recent developments in Bangladesh during the Q&A. Mahmud, who is also the joint secretary of the ruling Awami League, underscored that the Sheikh Hasina government was committed to retain Bangladesh’s secular fabric. “When incidents of these attacks happened, we spent sleepless nights calling up our party colleagues and telling them to protect the puja pandals,” said Mahmud. Responding to questions on the security of the minorities in Bangladesh, a Muslim majority country, he echoed Hasina, who had urged the Hindu, Christian and Buddhist communities not to consider themselves minorities. “In Bangladesh, we don’t believe in minorities.… Everyone is a Bangladeshi and that’s our first identity. The festival of Puja is not only for the Hindus as all of us take part in it and so is the case with Id, which is celebrated by all,” said Mahmud. The Bangladesh government has been trying to send out a message that it has “zero tolerance” towards fundamentalist forces. The re attacks on Hindus followed rumours that someone had placed the holy Quran at a puja pandal in Cumilla. “From the very beginning, we were sure that no Hindu can place a Quran at a puja pandal.… Finally, investigations revealed that a Muslim, by the name Iqbal, had done it under instigation. The agencies are probing the case and what happened thereafter and stern actions are being taken,” said Mahmud, referring to 139-odd cases filed and over 1,300 arrests across the country. He stressed the number of pujas in Bangladesh was more than 32,000 this time, an all-time high. “The government gave grants to the puja committees… Out of more than 32,000 pujas, only five or six were attacked by some people, who have been trying to communalise the politics of Bangladesh. You all know that even during the country’s Liberation War, there were people who had supported the Pakistani forces. Don’t forget that their descendants are still there,” he said. Some veteran journalists, who had covered the Liberation War, were felicitated by Mahmud.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
29-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP-Border Security Force meeting angers Trinamul Congress  ||The ruling Trinamul on Thursday lodged a complaint with the Cooch Behar district magistrate referring to a meeting between senior state leaders of the BJP and the deputy inspector-general of the Border Security Force  on Wednesday and alleged it was held to “influence” the October 30 Dinhata bypoll. The meeting between BJP leaders, including state chief Sukanta Majumdar and his predecessor Dilip Ghosh, along with party’s Cooch Behar district president Malati Rava, and the BSF DIG Shailendra Kumar Sinha held at the sector headquarters in Cooch Behar-II block assumes significance not only because of Saturday’s bypoll, but also as the recent Union home ministry decision to extend the BSF’s jurisdiction from 15km to 50km inside Indian territory from the international border. “Dinhata constituency comes under BSF jurisdiction according to the new notification... We fear the BJP may use the BSF during and ahead of the elections to harass our party workers, leaders and common voters,” said Partha Pratim Roy, a former MP and election agent of Udayan Guha, Trinamul candidate. Sources in Trinamul said that the party's top brass asked the district leadership to flag the issue. The Trinamul has, in the past, accused the central forces deployed during the elections of working in favour of the BJP. “We think the BJP leadership violated the model code of conduct and that’s why we have urged the DM, who is also the district election officer, to take steps,” Roy added. “I am a member of the parliamentary standing committee on home affairs. Whenever I visit bordering areas, I pay courtesy visits to BSF officials. It was such a meeting,” Ghosh said on Wednesday’s meeting. DM Pawan Kadyan did not comment. Sources in the chief electoral officer’s office said they were looking into the complaint. BJP district leaders said Trinamul was making a hue and cry about the meeting as they were nervous about Saturday's bypoll. "They had lost the Assembly elections in Dinhata and now they will also lose the bypoll... We are organisationally far ahead of Trinamul here,” said a BJP leader. Local Trinamul leaders admitted that Guha was on difficult turf against BJP nominee Ashok Mondal. Cooch Behar Trinamul’s internal feuds cost it dear in the Assembly polls. The party lost seven of the nine seats in the district. The BJP filed a complaint with the chief electoral officer of the state, demanding immediate transfer of the DM and the SP of Cooch Behar district. The DM had said no to identity checks of voters when they enter the booths or stand in queue, and the SP failed to provide security to their candidate, they alleged. Roll revision meeting Aariz Aftab, the chief electoral officer of Bengal, held an all-party meeting in Calcutta on Thursday ahead of the electoral roll revision that begins with the publication of the draft electoral roll on November 1. The final electoral list will be published on January 5, sources  said. Additional reporting by Arkamoy Datta Majumdar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
29-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal teenagers quit school to keep working as domestic workers||Teenagers Moumita Munda and Manisha Mondal of Hingalganj block in North 24-Parganas won’t go to school when classes resume on November 16 after a gap of 20 months owing to the pandemic. They would have left home to work as domestic workers outside Bengal. The girls aged between 18 and 19 have no option left but to quit studies to overcome the financial hardship they have been facing for over the past 18 months owing to the pandemic-induced lockdowns and the disastrous consequences of cyclones Amphan and Yaas. They are not the only ones. Many others in Hingalganj, Hasnabad, Haroa and other areas of the Sunderbans have dropped out of school and moved outside Bengal to work as domestic helps or cooks. Many others are preparing to take up jobs soon since most want to avoid an early marriage, which many families in rural Bengal see as a “solution” against poverty. These girls, however, want to fight poverty by taking up jobs. Till the pandemic struck, Manisha used to study at ABS Madanmohan Vidyapith at Amberia village in Hingalganj. The Class X dropout said: “During the last 18 months our family income has taken a hit. My elder sister used to give private tuitions, my mother worked as a domestic help. With the onset of Covid-19, students have stopped coming for tuitions. My mother also lost her job. Getting a job was the only option.” “With help from my friends working outside the state, I got the job of a domestic help in Kerala. I hope to save some money for my family.” Moumita’s difficulties multiplied after her father, the family’s sole breadwinner, died of Covid a few months ago. Her mother, a renal patient, is trying to support the family as a domestic help. Her sister is specially-abled. “Continuing with school is a luxury for me,” Moumita said. Sources said by working as domestic maids outside Bengal, girls earn anything around Rs 10,000 per month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-32
29-10-2021||North East||Children who fled Myanmar admitted to Mizoram govt schools||Close to 2,000 children from Myanmar who fled the country following the military takeover in February have been admitted to government schools across Mizoram on humanitarian grounds so that they don’t miss out on education while in exile. As many as 1,972 students — 1,010 boys and 962 girls — have been enrolled in “age-appropriate classes” since August, a Mizoram education department official said on Thursday. James Lalrinchhana, the education department director, told The Telegraph that the state was admitting children of Myanmarese nationals so they could continue with their studies till the situation improved in their country and they could return. No fee is being charged from these students. Four northeastern states — Mizoram, Manipur, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh — share borders with Myanmar. Mizoram has been witnessing the highest inflow of refugees fleeing persecution and violence in Myanmar after the junta’s coup on February 1 this year. Over 1,000 people have died in protests and clashes between the junta and rebels following the coup. Lalrinchhana said the figures keep fluctuating because many refugees return if they find the situation conducive. He added that the circumstances across the border “vary” from village to village. “The admission of (Myanmar refugees) to schools is a temporary arrangement on humanitarian grounds so that the children don’t lose out on their studies. Language is not an issue because they understand English and Mizo. We cannot turn down the requests of the refugees to help their children. Not admitting them could also lead to criticism,” the official said. Official sources said nearly 13,000 Myanmarese nationals, mostly living along the border with Mizoram, had entered the state since the coup. The Chin people of Myanmar and the Mizos belong to the Zo ethnic group and share the same ancestry. Six of Mizoram’s 11 districts share a 510km border with Myanmar’s Chin state. Like Mizoram, Chin state is Christian-dominated. Civil society, youth and student organisations, community leaders, the Church and the state government are helping the refugees with relief and accommodation. The refugees live in community-run and NGO-run relief camps, rented houses or with their relatives in Mizoram. “When children are deprived of education and health facilities, it can adversely impact them. We hope things calm down in Myanmar so that the refugees can go back and lead a normal life,” Lalrinchhana said. Champai district has the most such students (711), followed by Lawngtlai (539), Hnahthial (341) and Aizawl (70). “Most of these students have been admitted to primary, elementary and high schools. A few have enrolled in Plus Two,” the official said. The Mizoram government has repeatedly sought assistance, including funds, from the Centre on humanitarian grounds since the number of refugees started increasing in March but is yet to receive any help. The ruling MNF in Mizoram is an ally of the BJP. The Union home ministry had in March written to the four states bordering Myanmar, and the Assam Rifles that guards the border, to remain alert to large-scale influx from the neighbouring country and take steps to foil such bids. However, Mizoram had publicly and officially shared its concern over the problems faced by their “brothers and sisters” from Myanmar. Vanlalruata, president of the influential Young Mizo Association, said the students from Myanmar were attending school and were being provided with all amenities by the state government, including uniforms, midday meals and books.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
29-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: High pitch||Admiration for national heroes comes naturally to the citizenry. Problems are bound to arise when an elected government deems it necessary to impose a template of reverence. The ministry of education has asked students of central board schools as well as state authorities to prepare projects on the lives of the winners of Gallantry Awards under a month-long ‘Veer Gatha Project’. According to an official circular, the initiative aims to “disseminate the details of acts of bravery and the life stories” of armed forces personnel, thereby raising awareness among schoolchildren about the magnitude of the sacrifices made by those who guard the nation. The initiative has been lauded by several educationists who opine that interactive projects — the defence ministry will organize hour-long programmes for schoolchildren — can help students learn about topics of importance in a more comprehensive manner than can be achieved through rote-learning. Recognizing valour is important. But the methodology of doing so merits examination in the light of the fact that the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government has not only been guilty of encroaching upon educational curriculum but also rolled out several programmes with a pronounced ideological tilt in the garb of celebrating ‘Indian heritage’. Take, for instance, Yoga Day; it aims to instil a holistic approach to health but, curiously, coincides with the death anniversary of K.B. Hedgewar, the founder and first sarsanghchalak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. The celebration of Hindi Divas had also drawn attention after the Central Board of Secondary Education tweeted that Hindi is “our identity”. The Veer Gatha Project must, therefore, not be allowed to go the way of other seemingly innocuous programmes that seek to surreptitiously indoctrinate young minds in a particular ideological — militaristic? — mooring. Such a proclivity not only infringes upon the autonomy of educational institutions — they, not the government, should have the right to frame curricula — but also presupposes that citizens need to be tutored on the mores of reverence. There is also the question of developing independent, critical thinking as opposed to instilling passive admiration. Would students be allowed to appreciate not only valour but also the conditions — political, historical and strategic — that compel India’s brave jawans to make the ultimate sacrifice?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
29-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: ‘Visible cracks’ in the judicial infrastructure||Plug the gaps Sir — The revelations by the Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, bring to focus how one of the pillars of democracy — the judiciary — is prevented from functioning effectively owing to inadequate infrastructure (“Visible cracks”, Oct 27). Almost 20 per cent of the judicial officers in the country do not have proper courtrooms to sit in. Discrimination against women is evident from the lack of basic facilities for them — 26 per cent of court premises have no separate toilets for women while 16 per cent have no toilets at all. Only 54 per cent courts have purified drinking water facilities. Although computerization is of paramount importance for speeding up work, only 27 per cent of courtrooms have computers on judges’ dais. In order to improve access to justice, good judicial infrastructure is a must. The failure to deliver timely justice affects India’s annual gross domestic product. There is an urgent need to rectify these deficiencies. Venu G.S.,Kollam, Kerala Sir — The CJI must be credited for bringing to the fore sordid figures that underline the alarming lack of infrastructure in India’s courts at an event attended by several judges, the Maharashtra chief minister and even the Union law minister. The problems include a lack of toilets, drinking water, medical facilities, library, record rooms, computers on judges’ dias with videoconferencing facilities, and so on. The failure to provide timely justice is, in turn, costing the country as much as 9 per cent of the annual GDP. The CJI advocated financial autonomy for the judiciary. A proposal has been sent to the law ministry for the establishment of the National Judicial Infrastructure Authority. It is hoped that improvements shall be made on this front. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — The ‘visible cracks’ in the judicial infrastructure highlighted by the CJI need to be looked into seriously and fast. The plight of the court premises across the country is akin to the situation in government schools. They must be upgraded in keeping with the prime minister’s vision of New India. It is heartening that the Union law minister has extended his support for a robust judiciary. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam Sir — The CJI must be thanked for rightly advocating financial autonomy for the judiciary. This suggestion must be taken seriously if the gaps in the judicial system are to be plugged. Even 74 years after Independence, the infrastructure of lower courts in almost every part of India is in bad shape. This affects the smooth functioning of the judiciary. The indifference of the government regarding this issue is palpable since little is being done to improve the situation. The Centre is spending crores on the construction of a new Parliament complex, but funds for new court buildings remain sparse. Arun Gupta,Calcutta Sir — The list of inadequacies in judicial infrastructure in India is baffling. Now that light has been shed on the matter, one hopes for swift redressal of the problem. Suravi Jaiswal,Delhi Stand together Sir — In a shocking coup d’état, the Sudanese military arrested the country’s prime minister, Abdalla Hamdok, and some other politicians (“Sudan military dissolves civilian govt”, Oct 26). Soon after, it declared a state of emergency and dissolved the ruling Sovereign Council. Following the coup, international aid to Sudan has decreased significantly. The people of Sudan have taken to the streets in the capital city of Khartoum to protest against the military takeover. The international community must come forward to help restore democracy. Shubham Prajapati,Ujjain Sir — The recent military coup in Sudan is following a script that is eerily similar to those in countries that experienced Arab Spring movements at the turn of the last decade. In Egypt, for instance, the armed forces aided the removal of the incumbent president, Hosni Mubarak, and then oversaw a transitional period during which the country’s first democratic elections took place. However, within two years, the army seized power in a coup. In Sudan, the government was overthrown in a military coup after prolonged protests two years ago. However, in spite of promising a civilian government after a short transitional period, the army has now taken over. International pressure is essential if Sudan is to emerge as a democracy. Otherwise, the people’s protests would have been in vain. Mainak Pal,Calcutta Seasonal concern Sir — Every year, fear for the safety of the Mullaperiyar dam surfaces during the rainy season. When the rain goes away, this fear, too, subsides. The chief minister of Kerala, Pinarayi Vijayan, has stated that there is nothing to fear about the dam. He has even warned of legal action against those who spread rumours about the safety of the dam. However, this was not his opinion during the reign of the United Democratic Front. Back then, Vijayan led the agitation for the decommissioning of the dam from the front. Changing positions on dam safety has become a part of politics in Kerala. K.A. Solaman,Alappuzha, Kerala  Steep cost Sir — Even in an age of shrinking personal income, chasing brand names remains a habit for many. A recent study has revealed that buying the base model of the new iPhone 13 will set the typical Indian wage-earner back by earnings worth some 720 working hours — the second-highest among the nations analysed. But this did not hinder pre-orders from more than 20 lakh Indians. Given the steady increase in unemployment in the country, one wonders if putting the amount in a retirement fund would not be a more judicious choice. Is trading future security away for a branded status symbol the best use of one’s savings? Ishani Chanda,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
29-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Fresh air||The bugbear of national security, a favourite pet of authoritarian regimes, has received a resounding rap on its knuckles from India’s enlightened judiciary. In an unambiguous denouncement of the tactic adopted by the Narendra Modi government to stonewall public enquiries into allegations of the deployment of sophisticated surveillance technology against Indian citizens — they include journalists, activists, politicians and even doctors and judicial functionaries — the Supreme Court has decided to form a committee, overseen by a former judge, that will look into every aspect of the Pegasus snooping scandal and submit a report within a specific time frame. Among the several points raised by India’s highest court, two are of critical importance. First, the learned judges, falling back on the principles of the K.S. Puttaswamy case, have clearly stated that while the right to privacy may not be absolute, it is sacrosanct and integral to human dignity and autonomy. Consequently, invoking the rhetoric of national security, as Mr Modi’s government has done, to justify the violation of individual privacy cannot be condoned. The court’s censure is of paramount importance given the propensity of elected regimes to stifle dissent and, in the process, democracy by spouting a specious argument concerning threat to the nation. Second, in one fell swoop, the court has exposed the Centre’s complicity in encouraging obfuscation in the crucial matter: this amounts to wilful deprivation of citizens’ rights on the part of the government and soils the compact between State and people. The outcome of this order can play out at multiple levels. It will provide political oxygen to Mr Modi’s opponents — Rahul Gandhi has taken the lead — to demand transparency from the regime not only on Pegasus but also on such other issues as the alleged loss of territory to China. The order could also generate momentum for demands of re-examining the evidence against those accused in the Bhima Koregaon case. Perhaps the surest way of honouring the spirit of this judicial intervention would be to kindle a wider public campaign to make institutions and the government accountable for the upholding of rights. This is an imperative, given Mr Modi’s push to leash fundamental rights to the yoke of ‘public duty’. Hearteningly, the pronouncement reiterates the apex court’s uncontested legacy as the custodian of civil rights and freedoms and would go some way in soothing anxieties about the judiciary and the executive speaking in a similar voice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
29-10-2021||Opinion||Old methods||The National Institutional Ranking Framework has revealed the top 100 institutes in India based on pedagogy, performance and research outputs. But regardless of ranks, journalism education in several institutes has been witnessing numerous challenges owing to lack of adequate infrastructure and appropriate pedagogy, and a dearth of trained teachers. Theory and praxis are drawing flak; pedagogy is undergoing a litmus test and posing an inquiry into the genesis of such education as a discipline. Moreover, amid the epidemic of fake and paid news, questions are also being raised about the efficacy of journalism education as a means of training aspiring journalists. The glaring gap between classroom training and industry requirements is widening. This calls for journalism education to reinvent itself. The Indian media and entertainment industry has made substantial strides and is slated to be worth Rs 4 lakh crore by 2025. A lion’s share of this would belong to news media. But often there is a mismatch between the required and available human resources in the market. People who are at the helm of journalism education should mull over this. Media technology has brought sea changes, opening up ample avenues in the profession. The advent of technology like augmented reality, virtual reality and artificial intelligence has disrupted work culture in the newsrooms. Multimedia storytelling is now prioritized. However, several journalism schools have not taken stock of these changes. In fact, some institutions are still using old syllabi and techniques. It is worth noting that a handful of private institutes are performing remarkably better than the government-funded institutions. Be prepared Journalism education during the pandemic has been a sheer inconvenience and there have been serious lapses in the inculcation of a professional spirit. Students are unable to hone certain practical skills, which remain the mainstay of the journalistic profession. Then there is the question of specificity. Developmental journalism is important in the Indian context given the numerous socio-economic issues plaguing the nation. But this beat is not prioritized in academia. Aspiring journalists are not equipped to report on marginalized sections like those with disabilities, Dalits, adivasis, LGBTQIA+, migrant and domestic labourers and so on. Classroom pedagogy has miserably failed to cover issues in rural India too. With Covid-19 wreaking havoc, health reporting has become the need of the hour. But pedagogy has precious little to offer in this regard. Conflict reporting is rarely dealt with in the pedagogical framework. Classroom teaching is yet to think over the trauma of working journalists. There has been little discussion on sustainable development goals. Lack of specializations in journalism education, thus, leaves several lacunae. There has been a dearth of trained journalists to cover public policy and international affairs. Most journalists learn these skills on the job. These aspects need to be judiciously inculcated into the curriculum. Journalism institutes and educators need to revamp the course curriculum to keep pace with the requirements of the industry. In order to train future journalists, teachers should attend journalism-specific faculty development programmes, especially on innovations in the field. There also needs to be an overhaul in terms of imparting skills like writing with clarity, organizing ideas and working efficiently as a team. Journalism administrators and educators need to be equipped with the skills; only then can these be delivered to future stakeholders. Journalism education across government-run and private institutions need to move forward and inculcate a pragmatic approach to journalism education with the use of latest digital media tools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
29-10-2021||Opinion||A nation soiled||The drumbeats of celebration that marked 20 years of Narendra Modi’s public life have to be confronted. One has to admit that when the media become an inane chorus, dissent is not easy. One experiences a sense of despair. At these times, I remember the dictum of my old philosophy teachers — read the silences of the regime. One has to begin by confronting the presence of Modi himself. The Modi that confronts us today is not the ‘fascist’ that the psychologist, Ashis Nandy, encountered during the Ramjanmabhoomi movement. This Modi is a new incarnation, a post-truth creation, which is part-fiction. He is a simulacrum of imagined competencies. He goes beyond the Orwellian condition in his imaginary exercises. Modi’s alleged majoritarianism can be read beyond the claims of stability. It is a soft totalitarianism, which has created a flatland of majoritarianism and mediocrity. By insisting on the patriotism of uniformity, the regime is systematically erasing dissent and the possibilities of difference, labelling them anti-national. As a result, minorities, the marginalized, and dissenting groups are being forced to confront the disabling civics of majoritarianism. It is true that Modi has innovated, but the real creativity of the regime lies in innovating and legitimizing new forms of violence. What was seen as pathology during the 1984 Sikh riots became the normalcy of the next few decades. Today, riots have become part of policy, a way of achieving and consolidating power. Riots have to be seen as a way of rewriting history. Connected to this is the purpose the perpetrator senses that he is redeeming and rectifying history. But the violence is also symbolic. The suppression of dissent is stark. The creation of the fiction of ‘urban Naxal’ allows the regime to harass a Stan Swamy or a Sudha Bharadwaj. Such a tactic began with the targeting of environmental dissenters as unpatriotic for being critical of development. The inanity of the Centre’s idea of development acquires a halo through its use of force. Minorities are not the only ones being threatened. The Covid era has reinforced this perspective through the sheer inhumanity inflicted on the informal economy. The informal worker is now a dispensable object, raw material for the construction industry. A regime that tom-toms well-being has no sense of workers’ rights. In fact, citizenship has been the biggest casualty of the regime as the informal worker, farmer, minority, academic, dissenter — everyone becomes less than equal in this Modiesque Animal Farm we call India. India’s image as a hard State is now complete. This imagery is consolidated by Modi’s claim that India should become the world’s greatest military power. One senses an unreal machismo driving the regime’s pretensions. Violence to the body and the body politic is accompanied by a post-Orwellian language. The word, normal, is a favourite term. Muslims subjected to brutality were asked to normalize as soon as possible. Modi went one up by clinging to the idea of a post-normal society, which erases memory and indicates that the pathologies are here to stay. The subtleties of the regime appear when an aspirational society sees dissent, marginality, obsolescence as stigmas of defeat. Between stark violence and the pathologies of language lies the sheer mediocrity of ideas. One sees it in a foreign policy where India has little to offer beyond mimicking Israel. It has forgotten the Rohingyas and is indifferent to the Afghan crisis. The language of ethics and suffering is missing in its analysis as morality gets reduced to an idiotic idea of securitarianism. Whether it is in confronting China or playing puppet to the United States of America, India has forged a new obsequious nationalism, a stance devoid of ideas, where pomposity hides cowardice. The third crassness is the sheer inability to allow institution-building. One undermines the court by attempting to create a commonality of politics with judges. More insidiously, the regime has undermined the university from a domain of ideas to a tutorial college where ideas are instrumental. The decline of the university will damage India’s future even as Modi treats knowledge like a mall, collecting little trophies. Science and media are the two great casualties of this regime. Today, we cannot spot the difference between a hand-out, an advertisement, and a report. Science as a way of life and thinking loses its playfulness when instrumentality takes over. A regime that spouts certainty has no sense of doubt. By emasculating civilization, it has created a monster nation state. Deep down, the Modi regime has no sense of future. All it wants is to stay in power. The idea of India is reduced to little certainties. India is an idea of clichés. What does a citizen do in such a situation? Pretending to be indifferent will not do. I remember an elite bureaucrat telling me, ‘My children are both non-resident Indians; Modi means little to me.’ A citizenship reduced to spectatorship, or a life built on privacy, is inadequate as public spaces become empty and the politics of civil society is rendered almost non-existent. One needs to invent a new semiotics of protest around new ideas, new forms of refusal. Civil society must adopt the idea of the Anthropocene where swaraj challenges a muddled and soiled swadeshi. Civil society must refuse to turn Afghanistan or the Rohingya into spectacles. Small forms must portray a different story, the silence of the argumentative media must be broken so that the regime is met by layers of doubt and scepticism. Democracy has to be reinvented because the regime is enforcing a particular variant of authoritarian electoralism and claiming legitimacy. It is not electoralism but the adda politics of the 1960s, a revival of the civic realm, that we need. The return of the argumentative Indian would be the first sigh of political life. Let us begin with the following steps: recognition of the informal economy and a response to the farmer crisis; a revival of the university; a different way of creating cities with subaltern imaginations; and, finally, bring nature into the Constitution as a person, not as the Public Works Department. One needs an exorcism of the current electoral self in which numbers substitute norms. An inventive civil society and a pluralistic vision of civilization might be the beginning of a more playful satyagraphic era, challenging the inanity of the nation state. Shiv Visvanathan is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-12
29-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand loses to Haryana 3-2, manages silver||Hosts Jharkhand failed to lift the winner's trophy after losing to Haryana by 3-2 in the finals of the 11th national junior women hockey championship in Simdega on Friday. Riding high on a flawless performance in the tournament, the hosts were upbeat while taking the field.  Jharkhand took an early lead after Deepika Soren converted a penalty in the fifth minute. But four minutes later, Haryana levelled the score by netting a goal. Upping the ante, the visiting team struck twice in the 19th and 21st minute, taking a 3-1 lead. Even though Jharkhand’s Ropani Kumar scored a  goal in the 39th minute,  the team failed to match their aggressive opponents and settled for a silver. In the match for the third spot earlier in the day, Maharashtra beat Chandigarh  6-2 to win bronze. Hockey Simdega president Manoj Konbegi said that the best team won. “Winning and losing are part of the game but we are happy that both the teams played like true finalists,” he said. Jharkhand coach Pratima said the girls missed a few opportunities in the high-pressure match. “We began on a positive note with a 1-0 lead but failed to capitalise on the opportunities during the course of the game. Haryana played aggressively and succeeded in restricting our attacks. We will work on the gaps for future tournaments,” she said. As many as 21 states participated in the tournament which began on October 20. The tournament was originally slated to be held in April but was postponed to October in view of the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
29-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ahead of Diwali, Jharkhand scraps 8pm deadline for markets, malls||Jharkhand has scrapped weekend lockdowns to allow markets and malls to stay open even on Sundays, in a major relief to traders ahead of Dhanteras and Diwali. Decisions on relaxing Covid curbs were taken following a meeting of the state disaster management authority (SDMA) under the aegis of the chief minister on Friday ahead of upcoming festivals. Addressing a press conference at Project Building,  state health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta said the government had decided to allow Dhanteras, Diwali and Chhath festivals without any major curbs. “We have ended Sunday lockdowns and done away with the 8pm deadline for markets. We also want festivals to be celebrated properly. Hence, the government is allowing them. But it doesn’t mean that people can turn complacent. The pandemic is far from over and, therefore, we have to continue following all the prescribed protocols to ensure that cases don’t spike again,” said Gupta. Asked about Diwali and Kali puja specifically, he said guidelines would be issued soon. "For pujas, the guidelines will be similar to those issued during Durga puja. As far as bhog is concerned, it can only be home distributed,” he said. . Among the other decisions, Gupta said coaching centres had been allowed to start classes for class 10 students. Games can be held at stadiums, but with  50 per cent capacity and swimming pools can be used only by fully vaccinated people. Marriage functions can be held with 500 guests. “Earlier, for coaching centres, students of only 18 years and above were allowed. Now, this has been relaxed further,” he said, adding that the ban on processions and exhibitions would, however,  continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
29-10-2021||Jharkhand||28 IIT (ISM) faculty members in world's top 2 per cent scientists: Stanford University list||At least 28 faculty members of IIT (ISM) have figured among the top 2 per cent scientists in a global list compiled by Standford University. Every year the Stanford University of US releases data for the top two per cent of researchers across the world based on their research publications which are published by Elsevier’s publisher. The list of scientists prepared by Stanford University on the basis of Standardized Citation Indicators including, information on citation, overall impact of citation, etc. As per the method, all researchers are classified into 22 scientific fields and 176 sub-fields. Field- and subfield-specific percentiles are also provided for all scientists who have published at least five papers. Giving details, Rajni Singh, associate dean (IRAA) Media and branding of IIT (ISM), said the exhaustive list of scientists in various disciplines has 1,59,683 persons from across the world including notables from India like RA Mashelkar, former director-general of Council of Scientific and Industrial Research; Ahmad Kamal, pro-vice-chancellor of Jamia Hamdard University, etc. The IIT (ISM) researchers include - Ajay Mandal of Petroleum Engineering; Himanshu Gupta of Management Studies; Vineet Kumar Rai and Prashant Kumar Sharma of Applied Physics; Subodh Kumar Maiti, SR Samadder and Gurdeep Singh of Environmental Science & Engineering; Suman Dutta of Chemical Engineering; Sarat Kumar Chandra and Sekhar Chandra Dutta of Civil Engineering. Also included are - PK Jana, GP Biswas, Tarachand Amgoth of Computer Science Engineering;  GS Seth, Ranjeet Kumar Mukhopadhyay, Amron Chattopadhyay of Mathematics and Computing; V Mukherjee and Sukanta Das of Electrical Engineering; Tapan Kumar Sengupta; Subrata Kumar Ghosh and Amit Rai Dixit of Mechanical Engineering; Raghvendra Kumar Chaudhary and Sanjeev Kumar Raghuwanshi of Electronics and Communication Engineering. A maximum of four members of IIT (ISM) that are included in the list is from the Mining Engineering department including Partha Sarthi Paul, Devi Prasad Mishra, AK Mishra and Upendra Kumar Singh of the Mining Engineering department. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Friday, Associate Professor of Mechanical Engineering Department, Amit Rai Dixit, who also figured in the list, said, “The survey has been launched by Stanford University since last year and the selection has been made on individual achievement in the field of each research publication of each scientist.” Dixit, who coordinated the project for the development of a disinfection chamber developed by IIT (ISM) during last year can destroy micro-organisms like Covid-19 using ultraviolet radiations, further said, “The inclusion of 28 faculty members of IIT (ISM) marks an achievement for IIT (ISM) in the field of research and development.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
29-10-2021||Jharkhand||Tata firms join hands to set up 41MW grid connected solar projects in Jharkhand, Odisha ||Tata Steel and Tata Power, two flagship companies of the salt-to-software conglomerate, have come together to develop a grid-connected solar project in Jharkhand and Odisha. The two companies on Friday signed a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) for a duration of 25 years to set up 41MW solar project, which will be a combination of rooftop, floating and ground-mounted solar panels. As a part of the project, Tata Power will develop Photo Voltaic (PV) capacities for Tata Steel at Jamshedpur (21.97MWp) and Kalinganagar (19.22MWp). Under this PPA, at Jamshedpur, Tata Power will develop rooftops PV with 7.57 MWp ( megawatt peak) capacity, while floating and ground-mounted capacity would be 10.80 MWp and 3.6MWp, respectively. The ground-mounted PV will be installed at the Sonar airport in Jamshedpur. Kalinganagar in Odisha will have 9.12 MWp rooftop PV capacities, and floating PV will constitute 10.10 MWp. The estimated energy generation through 41.19MWp solar project is 6,02, 80,095 kWh for the first year. During its lifetime (i.e. for 25 years), the total energy generation would be 1,40,93,61,488 kWh. Friday's announcement is yet another milestone in the common quest of both companies to become a sustainability-driven enterprise, committed to exploring clean energy solutions. In March 2021, the two companies had announced to develop a 15MW solar project at Jamshedpur. This project would generate an average of 32 MUs ( million units ) of energy per year. It will help offset  an average 25.8 million Kg of carbon-di-oxide annually. Thanking Tata Power for partnering on this  important initiative, Tata Steel  CEO and  managing director T.V.Narendran said: “Sustainability has always been a core principle that is embedded in our business philosophy and is backed by a long-term, holistic vision of achieving identified targets. We have taken several definitive steps across the value chain to reinforce our sustainability credentials. In recent past, projects on power generation from solar and non-conventional energy source have gained momentum across our operating locations. We will continue with our pursuit of clean energy solutions and expand our renewable energy footprint." Tata Power CEO and managing director Praveer Sinha said: “We are glad to collaborate with Tata Steel to help reduce their carbon footprint and reaffirm the Tata Group’s commitment towards the adoption of clean energy. Tata Power and Tata Steel have been collaborating for a long time to meet the energy requirements through cleaner means. This blended solar PV project is yet another milestone in our shared vision of a better tomorrow and we look forward to working closely with them for covering all their other plants across the country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
29-10-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant Soren: Tribal dance fest reflects honour||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday said the national tribal dance festival was an honour to communities which have been deprived educationally, socially and economically. Soren inaugurated the National Tribal Dance Festival and Rajyotsava 2021 at Raipur along with his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel. “This is not just a dance festival, but an honour to those who have been educationally, socially and economically deprived. This is a message to the whole country that if we want, this section can also walk with us. There are departments created in their name but the community is deprived of its rights and facilities leveraged to them. I also come from a tribal community. Even if I had not been chief minister of Jharkhand, I would have attended this programme,” said Soren, and wished all the best to more than 1,000 artistes from 27 states, 6 Union Territories and seven other countries. Soren said the fest was an opportunity for all people to get acquainted with the tradition and culture of the tribal society. “Tribals will get energy from such events and they will be able to keep their civilisation and culture intact. In addition, the fair held on the campus will also showcase the amazing potential of these communities, which is naturally associated with them.” Soren heaped praise on the Chhattisgarh government for helping these communities by giving minimum support price for forest produce. “I believe that the country and the states can develop only when the villages prosper. Work should be done in the direction of increasing the purchasing power of the villagers and uplift of the underprivileged, backward, poor and marginalised section of the country,” he said. The Jharkhand chief minister mentioned the sporting prowess of tribals especially in hockey and archery and also informed about his government’s full scholarship scheme to meritorious tribal students for higher education in the UK and Ireland. During the festival, a dance competition will be organised on themes of marriage rituals, traditional festivals, harvest rituals, agriculture and other traditional methods. Artistes from Jharkhand will perform Kadsa under the marriage ceremony ritual category and Oraon and Chhau dance under the harvest ritual. Soren and Baghel jointly played thodka (tribal trumpet) at the traditional musical section of the festival. Before leaving for Raipur, Soren had announced on Wednesday evening that all departments will be hosting camps at the panchayat level as part of the “Sarkar Apke Dwar” (Government at your doorstep) programme to mark two years of his government. “The Sarkar Apke Dwar camps would be hosted at over 4,400 panchayats in the state from November 16 onwards till December 29 (when he was sworn in as chief minister in 2019) and people would be linked to welfare schemes of the state government,” Soren had said. Sources in the chief minister’s secretariat said that this year, assets would be distributed to beneficiaries in all the five administrative divisions (Santhal, North Chotanagpur, South Chotanagpur, Kolhan and Santhal Pargana) in a phase-wise manner by Soren till December 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-16
