30-10-2021||Business||RBI partly relaxes rules regarding current accounts||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday partly relaxed rules regarding the opening and operation of current accounts, thus giving some relief to businesses amid the festival season. In a circular issued on Friday, the banking regulator said that borrowers who have an exposure of less than Rs 5 crore can open current accounts and also have a cash credit (CC) or overdraft (OD) facility. The central bank had said in a notification in August last year that banks cannot open current accounts for customers who have a CC or an OD facility. It had stipulated that all transactions should be routed through the CC or OD account only. The RBI had also said that a borrower can have a current account with a bank which accounts for at least 10 per cent of his or her total borrowing. Lenders had to freeze thousands of current accounts after this decision. Customers who had CC or OD exposures took to social media to complain that their current accounts were put under debit freeze The RBI on Friday said that on a review and taking into account the feedback provided by the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) and other stakeholders, it has been decided that banks may open current accounts for borrowers who have availed themselves credit facilities in the form of cash credit or overdraft facility from the banking system. For borrowers with an exposure in the banking system of less than Rs 5 crore, there is no restriction on the opening of current accounts or on provision of CC or OD facility . However, the lender will have to obtain an undertaking from these borrowers that they will inform the bank as and when the credit facilities availed by them from the banking system reach Rs 5 crore or more. Above Rs 5-cr rule Borrowers with an exposure of Rs 5 crore or more can maintain current accounts with any one of the banks with which it has CC/OD facility, provided that the bank has at least 10 per cent of the exposure of the banking system to of that borrower. The RBI has given banks time till November 30 to implement the new rules on the current accounts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
30-10-2021||Business||Worst core sector growth in 7 months||Output from eight core sectors rose 4.4 per cent in September, the lowest pace of growth in seven months which breaks a three-month streak of accelerating production that peaked with an 11.5 per cent uptick in August. On a sequential basis, this is the second successive month of decline in the index of core industries. The index, which stood at 134.7 in July, declined by almost 1 per cent month-on-month in August and fell a further 5 per cent in September. In September 2020, core sector output had grown 0.6 per cent. This September, five sectors registered a healthy growth, while crude dipped 1.7 per cent and fertilisers and electricity barely stayed in positive territory with growth rates of 0.02 per cent and 0.3 per cent, respectively. Natural gas output surged 27.5 per cent in September from a 10.6 per cent contraction in 2020, while cement rose 10.8 per cent from a 3.4 per cent fall a year ago. Fiscal deficit Buoyed by revenue collection, fiscal deficit during the first half of the fiscal was Rs 5.26 lakh crore, or 35 per cent of the budget estimates at the end of September 2021. The deficit figures in the current fiscal appear much better than the previous financial year when it had soared to 114.8 per cent of the estimates.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
30-10-2021||Business||Vedanta consolidated net profit jumps to Rs 4,615 crore||Vedanta’s consolidated net profit jumped to Rs 4,615 crore for the quarter ended September 30, 2021 from Rs 838 crore in the year-ago period. Consolidated income during July-September 2021 increased to Rs 31,074 crore compared with Rs 21,758 crore in the year-ago period. Emami PAT up 56% Emami’s profits beat estimates even as sales remained in line with expectations during the second quarter. The Calcutta-based FMCG company recorded 56 per cent growth in profit while net sales went up 7 per cent during the July-September period. The board of the company announced an interim dividend of Rs 4 a share (400 per cent) along with the result. Revenue from operation at the end of September 30, stood at Rs 788.84 crore compared with Rs 734.82 crore a year ago. Profit after tax stood at Rs 185.25 crore, up 56 per cent from Rs 118.45 crore in the same period last fiscal. Bandhan in the red Bandhan Bank on Friday posted a loss of Rs 3,008.6 crore for the September quarter with the bank aggressively stepping up provisions on stressed assets. Net profit in the year-ago period was Rs 920 crore and in the April-June quarter of 2021 was Rs 373.1 crore. Bandhan Bank made an accelerated provision on NPA accounts of Rs 1,500 crore resulting in the bank’s provision coverage ratio climbing up to 74 per cent against 62 per cent during the first quarter. The bank has also made a standard assets provision of Rs 2,100 crore and a provision of Rs 1,030 crore on restructured assets. The total provisions made by the bank during the quarter was at Rs 5,578 crore against Rs 1,442 crore during first quarter and Rs 379.6 crore during the corresponding second quarter of previous year. “Due to such provisions the bank has reported a loss in this quarter. We believe that this provisioning should be sufficient to take care of any previous asset quality issues on account of the pandemic as well as protect the bank against any disruption in the future,” said Chandra Shekhar Ghosh, MD and CEO of Bandhan Bank. Exide profit up Exide Industries has posted a 2.4 per cent growth in standalone net profit for the quarter ended September 30, 2021. Net profit during the quarter was at Rs 234.4 crore compared with Rs 228.8 crore in the corresponding period previous year. Revenue from operations grew 19.5 per cent to Rs 3,290 crore during the second quarter compared with Rs 2,753.4 crore in the corresponding year ago period. The top line growth was driven by strong replacement demand for automotive batteries and easing of Covid induced restrictions from June onwards. Makeshift home offices and data centres drove the demand for UPS batteries in the industrial segment with telecom and power sectors showing signs of demand recovery. "Both automotive and industrial SBUs are seeing demand recovery compared to the same quarter previous year and to the previous quarter of the current year. However, increase in gross profit was restricted due to unprecedented cost inflation of inputs. As an ongoing focus area, sales transformation and cost compression remain the core strategies to improve efficiencies within the company," said Subir Chakraborty, MD and CEO, Exide. The automotive and industrial battery maker said that the divestment of life insurance vertical Exide Life Insurance to HDFC Life Insurance has received the approval of shareholders. While the completion of the transaction is subject to further approvals, Exide estimates the sale is likely to be completed before June 30, 2022. The total consideration of the deal is Rs 6687 crore and will be paid in the form of Rs 726 crore as cash consideration and issuance of 8,70,22,222 shares at a price of Rs 685 per share. Exide scrips at Rs 172.95 were 0.44 per cent up at the Bombay Stock Exchange.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
30-10-2021||Business||Centre does U-turn on IRCTC fee grab move||The Modi government in less than 24 hours has rolled back its decision asking IRCTC to share 50 per cent of the convenience fee from online ticket sales, with investors hammering down its share price by 30 per cent on Friday. The decision to seek 50 per cent share of the convenience fee was made by the railway ministry. The damage control exercise, however, was undertaken by selloff secretary Tuhin Pandey who tweeted that “the ministry of railways has decided to withdraw the decision on IRCTC convenience fee”. Immediately after the selloff secretary’s tweet, the IRCTC share price which had plunged nearly 30 per cent to a low of Rs 639 on Friday morning rebounded to close the day at Rs 845.70. The stock recovered as market fears about reduced margins disappeared. Analysts had estimated the convenience fee for IRCTC at Rs 740 crore for 2022-23 and Rs 780 crore for 2023-24. Railway ministry sources said IRCTC approached the Railway Board with a desperate plea that its finances, severely hit by the Covid-19 disruptions, would take a massive knock if it had to pay the convenience fee. They said the negative impact of the decision on the share market and played a role in the government’s rollback decision . The ministry’s decision had sent a negative signal on PSU stocks forcing the finance ministry to undertake the damage control act. Pandey said “our clear advice to all the departments has always been that any policy decision with respect to listed PSUs, should be taken with the interest of minority shareholders in mind. The railways has evaluated the pros and cons and withdrawn its decision”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
30-10-2021||Business||Sensex slumps almost 678 points, Nifty ends below 17700-mark||The week ended on a poor note for the investing community as the benchmark Sensex on Friday slumped almost 678 points and the Nifty ended below the 17700-mark. While the Sensex closed 677.77 points or 1.13 per cent lower at 59306.93, the broader Nifty settled 185.60 points, marking a fall of 1.04 per cent to 17671.65. According to Deepak Jasani, head of retail research at HDFC Securities, this is the biggest weekly loss for the Nifty in 8 months. During this week, the index has plummeted 2.45 per cent. Stock prices have come under pressure in recent times as corporate earnings have not been able to keep pace with the high expectations. Even as there were concerns of pricey valuations, other factors such as firm commodity prices have affected India Inc’s margins, while a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases overseas has exerted pressure on stocks. Foreign portfolio investors have continued to press sales. Provisional data showed they sold stocks worth Rs 5,143 crore on Friday. So far, in this month, the overseas investors have been net sellers to the tune of Rs 13,550 crore. “FIIs have turned big sellers in equity markets in October. Foreign brokerages like Merril Lynch, UBS and Nomura have downgraded India due to excessive valuations. This might have prompted them to sell on a sustained basis’,’ V.K. Vijayakumar, chief investment strategist at Geojit Financial Services, said. He said three IPOs were expected to raise Rs 30,000 crore from the market.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
30-10-2021||Business||Vodafone Idea board accepts govt moratorium offer on AGR dues||The board of Vodafone Idea Ltd on Friday accepted the government’s offer of a moratorium on payment of adjusted gross revenue (AGR) dues for a period of four years. This comes days after a similar move with regard to its spectrum payments. Analysts are of the view that cumulatively, the two decisions will save it a cash outflow of around Rs 1 lakh crore. “The board of directors of the company has approved the exercise of the option of deferment of the company’s AGR related dues by a period of four years with immediate effect, in accordance with the notification dated October 14, 2021 ,” Vodafone Idea said. The company said it would consider the proposal to swap  interest dues for government equity within the stipulated timeframe. With regard to the other option offered in the notification on conversion of interest accruing on these deferred payments into Government equity, the company said that this will be considered by its board within the stipulated timeframe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
30-10-2021||Business||RBI governor Shaktikanta Das's term extended by three years||The Centre has extended the term of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das by three years till December 31, 2024. Das, who is the 25th governor of the RBI, will be the longest serving governor in recent years. “The Appointments Committee of the Cabinet has approved the reappointment of Shri Shaktikanta Das, IAS Retd, as Governor, Reserve Bank of India for a period of three years beyond 10.12.2021 or until further orders, whichever is earlier,” a government order issued late Thursday night said. Das, who was earlier the economic affairs secretary, was appointed as the RBI governor on December 11, 2018, for three years following the sudden resignation of  Urjit Patel. Among the previous governors, Bimal Jalan exited just two months short of six years, while Y.V. Reddy and D. Subbarao had five-year terms. Das is the first RBI governor to get an extension after the BJP-led government came to power in 2014. Raghuram Rajan, who had a tenure of three years, was denied extension in 2016. Rahul Bajoria, chief economist at Barclays, said the reappointment signals continuity of monetary policy and greater stability to the government-RBI relations. The three year appointment is slightly longer than the usual two-year extension that has been the norm recently, he said. Das’s term at Mint Street has been an eventful one with the central bank doing the heavylifting to revive the economy,  particularly after Covid-19 . Under his tenure, the RBI has cut the policy repo rate cumulatively by 250 basis points, of which 115 basis points came after the pandemic — a massive 75 basis point cut was announced on March 27, 2020 when the monetary policy committee (MPC) advanced its meeting to mitigate the impact of the pandemic. The RBI has since taken several unconventional measures to lift the economy. During the first six months of this fiscal, liquidity of Rs 2.37 lakh crore was infused through bond purchases, including the G-Sec Acquisition Programme or G-SAP. Earlier this month, Das said the RBI has taken more than 100 measures to respond to the pandemic. The RBI also gave a major relief to retail individuals affected by the pandemic through two loan moratorium schemes. Das also oversaw the resolutions at Yes Bank, Lakshmi Vilas Bank and PMC Bank and referred DHFL and two Srei entities to the NCLT. With the domestic economy on a recovery path, observers say the key challenge will be to bring about the policy normalisation without a hard landing. Many expect the interest rate setting body to first raise the reverse repo in December or latest by February 2022 and follow it up with a repo rate hike.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
30-10-2021||Business||JioPhone Next 4G smartphone to cost  Rs 6,499||Reliance and Google on Friday said their much awaited JioPhone Next 4G smartphone will cost Rs 6,499, with EMI options. The made-for-India device jointly designed by the duo will be available from Diwali. The phone had missed the earlier launch date of September 10 because of the global semi-conductor shortage. The launch of the JioPhone is widely expected to help the telecom company retain customers. Jio saw the exodus of 11 million subscribers in the second quarter ended September 30. In the EMI options, customers will have to pay Rs 1,999 upfront and the rest over 18 or 24 months. In the “always-on plan’’, the EMI will stand at Rs 300 per month for 24 months and Rs 350 per month for 18 months. The customers will get data of 5GB per month and 100 minutes of talk time . In the large plan of Rs 450 and Rs 500 EMI, the customers will be entitled to data of 1.5GB per day and unlimited voice call. The third XL Plan has EMI of Rs 500 per month for 24 months and Rs 550 for 36 months. Customers will get data of 2GB per day. The XXL Plan has EMI of Rs 550 and Rs 600, respectively, where they can use data of 2.5 GB per day apart from unlimited voice calling. “I am delighted that Google and Jio teams have succeeded in bringing this breakthrough device to Indian consumers in time for the festival season, inspite of the current global supply chain challenges caused by the Covid pandemic,” RIL chairman and managing director Mukesh D Ambani said. JioPhone Next will feature Pragati OS, an optimised version of Android made for the smartphone. The smartphone will come with a 5.45-inch HD+ display of 720x440 pixels accompanied with Corning Gorilla Glass 3 protection and an anti-fingerprint coating.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-21
30-10-2021||India||J&K: Two army personnel killed in mysterious blast while patrolling along Line of Control||An officer and a jawan of the army were killed in a mysterious blast near a forward post along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, officials said.  The blast took place in Kalal area of Nowshera sector when an army column was on patrol duty as part of measures to check infiltration of terrorists from across the border, the officials said.  They said the two army personnel, including a lieutenant, were critically injured in the explosion and immediately evacuated to a nearby military hospital where they died later.  They said the area where the explosion took place is dotted with landmines planted by the army as part of the counter-infiltration arrangement.  The nature of the explosion was not immediately known, the officials said, without ruling out the possibility of the use of improvised explosive device (IED) by terrorists to target the patrol team.  Confirming the explosion, a defence spokesman said further details were awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
30-10-2021||India||Narendra Modi interacts with US President Joe Biden and other world leaders at G20 Summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday interacted with world leaders, including US President Joe Biden, on the sidelines of the G20 Summit, exchanging pleasantries and showcasing a spirit of camaraderie. In a series of photos tweeted by the PMO India, Prime Minister Modi is seen meeting Biden, French President Emmanuel Macron, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. "On the sidelines of the @g20org Rome Summit, PM @narendramodi interacts with various leaders," the PMO said in the tweet. In the pictures, Modi is seen walking with Biden in a half embrace, apparently sharing a light chitchat. The two leaders are seen happy to be in each other's company. Biden hosted Modi at the White House on September 24 for their first in-person meeting. In other photos, Modi is seen embracing Macron and engaged in an animated discussion with Trudeau and Johnson. Earlier, all the world leaders participating in the G20 Summit, including Modi, gathered for a "family photo". "World leaders meet in Rome for the @g20org Summit, an important multilateral forum for global good," the PMO said in another tweet. Prime Minister Modi on Saturday also met with French President Emmanuel Macron and the two leaders had "productive discussions" on the strategic bilateral ties and on a range of issues of mutual and global interests. Prime Minister Modi, who is here at the invitation of his Italian counterpart Mario Draghi, was accompanied by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar during his meeting with Macron. "Productive discussions between PM @narendramodi and President @EmmanuelMacron on the sidelines of the @g20org Summit. India and France are cooperating extensively in various sectors. Today's talks will add momentum to the bilateral ties between the two nations," the Prime Minister's Office tweeted. The two leaders "discussed India-France cooperation on various subjects and reaffirmed their commitment to the Strategic Partnership, Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said. They also discussed global and regional developments, he added. The meeting comes more than a month after the two leaders held a telephonic conversation, amidst Paris' strong criticism of the AUKUS (Australia-UK-US) security partnership. During the telephonic conversation last month, the two leaders had agreed to "act jointly" in the Indo-Pacific to keep the region stable, rules-based and free from any hegemony. At the time, the two had reviewed the increasing bilateral collaboration in the Indo-Pacific region and the important role that the India-France partnership plays in promoting stability and security in the region. They had vowed to maintain regular discussions to coordinate ahead of upcoming events, in particular the G20 and the COP26 on climate change, and continue with their joint actions against the COVID-19 pandemic. Ahead of Prime Minister Modi's visit to Rome, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said that the G20 remains a valuable forum for India's engagement with major economies in the world and for setting the trends and norms for global economic development and recovery. The prime minister will be participating in the G20 Summit in Rome from October 30-31 at the invitation of Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. Italy has been holding the presidency of the G20 since December last year. The G20 is a leading global forum that brings together the world's major economies. Its members account for more than 80 per cent of the global GDP, 75 per cent of global trade and 60 per cent of the population of the planet. The forum has met every year since 1999 and includes, since 2008, a yearly summit, with the participation of the respective heads of state and government. The Rome summit will be attended by heads of state and government of G20 member countries, the European Union, and other invited countries and several international organisations. The summit will be centred around the theme 'People, Planet, Prosperity, focussing on the areas of recovery from the pandemic and strengthening of global health governance. From Rome, Modi will travel to Glasgow on Sunday to attend the World Leader's summit of the 26th Conference of Parties (COP-26) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
30-10-2021||India||Amarinder Singh dismisses report of backend talks with Congress, says will launch own party soon||Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday dismissed reports of backend talks with the Congress, saying the time for rapprochement is over and his decision to leave the party is final.  Singh reiterated that he will soon launch his political party and said he wanted to build "a strong collective force in the interest of Punjab".  "Reports of backend talks with @INCIndia are incorrect. The time for rapprochement is over. The decision to part ways with the party was taken after much thought and is final. I'm grateful to (Congress president) Sonia Gandhi ji for her support but will not stay in Congress now," tweeted Singh's media advisor quoting the former chief minister.  Singh was reacting to some media reports which suggested that some Congress leaders are engaged in backend talks to persuade him to remain in the party.  "I will soon launch my own party and will hold talks for seat sharing with @BJP4India (BJP), breakaway Akali factions and others for the Punjab (assembly) elections in 2022 once farmers' issue is resolved. I want to build strong collective force in interest of Punjab and its farmers," Singh said.  Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi border points against three central farm laws, which were enacted in September last year, and are demanding these be repealed.  The former chief minister on Wednesday had said he would launch his new political party as and when the Election Commission clears the name and the symbol  He had also slammed the Congress while claiming that many people from the party are in touch with him.  Punjab goes to polls early next year.  Singh had earlier said that he would soon launch his own party, and that he was hopeful of a seat adjustment with the BJP provided the ongoing farmers' stir against farm laws was resolved in their interest.  He had resigned as the Punjab chief minister last month amid a bitter power tussle with Punjab Congress chief Navjot Sidhu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
30-10-2021||India||Climate: As world's 2nd largest coal user, India on global firing line||Coal and cars are the environment’s biggest enemies, says British MP Alok Sharma who’s president of the COP26 climate summit starting on Sunday. That automatically puts India on the global firing line because we’re the world’s second-largest coal user and in 2019 had 295 million vehicles plying on our roads. What’s more, we’re defying global pressure and refusing to set specific targets on reducing carbon dioxide emissions which is the main goal of COP26. That immediately makes us the bad guy. Prime Minister Narendra Modi can expect to have many world leaders grabbing his arm in the coming days and hoping to gently twist it. “China and India cast a pall over the opening of the COP26 summit in Glasgow when they rejected calls to set tough new climate change targets,” said the Financial Times. But India’s in a squeeze – and that revolves around soaring demand for electricity that will keep rising till the 2030s or possibly even the 2040s. About 80 per cent of coal burnt in this country is used by our thermal power stations. And 67 per cent of the electricity generated in this country comes from thermal power stations. Environment Secretary Rameshwar P. Gupta put it unapologetically and bluntly to the FT: “We depend on coal and we would like to continue.” Adds Partha Bhattacharya, former chairman and managing director, Coal India: “We need thermal power stations. We need to burn coal.” Obviously, that message is the last one anyone wants to hear in Glasgow. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on his way to the G-20 summit in Rome, spoke in apocalyptic terms. He warned that the human race was on the brink of catastrophe, and, like the Roman Empire, it could go into sudden decline. “Humanity, civilisation, society can go backwards as well as forwards…” he said, adding: “You saw that with the decline and fall of the Roman Empire, and I’m afraid to say that it’s true today that unless we get this right in tackling climate change, we could see our civilisation, our world also go backwards.” Incidentally, Johnson concedes that he wasn’t always a believer in climate change but is now convinced it could take us to the edge of disaster. Prime Minister Modi is already in Rome for the G-20 summit and will head directly to Glasgow from there. He has also met Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi. The world’s top leaders are expected to do some hard bargaining on the environment in Rome before they head to Glasgow. It’s believed the British were extremely keen to have Modi in person at Glasgow. China’s President Xi Jinping, who hasn’t travelled abroad since the pandemic began, will only make a video appearance at Glasgow. India’s first line of defence at Glasgow will be that per capita or per person we emit only 1.7 tonnes of Co2. By comparison, Americans emit 15 tonnes per capita. Even the Chinese emit 7 tonnes per capita. But with our massive population, the total amount of greenhouse gases we release into the atmosphere is obviously huge. In 2018 China emitted 11.7 billion tonnes. The US came into second position with 5.8 billion tonnes and we came in third with 3.3 billion tonnes in 2018. India’s great problem is that demand for power is soaring and is likely to shoot even higher as industrialisation takes root. Also, domestic demand is shooting upwards with India’s middle-class stretching their budgets to buy air-conditioners and electrification also spreading to the remotest corners of the country. By contrast, demand has peaked in the West and is now rising only slowly. Scroll back to 2010-11 when India mined 532 million tonnes of coal. By 2019 that has soared to 730 million tonnes plus about 200 million tonnes of imported coal. Bhattacharya reckons that by 2030 India will be mining about 1.2 billion tonnes of coal. Other studies have worked out that demand could be far higher at between 1.3 billion to 1.9 billion tonnes by 2030. That could make for an awful lot of pollution in a country that has already become accustomed to a choking dust haze over cities like Delhi and much of north India. India’s already pushing its biggest selling point at Glasgow, which is that we have boosted the use of renewable energy in a big way and that is likely to grow in leaps and bounds in the coming decade. Bhattacharya reckons that by 2030 that we will add about 60 gigawatts of thermal power capacity (that’s about 60,000 megawatts). But that will be totally overshadowed by the 320 gigawatts of renewable energy (both wind and solar) we will be adding. As a result, only 50 per cent of our electricity will come from thermal energy. The catch there is that it will be 50 per cent of a far greater total. Glasgow’s COP26 has an added urgency this year because we’ve been experiencing a spate of extreme weather events. In India there have been floods in Uttarakhand and Kerala in the last month, at a time when the monsoon is usually in retreat. California has gone from forest fires to unseasonal heavy rains. There have even been forest fires in Canada which usually escapes such natural disasters. The general belief is that these extreme weather events are being caused by rising temperatures which are, in turn, caused by greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide (CO2). At the Paris COP 21 in 2015 it was agreed to limit greenhouse gas emissions so that temperatures would not rise more than 2C by end of the century. World leaders want to now bring temperature rise down to 1.5C. To do that, countries need to agree to the goal of net zero by 2050 – or a zero rise in greenhouse gas emissions. India argues this is impossible for us if we want to bring people out of poverty. To tell the truth, India has always been the grinch at the environmental party. Or, Banquo’s ghost hovering over the dinner-table while the rich supped and had their fill. Indira Gandhi was the person who laid out India’s position at Stockholm in 1972. Speaking at the very first Global Summit on the Human Environment, she uttered words that have always guided India’s environmental efforts: “We do not wish to impoverish the environment any further and yet we cannot for a moment forget the grim poverty of large numbers of people,” she said, adding: “Are not poverty and need the greatest polluters.” But we aren’t the only ones who haven’t signed on for net zero by 2050. China says it will be able to achieve this by 2060. India is in no position to make such a commitment even though we can see the deleterious impact of pollution in our cities. There are also murmurings that it is easy to make promises that have to be carried out by 2050 and none of today’s world leaders will be in office then. The Boston Consulting Group points to South Korea’s huge leap forward in the production of lithium-ion batteries and China which has captured the market for cheaper photovoltaic cells. These are both used for the production of cheaper renewable energy. There will be tense negotiations for the next 10 days at Glasgow and it’s certain that India will be at the forefront of all negotiations. Still there will be pressure to do more. And, indeed, we have a tough task ahead – we have to simultaneously beat poverty and also ensure that our air does not become unbreathable and our water too polluted to be used.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
30-10-2021||India||IIM-C bags top rank in survey for business schools||The Indian Institute of Management-Calcutta (IIM-C) has bagged the top position in the 2021 edition of the Business Today-MDRA Best B-school survey. The survey saw a record 305 institutes participate in an exercise that took over three months. Last year's top-ranker IIM-Ahmedabad (IIMA) topped three of the five primary parameters this time -- learning experience, living experience and selection process, governance and establishment, while IIM-C topped in the other two -- placement performance and future orientation, according to a statement. "It was IIM-C's big score in future orientation that finally helped it topple the perennial favourite for the first time. In a close contest, IIM-C pipped IIM-A by a mere 0.1 points," it said. The third, fourth and fifth rank have been bagged by IIM-Bangalore, IIM-Lucknow and SPJIMR (SP Jain Institute of Management and Research) of Mumbai. Apart from the main ranking of institutes, the survey mentions the ranks of schools based on each primary parameter, cities, zones, and return on investment. Separate rankings of private and government institutions have also been published. "The other big trend in business education this year is the distinct imprint of the (COVID-19) pandemic on business school education," the statement said. "As industries and companies have moved en masse to digital methods of doing business, B-schools have had to course correct and add modules on artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML) and other digital technologies to their MBA courses, it said. Marketing and Development Research Associates (MDRA) is a premier marketing research and consulting organisation in India with focus on quantitative and qualitative research.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
30-10-2021||India||Himachal bypoll: Over 33 pc voting for Mandi LS seat till 2 pm||A voter turnout of over 33 per cent was recorded in the bypoll to the Mandi Lok Sabha seat in Himachal Pradesh, while 39.24 to 48.19 per cent voting was registered in the Arki, Fatehpur and Jubbal-Kotkhai Assembly seats in the first six hours of polling on Saturday, an election official said. Voting is underway in a peaceful manner in pleasant weather conditions, he added. The voting for the bypolls began at a slow pace at 8 am, the official said, adding that it has been gaining momentum gradually. A voter turnout of 33.17 per cent was recorded in Mandi, while in Fatehpur, Arki and Jubbal-Kotkhai, the polling percentage was 39.32, 39.24 and 48.18 respectively in the first six hours, he said. A total of 12,99,756 voters in Mandi, 87,222 in Fatehpur, 92,609 in Arki and 70,965 in Jubbal-Kotkhai are eligible to exercise their franchise till 6 pm. According to officials, 2,484 polling stations and 312 auxiliary polling stations have been set up for the bypolls. The bypolls were necessitated following the death of the elected representatives from these seats. Tight security arrangements have been made to ensure smooth polling. State Chief Electoral Officer C Palrasu informed that around 50 per cent (1,383 out of 2,796) of the polling stations will be connected through web-casting. The counting of votes will be taken up on November 2. A total of 18 candidates are in the fray -- 12 for the three Assembly segments and six for the Mandi Lok Sabha seat. A direct contest is expected between the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress on all the seats except Jubbal-Kotkhai, where rebel BJP candidate Chetan Singh Bragta is trying his luck as an Independent. However, all eyes are on the Mandi parliamentary bypoll as the constituency is the home turf of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. The BJP has fielded Kargil war hero Brigadier Khushal Singh Thakur from Mandi against Congress candidate Pratibha Singh, the wife of late chief minister Virbhadra Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
30-10-2021||India||Akhilesh taunts as BJP MLA and 6 BSP legislators join SP in UP||Seven MLAs - one from the BJP and six suspended from the BSP - joined the Samajwadi Party in Uttar Pradesh on Saturday in the presence of Akhilesh Yadav, who hit out at Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and also claimed the BJP and the Congress "are the same''. "The people of the state are so agitated that the BJP will be wiped out in the coming days and Bhajpa pariwar (BJP family) will appear as Bhaagta Pariwar (runaway family)," the SP chief said here while taunting the ruling party over its MLA Rakesh Rathore's desertion and indicating that some others from the BJP were also in touch with him in the poll-bound state. Those who joined the SP - BJP MLA from Sitapur Rakesh Rathore and BSP rebels Aslam Raini (Shrawati), Sushma Patel (Madiyahon), Aslam Ali (Hapur), Hakim Lal Bind (Handia), Mujtaba Siddiqui (Phoolpur) and Hargovind Bhargava (Sidhauli) - expressed their resolve to make Akhilesh Yadav the chief minister again in the coming elections. Earlier this year, an audio clip purportedly of Rathore criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi for asking people to clap and clang bells and plates during the COVID-19 pandemic had gone viral on social media and he was asked by the party leadership to explain his alleged anti-party activities. The BSP rebels who joined the SP were suspended by BSP president Mayawati after they had opposed the nomination of the party's official candidate Ramji Gautam for the Rajya Sabha in October 2020. They had reportedly met Akhilesh Yadav earlier this year and had hinted that they may switch sides soon. Yadav also took a swipe at Union Home Minister Amit Shah for saying that 90 percent works of the BJP manifesto have been completed and the 10 percent remaining in the 'lok kalyan sankalp patra' will be taken up in the next few months. Yadav said it seems that the BJP leaders have not shuffled its pages and have forgotten about what all was there in their manifesto. "The first thing mentioned in it was for the farmers that a roadmap to double their income will be prepared by 2022 and they assured farmers in this regard from various platforms. I want to know what has happened to it," he said reading out for the BJP's 2017 manifesto and asked about the fate of other promises as well. He also again distanced himself from the party's former ally Congress. "The opinion of Samajwadis for the Congress and BJP is that both are the same, the SP chief said to a query. The SP chief also contested the claims of improved law and order and said the statistics of the Government of India and services like Dial 100 and 1090 will clear the picture about the caes of injustice against the girls. Recalling the Lakhimpur Kheri violence, he said a BJP minister was seen threatening the people in a video and said that this very minister is "being honoured on the dais with the Union Home Minister Amit Shah". He also accused the BJP of ruining educational institutions by posting people of a particular ideology. Yadav alleged that instead of carrying out development works, the budget was being spent on publicity. Questioning the outcome of the investment meet held in Uttar Pradesh, he asked how many youths got jobs after the event. "Those who came here seeking jobs were chased away using canes and humiliated. Now, these youth will cast their votes to wipe out BJP, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Thousands pay tributes to late Kannada star Puneeth Rajkumar in Bengaluru||Thousands of grieving fans continue to flock the city's Kanteerava stadium on Saturday to pay their final respects to Kannada film star Puneeth Rajkumar, whose last rites is likely to be performed by this evening. Considered as the Kannada cinema's reigning star, Puneeth, youngest of the five children of thespian and matinee idol Dr Rajkumar, passed away at the age of 46, after suffering a cardiac arrest on Friday. Following in the footsteps of his father, Rajkumar, the family has donated Puneeth's eyes. Mortal remains of the actor, wrapped in the national tri-colour, have been kept at the Kanteerava Stadium, to enable fans and well-wishers to pay homage all day on Saturday. A steady stream of people from across the state have been pouring into the arena since last evening. Several film and political personalities also paid their respects to the departed soul. Karnataka Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot accompanied by Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai and other ministers of the state cabinet, Telugu actor Nandamuri Balakrishna, ace choreographer Prabhu Deva, were among those who paid their respects today. "The feeling is like losing a son of our house," a tearful elderly woman fan said here. "Our Appu (as Puneeth is fondly called by fans) might have physically gone, but he will remain with us through his acting and the impact he has left on us because of his good and friendly nature," said a young fan. The state government has announced that Puneeth's last rites will be conducted with state honours at Dr Rajkumar Punyabhoomi in Kanteerava Studio, next to his father and mother. According to sources, Puneeth Rajkumar's daughter is abroad and is expected to reach the city by evening, following which last rites will be held, as per the family's wishes. The mortal remains will be taken in a procession from Kanteerava stadium at about 3 pm to Kanteerava studio, where the last rites will be performed. The late actor is survived by his wife Ashwini Revanth and daughters Drithi and Vanditha. Speaking to reporters Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the last rites will be performed after Puneeth Rajkumar's daughter arrives from the US, and called on the people to maintain peace and see off their "favourite actor" in a dignified way. "There is a sea of people descending to pay last respects to Puneeth Rajkumar and the government has made arrangements for it at Kanteerava Stadium. As we want the further process also to go on smoothly, police and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike officials are at work. Necessary works are on at Kanteerava Studio for last rites, where only family members and dignitaries will be allowed," he said. Necessary arrangements have been made for quick immigration clearance and others procedures, as soon as Puneeth's daughter reaches Delhi from the US. Bommai further said depending on her arrival, the timing of the final rites will be decided, and route by which the mortal remains will be taken to final resting place is being worked out. "My only appeal is, yes, Appu's death has caused us a lot of pain, but it is our duty to send him off peacefully and with utmost respect, so everyone should cooperate. Without getting emotional everyone should behave responsibly. People have cooperated in a good way so far, continuing, in the same way, will be our true tribute to Dr Rajkumar and Appu," he added. The CM's request for peace comes in the backdrop of the large-scale violence that took place in the city, following the death of Puneeth's father Dr Rajkumar in 2006.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Congress' poll assurances not just commitment, says Rahul in poll-bound Goa||Kickstarting the Congress's poll campaign in Goa, where Assembly elections are due early next year, party leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday asserted that the assurances that his party gives in its election manifesto is not just a commitment but a "guarantee". Addressing the members of the fishermen community in South Goa following his arrival in the state for his day-long visit, he also alleged that while the BJP indulges in hatred and divides people, the Congress spreads love and affection as it believes in uniting people and taking them forward. "I want to make very clear what is the difference between the BJP and the Congress is. The Congress believes in uniting India's people and taking them forward. For us, every single Indian has the right to be given the space that he requires," he said addressing the gathering. Congress's response to the hatred spread by BJP is love and affection, he said. "So, wherever they spread anger hatred and division, we spread love and affection," he added. "I am not here to waste your time or my time. Just as your time is important, my time is also important. The commitment that we will make to you in manifesto is not just a commitment but a guarantee," he added. Talking about the assurances made by Congress, he said, "My credibility is important to me. Unlike many other leaders, when I say something here, I will make sure it happens." "If I come here I say to you that we will not allow coal hub and I don't do it, next time I come here I will have no credibility," he said in his address to the fishermen, who are opposing the project of double tracking of South Western Railway as they allege that it is an attempt to turn the state into a coal hub. Gandhi said that the party has fulfilled the commitments made to the farmers at Chhattisgarh on waiving their loan. "You can go to Punjab and Karnataka, we did the same (thing of keeping up the commitment)," he said. During his visit, Gandhi will be addressing party workers' convention in the evening and will also meet those dependent on the mining industry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Modi meets Pope Francis in Vatican City||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called on Pope Francis on Saturday and discussed a wide range of issues aimed at making the planet better by fighting climate change and removing poverty during their first-ever one-on-one meeting. Modi, who is the first Indian Prime Minister to meet Francis since he became Pope in 2013, invited the head of the Catholic Church to visit India. It may be recalled that the last Papal Visit happened in 1999 when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the Prime Minister and Pope John Paul II came. Now it is during Modi's prime ministerial term that the Pope has been invited to visit India, sources said. The meeting between Prime Minister Modi and Pope Francis that was scheduled only for 20 minutes went on for an hour, they said. They discussed a wide range of issues aimed at making the planet better such as fighting climate change and removing poverty, sources said. At the Vatican, Modi was accompanied by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. The Prime Minister also met Cardinal Pietro Parolin, Secretary of State of the Vatican City State. Ahead of the historic meeting, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Friday said that the Vatican has not set an agenda for the meeting. I believe, tradition is not to have an agenda when you discuss issues with His Holiness. And I think we would respect that, he had said. "I am sure the issues would cover a range of areas of interest in terms of the general global perspectives and issues that are important to all of us, COVID-19, health issues, how we can work together to maintain peace and tranquility and this is something that, I think would be the general trend in the discussions," he had added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Had a great interaction with members of Indian diaspora in Italy, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that he had a great interaction with members of the Indian diaspora in Italy, including those who are studying about India and those who have developed a close bond with their home country over the years. On the second day of his visit to Italy for the G20 Summit, Prime Minister Modi took to Twitter to share glimpses from the community interaction in Rome. In Rome last evening, I had a great interaction with members of the Indian diaspora in Italy, those who are studying about India and those who have developed a close bond with our nation over the years. It was wonderful to hear their views on diverse topics, he said in a tweet. Swamini Hamsananda Giri, the President of Sanatan Dharma Sangha, termed her meeting with Prime Minister Modi as moving . It was (meeting with Prime Minister Modi) moving of course, because to be Hindu in Italy is not so easy but to meet the Prime Minister, it was a great honour for us. Hindus in Italy are in minority, she said. The culture of India is a treasure for the humanity because it is a culture of ancient times since now for the whole human being and this is a culture of non-violence (Ahimsa), of harmony and respect for the nature and environment since the beginning of this culture, she said, adding that it is a culture for the welfare of human being. As Sarvjan Hitaye, every human being, every being in the world has to live in harmony and in peace and we say Shanti, Shanti, Shanti. To each of us he asked something very peculiar of us and asked what I like if we go to India where and what we like from India so and I said Tamil Nadu and he spoke to me in Tamil, Giri added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Modi will be more powerful as Congress not serious about politics, says Mamata||Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will become more powerful as the Congress party is not serious about politics, and also accused the grand old party of not taking decisions. Apparently targeting the BJP-led central government, she said there was enough of Delhi's 'dadagiri' (bullying). Addressing a group of media persons in Panaji on the last day of her three-day visit to the coastal state, where Assembly polls are due early next year, Banerjee also said that the country is suffereing as the Congress could not take decisions. "I cannot say everything right now because they didn't take politics seriously. Modiji is going to be more powerful because of the Congress...If one cannot take decision, why the country should suffer for that?" she said. "They (Congress) got opportunity (in the past). Instead of fighting against BJP, they contested against me in my state. Don't you think when they contested against me, when they contest my political party in Bengal..., she said. Banerjee said the TMC believes in distributing seats for the regional parties in elections. TMC has announced that it will be contesting all 40 seats in the upcoming Goa elections. "I want that the regional parties should be strong. We want that the federal structure should be strong. We should make states strong, if states are strong, then the Centre will be strong. Delhi ka dadagiri amka naka (We don't want Delhi's bullying), enough is enough," she said. When asked about what decisions she thinks the Congress should be taking, she said, "I am not going to discuss about the Congress because this is not my party. I have set up my regional party and without any support of anybody, we formed three times government." "Let them decide. That is my system also, I don't interfere into any other political party's business, I can say about my political party and our fight will continue. We are not going to bow down our head to BJP," she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||India logs over 14,000 fresh Covid cases, 549 casualties in a day||With 14,313 people testing positive for coronavirus in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,42,60,470, while the active cases were recorded at 1,61,555, according to the Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll climbed to 4,57,740 with 549 more fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am. The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 30,000 for 36 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 125 consecutive days now. The active cases comprise 0.47 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.19 per cent, the ministry said. An increase of 221 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,36,41,175, while the case fatality rate has increased to 1.34 per cent. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.22 per cent. It has been less than 2 per cent for the last 26 days. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 1.18 per cent. It has been below 2 per cent for the last 36 days, according to the health ministry. The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 105.43 crores. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 549 new fatalities include 471 from Kerala and 36 from Maharashtra. Kerala has been reconciling Covid deaths since the last few days, hence the death tally of the state is high. Of the 471 deaths, 86 were reported in the last few days, 276 were those which were not confirmed until June 18 last year due to lack of adequate documentation and 109 were designated as Covid deaths after receiving appeals based on the new guidelines of the Centre and Supreme Court directions, a state government release said on Friday. A total of 4,57,740 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,40,170 from Maharashtra, 38,061 from Karnataka, 36,083 from Tamil Nadu, 31,156 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,900 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,113 from West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Aryan Khan walks out of Mumbai prison after four weeks||Aryan Khan, son of Bollywood superstar Shah Rukh Khan, walked out of the Arthur Road prison, after 22 days in the central Mumbai facility following his arrest during a drug raid on a cruise ship off the Mumbai coast. Aryan came out of the prison shortly after 11 am, a day after a special court issued his release memo. Immediately after walking out of the prison, he entered a waiting car and drove to his house Mannat in suburban Bandra, 12 km away. He was granted bail by the Bombay High Court on Thursday. Shah Rukh Khan's actor-friend Juhi Chawla stood as surety for the 23-year-old before the special court, designated to hear cases related to the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). The HC on Friday afternoon made available its operative order in which it imposed 14 bail conditions on Aryan Khan and his co-accused in the case, Arbaaz Merchant and Munmun Dhamecha, who were also granted bail, stipulating their release on a personal bond of Rs 1 lakh each with one or two sureties of the same amount. The relief to the trio came just a day before the HC was scheduled to take a two-week break for Diwali. In the five-page order, signed by Justice N W Sambre, the high court said the trio will have to surrender their passports before the NDPS court and shall not leave India without taking permission from the special court. Also, they will have to attend the NCB office each Friday between 11 am and 2 pm to mark their presence, the HC said. The judge will give a detailed bail order with reasons next week. Aryan Khan, Merchant and Dhamecha were arrested by the NCB on October 3 and booked under relevant sections of the NDPS Act for possession, consumption, sale/purchase of banned drugs and conspiracy and abetment. Their arrest came a day after the NCB raided the cruise ship and claimed to have seized banned drugs. So far, 20 people have been arrested in the case and two of them were granted bail by the special NDPS court earlier this week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Vinod Rai's lies exposes those who aided Modi's rise: Congress||The Congress on Friday said the exposure of “conspirator-in-chief” Vinod Rai’s “lies” had also exposed others who had joined him in maligning the Manmohan Singh government and aiding Narendra Modi’s rise to power. Party spokesperson Pawan Khera identified these others: “Anna Hazare, Baba Ramdev, Arvind Kejriwal and Kiran Bedi.” He left out Prashant Bhushan and Yogendra Yadav, two other members of India Against Corruption who later conceded that its campaign against the UPA-II government had been propped up by the RSS-BJP. Both are trenchant critics of the Modi government. Khera said a look at where some of the key players of the anti-corruption movement were today was enough to reveal their motivations and commitment. Khera said: “Anna Hazare is comfortably nestled in his village, forgetting everything about Lokpal and corruption. Baba Ramdev has become Lala Ramdev, with a flourishing business, thanks to the blessings of the BJP.” “Kejriwal is enjoying power, running a government in tandem with the Centre. The BJP tried to make Kiran Bedi the chief minister of Delhi but (after failing to do so) appointed her lieutenant governor of Puducherry. Gen. V.K. Singh became a central minister. All of them had publicly vowed never to join politics.” Khera’s comments came against the backdrop of former CAG Rai offering an unconditional apology for incorrectly accusing former MP Sanjay Nirupam of pressuring him to remove Manmohan’s name from his report on 2G spectrum allocation. “Vinod Rai was the conspirator-in-chief. You call him the main puppet as strings were pulled by the political master,” Khera said. “If he has any sense of shame, he should relinquish whatever comforts and perks he got from the grateful Modi government. You can imagine what kind of lies he resorted to. The court itself dismissed all the charges in the 2G scam and acquitted everybody.” Khera said a conspiracy had been hatched against the Manmohan government to destabilise a booming economy. “The CBI gave a clean chit to Manmohan Singh on September 21, 2015, in the coal allocation case. The CBI’s counsel told the Supreme Court there was no dishonest intention whatsoever on the part of Singh,” he said. “The media and the BJP created a political storm over the CAG reports. Where are the CAG reports today? Forget media, they are not even discussed in Parliament.” Khera said Rai, appointed Banks Board Bureau chairman in 2016 by the Modi government, had not uttered a word on the Rs 11,500-crore scam in the Punjab National Bank despite his media image as an anti-corruption crusader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Cops lift Ghazipur blockade on one side of NH-9, farmers stay put||The Delhi Police has removed the blockade put up by it on one of the carriageways of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway, a site of the anti-farm laws protest at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border where scores of protesters continued to stay put on Friday.  The removal of the barriers and concertina wires from the carriageway would help the commuters travelling to Ghaziabad from Delhi, an official said, but it was not confirmed till Friday night if the route was officially opened for traffic.  Multiple layers of iron and cement barricades, and at least five layers of concertina wires were put up by the police last year. The arrangements were further beefed up after the January 26 violence in Delhi during the farmers' protest against three new agriculture laws of the Centre.  Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Priyanka Kashyap said, "The process of removing the barricades from National Highway 9 has started. The temporary barricading is being removed to ease out vehicular movement. However, National Highway 24 was already open for traffic."  The opening of the road stretch would help thousands of commuters in Ghaziabad, Delhi and Noida as well as those travelling between the national capital and the interiors of Uttar Pradesh, towards Meerut and beyond.  Police officials and labourers were also seen removing the iron nails that were studded on NH-9 at Ghazipur, where hundreds of protesters, mostly members of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), have been occupying a road stretch since November 2020.  The BKU, a participant in the anti-farm laws movement spearheaded by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) -- an umbrella body of over 40 farm unions -- reiterated that the blockade was put up by the police and not the farmers.  BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said the future course of the protest would be chalked out by the SKM.  BKU office-bearers said the farmers want to go to Delhi once the barricades are completely removed and are open to talks with the Centre to resolve the situation.  BKU spokesperson Saurabh Upadhyay said, "If the government wants the logjam to end, it should talk to the farmers now and we are ready for it. But if it wants the farmers' movement to continue, we are determined to prolong it as it has already been 11 months since the protests began."  While the police removed a large portion of the barricades, wirings and iron nails from NH-9 (the Delhi-Meerut Expressway flyover) by the evening, the tents and other temporary structures erected by the protesters continued to remain there.  BKU's Uttar Pradesh unit general secretary Pawan Khatana said, "The government had said it had not placed the barricades and we had said the barricades were put up by the government and the police. We are sitting at the borders of Delhi and once the barricades are removed, we will head towards Delhi. We will go to Parliament, where the laws were enacted."  While one carriageway -- leading from Delhi to Ghaziabad -- was opened in the evening, the other side remained blocked due to the protesters occupying a stretch on it.  Kashyap said the police have removed the barricades on their end and are ready for vehicular movement.  "We have all arrangements in place and we are very much alert and ready. We will respond as the situation develops," the DCP added.  BKU media in-charge Dharmendra Malik said the Delhi Police has "corrected its mistake" of blocking the road after the Supreme Court's order.  "But the protest at the Ghazipur border will continue. The BKU appeals to more farmers to join the movement. Every day a new conspiracy is hatched against the farmers' protest but we are also prepared to tackle it," he said.  The process to remove the barricades started following the October 21 Supreme Court direction, calling for unblocking of the roads that have remained out of bounds for commuters due to the anti-farm laws protests at Delhi's border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur.  While the protesting farmers have been claiming that the three laws enacted last year are against their interest, the Centre has been maintaining that these legislations are pro-farmer.  Thousands of farmers have been camping at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, protesting against the three contentious laws since November 26, 2020.  According to a senior police officer, some layers of barricades placed by the police at the Tikri border were removed on Thursday night.  The Supreme Court had, on October 21, said the farmers protesting at Delhi's borders have the right to agitate but they cannot block the roads indefinitely.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-75
30-10-2021||India||Pneumonia vaccine to be available free for children in India||A vaccine that protects against bacterial infections that can cause life-threatening meningitis, pneumonia or sepsis will be available free for children across India through the universal immunisation programme. The Union health ministry on Friday launched the nationwide expansion of the pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV), four years after introducing it in five states: Bihar, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. While PCVs have been available across India since 2008 through private paediatricians for those willing to pay for the jabs, the health ministry introduced the vaccine for free in the five states in 2017 with support from GAVI, a global vaccine alliance funded by multiple countries and institutions. A disease burden assessment exercise had in 2015 estimated that around 560,000 episodes of severe pneumonia and 105,000 pneumonia deaths caused by the bacteria Streptococcus pneumoniae had occurred among children under five in India in 2010. Another burden assessment exercise in 2020 had estimated that pneumococcal pneumonia had caused 192,000 child deaths in India during 2015. Sections of public health experts have for years urged the nationwide expansion of PCV, arguing that severe pneumonia frequently requires hospitalisation and adds to the financial burden of households and the public healthcare resources. “For the first time in the country, PCV will be available for universal use,” health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said at Friday’s launch programme. The nationwide rollout of PCV is expected to significantly reduce child mortality, he said. Despite steady reductions in India’s child mortality rates, the 2015 exercise had estimated that 14 per cent of deaths among children below five years of age had occurred due to pneumococcal infections. Although PCVs have been available through the private sector across the country for over 13 years, paediatricians and public health researchers say the vaccine’s uptake has been significantly below expectations even across affluent households. One study published in 2016 had estimated that overall PCV coverage for children through the private sector in several states across the country ranged between 0.07 per cent and 2.38 per cent. PCV coverage was relatively higher in large cities — 13 per cent in Mumbai, 4 per cent in Chennai and 2 per cent in Delhi and Calcutta — but still below the expected levels for private sector sales. In the private sector, the vaccine — which has to be given in three doses — has been available at prices ranging from around Rs 1,200 to over Rs 3,000 per dose. Health researchers had estimated earlier this year that the nationwide introduction of PCVs would cost $227 million (Rs 1,700 crore) to cover the 26 million newborns annually, if the vaccine is available at $3.1 (Rs 232) per dose. “Although expensive, the vaccines are expected to have a large benefit”, given the country’s high burden of pneumococcus pneumonia deaths, a seven-member team of researchers had said last month in a research report on public finances required for the universal immunisation programme. The researchers from multiple academic institutions in India and the US had also estimated the national cost of providing basic vaccination services in 2020 was about $784 million (Rs 5,881 crore).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
30-10-2021||India||‘Periyar and Islam’ seminar triggers circular at TN university||Organising a lecture on “Periyar and Islam” faced a Tamil Nadu university with a disruption bid and a smear campaign this week from a Sangh parivar outfit, culminating in the varsity management curbing the various departments’ freedom to hold seminars. The Manonmaniam Sundaranar University (MSU) in Tirunelveli, which last year dropped a book by Arundhati Roy from its syllabus on a demand from RSS student wing ABVP, had invited senior journalist Riaz Ahamed to deliver the Periyar lecture on Wednesday. After invitations were sent to the media on Tuesday, the Hindu Munnani took to Facebook asking whether MSU was “a university, a training centre for ISIS or an office of Dravidar Kazhagam”. The Dravidar Kazhagam is an organisation founded by the late Periyar (1879-1973), a rationalist and social reformer who began the Self-Respect Movement against Brahmanical hegemony, transforming Tamil Nadu politics. Before the lecture was to start on Wednesday, a group of Munnani members led by the outfit’s state secretary, K. Kutralanathan, gathered before the campus gate. They chanted slogans and demanded they be allowed to enter and attend the lecture. Turned away by the police, they left saying they would complain to governor R.N. Ravi, the pro-chancellor of the university. It was the university’s UGC-funded Centre for the Study of Social Exclusion and Inclusive Policy that had organised the event as part of a series of lectures on Periyar. S. Samuel Asir Raj, the centre’s director and a sociology professor, told The Telegraph over the phone that the series was part of the centre’s research and outreach activities as prescribed by the UGC. The first lecture, held on October 1 after the resumption of physical classes, was on “Periyar and women’s rights”. Wednesday’s lecture by the Kanniyakumari-based Ahamed, associate editor of the Tamil journal Puthiya Vidiyal, was the second in the series. After the disruption bid, the duration of the lecture was cut to one hour from the scheduled 90 minutes. “He (Ahamed) gave a good talk but the Hindu Munnani people took it in a different way,” Raj said. In his lecture, Ahamed said the practice of untouchability in Hinduism had led Periyar to take an interest in Islam although he remained a lifelong atheist. He mentioned a speech Periyar had delivered in his hometown Erode in 1947 on “Friend of Islam”, in which he said Islam treated all equally and ensured the dignity of the human being. Ahamed added that Periyar had fought for the political rights of Indian Muslims. Late on Thursday, the MSU registrar-in-charge issued a circular to the heads of all the departments directing them to obtain permission “well in advance” from university authorities before they conducted any “seminar, conference, workshop” on any topic. The circular said that while seeking permission, the department heads must provide details such as the probable speakers. It added that the directive must be followed “scrupulously”. Raj expressed dismay at the circular. “It will destroy academic freedom and the spirit of tolerance,” he said. “This is an attempt to throttle the series of lectures on Periyar.” Last November, MSU had removed Arundhati Roy’s Walking With the Comrades from its postgraduate English syllabus after the ABVP alleged the book sought to “glorify the Maoists”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
30-10-2021||India||Karnataka Assembly secretariat calls for 25-year conversion data||The Karnataka Assembly secretariat has instructed the department of minorities welfare to submit a report on all religious conversions in the state over the past 25 years, in what appears to be groundwork for the anti-conversion law that the ruling BJP has promised to enact. An official with the department told The Telegraph on Friday that a “letter” was received from the government with clear instructions to hand in the report within 30 days. “We have received a letter from the Assembly secretariat. But we will start the work only after discussing with our secretary, who is on tour,” said the official, declining to be named. “We have been instructed to get the data on religious conversions from police and the departments of social welfare and revenue, and all district deputy commissioners and chief executive officers (of panchayats),” the official added. The letter from the Assembly secretariat is dated October 26. The latest move is based on the recommendation of the Karnataka Legislative Committee on Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare that met on October 13. BJP MLA Goolihatti Shekar, who presided over the meeting, had controversially instructed district authorities and the police intelligence wing to conduct a survey on the state’s 1,700-odd churches and prayer halls to examine their legality. The government recently put the survey on hold after Karnataka High Court issued notice to it on a PIL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
30-10-2021||India||LAC: India deploys troops at zones vulnerable to Chinese incursions||The Indian Army has deployed additional men and machines at sensitive zones that are vulnerable to Chinese incursions along the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal Pradesh, sources in the defence ministry have said. The development comes amid the recent alert by security agencies about “aggressive” patrolling by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army along the LAC in the eastern sector. “The army has deployed additional forces at several sensitive zones where the Chinese army had transgressed into the Indian side of the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh in the past. This has been done following intelligence reports suggesting a sharp increase in patrolling activities by the PLA in the sector over the past five-six months,” a defence ministry official said. The Chinese PLA is said to have reinforced its posts in large numbers and increased the scale of its training exercises by deploying military assets along the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh’s Tawang. Of the 3,488km undemarcated LAC, 1,346km falls in the eastern sector. The Tawang sector alone has a 270km border with China. China claims 90,000sqkm of territory, practically the whole of Arunachal Pradesh. Earlier this month Indian and Chinese troops had been locked in a “face-off” for a few hours at the Tawang sector after nearly 200 soldiers from the neighbouring country crossed over. On October 19 the eastern army commander, Lt Gen. Manoj Pande, had said both India and China were trying to develop infrastructure closer to the LAC. Underlining that the presence of additional troops in Chinese operational depth areas was a matter of concern, he said India had also heightened its capacity. In an attempt to guard against possible PLA transgressions, the Indian Army is deploying additional cameras and using satellite imagery to monitor the deployment of Chinese troops along the LAC in the eastern sector. Transgressions and border skirmishes are not new along a large part of the disputed India-China frontier along Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh and Ladakh. The Indian and Chinese armies have been locked in a border standoff in Ladakh since May last year and the PLA is estimated to have taken over nearly 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory. There has been “partial” disengagement from the Galwan Valley, the Pangong Lake and Gogra by creating a demilitarised “buffer zone” with the Chinese stepping back a few kilometres while still remaining within India-claimed lines. The standoff at Hot Springs and the Depsang Plains continues. India has all along been maintaining that the onus is on China to carry forward the process of disengagement and de-escalation at the friction points in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
30-10-2021||India||Varun alleges corruption at farm produce procurement centres in UP||BJP parliamentarian Varun Gandhi on Friday said farmers would continue to be exploited as long as there is no legal guarantee on minimum support price, and alleged corruption at farm produce procurement centres in Uttar Pradesh. Varun, who has been vocal in his support for the farmers’ movement, tweeted in Hindi: “Till there is statutory guarantee of MSP, farmers will continue to be exploited in mandis. Strict action should be taken on this.” One of the main demands of the farmers protesting for 11 months against the Modi government is a legally guaranteed minimum support price for their produce. Varun uploaded on Twitter a video of his visit to a government procurement centre in his constituency, Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh, in which the MP is seen raising “corruption” in procurement of farmers’ produce with a government official and threatening to move court. “If there is corruption and cruelty against farmers here, I will not plead with the government to take action. I will take the accused straight to court and make sure he is arrested,” Varun is heard telling the official as the farmers gathered around him clap and cheer. Varun told The Telegraph on Friday: “At every procurement centre in the state, there is crippling corruption, which is completely out in the open. Farmers’ grains are forcibly rejected, after which out of desperation they sell to middlemen.” He iterated his demand for a legally guaranteed MSP. “With the farmers already facing steep input costs, lack of fertilisers and inclement weather, to saddle him with a system that ensures he sells at a loss is going to drive the next generation away from agriculture and threaten both our food and national security,” he said. Varun alleged that the administration in Uttar Pradesh takes “a cut from farmers for procurement of their crops”. BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh is scheduled to go to the polls early next year and Varun’s public allegations of corruption are sure to cause unease and anger in the party. Varun had taken a strong stand against the massacre of four farmers under the wheels of a car owned by Union minister of state for home Ajay Mishra Teni on October 3. Varun had warned that “protesters cannot be silenced through murder” and demanded “accountability for the innocent blood of farmers”. Varun’s allegations of corruption at procurement centres seek to take the wind out of the Modi government’s repeated claim that it has been giving high MSPs to farmers. Last week, Varun had tweeted a video of a farmer in Uttar Pradesh burning his paddy after failing to get a remunerative price.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
30-10-2021||India||Ajay Mishra Teni by side, Amit Shah comments on rule of law in UP||Sharing a dais with his junior Ajay Mishra Teni, Union home minister Amit Shah on Friday declared his blood “used to boil” when he saw the poor law-and-order situation in Uttar Pradesh under Bahujan Samaj Party and Samajwadi Party governments. Teni’s presence signalled Shah’s support for the junior home minister, who has faced demands for his removal since his son Ashis was accused of leading a convoy that deliberately mowed down four farmers from behind in Lakhimpur Kheri on October 3. Ashis, who was allegedly driving a Thar jeep belonging to his father, is in judicial custody. Days before, Teni had threatened to fix the farmers if they didn’t stop protesting against three new central farm laws. Teni himself faces a murder case that has been dragging on for 17 years. Samajwadi president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav later said: “Those who killed farmers under their wheels are the home minister’s favourites. The Union minister of state for home, whose son mowed down the farmers, is protected by the government and shares a dais with the home minister.” Shah, as he contrasted law and order under Yogi Adityanath’s rule favourably with that under his immediate predecessors, seemed to repeat a discredited allegation by late BJP lawmaker Hukum Singh about Hindu families migrating for fear of Muslim extortionists. “My blood used to boil seeing the destruction of law and order in 15 years (under Samajwadi and BSP rule) and the forced migration from Kairana before the BJP came to power (in 2017),” Shah said, addressing a party membership drive in Lucknow. “People used to leave Uttar Pradesh out of fear. But now those who used to force people to leave Uttar Pradesh are running out of the state.” After Hukum aired his allegation in 2016, the then Akhilesh government had said a physical verification by the local administration had found it to be false. Investigations by media outlets had corroborated the state government’s findings. Shah claimed that law and order used to be so bad in Meerut that outstation girl students of Meerut University would prefer commuting 100km from Delhi every day to staying in the western Uttar Pradesh city. “Girl students of Meerut University used to live in Delhi. But the situation has changed: women can step out of their homes at 12 o’clock in the night wearing jewellery,” Shah said. “There used to be two-three bahubalis (musclemen) in every district in the past but you will not now find them even with a binocular under Yogi Adityanath’s rule.” Adityanath’s rule has been marked by the horrific Hathras and Unnao rapes, and official records have shown no decline in crimes against women in the state. Shah targeted Akhilesh, saying he had taunted the BJP during past election campaigns asking why the party did not reveal the date for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. “Akhilesh Babu, we have now laid the foundation stone for the temple but you failed to donate even Rs 5,000 towards it,” he said. Akhilesh told reporters: “We got more temples built than anyone else. I had got a temple constructed even on the premises of the chief minister’s residence in Lucknow.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
30-10-2021||India||At least five persons have died for consuming liquor in dry Bihar||At least five persons were killed while several others battling for their lives in hospitals on Friday after allegedly consuming liquor in dry Bihar. Around 50 people have died in different parts of the state in various hooch tragedies this year. The latest incident occurred at Repura village under Saraiya police station in Muzaffarpur district. The administration has put the hooch toll at four. The locals said a group of people partied on Thursday night at which alcohol flowed freely. Soon many among them started complaining of nausea and restlessness. “By early morning, a couple of the people who had fallen ill died. Two others passed away soon after. Everybody in the village panicked and rushed the other ill people to private hospitals and nursing homes,” said a resident of Repura on the condition of anonymity. The villagers put the figure of hospitalised people between six and 10, of which they claimed that the condition of two others appeared critical. “On the one hand we are worried about the well-being of our family members, on the other hand we are worried about being implicated in cases related to prohibition. But liquor is easily available in our area and the regulars keep drinking,” one of the villagers told The Telegraph. Muzaffarpur district magistrate Pranav Kumar said the cause of the deaths would be ascertained only after the post-mortem reports of the deceased. “However, preliminary inquiry indicates that a few people had arranged liquor and consumed it while partying. We are currently accepting the deaths due to consumption of hooch,” he said. The district magistrate said the house where the ill-fated group of people partied was deserted. “The police and excise teams are at the village where the incident has happened. They are conducting inquiries and investigations,” Pranav said. Chief minister Nitish Kumar brought special laws and imposed total prohibition in Bihar in April 2016. There has been a series of hooch tragedies since then, including the ones that occurred in Kaimur, Muzaffarpur, Nawada, West Champaran, Vaishali and Siwan this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
30-10-2021||India||BJP mounts pressure on Naveen to sack Dibya Shankar Mishra||A BJP central team led by its Mahila Morcha chief Vanathi Srinivasan on Friday met the family members of a schoolteacher who was allegedly murdered by the president of the school management committee in Kalahandi district of Odisha. The visit comes a day after a Congress delegation led by AICC general secretary Randeep Surjewala met Mamita Meher’s family at her native Jharani village in Bolangir. With central leaders of both the Congress and BJP meeting Mamita’s family, pressure is mounting on chief minister Naveen Patnaik to sack minister of state for home Captain Dibya Shankar Mishra for his alleged link to the murder accused. However, Naveen continues to maintain a stoic silence on the issue. Senior Congress leader and former Union minister Bhakta Charan Das questioned Mishra and the chief minister’s silence on the issue. “Why does Captain Mishra remain silent? Silence only indicates admission of guilt. Why are the chief minister and his office not coming up with a clarification?” questioned Das. Even Surjewala on Thursday had pointed out how Odisha topped in crimes against women and the BJD government has remained silent over the issue. “The minister must be removed for an impartial probe into the case and all accused persons should be hanged to provide justice to the family of the deceased. The state has been turned into ‘Crime Pradesh’ by the Biju Janata Dal,” he had said, adding that the killers enjoyed power and privilege. The Congress has demanded a probe by a SIT (special investigation team) headed by the chief justice of Orissa High court. Mamita was killed for allegedly threatening to expose the extramarital affair of Govinda Sahu, president of the school management committee, according to sources. The BJP on Friday also organised a protest rally in Berhampur and hurled eggs and tomatoes at police. It launched a three-day agitation to lay siege to all 635 police stations across the state demanding the resignation of Mishra. It had already observed a 12-hour bandh in various districts of western Odisha. However, the BJD continued to maintain the law and order situation during the Naveen government was better compared to any other dispensation. The state government is in a fix as the police had not registered an FIR for five days after Mamita Meher had gone missing on October 8. When pressure mounted, the police registered the FIR and arrested Sahu. But later Sahu managed to escape from the police barracks. The police re-arrested the main accused on October 19 from a sugarcane field and later recovered Mamita’s body from an 8ft pit in an under-construction stadium.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-76
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: Why Trinamul needs to win all four bypolls||The CPM nominee Debajyoti Das had received 26,916 votes during this summer’s Assembly polls from the Khardaha Assembly seat where polling is on for the by-election being held on Saturday along with Cooch Behar’s Dinhata, Nadia’s Santipur and South 24-Pargana's Gosaba. Santipur 64.18 per cent Gosaba 66.07 per cent Dinhata 61.52 per cent Khardaha 52.37 per cent On Saturday while polling was on, CPM’s North 24-Parganas district leader and former MLA Tanmay Bhattacharya came under physical attack by alleged Trinamul workers while he was on way to the local CPM office. Though Bhattacharya later told newspersons he did not believe the attack was a motivated one,  CPM candidate Das (renominated for the seat) said in many areas polling agents were threatened on Friday night. “We had reports of a biker gang involving 60-70 bikes  entering from neighbouring Madhyamgram several times since last night. The local leaders in the Khardaha constituency helped them identify the homes of our polling agents, where these outsiders went to issue threats,” Das said. During the Assembly polls, Trinamul had received 89,807 votes around 28,140 votes more than the BJP nominee. The candidate, Kajal Sinha, succumbed to Covid before the results were announced leaving the seat vacant. Till 11 am, only 23.60 per cent voters of Khardaha had come out to cast their votes, lowest among the four constituencies where polling is on. While the low turnout is not unusual for a bypoll, the intimidatory tactics, which the ruling Trinamul has denied, helps the party keep its lead and therefore control intact in the area. Since the Assembly results were declared on May 2, four MLAs from the BJP have switched sides. The outcome of the bypoll will have no impact on the political status of either parties, but would send a message for the polls to be held in the future, most notably the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. While Khardaha and Gosaba went to Trinamul in the Assembly elections, Santipur and Dinhata were won by the BJP. Two of party MPs who had contested and won the Assemblies later resigned to retain their Lok Sabha seats. In Dinhata, the victory margin was a mere 57 votes. The BJP, which has seen an exodus of its winning candidates to the ruling Trinamul (though it can be said  in favour of the BJP that the turncoat MLAs were from Trinamul who had switched sides believing the BJP to would come to power), needs to retain the two seats it had won previously to plug the leaking boat that the BJP’s legislative party has turned into. For Mamata, on the other hand, a 4-0 result is important keeping the future in mind. In the 2024 Lok Sabha polls, if she has to be a contender for the Prime Minister’s post, the Trinamul has to do far better than It did in 2019. A repeat of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when Trinamul won 22 and 18 seats went to the BJP will not help her national aspirations. Mamata needs to keep the BJP in check in Bengal electorally, not politically. That is why RSS shakhas have increased in the last 10 years that the Trinamul has been in power. That is why the Trinamul is aiming for a clean sweep in these bypolls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||By-polls to four Bengal assembly constituencies underway||Voting began at 7 AM on Saturday for by-polls to the four assembly constituencies of Dinhata in Cooch Behar, Shantipur in Nadia, Khardah in North 24 Parganas and Gosaba in South 24 Parganas districts, an election commission of India (ECI) official said. In Dinhata, TMC's heavyweight north Bengal leader Udayan Guha is fighting to reclaim the seat which BJP had snatched from him by a whisker in polls held last April. The by-election at Dinhata was necessitated by the resignation of Nisith Pramanik, now Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, who favoured keeping his Lok Sabha membership over sitting in the opposition in West Bengal's assembly. Guha, a two-time MLA from Dinhata, is up against BJP's Ashok Mandal, who as a TMC candidate had defeated him, a Forward Bloc candidate then, in 2006. The bypoll to Shantipur was necessitated by the resignation of BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar, who too resigned from the assembly seat in favour of retaining his Lok Sabha membership. State minister Sovandeb Chattopadhyay, who resigned from Bhabanipur to facilitate Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's election to the Assembly, is fighting from Khardah, where TMC's Kajal Sinha died due to COVID-19, just days after polls to the seat were held Bypoll to the Gosaba seat in Sunderbans was also necessitated by the death of TMC's Jayanta Naskar, who too was suffering from Covid. The EC has deployed 27 companies of central armed forces in Dinhata, 22 in Santipur, 20 in Khardah and 23 in Gosaba, an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Durgapur: Youths collect money in the name of Kali Puja subscriptions||Several truck drivers and private car owners in Durgapur town have alleged harassment by youths forcibly collecting money from them  in the name of Kali Puja subscriptions. Truck drivers carrying industrial materials to factories in this industrial hub said they were being forced to shell out anything between Rs 100 and Rs 500 depending on the size of their vehicle. “I have already paid Rs 400 as Kali Puja chanda at four places in the town. Today (Friday) I was stopped by some youths who  asked me to pay Rs 300, which I couldn’t afford. They refused to allow me to move and so I parked my vehicle along the roadside,” said Bablu Yadav, a truck driver. Bablu was coming from Sambhalpur in Odisha and the cash he was carrying to meet expenses on road was almost exhausted, he said. “The truck owner gave me Rs 2,000 in cash as travelling costs, including food. I have already paid Rs 400 towards subscriptions. I am driving for two days and have almost exhausted my money,” he said. He finally approached a police team patrolling the area. Police chased the youths and picked up two of them. Private car owners said they were being forced to shell out between Rs 50 and Rs 20 at various locations in the town as Kali Puja chanda. “I was going to visit Durgapur barrage with my wife and daughter in my car. Youths at two locations in Dumurtala and Birbhanpur stopped me and asked for Rs 50 each time,” said Ranjan Das a trader. Ranjan said the youths blocked his way at Birbhanpur when he refused to pay them. “I told them that I paid Rs 20 as Kali Puja subscription a few meters away and won’t pay again. They refused to let me move. I had to pay Rs 20 again,” he said. Asked, some youths stopping trucks for chanda, said: “What is wrong in it?” “We take money only once a year for Kali Puja. What is wrong in it? What will you say when police collect bribes from truck drivers round the year,” a youth told this reporter. Police said they had beefed up patrolling in industrial areas. “We are taking stern actions against such complaints. We have arrested some youths for harassing people,” said Dhrubajyoti Mukherjee, assistant commissioner of police, Durgapur.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||TMC sets up seven-member committee for civic polls||Leaders of Trinamul Darjeeling (plains) district committee have formed a seven-member committee to  monitor the party’s organisational activities under the Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) area in view of the upcoming civic polls. Senior party leaders here said on Friday that the committee will also draw up the campaign plan and select candidates who will contest the municipal elections here. “There has been a specific instruction from the state leadership that such a committee should be formed to oversee party’s activities in the civic area. Accordingly, we sent a panel of 15 names among whom the state leaders selected seven persons. Accordingly, the committee has been constituted. It will work until the civic elections are over,” said Alok Chakraborty, the chairman of Trinamul’s Darjeeling (plains) district. The seven members of this new Trinamul committee are Chakraborty himself; Papiya Ghosh, the district president; Vedabrata Dutta, the district spokesperson; Pratul Chakraborty, a state general secretary of the party; and Pradip Goyal, Jayanta Kar and Dulal Dutt, three presidents of as many town committees of the party.Senior leaders such as former minister and current chair of the SMC board of administrators Gautam Deb and former district party president Ranjan Sarkar have not been included in the committee. “We have followed the instructions of state leaders and cannot comment on the issue. All of us have to go by party’s guidelines,” said Chakraborty, when asked if the absence of Deb and Sarkar will create a negative impact on organisational activities. He said that after the Assembly elections, they received around 10,000 applications from people, mostly political workers of other parties, seeking to join Mamata Banerjee’s party. “The party has decided to scrutinise each application and then decide on induction. We do not want to hurry on the issue,” he said. Along with political activities across all the 47 wards of the SMC, the committee will also make its recommendations about prospective candidates who will contest from these wards. “Till date, Trinamul has never got a majority in the SMC,” said a party insider. “This time, we are determined to secure the civic body here. All necessary efforts would be taken in this regard.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||New test facility at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital||The Virus Research & Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital, located on the outskirts of Siliguri, will start conducting respiratory panel infection test from next month. The test is vital to find out viruses which have infected the lungs and the respiratory tract of a patient who has suffered a viral attack. “This will be the first of its kind test facility in north Bengal. Chief minister had earlier announced that such a facility would be introduced in the state and the NBMCH has been chosen as one of the testing centres. The tender process to obtain necessary equipment for the test has been done and we hope that from the first week of November, the test can be held here,” said a source. Experts at the VRDL said that through the test, viruses responsible for lung and respiratory infections including influenza-one, S-one, rhinovirus can be diagnosed here. “So far, samples of patients from north Bengal were sent to Calcutta to find out which virus has infected them in case of respiratory problems and the testing facility was not available in any state-run hospital of the region. The facility is available at private hospitals but it is expensive. Now, it will be available free of cost,” said an expert. Arunava Sarkar, the principal investigator of VRDL, mentioned that so far, RT-PCR tests of 5.90 lakh swab samples have been carried out in the lab, which is highest for any lab in the state. The lab was opened here last year. “Although pressure of testing swab samples for Covid-19 has reduced these days, an additional responsibility will be put on the lab as we have to conduct the respiratory panel infection test here. We hope to conduct this test in a successful manner,” said Sarkar. A doctor posted at the NBMCH said the test is important to provide necessary treatment to patients having respiratory problems due to viral infection. “Detection of viruses can help in streamlining the treatment which eventually will reduce death rate.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Control room for Covid-19 patients in Jalpaiguri ||The Jalpaiguri district administration will start a control room from Monday to keep a tab on Covid-19 patients who are staying at their homes across the district. “It has been found that a number of patients infected with the contagion are staying in isolation at homes and are not following doctors’ advice. In some cases, patients are delaying in getting proper treatment. Earlier, such delay in treatment and admission had left many patients critical and some of them have even lost their lives. That is why, it has been decided to open a control room so that all these patients can be monitored on a regular basis,” said Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate. At the control room, the administration will depute employees who will make phone calls to Covid patients and their family members on a regular basis to keep an update about their health condition, medicines and admission in hospital. “If any patient is found to be critical, immediate arrangements would be made through the block and the district administration to facilitate his admission to a hospital. The mechanism, we believe, can help in reducing the number of deaths owing to Covid-19,” the district magistrate added. In Jalpaiguri district, nine safe homes were opened earlier for treatment of Covid patients. Later, as the cases came down, these homes were closed down. “Those in charge of these safe homes have been asked to be on alert and also take steps to keep these facilities ready,” said a source in the administration. In South Dinajpur, 15 areas spread across 11 wards of Balurghat town have been declared as containment zones following a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases. “On Wednesday, around 30 people were tested Covid positive here, which is highest during past two-three months. Areas from where the cases have been reported have been declared containment zones,” said an official in the administration. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Schools to reopen with  different timings from November 16||The West Bengal Board of Secondary Education on Friday issued a formal notification to reopen schools with revised academic hours from November 16. Classes will be held in  separate sessions for physical distancing. Students of Classes IX and XI will report at 9.30am for classes from 10am to 3.30pm. Students of Classes X and XII should report at 10.30am for classes from 11am to 4.30pm. This schedule will be followed from Monday to Saturday. “As students from Classes V to VIII will not attend school now, there will be sufficient room for students of Classes IX to XII in small groups,” an official of the WBBSE said. Classes were suspended owing to Covid-induced lockdown in March last year. Recently, the state government decided on physical classes  from November 16 but only for students from Classes IX to XII in separate academic hours. The state school education department also directed district magistrates to appoint an additional district magistrate as the nodal officer in districts to ensure smooth reopening of schools from November 16. The department has also instructed the district inspectors of school to contact the ADM and DM  concerned for any action required to run schools physically after a gap of 20 months. Sources in the school education department claimed  the objective behind the appointment of nodal officer was to ensure implementation of Covid protocols in real time so that students do not fall victim to complacency in the implementation of health protocols. “District inspectors will keep in touch with the ADM for instructions and coordinate with headmasters to ensure cleaning and sanitisation are done before allowing students in, according to instructions of the board,” an administrative official in Nadia said. Board president Kalyanmoy Ganguly said besides theoretical classes, practical classes for students of Classes IX to XII can be taken from November 16. “Covid safety protocols prescribed need to be followed strictly for arranging practical classes," he said. Revised timings from 9.30am to 4.30pm have angered teachers who have termed the development “inconvenient”, especially for those who use suburban trains. “It would have been better if the board left the timing decisions to school authorities. The revised timing is illogical and will be a problem for teachers who depend on local trains to commute. We demand the board consider implementing old and usual school timings from 10.30am to 4pm and on Saturday's stick to the half-day schedule,” said Chandan Maity, state secretary of the Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri: Police halt movement of two-wheelers on Balason bridge||Siliguri Metropolitan Police halted movement of two-wheelers on the Balason river bridge here from Friday as the work to install a Bailey bridge started on the site. “From Friday morning, even two-wheelers are not allowed on the bridge. This is because work has started to set up the Bailey bridge. The bridge is likely to be ready by the first week of December. Till then, only pedestrians can use the bridge by walking on the footpath. They should however, maintain discipline as work is in progress,” said a senior police officer. Since October 20, traffic on the bridge on NH31 was stopped after one of its pillars tilted and a part of its concrete plank sank under the impact of the swollen Balason river following downpour. Only two-wheelers and pedestrians were allowed. The rest had to take long detours to and fro Siliguri. Now, two-wheelers will also have to take detours. With Balason bridge off bounds, the stretch of Asian Highway II which moves through northwest of Siliguri and connects Naukaghat on southern end of the city has become the principal entry and exit route. “There is traffic congestion along the stretch as all vehicles are moving on this route. The detour has also increased travelling expenses as commuters have to cover extra distances and fuel prices are already high. Till Thursday, we could cross Balason on bike but from now even that option is not there,” said Tanmoy Goswami, an IT professional. The halt in movement along the bridge has also led to diversion of traffic movement, causing severe congestions in principal roads and crossings of the city. Earlier, most of the traffic used to move through northern parts of Siliguri but now, the vehicles are moving through the southern end. Police, asked on the issue, said traffic movement across the city was under CCTV surveillance and they were taking necessary steps as and when required to prevent snarls. “If we notice excess flow of vehicles through one area, we are diverting traffic through other roads to reduce congestion. Our men are working in all the traffic guards of the city and taking prompt steps,” a policeman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||BJP legislator from Kurseong raps state party chief||BJP legislator from Kurseong, B.P. Bajgain has shot off a “protest” letter to BJP state president Sukanta Majumdar asking him to refrain from making any statement against the demand of Gorkhaland. There has always been a tussle between Bengal BJP’s hill and plains leaders on Gorkhaland but Bajgain’s letter to Majumdar clearly indicates that BJP hill leaders are trying to assert themselves more strongly on it. On Thursday, Majumdar  told the media at Jalpaiguri had blamed Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee for endorsing the word “Gorkhaland.” “She was the one to agree to the Gorkhaland Territorial Administration and sign an agreement to include the word Gorkhaland. Gorkhaland was neither included by the CPM, nor the Congress nor the BJP,” said Majumadar, adding that the saffron party would work out a “permanent political solution” for the hills. In a strong worded letter, Bajgain stated: “The syllogistic meaning of this statement leads us to think that the BJP was never a pro-Gorkhaland party, either then and now, period... This letter is a protest in regard of your Jalpaiguri statement before mediapersons.” Many in the hills, including the BJP’s allies, feel that permanent political solution means the state of Gorkhaland though the BJP has not yet defined the phrase. Bajgain, also has not minced words in the letter and clearly reminded Majumdar that he and Darjeeling MP Raju Bista had won elections on the Gorkhaland promise. “I myself have been granted this opportunity to serve as the MLA from the BJP, whilst promising that this demand of Gorkhaland will be met. Whatever may be the name of the future state, the name of Gorkhaland is holy to us likewise, Gita, Bible, Quran and Tripitak,” the letter reads. Another BJP MP from Alipurduar, John Barla has been demanding a separate north Bengal state comprising eight north Bengal districts. Speaking to this newspaper, Bajgain said that he had also voiced his protest when BJP leaders from the plains have not spoken favourably of Gorkhaland. “Yes, I have written the letter and I also emailed it to him yesterday (Thursday). I will again meet him in Calcutta on November 1 and will try to personally iterate the contents of the letter again,” said Bajgain. The Kurseong MLA said they were not demanding Gorkhaland from Bengal leaders but from central BJP leaders and it was necessary to protest such statements as “we cannot keep the (hill) people in a state of confusion.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Bypoll test for Trinamul and BJP||Around 9 lakh voters will on Saturday elect MLAs in four geographically and demographically diverse constituencies, Khardah, Gosaba, Santipur and Dinhata. Both had a 2-2 score in the Assembly polls, Trinamul bagging Khardah and Gosaba and the BJP Dinhata and Santipur. However, Trinamul’s overall win in the Assembly polls and later in Bhowanipore and two others seems to have made the BJP jittery. A state BJP leader said: “The best we can do is put up a fight in Santipur and Dinhata.” In Santipur, Trinamul’s Brajakishore Goswami is pitted against BJP’s Niranjan Biswas. In Dinhata, the contest is between Trinamul’s Udayan Guha and the BJP’s Ashok Mondal. Trinamul veteran Sovandeb Chattopadhyay has been fielded in Khardah against young BJP candidate Joy Saha. In Gosaba, Trinamul’s Subrata Mondal is pitted against BJP’s Palash Rana. BJP’s Jagannath Sarkar, MP from Ranaghat, won the Santipur seat by 15,878 votes in the Assembly polls. Sources close to Sarkar, who resigned from the MLA seat, said Biswas has a tough task cut out for him.  Of the 2, 37,000 odd voters of Santipur, 40 per cent are SC and ST, most of whom had voted for the BJP earlier. BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari publicly claimed that recent attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh gave the party an edge here. But a BJP functionary said: “This could be the case only in rural areas. Also, Muslims are around 22 per cent of the electorate and they will vote for Trinamul.” The Bangladesh factor has been flagged by the BJP in the campaign for Dinhata too where Trinamul’s Udayan Guha lost to BJP’s Nisith Pramanik, MP and currently the junior union minister of home affairs, by 57 votes in the Assembly polls. only. Like Sarkar, Pramanik also resigned from his MLA seat leading to a by-poll in Dinhata. In Dinhata, dwellers of erstwhile Bangladeshi enclaves (which are Indian villages now) and the Rajbanshi population decide the results. After 2015, when the enclaves merged with the Indian mainland and residents, mostly Muslims, became Indian voters, they supported the BJP. The support of Rajbanshis had helped the saffron camp. However, during the past few months, Trinamul managed to revive its support base in Dinhata to an extent. While the BJP is playing the Bangladesh card to woo Hindu voters, Trinamul is referring to the recent notification of the home ministry which has extended BSF’s jurisdiction (from 15km to 50km inside Indian territory from the international border), and highlighting the impact of this central policing on people. Trinamul again fielded Guha against BJP’s has pitted senior party leader Ashok Mondal. There are 2,98,080 voters in the seat who will vote in 417 booths. Khardah in North 245 Parganas, and Gosaba in South 24 Parganas, are likely to be cakewalks for Trinamul. State minister and an eight-term MLA Sovandeb Chattopadhyay has been fielded in Khardah against young BJP leader Joy Saha. Chattopadhyay won the Bhowanipore seat during the Assembly polls but vacated it for Mamata later. Trinamul’s Kajal Sinha had won in Khardah by 28,140 votes, but died of Covid-19 before the results were declared. “We have no doubts about Sovandebda’s victory,” a senior Trinamul leader said. In Gosaba, Trinamul’s Subrata Mondal is pitted against BJP’s Palash Rana. This seat was vacated after Trinamul’s elected MLA Jayanta Naskar of Trinamul died of Covid-19. Naskar had defeated BJP’s Chitta Pramanik by 23,709 voters. Confident of winning this seat again, Trinamul’s target is to increase its margin. Counting for the bypolls will be held on November 2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 982 new cases, 860 recoveries and eight deaths||Bengal on Friday reported 982 new Covid-19 infections, 860 recoveries and eight deaths, resulting in a rise by 114 in active cases to 8,223. Bengal now has 5.3 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is fifth on the list of states with the highest number of such cases. In the past 34 days — since Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in active cases ahead of Durga Puja on September 26 — there has been a net rise of 549 in the state’s total of active cases, from the 7,674 of September 25. The state’s recovery rate, 98.33 per cent till October 20, fell to 98.32 on October 21, 98.31 on Saturday, 98.3 on Sunday, 98.29 on Thursday and 98.28 on Friday. The recovery rate, nationally, is 98.17. A minister said new infections reported on Friday were indicative of people who got infected between October 20 (Lakshmi Puja) and October 24. Calcutta reported 273 new infections and one death on Friday. North 24-Parganas reported 161 new cases and two deaths. These were only two districts of the state with a three-digit figure of new cases. Six districts reported a single-digit figure. Sixteen districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 726 or 73.93 per cent of the new infections detected on Friday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2 per cent on Friday. Bengal now has more than 15.91 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes nearly 15.64 lakh recoveries and 19,113 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Nabanna annexe building turns into a nightmare for authorities||The incomplete Nabanna annexe building — a proposed 11-storey structure  at Mandirtala in Howrah near state secretariat Nabanna — has turned into a nightmare for authorities. An internal report of the state public works department has pointed out that the abandoned place has become a den of goons and a major untoward incident was just waiting to happen. Sources in the government said the work for the annexe building started in June 2018 but after the casting of the ground floor roof, the project came to a halt following “verbal instructions of higher administrative authorities” in June 2019. The cost of the project was estimated at Rs 48.41 crore. The carpet area of the ground floor and first floor was supposed to be 880.49sqm. ‘There was a plan that all the departments, which were run in rented places since the Writers’ Buildings was vacated for renovation in 2013, would be brought to the annexe building which is located at a stone's throw from Nabanna. But after 20 per cent of the estimated cost was spent to complete the base for an 11-storey building and casting the roof of the ground floor, the project was stopped without showing any particular reason,” said a senior official. The state PWD pointed out that the building had become unsafe for the area with local goons starting to invade it. “It is very close to the state secretariat and a structure like this always poses a threat to the security of the state secretariat where all VVIPs have their chambers or visit on a regular basis. It is good that the PWD has drawn attention of the authorities to the structure," said a source. The internal report by the PWD also stated that about six months ago, a proposal was put forward to construct a three-storey building in the place to house the office of the director of security. “But no communication thereafter has been made by the director of security. Hence, the fate of the project remains the same,” reads the PWD’s internal report. The PWD has proposed to arrange security cover for the site and has also proposed to construct a boundary walls to prevent any untoward incident. However, officials were not sure whether the proposals would be approved as the state government is facing a financial crunch in order to  run a series of welfare schemes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Leander Paes and Nafisa Ali join Trinamul Congress in Goa||Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee on Friday inducted celebrities such as Leander Paes and Nafisa Ali and entrepreneur Mrinalini Deshprabhu into her party for its Goa foray, which she formally launched over the course of a busy day of political and PR exercises. While the names of swimmer and activist Ali and Deshprabhu had been doing the rounds, tennis icon Paes was a surprise for most. “When, at the age of 14, I went to play tennis for India, Didi (Mamata) was the (junior) Union sports minister. She used to always encourage, always support…. Now, after three decades of tennis, I would like to support the lady who has been going forward with immense courage. She is a real champion to me,” said Paes, 48, a Calcutta boy and now a resident of Goa. Regarded as one of the greatest players in doubles, he won 18 Grand Slams in men’s and mixed doubles, and a bronze for India in men’s singles at the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta. “I would like to serve the people by means of politics. I would like to serve the youth of the nation. That is why I have joined Didi,” said Paes. “India is the world’s largest democracy. There cannot be division here on the basis of caste, creed, or religion,” he added. Now 64, Ali was a Congress candidate against Mamata in Calcutta South in the 2004 Lok Sabha polls. She lost. Ali also had a brief stint with Samajwadi Party before returning to the Congress in 2009. “She (Mamata) is such a champion for the cause of protecting the inclusive ethos of India…. It is important, now more than ever, to close the ranks on forces that seek to divide this great nation,” said Ali, a Calcutta girl who was the national swimming champion in the early 1970s, was crowned Miss India in 1976, and went on to act in films. Sources in Trinamul said Mamata was keen on engaging civil society members in politics in Goa, something she did successfully in Bengal. The BJP’s Pramod Sawant-led government would seek re-election to the 40-seat Goa Assembly in  February 2022. The principal Opposition there is the Congress, with the AAP testing waters there for some time. Last month, Mamata inducted Goa’s former chief minister Luizinho Faleiro, with four decades in the Congress. He is now a national vice-president of Trinamul, helping it not only in Goa but also in several states of the Northeast, which he handled organisationally for the Grand Old Party. After Faleiro came a number of political leaders from Goa, from various parties there. From the civil society, Trinamul has already managed to get the likes of poet N. Shivdas, filmmaker Tony Dias, environmentalist Rajendra Shivaji Kakodkar, footballer Denzil Franco, and boxer Lenny Da Gama.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC orders Alapan's case against Centre to be heard in city||Calcutta High Court on Friday provided relief to former Bengal chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay by ruling that his challenge to the Centre’s disciplinary proceedings will be heard in Calcutta and not Delhi, while observing that the Union government’s “entire modus operandi” in the matter “reeks of mala fide”. It questioned the speed with which the Principal Court of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) in Delhi had shifted the hearing of Alapan’s petition from Calcutta to the national capital, saying such “overzealousness to cater to the fiat of the government... shocks judicial conscience”. Allowing a plea from Alapan, now chief adviser to the Bengal chief minister, the division bench of Justices Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya and Rabindranath Samanta struck down CAT Delhi’s directive for a venue change. But it clarified that Friday’s order would not prejudice the main case to be heard by the Calcutta chapter of CAT. Alapan had petitioned the Calcutta chapter of CAT to quash the proceedings drawn against him by an inquiry committee set up by the Union government’s department of personnel and training (DoPT). The charge against Alapan is he had failed to attend a May 28 review meeting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had convened in Kalaikunda. The high court cited the speed at which things had moved at the principal bench of CAT in Delhi, with the DoPT’s October 20 petition for transfer of the hearing cleared unilaterally on October 22 and a less-than-24-hours’ notice served on Alapan. “Promptness is appreciated, but overzealousness to cater to the fiat of the government, be it central or state, is not, by courts of law as a tradition,” the high court order said. “This shocks judicial conscience, to say the least.” It added: “The entire modus operandi adopted by the Union of India reeks of mala fide. It is unfortunate that the principal bench of the CAT nurtured such efforts by passing the impugned transfer order, thereby paying obeisance to the diktat of Union of India, which has been repeatedly held by the Supreme Court and various high courts not to be a favoured litigant.” The high court said the order by the principal bench of CAT had violated not just Alapan’s legal rights under CAT rules but also his fundamental right to equality under Article 14 of the Constitution. “...(The order) also leaves a bad taste in the mouth due to the mode of operation of a quasi-judicial (if not judicial) authority and also poses a threat to the federal structure as envisioned by the makers of the Constitution of India,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Suburban local trains to operate at 50% capacity from November 1||The Bengal government has allowed suburban local trains to operate at 50 per cent of their seating capacity from November 1. It has also announced a series of relaxations while extending till November 30 the stricter restrictions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. An order issued on Friday afternoon removed the night-time restrictions (11pm-5am) from November 2 to 5 for Kali Puja, and on November 10 and 11 for Chhath Puja. Cinemas, theatre halls, auditoriums, stadiums, shopping malls, market complexes, restaurants, bars, spas and gyms can increase occupancy to 70 per cent from the current 50 per cent but will have to close by 11pm. Coaching centres for competitive exams, too, can operate at 70 per cent seating capacity. Indoor social gatherings, including for weddings, and film and TV shooting can be held with occupancy limited to 70 per cent of the capacity of the venue. Officials said that as schools and colleges were being reopened from November 16, the local trains were being allowed to operate, but at 50 per cent seating capacity. “If local trains are not allowed, students might face trouble in reaching schools and colleges. Even though the number of positive cases is rising, we are hopeful that the situation can be brought under control if the Covid protocols are followed. The situation will be monitored on a regular basis after schools and colleges are reopened and appropriate steps will be taken if positive cases rise abnormally,” a source said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta High Court bans use of all forms of firecrackers||Calcutta High Court has banned the use of all forms of firecrackers, including green crackers, in celebrating the upcoming occasions of Diwali, Kali Puja, Chaath Puja, Christmas and New Year’s Eve. A division bench said that “only wax or oil-based diyas might be used”. The cracker ban, which covers the whole of Bengal, will also apply to celebrating Jagaddhatri Puja and Guru Nanak’s birthday. The bench gave primacy to the “right to live” and citizens’ larger interests, choosing to overlook the “smaller interest” of those dependent on the firecracker industry. “We are not convinced that firecrackers of any form, either green or of any other category, ought to be permitted to be used during the coming festive season,” the bench of Justices Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya and Aniruddha Roy said, passing an order on a batch of public interest litigation petitions. The order cited the “pandemic situation, which is getting marginally worse by the day” and “the fact that even moderate Air Quality Index (AQI) can cause severe difficulties for people suffering from respiratory problems”. On Wednesday, the state pollution control board had issued a directive banning all types of fireworks, except “green fireworks” that could be burst for two hours from 8pm on Diwali (November 4). But the division bench of Justices Bhattacharyya and Roy said that even green crackers would not be allowed. “…We find nothing to establish that there is any mechanism in place at present to ascertain whether crackers being sold or burst/ lighted are only green crackers, complying with the norms,” the order said. The bench added: “It would be an impossible task for the police and/ or law-enforcement agencies to ascertain the veracity of the certificates of the crackers.” On the livelihood of those dependent on the firecracker industry, the order said: “It is submitted that, keeping in view the larger interest of the citizens of the state, the smaller interest of the firecracker manufacturers and all concerned with such business might be overlooked.” The bench observed: “Right to live is the fundamental right of the people. This right cannot be curbed by allowing the firecrackers to be used.” It said that many were suffering from breathing problems amid the pandemic. “Their problem will further increase if firecrackers are allowed (on) festive days.” The bench directed the authorities to take steps so that firecrackers were not sold in markets and impose strong measures against those found guilty of violating the court directive. “The State should ensure that there is no use or display or bursting of firecrackers of any type at all,” the court said. Last year, too, Calcutta High Court had imposed a ban on the sale and use of firecrackers during Diwali. But firecrackers were burst across the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
30-10-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee sounds pluralism bugle in Goa||Trinamul Congress chief Mamata Banerjee on Friday formally launched her party’s bid for power on Goan soil, with less than four months remaining for the tiny coastal state’s Assembly election, asserting her party’s initials “TMC” stand for “temple, mosque and church”. The Bengal chief minister repeatedly underscored her party’s uncompromising stand on protecting the pluralistic, inclusive ethos of India. “The BJP calls me anti-Hindu. But they are nobody to issue character certificates to me. They should first figure out their own character,” said Mamata. “We unite people, we don’t divide…. Our initials stand for temple, mosque and church,” she added. Through a busy day of numerous political and PR exercises on her maiden political tour of the cosmopolitan western state, a Portuguese colony for over four centuries, till 1961, she also stressed she was not attempting to invade Goa as an “outsider” (which the BJP has started calling her) but was only trying to partner as a “sister” to help the state move forward and ensure that it wasn’t run from Delhi. Listing welfare schemes implemented by her government in Bengal, Mamata said her party could do those with ease in Goa, whose population  is 1.5 per cent of that of Bengal. “I am not here to be the chief minister of Goa… but I will happily ensure there is a policy, a mechanism in the government free of corruption,” she said, stressing hers was a national party and could go anywhere in the nation. She said Bengal and Goa have in common their love for three Fs, fish, football and folk culture. “We will work for Goa resolutely. It is not that we are here to divide votes,” she added, referring to the Congress’s allegation. “You (the Goa electorate) have given an opportunity to all (other) parties… now give one opportunity to Trinamul.” The Congress has been critical of Mamata’s Goa venture, as it is the principal Opposition in the state and had emerged as the single largest party in the 40-seat Goa Assembly in 2017. The AAP too has been trying to make inroads in Goa for some time. The Congress’s fear is that in the February 2022 election Trinamul and AAP would eat into the chunk of around 34 per cent Christian votes. “Let the Congress also contest. They have been contesting for 70 years. The last time, Congress MLAs went to the BJP to help them form the government here. You (the Congress) cannot control your own MLAs,” said Mamata, referring to the controversial power-grab of 2017 in Goa, when the BJP  formed the government despite securing 13 seats compared to the Congress’s 17, when the majority mark was 21. Asked if she was positioning herself as Prime Minister in 2024, Mamata said: “If I tell you everything right away, what will I say later… we are transparent.” BJP Bengal unit chief Sukanta Majumdar responded to Mamata’s day in Goa with derision, dismissing her party’s chances there. Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury alleged she had gone to Goa to divide votes and in order to help the BJP. Mamata began her day with a meeting of her party’s Goa unit at 10am in Dona Paula, with inductions on either side of the likes of Indian tennis icon Leander Paes and swimmer-model-actor-politician-activist Nafisa Ali. At midday, she interacted with fishermen at Betim. At 1pm, she held a news conference in Dona Paula. At 3.30pm, she paid a visit to the Mangueshi temple in Priol, followed by the Shri Mahalsa Narayani temple in Mardol, followed by the Tapobhoomi temple at Kundaim. In the evening, she participated in an interaction with civil society members of Goa in Dona Paula. On Saturday, Mamata would have breakfast with journalists at 10.30pm in Dona Paula, followed by a visit at 11.30am to the Basilica of Bom Jesus on Old Goa Road. At midday, she would conduct a community interaction at Mapusa. “She is leaving no stone unturned to make a significant impact this time, by making public memories that would last for some time. She is on a mission,” said a senior Trinamul Rajya Sabha member.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-30
30-10-2021||North East||High Court of Tripura seeks strife affidavits||The High Court of Tripura on Friday initiated a suo motu PIL based on newspaper reports about violence in three districts on Tuesday in “repercussion” to attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh during Durga Puja. According to Tripura advocate-general S.S. Dey, a division bench of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice S. Talapatra has ordered the state government to file multiple affidavits by November 10. One affidavit should detail the preventive measures that have been taken or its plan to scuttle “the design of stoking communal passion or to perpetrate violence”, the court said. Another affidavit should list the status of the investigation into the cases filed and whether any arrests had been made. The court took note of a declaration by chief minister and BJP leader Biplab Kumar Deb that appropriate compensation would be paid to those affected. “We direct the state to take urgent action in this regard so that the livelihood of persons who have lost their source of income can be restored at the earliest,” the court said. It said appropriate action should be initiated against social media platforms to ensure removal of false, fictitious and fabricated articles and images. The bench appreciated the positive role played by the “media at large, in particular the print media”, in restoring peace. It suggested that peace committees may be set up, including at the panchayat level, by including members of all political parties so that confidence of the people of the state can be restored. The high court will hear the case again on November 12. The court intervention came after vandalism took place during a rally taken out by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad on Tuesday in North Tripura’s Panisagar sub-division in protest against the attacks on Hindus in the neighbouring country. Media reports spoke of violence in two more districts, Unakoti and Sipahijala. “Five cases have been registered, including in Panisagar and Unakoti. There has been no injury, casualty and desecration of religious places. No mosque has been burnt in Panisagar as reported. There has been no alleged widespread disturbances and violence in Muslim areas of the state as repercussion to attacks on Hindus in Bangladesh,” Dey said. Police have provided security in and around mosques in all the eight districts. The police also tweeted the images of the masjid in Panisagar, saying it is safe and secure. The state Jamiat had moved the government on Friday seeking security for masjids and Muslims. Tripura has a population of over 40 lakh, of whom around four lakh are Muslims. A ruling BJP delegation visited the affected areas in Panisagar and appealed for peace while condemning the incident. CPM state secretary Jitendra Choudhary said Tuesday’s incident was unfortunate. “It is really baffling why there is so much tension in Tripura when a proactive Bangladesh government has acted against those involved and arrested the main accused. The state government here should also be proactive and take appropriate measures to maintain peace,” Choudhary said. Tripura State Jamiat Ulama (Hind), Tripura’s royal scion Pradyot Bikram Manikya Debbarma and the Trinamul Congress have appealed for peace. Tripura State Jamiat Ulama (Hind) president Mufti Tayebur Rahman urged the government to take appropriate and strong steps against those involved, irrespective of religion, to maintain peace. “Bangladesh has controlled the situation. Tripura should also take appropriate steps to control the situation. Our appeal is that nobody should be disturbed and all should live peacefully. Peace and brotherhood should be maintained,” Rahman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
30-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the Editor: SC forms panel to probe Pegasus snoopgate||Mind the minders Sir — The Supreme Court order for an independent probe into the possible use of the Israeli spyware, Pegasus, to spy on Indian citizens is welcome (“Fresh air”, Oct 29). The apex court has decided to form a committee, overseen by a former judge, that will look into every aspect of the Pegasus snooping scandal and submit a report within a stipulated period of time. Over the last few years, people have become increasingly disenchanted with government institutions which have rebuffed any demands for transparency by citing ‘national security’. Hopefully, this court-mandated probe will compel the government to come clean about its involvement in the Pegasus affair. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The Supreme Court’s statement that the government cannot get a free pass every time by raising the spectre of ‘national security’ will have implications beyond the Pegasus scandal. Nobody will deny that national security is of paramount importance, but it is imperative that a democratic nation ensures the right to privacy of all its citizens. The Pegasus row has raised uncomfortable questions about unlawful surveillance by the government. The Centre must answer for its missteps. Iftekhar Ahmed,Calcutta Wrong decision Sir — There is no denying that Kangana Ranaut is a fine actress. She fully deserved to win the three national awards for Fashion, Queen and Tanu Weds Manu Returns. However, this year’s national award for best actress — it is her fourth win overall — reeks of favouritism. There is no way that her performances in Manikarnika and Panga can be considered worthy of this prestigious award. There were clearly other considerations at play. Anthony Henriques,Mumbai Sir — Kangana Ranaut may be a good actress, but Manikarnika was one of the worst films I have had the misfortune of sitting through. Ranaut was awkward and stiff and the script was lacking, if not borderline absurd. She should not have won the national award for best actress this year. Ankita Dey,Calcutta For the people Sir — The chief minister of Tamil Nadu, M.K. Stalin, has always been sensitive to the plight of Sri Lankan Tamil refugees. In August, the government had announced welfare measures worth around Rs 317 crore for the refugees living in special camps in the state. Recent reports indicate that the government is also planning to announce a housing scheme on Diwali. Such moves have truly endeared Stalin to the people of Tamil Nadu. Ravi Iyer,Chennai  Facile change Sir — Mark Zuckerberg seems to be under the impression that changing the name of Facebook to Meta would be the solution to all its woes. The rebranding exercise comes after Frances Haugen, a former employee of the company, laid bare its faulty algorithm that amplifies hate speech and encourages violence. The company is clearly trying to divert attention from the current crisis. But such tactics are unlikely to go down well with lawmakers who are keen on holding the social networking giant accountable. At this point, no amount of damage control can save Zuckerberg. Anamika Saha,Calcutta Parting shot Sir — Children these days are constantly exposed to electronic gadgets. Any advice to engage in physical activities like sports or exercise falls on deaf ears. But parents must take an active role in breaking this habit. Kids must be encouraged to read more books, meditate, paint and so on so that they can grow up to be well-rounded individuals. However, it will only work if parents lead by example. Anushka Jaiswal,Ujjain||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
30-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Armageddon||Is the bottle half-empty? Or is it half-full? Unfortunately, the answer — even as 197 nations gather to wrangle in Glasgow, Scotland, for the United Nations Climate Change Conference of the Parties — is that the proverbial bottle of hope is fast running dry. Data from around the world are gloomy when it comes to the outcome of the battle to save the planet. The World Meteorological Organization has stated that greenhouse gas emissions had set a new, disturbing record and increased at a faster rate than that of the annual average of the last decade in spite of industrial activity being adversely affected by the Covid-19-induced pandemic. The reason is evident; the UN has acknowledged it by saying that at the present rate, as underlined by the voluntary pledges taken by nations as part of the Paris pact, GHG emissions will fall by 7.5 per cent by 2030 instead of 30 per cent that is necessary to limit global warming to 2 degrees Celsius. The weaker, populous economies are expected to share the burden of the impending disaster disproportionately. India, for instance, is set to experience heat waves that are “25 times longer by 2036-2065” if the rise of temperature is extreme. Smaller, coastal nations would fare worse. The damage to local and global ecologies would be of the scale of the mythical Armageddon. Economies would be scalded too: India is expected to lose 0.8-2 per cent of its gross domestic product in the future in the event of climate change remaining moderate. Several reasons have been cited to explain the existential crisis that mankind has scripted for itself. Competitive — conflicting — interests among the stakeholders are certainly a major factor. The unwillingness of the developed world to transfer technology and funds or, for that matter, its refusal to shoulder the historic burden of the crime, as was delineated in the Kyoto Protocol’s wise principle of ‘common but differentiated responsibilities’, is a testament to the persistent fault line. Orchestrated scepticism towards annihilation by a nexus of corporations and the State — Donald Trump was an embodiment of this cohort — aggravated by counter-narratives spouted in the Post-Truth order has further stymied urgent intervention. But the biggest challenge lies in a fundamental contradiction: industrialization and its attendant, capitalism, have severed humanity’s organic relationship with nature, fostering a neo-colonialism visible in the race among business tycoons to conquer other planets even as Earth is being destroyed methodically. The hope, only a glimmer of it, lies in the burgeoning, young, global community of climate activists. This constituency must be heard and then used as a force multiplier to turn climate change into a political issue. Only then would the somnolent political order that shapes policy wake up. Cop-26 perhaps offers the final opportunity for the world to engineer a course correction on global warming. If it does happen, it would be historic. Otherwise, both past and future would be erased.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
30-10-2021||Opinion||Pleaful song: Film on climate change for Cop-26 summit||For the next few days, the world will be focused on Cop-26 in Glasgow. Security will be tight so I would be surprised if protesters on issues like the farmers’ dispute or Kashmir get anywhere near Narendra Modi. Incidentally, Glasgow is a city I know well since my first big paper job was with the Glasgow Herald — I was based at 56, Fleet Street, London. I found the Scots to be the most generous people in the world. The Cop-26 president, Alok Sharma, is also someone I have known for a long time. I first got to know his father, Prem Sharma, a real pioneer who supported the Conservatives in Reading, which his son now represents in Parliament. Boris Johnson has given Alok quite a job in trying to get some 200 countries to agree to restrict the global temperature rise to below 1.5 degree Celsius. Looking at it narrowly, I feel something has to be done to tackle the worsening flooding in Calcutta. My brother-in-law tells me water entered properties in Belgachia. London has upgraded its storm drains and yet I am witnessing frequent flash flooding in many parts of the city. What is happening to the world’s climate is told very simply in a 24-minute animated film, Songs of the Earth, made by Soumik Datta, a young sarod player in London. The film, commissioned by the British Council, is due to be premiered at Cop-26 in Glasgow, with delegates being given a preview at 10, Downing Street. The film follows a little girl, Asha, a “climate refugee from Bengal, as she searches for her missing father through the flood banks of the Sundarban delta, burning forests and melting polar ice caps”. I have seen the film — it reminds me a little of the magical “Walking in the Air” from The Snowman and also Kipling’s The Jungle Book. Leading role In Abir Mukherjee’s new novel, The Shadows of Men, his fifth featuring Captain Sam Wyndham and Sergeant Surendranath Banerjee, the year is 1923 and Calcutta is engulfed in communal flames over the murder of a Hindu theologian. I am a third of the way through and intrigued by the appearance of “Subhasda”. He finds it ironic when Wyndham urges Britain’s nemesis to use his influence to stem the violence. This is Wyndham’s assessment of the future Netaji: “Like Suren, Bose was a Cambridge man and, by all accounts, just as full of himself.” I notice that Abir has got Suren to speak a lot more Bengali, with saheb readers left to work out the meaning from the context. Abir says that it is “a nice surprise the new book has been chosen by The Sunday Times as its book of the month for November. The FT has also featured it in their books of the month. The Times is also going to feature it among its historical fiction books of the month.” Old ties Apurv Bagri, the president and CEO of the metals group, Metdist, has been giving some thought to how he might mark his father’s Calcutta connection. Lord Raj Kumar Bagri, who died in 2017, aged 86, was born in Calcutta in 1930. He began at 15 as a filing clerk with the Binani Metals group, arriving in London in 1959 and rising to be chairman of the London Metal Exchange from 1993 to 2002. Apurv assures me that his father’s “affection for Calcutta never changed till the day he died. He regarded it almost as his spiritual home.” Apurv and his daughters, Aditi and Amisha, have a financial services company with deep roots in rural India. During the pandemic, it “bought oxygenators and paid for the vaccination of tens of thousands of people in the communities we serve. We have a very, very strong network across West Bengal.” Tough questions The BBC’s University Challenge posed “three questions on Hindu festivals” when four students from Emmanuel College, Cambridge, battled their counterparts from the Royal Northern College of Music. These were: “Which North Indian spring festival celebrates the story of Vishnu in his lion-man avatar, saving his devotee Prahlad? Celebrations can involve a bonfire, followed by the throwing of colours... “Commemorating Vishnu’s dwarf avatar and the subsequent homecoming of the mythical King Mahabali, the harvest festival of Onam is celebrated in which southern Indian state? Festivities include a boat race and a tiger dance. “The festival of Janmashtami celebrates the birth of which avatar of Vishnu born in... Mathura? He plays a major role in the Mahabharata.” Emmanuel correctly said, “Holi”, “Kerala” and “Krishna”. Meanwhile, on BBC Radio 4’s Brain of Britain, four contestants could not collectively answer questions sent in by a listener, Gurmit Singh: “In the fictional world, the character Sancho Panza, the companion of Don Quixote in Cervantes’s famous novel, is awarded a territory to govern as part of a prank. Can you name this territory?” The answer is: “Barataria Island.” Gurmit’s second question was: “In the real world, where can one find a genuine place called Barataria Bay?” The answer is: “The Gulf of Mexico on the coast of Louisiana, south of New Orleans.” Gurmit received (canned) applause — and a book token. Footnote There is no vacancy in 10, Downing Street, with prime minister, Boris Johnson, firmly in charge. But political journalists accuse the chancellor, Rishi Sunak, and the foreign secretary, Liz Truss (who was in India last week), of being on “manoeuvres” ahead of a possible future contest for the top job. This impression gained strength when ahead of the budget this week, “Dishy Rishi” released informal pictures of himself with his cute dog, Nova.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
30-10-2021||Opinion||Imagined realities||Muslim political leadership is one of the most misunderstood questions of our public life. A strong assumption — that there is a homogeneous Muslim community that does not have leaders, or the right kind of leaders, who can make the community modern, rational, secular and nationalist — continues to survive as the ultimate truth. Ironically, this strange belief is very powerful. Serious public intellectuals, journalists, and a section of scholars evoke the rigid Jinnah versus Azad binary as a criterion to evaluate the politics of contemporary Muslim leaders (such as Asaduddin Owaisi) as if nothing has changed in the last 75 years. The declining numbers of Muslim MPs and MLAs in the Lok Sabha and state assemblies are often cited to justify this kind of oversimplified explanation. The rise of Hindutva politics led by the Bharatiya Janata Party has given a new shift to this assertion. It is now claimed that the non-BJP parties are also not interested in giving tickets to Muslim candidates. As a result, there are only 27 Muslim MPs in the present Lok Sabha. This figure is slightly better than that of the previous Lok Sabha, which had only 23 Muslim MPs. This political decline, we are told, is inextricably linked to Muslim marginalization. No one can deny the significance of Muslim presence in legislative bodies. However, it does not mean that there is an organic relationship between Muslim MPs/MLAs and common Muslims. The hypothesis that if an opportunity is given to Muslim voters, they will eventually vote for a Muslim candidate is factually incorrect. Muslim communities vote in a highly diversified manner and their Islamic faith is one of the factors that influence their political preferences. Similarly, the popular imagination that Muslim MPs/MLAs function as Muslim delegates inside legislative assemblies is not entirely appropriate. Muslim elected leaders do raise Muslim-specific concerns and, in a way, contribute significantly to the inclusive character of legislative discussions. However, they also abide by the established norms of politics and behave like a typical neta. The official position of the party turns out to be the source of their political arguments, statements, and interventions. To explain these complexities, I propose an alternative analytical framework. In my view, two very basic features of Indian Muslim identity need to be acknowledged: i. the substantial sociological, cultural, and regional diversity that make Muslims a highly heterogeneous religious group and ii. the imagined and symbolic Muslim homogeneity that transforms them into a visible opponent of Hindutva. These crucial features of Muslimness provoke us to ask a few simple questions. What do Muslim communities think of Muslims leaders? What are their expectations? Do Muslims behave as a political community? Do they follow the advice given to them by Muslim religious elites/ulema or pressure groups such as the All India Muslim Majlis-e-Mushawarat? Is it alright to reduce the idea of Muslim leadership merely to elected MPs and MLAs? Is there any possibility to think of various kinds of Muslim leaders? Let me begin with the first set of questions. The CSDS Lokniti-APU’s three round, survey-based study, Politics and Society between Elections (2017-2019), explores several important questions to map out people’s perceptions of political elites. This comprehensive study covers 24 states with a nationally representative sample of more than 48,000 respondents. From our point of view, one particular question was very relevant: “Suppose there are two leaders from same political party and equally competent to get your work done. If one is from your religion while the other from a different religion. Whom would you be willing to contact first?" One finds a mixed response on this issue. Religious communities, it seems, do not overwhelmingly express trust in their leaders. This national pattern also corresponds to the Muslim views. A sizeable number of Muslim respondents (46 per cent) said that they would prefer to contact a Muslim leader. Interestingly, an equally powerful segment of Muslims (41 per cent) did not find this issue very pressing. For them, the religion of a leader did not bother them at all. Two crucial inferences can be drawn from these findings. It appears that Muslim communities recognize the significance of Muslim elected leaders simply to tackle everyday encounters with the administrative power structure. Secondly, and perhaps more importantly, this expectation is not overstated by a significant Muslim section. Muslim leaders are envisaged primarily as professional politicians who follow the usual rule of the game. This brings us to the second important issue: the role of the ulema in politics. Various studies conducted by the CSDS-Lokniti confirm that Muslims do not want the religious elite to support any political party. The “Religious Attitude and Behaviour Survey 2015” is very relevant here. This study tells us that a significant majority of Muslims do not want the ulema to indulge in electoral mobilization. Two examples are useful to elaborate this finding. The AIMMM decided to intervene in the electoral politics as a Muslim representative body in the mid-1960s. It published a nine-point People’s Manifesto to evolve an electoral strategy for Muslim voters for the 1967 general election. The Majlis resolution called upon the Muslim voters to vote for candidates irrespective of their religion, community, or party. It extended its formal support to 135 candidates in different states for the parliamentary elections. This formal electoral appeal to Muslims paved the way for what is now called strategic voting. A systematic analysis of the 1967 election demonstrates that out of 135 Majlis-supported candidates, only 42 managed to win elections. One also finds a similar trend in the state assemblies. The Majlis-supported candidates did not do well in most of the cases. Their performances were not up to the mark even in the Muslim-dominated constituencies. The political role played by the imam of Jama Masjid, Abdullah Bukhari, in the 1980s, especially his ‘election fatwa’, encourages us to also validate this point. Indira Gandhi discovered Bukhari as a Muslim leader in the early 1970s and nurtured his political aspirations. Bukhari, on his part, made full use of this political patronage. He transformed the historic Jama Masjid into a symbolic centre of Muslim politics to bargain with political parties. Bukhari consciously issued election statements (which were incidentally described as fatwas by the media) in support of the most powerful party/coalition: the Janata Party in 1977, the Congress in 1980 and in 1984, the Janata Dal in 1989 and the Congress, once again, in 1991. This strategy legitimized his status as the political Imam-e-Hind and consolidated the media-friendly argument that Muslims always follow the advice of the ulema and vote as a bloc. A closer analysis of these trends would suggest that Muslim leadership is a highly-diversified phenomenon. There are three distinct types of Muslim leaders, who perform very specific functions in different contexts. The Muslim elite is the first important category. An individual or a set of individuals, who acquire authority and influence over other members of their immediate Muslim community (communities) in a particular context primarily based on their social-educational status and class-caste position, may be described as Muslim elites. These privileged Muslims make use of their powerful Muslim presence to sustain the internal power structure among Muslim communities. The Muslim politician is a different category of leaders. These are the individuals who mobilize, or claim to mobilize, other members of the Muslim community (communities) in a particular context for a specific political purpose. Aspirant Muslim politicians and elected MPs/MLAs belong to this segment. Finally, there are Muslim influencers/activists. They engage with known or unknown Muslim-related issues and assert their presence in the media-driven public discourse. There is a need to explore the circulation of these three types of Muslim leaders at the grassroots level to understand the actual operational aspects of everyday Indian Muslim politics, especially in the present Hindutva-dominated context. Otherwise, we wouldn’t be able to get rid of the Jinnah-Azad syndrome. Hilal Ahmed is Associate Professor, CSDS, New Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
30-10-2021||Jharkhand||Two-hour window for bursting crackers on Diwali ||Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board has decided to allow bursting of crackers  only for two hours from 8pm during Diwali a day after the Hemant Soren government eased lockdown curbs for the festival. Saturday's JSPCB order also allowed bursting of crackers during Chhath from 6am-8am. For Christmas and New Year's eve in December, crackers will be allowed between 11.55pm to 12.30am, said JSPCB’s member secretary Y.K.Das. He said that anyone found violating the rules would be booked under Section 188 of IPC and relevant sections of the Air Pollution Act, 1987. “The orders have been sent to all districts asking for compliance,” he said. Another official added that as per the ruling and  guidelines of the Supreme Court, the National Green Tribunal and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), noise levels of t crackers should not exceed 125 decible (DB). “Sale and use of crackers beyond 125db is prohibited in the state,” he said. A salesman at Trade Friends, one of the larger wholesalers of crackers in Ranchi,  said that all  stocks compied with  government prescribed standards. “All the crackers today come with details about  noise limits and with an announcement if they are permitted or not. Therefore, even people buying them can easily find those details on the box,” he said. This year, Ranchi district administration has permitted retail sale of crackers only  at four locations—Morabadi, Kutchery, Harmu ground and Bariatu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
30-10-2021||Jharkhand||Ranchi councillors get Rs 5 lakh each for road building||The urban development department has allocated close to Rs 18 crore for construction of roads in areas within the jurisdiction of Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC), officials from the civic body said on Saturday, claiming that funds have been distributed among all the 53 ward councillors, deputy mayor and mayor for work in areas under their respective wards. Ranchi deputy mayor Sanjeev Vijaywargia said that each of the ward councillors in Ranchi have received a fund of at least Rs 5 lakh for constructing roads wherever they find necessary. The fund will also be used for the repair of existing roads and the laying of the drainage systems. “There are many areas within the city where there is a dire need for construction of roads. Distributing the funds among ward councillors decentralizes the process of road construction, and ensures that every ward of the city gets at least one new road,” Vijaywargia said. However, there was no fixed length of roads that has to be constructed within the city limits. An RMC official said that the idea was to improve road connectivity in areas that are in need of new roads, and there is no project aimed at constructing a set length of roads in the city. “There are many slums in the city that do not have proper roads. The construction of roads will improve accessibility of certain areas,” said the RMC official. A majority of the road construction work under this initiative will begin within the next six months, sources said.  RMC sources said tenders have also been floated for construction of roads in Argora, Pundag and areas close to the Pahadi Mandir premises. The RMC recently distributed laptops among all civic body representatives in the city to encourage the use of digital means in approving projects and sharing updates related to the status of various works done under RMC. Details of all the road construction projects undertaken in the city will also be shared online with concerned authorities by the ward councillors. Several roads in the city were dilapidated after monsoon showers, and were in dire need of repair, RMC officials said. The drainage system also needs to be improved in some areas of the city that witnessed waterlogging. Owing to the poor drainage system, many roads in the city, especially the part of VIP road connecting Argora Chowk to Shehjanand Chowk, witnessed severe waterlogging.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
30-10-2021||Jharkhand||Thousands of Covid-19 vaccine doses destroyed in Khunti fire||Several thousand doses of Covid-19 vaccines were destroyed on Saturday morning after a fire at the cold storage room of a community health centre (CHC) in Left Wing Extremism-affected Khunti district, about 50 km  south of state capital Ranchi, police said. The fire, caused due to suspected short circuit, also damaged medicines worth several thousand rupees, sources said. However, the healthcare workers deployed at the CHC managed to save at least 3,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines from getting damaged and doused the fire with the help of local residents, sources from the hospital added. However, there were no casualties. Khunti SP  Ashutosh Shekhar said that the fire broke out early in the morning and burnt almost everything kept in the cold storage room. The police, he said, have asked the electricity department to inspect the site to determine  the cause of fire . “Prima facie, it seems that a short circuit caused the fire. We have asked electricity department officials to inspect the site,” said Shekhar, ruling out any chances of foul play by rebel outfits active in the district. Khunti Deputy Commissioner Shashi Ranjan did not respond to phone calls from The Telegraph Online on Saturday. However, the officer in-charge of Arki Police Station, Pankaj Kumar, said that the deputy commissioner has directed a probe into the matter. “As of now, it is difficult to estimate the loss. Our investigation is underway and our team has already visited the spot to get a clearer picture of what happened and how much damage was caused,” said Kumar. A  source from Arki CHC said that there were limited staff members on duty when the fire broke out, but the few staff members on duty acted spontaneously and doused the fire with the help of some local residents. Covid-19 vaccines are usually stored at a temperature between  2 degrees Celsius and 8 degrees Celsius. According to sources in the health department, the electricity connection in all the vaccine storage points across Jharkhand were examined before the nationwide immunisation drive against Covid-19 was launched back on January 16. This is the first incident of fire breaking out at a Covid-19 vaccine store room in Jharkhand. In January, fire broke out at the Pune facility of vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India and caused at least five casualties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
30-10-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city: Offline karate event makes a comeback||Karate is all set to make an offline comeback in the steel city on Sunday. East Singhbhum District Karate Championship will be organised at the Community Centre in Sonari on Sunday. Around 100 karatekas will be seen displaying their talent during the day-long event, which is being organised by the District Karate Do Association of East Singhbhum ( DKAES) and supported by Urban Services (CSR), Tata Steel. The rules of Karate Association of India (KAI) will be followed for the championship. Kata and Kumite, according to age and belt category of participating boys and girls will be allowed. The championship will be held under the guidance of 12 qualified judges and 3 qualified referees. "The last offline district karate championship was organised in Jamshedpur in 2018. The Covid-19 pandemic had restricted the karatekas indoors although we did conduct the state championship on a virtual platform earlier this year. The karatekas of the district are happy and eager to perform at the district championship," said  Shihan L. Nageshwar Rao, secretary of Jharkhand State Do Karate Association and DKAES. "I am extremely glad to get an opportunity to perform in an offline event. Remaining indoors owing to the pandemic was very boring. I thank the district karate body for organising the event. I am looking forward to the championship," said Rahul Kumar, a young karateka from Jamshedpur. Other karatekas also expressed similar views. Champions' Trophy, Runner's-Up Trophy, 3rd Runner-Up Trophy, Best Karateka (separately for boys and girls) Trophy, medals, certificates and mementos will be handed over to the participants. Banna Gupta, minister of health medical education,  family welfare and disaster management will be chief guest during the opening ceremony at 11.30 am. Anand Menezes, Olympian and senior manager of Tata Steel sports wing, B. Marandi, area officer of Sonari Community Centre of Urban Services (CSR), Tata Steel and Amit Khandelwal, president, Marwari Yuva Manch and JSKA president R. Ravi Prasad will also grace the occasion. Sabita Mahato, JMM Ichagarh MLA and chairperson of State Pollution Board will be the chief guest during the closing ceremony.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
30-10-2021||Jharkhand||Railways to operate special trains to ease chhath rush ||Considering the rush during the Chhath festival,  South Eastern Railway has  decided to run a special train between Durg and Patna. The special train will run via various stations in Jharkhand's Ranchi and Chakradharpur divisions. The train will leave Durg on November 7 while the return train will leave Patna on November 8. According to the schedule released by South Eastern Railway's Calcutta-based headquarters on Saturday the  Durg-Patna Special will leave Durg at 8.50 am and will reach Patna at 5 am , the next day. Operating in the opposite direction, Patna-Durg Special will leave Patna at 7 am and will arrive at Durg around 5 am, the next day. The special train will have two composite coaches (2AC-cum-3 AC coaches), four sleeper class and ten general second class coaches and will have stops at Jharsuguda, Rourkela, Hatia, Ranchi, Muri and Bokaro Steel City. Chhotanagpur Passenger Association welcomed the railway decision for introducing the special train. “The special train will make things convenient for passengers. The railway took a right decision by deciding to introduce the train which will pass through various stations in Jharkhand,” said Arun Tiwari, senior functionary of Chhotanagpur Passenger Association. The four- day Chhath festival, the biggest in Jharkhand and Bihar, will begin on November 8 with 'Nahaye Khaye' followed by 'Kharna' the next day . Devotees will offer obeisance to Sun God on November 10 and 11.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
30-10-2021||Jharkhand||Work on Bokaro cement plant from November ||Cement manufacturer Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited, a subsidiary of Dalmia Bharat Limited, will start construction of its 2MT plant in Bokaro of Jharkhand in November. A communiqué from the Jharkhand chief minister’s office said that Hemant Soren is likely to lay the foundation stone of the plant in November. G. Keerthi, Bokaro regional director of the Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority, told The Telegraph that 16 acres of land were allocated to the company earlier this month. “The cement manufacturer had given commitment for expansion of their existing plant during the launch of the Jharkhand Industrial and Investment Promotion Policy (JIIPP) in August in Delhi. The project clearance committee meeting of JIADA was held earlier this month and we had allocated 16 acres to the manufacturer at Balidih in Bokaro,” said Keerthi. A release issued by the chief minister’s office said that the 2MT plant, according to the agreement signed by the company in Delhi, will be built at an estimated cost of Rs 577 crore. The work will commence in November and the plant construction will be completed in a year. Dalmia Bharat Limited had in August this year unveiled a long-term plan to grow its cement capacity in the country and raise its manufacturing capacity to 110-130 million tonnes per annum by 2031. Dalmia Cement (Bharat) had inked three memorandums of understanding with the Jharkhand government in August to invest Rs 758 crore in the state. In addition to expanding its existing capacity of 3.7MT through de-bottlenecking, the company plans to set up a new grinding unit, taking the overall cement manufacturing capacity at Bokaro to 6.3MTPA. In line with its commitment to curb carbon emissions, the company has signed a pact with the Jharkhand government to set up a solar power plant to provide clean energy to the state. The company will further invest Rs 250 crore for the solar power plant. “At Dalmia Cement, we are committed to contributing to India’s growth story in terms of aiding the creation of world-class infrastructure, generating clean energy, and making India Atmanirbhar,” Mahendra Singhi, MD and CEO, Dalmia Cement (Bharat) Limited, had said during the inking of the MoU in Delhi in August.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
