31-10-2021||Business||Centre's excise collection 79 per cent more than pre-Covid levels||The government's collection from levy of excise duty on petroleum products has risen 33 per cent in the first six months of the current fiscal when compared with last year and is 79 per cent more than pre-Covid levels, official data showed.  Data available from the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) in the Union Ministry of Finance showed excise duty collections during April-September 2021 surging to over Rs 1.71 lakh crore, from Rs 1.28 lakh crore mop-up in the same period of the previous fiscal.  Thanks to a steep hike in excise duty rates, the collection is 79 per cent more than Rs 95,930 crore mop-up in April-September 2019.  In the full 2020-21 fiscal, excise collections were Rs 3.89 lakh crore and in 2019-20, it was Rs 2.39 lakh crore, CGA data showed.  After the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime, excise duty is levied only on petrol, diesel, ATF and natural gas. Barring these products, all other goods and services are under the GST regime.  Out of the Rs 2.3 lakh crore excise collection in 2018-19, Rs 35,874 crore was devolved to states, according to the CGA. In the previous 2017-18 fiscal, Rs 71,759 crore was devolution to the states out of a collection of Rs 2.58 lakh crore.  The incremental collection of Rs 42,931 crore in the first six months of the fiscal year 2021-22 (April 2021 to March 2022) is four times the Rs 10,000 crore liability that the government has in the full year towards repayment of oil bonds that were issued by the previous Congress-led UPA government to subsidise fuel.  The bulk of excise duty collection is from the levy on petrol and diesel and with sales picking up with a rebounding economy, the incremental collections in the current year may be over Rs 1 lakh crore when compared with the previous year, industry sources said.  In all, the UPA government had issued Rs 1.34 lakh crore worth of bonds (equivalent to a sovereign commitment to pay in future) to state-owned oil companies to compensate them for selling fuel such as cooking gas LPG, kerosene and diesel at rates below cost.  Of this, Rs 10,000 crore is due to be repaid in the current fiscal, according to the finance ministry.  First, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and then Oil Minister Hardeep Singh Puri had blamed the oil bonds for limiting fiscal space to give relief to people from fuel prices trading at all-time high levels. The bulk of the excise collections come from petrol and diesel on which the Modi government had levied record taxes last year.  Excise duty on petrol was hiked from Rs 19.98 per litre to Rs 32.9 last year to recoup gain arising from international oil prices plunging to multi-year low as pandemic gulped demand. On diesel, the duty is hiked to Rs 31.80.  While international prices have since recovered to USD 85 and demand returned, excise duty has remained at the same level. This has resulted in petrol price soaring above Rs 100-a-litre-mark in all major cities and diesel crossing that level in more than one-and-a-half dozen states.  The total increase in petrol price since the May 5, 2020 decision of the government to raise excise duty to record levels now totals Rs 37.38 per litre. Diesel rates have during this period gone up by Rs 27.98 per litre.  The government had raised excise duty on petrol and diesel to mop up gains that would have otherwise accrued to consumers from international oil prices crashing to as low as USD 19 per barrel.  Petrol and diesel as well as cooking gas and kerosene were sold at subsidised rates during the previous Congress-led UPA government. Instead of paying for the subsidy to bring parity between the artificially suppressed retail selling price and the cost that had soared because of international rates crossing USD 100 per barrel, the then government issued oil bonds totalling Rs 1.34 lakh crore to the state-fuel retailers.  These oil bonds and the interest thereon are being paid now.  Of the Rs 1.34 lakh crore of oil bonds, only Rs 3,500 crore of principal has been paid and the remaining Rs 1.3 lakh crore is due for repayment between this fiscal and 2025-26, according to information made available by the finance ministry.  The government has to repay Rs 10,000 crore this fiscal year (2021-22). Another Rs 31,150 crore is due to be repaid in 2023-24, Rs 52,860.17 crore in the following year and Rs 36,913 crore in 2025-26.  Minister of State for Petroleum and Natural Gas Rameswar Teli had in July told Parliament that the Union government's tax collections on petrol and diesel jumped by 88 per cent to Rs 3.35 lakh crore in the year to March 31, 2021 (2020-21 fiscal) from Rs 1.78 lakh crore a year back.  Excise collection in pre-pandemic 2018-19 was Rs 2.13 lakh crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
31-10-2021||Business||Centre invites applications for post of Sebi chairman||The finance ministry has invited applications to appoint the next chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) to succeed Ajay Tyagi, whose five-year term comes to an end in February. Tyagi, a 1984 batch IAS officer of the Himachal Pradesh cadre, was appointed as Sebi chairman on March 1, 2017 for a period of three years. Subsequently, he was given a six-month extension and later in August 2020 his tenure was extended by 18 months. In a public notice dated October 28, the ministry has invited applications from eligible candidates for the post of Sebi chairman for a maximum period of five years or till 65 years, whichever is earlier. Applications of eligible candidates may be forwarded on or before December 6. In the past, the government has given extension to U.K. Sinha for three years, making him the second longest-serving chief of Sebi after D.R. Mehta. In the case of Tyagi, the government issued appointment notification twice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
31-10-2021||Business||India proposes rules to lower emissions & fight climate change||India has proposed new rules to lower emissions and fight climate change, including setting a minimum share of renewable energy to be used by its industries, the power ministry said on Saturday. The proposals, aimed at promoting green hydrogen as an alternative to the fossil fuels currently used by industries, will be made effective through amendments to India’s 2001 Energy Conservation Act. The proposed amendments would facilitate the development of a carbon market in India and prescribe minimum consumption of renewable energy either as direct consumption or indirect use through grid, the power ministry said in a statement. “This will help in reduction of fossil fuel based energy consumption and carbon emission to the atmosphere,” the statement said. The announcement comes just days after India rejected calls to announce a net zero carbon emissions target and said it was more important for the world to lay out a pathway to reduce such emissions and avert a dangerous rise in global temperatures. India, the world’s third-biggest emitter of greenhouse gases after China and the United States, is under pressure to announce plans to become carbon neutral by mid-century or thereabouts at next week’s climate conference in Glasgow. But environment secretary R.P.Gupta told reporters that announcing net zero was not the solution to the climate crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
31-10-2021||Business||Sebi raps Vedanta for transactions of Rs 1,407 crore in 2020-21 ||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi) has pulled up Vedanta Ltd for related party transactions worth Rs 1,407 crore in 2020-21 without the prior approval of its audit committee. The market regulator shot off a two-page warning letter to the Anil Agarwal-led company. According to Sebi’s directions, Vedanta placed the letter before its board of directors on Friday and also informed the stock exchanges about the regulator’s rap. Sebi said it would take action if it detected similar irregularities in future transactions. “The aforesaid non-compliances are viewed seriously. You are hereby warned and advised to ensure compliance with all applicable provisions of Sebi Regulations. Any such aberration in future would be viewed seriously and appropriate action would be initiated,” Sebi said. In the firm’s annual report for the year ended 2020-21, the independent auditor for the mining conglomerate had flagged the related-party transactions that were executed without prior approval of its audit committee. “With regard to the qualified opinion in respect of the company executing related party transactions worth Rs 1,407 crore without prior approval of the audit committee, the company has submitted that the said transaction was ratified later (after a period of about 47 days),” Sebi said in the October 28 letter. Without disclosing the nature of the transaction, the company said it was done at an arm’s length and in the ordinary course of business. “In this regard, attention may be drawn to Regulation 23(2) of Sebi (LODR) Regulations, 2015, which states that all related party transactions shall require prior approval of the audit committee,’’ the market regulator said. “Accordingly, the submission of the company that the transactions were done at an arm’s length distance is not tenable,” it added. Regarding the auditor’s observation about the delay in the disclosure of the outcome of the board meeting held on October 3 last year, the company said the delay was due to unforeseen circumstances and it would ensure that this was not repeated. Vedanta said in the filing that at a meeting held on October 29, the board of directors took note of the Sebi letter. The board "has advised the company to ensure adherence to all applicable provisions," it said. "We would also like to state that the company has always been meticulous in complying with all the provisions of the Companies Act and SEBI Regulations and will continue to do so," Vedanta said. Shares of Vedanta ended with gains of almost 1 per cent at Rs 303.70 in the BSE on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
31-10-2021||Business||Marginal rise in Indian Oil's profit||Indian Oil’s net profit rose marginally to Rs 6,360.05 crore in July-September compared with Rs 6,227.31 crore in the same period a year back as lower inventory gains offset better operational performance. Sequentially, net profit was higher than the Rs 5,941.37 crore earned in the April-June quarter. Officials said the flat net profit was largely due to lower inventory gains in the second quarter. In Q2 last year, the company had large inventory gains but this year they were lower. Inventory gain arises when a company buys raw material at a particular price but by the time it is able to process it, rates have gone up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
31-10-2021||Business||Maruti doubles exports, domestic sales down||Maruti Suzuki India Limited (MSIL) managed to more than double its exports in the first half of 2021-22 even though its domestic sales went down because of component shortage. The company has exported 59,408 units, the highest ever in a quarter, and 1,05,000 units in the first half of 2021-22. It had exported 32,100 units in the first half of 2020-21 when most of the global markets were closed. When asked how it managed to circumvent the component shortage for its export production, Shashank Srivastava, executive director, MSIL said: “The export models have different specs than our domestic models. And we did not have shortage of the semi-conductors needed for vehicles with those specs. The specs for Alto, Baleno, Swift for export are different from the domestic models.” Chairman RC Bhargava said: “We have doubled our exports and these are sustainable levels. We hope to do more. We have strengthened our position in the African markets with support from Toyota dealerships.” Of the 1,05,000 units exported in the first half, 53000 units were to the African continent. South Africa alone accounted for 31,000 units. Shortage looms Maruti expects an adverse impact on production at its two plants in Haryana and parent Suzuki’s Gujarat plant in November on account of semiconductor shortage. Terming the situation as quite dynamic, the car maker noted in a regulatory filing that according to current estimates the total vehicle production volume across both locations in Haryana next month could be around 85 per cent of normal roll-out. Capacity at Gurgaon and Manesar plants is around 15 lakh units per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-20
31-10-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi takes on CM Adityanath in his pocket borough Gorakhpur||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday targeted Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath in his home turf of Gorakhpur and made a flurry of poll promises, including farm loan waiver and purchasing wheat and paddy at Rs 2500 per quintal. “'Things have happened against the 'vaani' (views) of Guru Gorakhnath. Bulldozers were used, threats were made to put people in jail,” she alleged at a rally, taking a swipe at Adityanath who is also the head of the prominent Mutt here named after saint Gorakhnath. The Congresss general secretary also reached out to farmers and members of the fishing community. “If the Congress is voted to power, then fisheries will be given the status of agriculture, and it will get all the facilities like agriculture. The rights of people of the Nishad community will be restored in sand mining and fisheries. Apart from this, a university named after Guru Machendranath will also be set up,” she said. "The entire loans of the farmers will be waived. Wheat and paddy will be purchased at Rs 2,500 per quintal, while sugarcane will be purchased at Rs 400 per quintal. The problem of stray cattle will be resolved on the lines of Chhattisgarh, and a complete solution will be evolved," she said. The Congress general secretary added that government jobs will be given to 20 lakh youths, while contractual workers will be regularised. The Anganwadi workers will get an honorarium of Rs 10,000, and women will get three free cylinders in a year, she promised. “Apart from this, if voted to power, our government will bear the cost of treatment of any illness up to Rs 10 lakh,” she said. She also said that Rs 25,000 will be given to families who have lost their livelihood due to COVID-19. Hitting out at Chief Minister Adityanath, who has been a five-time MP from Gorakhpur, the Congress general secretary said that the health scenario in the district is dismal. “As elections are approaching, we are hearing that AIIMS will be made functional. But nothing happened for five years. So how do you expect that it will be done now?” she said. The Congress is facing a Herculean task to improve the party's tally in politically crucial Uttar Pradesh, where it had won only seven seats out of 403 in the last assembly election. Earlier this month, the Congress general secretary held a rally in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Varanasi Lok Sabha constituency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
31-10-2021||India||Grandma told me not to cry if something happened to her: Rahul||Recounting Indira Gandhi's assassination and funeral, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has said just hours before her death she told him not to cry if something happened to her. In a video released on YouTube on former prime minister Indira Gandhi's 37th death anniversary, Gandhi described the day of her grandmother's funeral as the "second most difficult day of my life". Indira Gandhi, the then prime minister, was assassinated in 1984 by two of her security guards linked to Khalistani extremists. "(In) the morning before she died she told me that don't cry if something happens to me. I did not understand what she meant and two-three hours later she was dead," Rahul Gandhi said, recounting the setback he and his family suffered that day. "She (Indira Gandhi) sort of sensed that she would be killed and I think everyone in the house also knew it. She once said to us on the dining table that the biggest curse would be to die of a disease," the former Congress chief said in the video titled 'With love, in memory of my beloved Grandmother, Indira ji', which has been released on his YouTube account. From her perspective it was probably the best way to die for her country, defending the idea that she loved, Gandhi said. He said he essentially had two mothers -- "a super mother who was my grandmother, who basically would defend me when my father got angry, and my mother". “For me it was like losing my mother,” Gandhi added. Images from Indira Gandhi's funeral and last rites were also part of the video which showed a young Rahul mourning his grandmother's demise. Earlier on Sunday, Rahul Gandhi paid floral tributes to Indira Gandhi at her memorial "Shakti Sthal" here. "My grandmother served the country fearlessly till the last moment -- her life is a source of inspiration for us," Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "A great example of women power, humble tributes to Mrs. Indira Gandhi on her martyrdom day," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
31-10-2021||India||Goa CM says, Rahul, Mamata on ‘political tourism’ ||In view of TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attending separate programmes in Goa, where elections are due in February next year, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said such political tourism will help revive the taxi and hotel business, which had taken a hit due to the coronavirus pandemic. This is political tourism. During the next four months, the taxi and hotel businesses, which had suffered due to the pandemic would get a good business with such kind of tourism, the chief minister told reporters. Sawant said he wanted leaders of national parties to come to Goa so that business (of the hotel industry and taxi operators) would grow. Referring to Rahul Gandhi riding pillion a two-wheeler taxi during his visit to Goa on Saturday, Sawant said, “I felt good that he rode pillion a two-wheeler taxi. It must be the first time for him. We have been travelling on two-wheeler taxis and in rickshaws.” Downplaying Rahul Gandhi's interaction with fisherfolk, Sawant said that he has been meeting fishermen every day whenever he visits the market and listens to their grievances. TMC supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee recently visited Goa where her party will contest its maiden polls in February. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will be visiting Goa on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
31-10-2021||India||MP minister gives 24-hour ultimatum to Sabyasachi over 'objectionable' mangalsutra ad||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Sunday issued a 24-hour ultimatum to fashion and jewellery designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee to withdraw the advertisement with "objectionable and obscene" portrayal of mangalsutra or else face statutory action.  Last week, Dabur India Private Limited had withdrawn its Fem cream bleach advertisement, which showed same-sex couple celebrating Karva Chauth and watching each other through a sieve, after minister Mishra termed the ad as objectionable and warned that legal steps would be taken against it.  The mangalsutra advertisement by Sabyasachi's brand portrayed a woman wearing a low-neckline dress and posing solo and in intimate position with a man. After the designer shared these pictures, it created a controversy as a section of social media users termed it against Hindu culture and obscene.  Talking to reporters at Datia in the state, Mishra said, "I have warned earlier about such advertisements. I am personally warning designer Sabyasachi Mukherjee, giving him a 24-hour ultimatum. If this objectionable and obscene advertisement is not withdrawn, then a case will be registered against him and legal action will be taken. The police force will be sent for the action."  Mishra said that he saw Sabyasachi Mukherjee's mangalsutra advertisement.  "It is very objectionable. Mangalsutra is a jewellery of paramount importance. We believe that the yellow part of the mangalsutra signifies Goddess Parvati and the black part Lord Shiva, which protects the woman and her husband. Marital life becomes happy by the grace of Goddess Parvati," he said.  Mangalsutra is a necklace worn by married Hindu women.  Replying to a question about the requirement of law to check such incidents, the minister said, "The law is already in place. But why do such painful incidents take place only with Hindu symbols? If Mukherjee has courage, he should do it with some other religion, then we will understand that he is a real brave man."  While sharing the promotional photos of the advertisement, Sabyasachi's official Instagram page wrote, "Introducing the Royal Bengal Mangalsutra 1.2 and the Bengal Tiger Icon collection of necklaces, earrings, bracelets and signet rings in 18k gold with VVS diamonds, black onyx, opals and black enamel."  The designer has not given any statement on the minister's warning so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-72
31-10-2021||India||Zydus Cadila agrees to reduce its Covid vaccine price, final decision soon||Zydus Cadila has agreed to bring down the price of its COVID-19 vaccine to Rs 265 a dose following persistent negotiations by the government but a final deal is yet to be reached, sources said on Sunday.  Zydus Cadila's ZyCov-D is the first vaccine cleared by India's drug regulator for inoculation of those aged 12 years and above.  To administer the needle-free vaccine, a disposable painless jet applicator costing Rs 93 is required for each dose, which would take the price to Rs 358 per dose.  The Ahmedabad-based pharma company earlier had proposed a price of Rs 1,900 for its three-dose regimen, sources said.  "The company has brought down the price to Rs 358 for each dose which includes Rs 93, the cost of a disposable jet applicator, following repeated negotiations by the government.... A final decision in the matter is likely to be taken this week," a source in the know of developments told PTI.  The three doses are to be administered 28 days apart, with each dose comprising a shot in both arms.  The indigenously developed world's first DNA-based needle-free COVID-19 vaccine ZyCoV-D received emergency use authorisation from the drug regulator on August 20.  Meanwhile, the government is still waiting for the recommendations from the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) for introducing ZyCoV-D in the inoculation drive for adults and children with co-morbities.  NTAGI will provide the protocol and framework for the introduction of this vaccine in the COVID-19 immunisation drive.  Official sources earlier had said that the pricing of ZyCoV-D would be different from that of Covaxin and Covishield as apart from being a three-dose vaccine, it requires a special pharma jet injector that has to be used for administering the vaccine.  That pharma jet injector can be used for administering around 20,000 doses.  "The jet applicator helps the vaccine fluid to penetrate the skin to enter cells of the recipient," the source said.  Zydus Cadila can provide around two crore doses in November, a source had said.  The government is currently procuring two other vaccines -- Covishield at Rs 205 per dose and Covaxin at Rs 215 per dose -- for the national COVID-19 immunisation programme.  Covishield, Covaxin and Sputnik V are being given to only those above 18 years of age and unlike ZyCoV-D, these are two-dose regimens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||Haryana govt imposes total ban on firecrackers in 14 NCR districts||The Haryana government on Sunday imposed a ban with immediate effect on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in 14 of its districts in the National Capital Region while restrictions were imposed in other parts.  There will be a total ban against sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in al the 14 NCR districts namely Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri, Faridabad, Gurugram, Jhajjar, Jind, Karnal, Mahendergarh, Nuh, Palwal, Panipat, Rewari, Rohtak and Sonipat, as per the order issued by the State Disaster Management Authority on regulation of sale and use of firecrackers in the state.  Altogether, there are 22 districts in Haryana.  The directive will also apply to all cities and towns in the state where the average of ambient air quality during November (as per available data of last year) is in "poor" and above categories.  The cities and towns in which air quality is in the "moderate" or below categories, only green crackers shall be sold, said the order.  Only green crackers shall be sold in cities and towns where the air quality is in the "moderate" or below category, the order said, adding that the bursting of crackers during Diwali and other festivals such as Gurupurab will be allowed only from 8 pm to 10 pm.  For Chhath festival, the same will be allowed from 6 am to 8 am, it said.  Fireworks will be permitted from 11.55 pm on December 24 to 12.30 am on December 25 and from 11.55 pm on December 31 to 12.30 am on January 1, for Christmas and New Year, it pointed out.  The Haryana State Pollution Control Board will separately issue a list of these cities and towns and make it available on its website.  Bursting of firecrackers in communities will be promoted in areas where there is no ban, it said, adding that designated areas will be pre-identified by the authorities concerned.  Only green crackers shall be allowed even for marriages and other occasions, the noted.  The sale of crackers shall only be through licensed traders and e-commerce portals, including Flipkart and Amazon, will not be permitted to sell crackers, it said.  The decision was taken after considering the Covid pandemic and the approaching winter season during which the elderly, children, and people with comorbidities may develop respiratory problems, said the guidelines.  During Diwali, Gurupurab and Kartik Purnima, Christmas, and New Year, people usually burst crackers which can adversely affect the respiratory health of vulnerable groups, besides, aggravating health condition of COVID-19 positive people in home isolation, it said.  The state pollution board shall carryout short-term monitoring in the cities for 14 days, commencing immediately, for the parameters namely aluminium, barium, iron apart from regulatory parameters against the short-term Ambient Air Quality Criteria Values (AAQCVs) proposed by the Central Pollution Control Board with regard to bursting of firecrackers.  "This will help in generation of data on pollution caused by the bursting of firecrackers and would be helpful for regulation and control of quality of aluminium, barium and iron used in the manufacture of firecrackers," said the authority.  All deputy commissioners have been directed to constitute joint inspection teams for enforcing the directions and shall ensure extensive checking and action against violators who shall be punishable under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and other provisions of the law as applicable, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||TMC will form government in Tripura in 2023 elections, says Abhishek ||All India Trinamool Congress (AITC) General Secretary Abhishek Banerjee on Sunday claimed his party would form the Government in Tripura in the 2023 state assembly elections. Banerjee promised to end what he claimed was “BJP's misrule” and said his party followed West Bengal's model of good governance' to deliver fruits of development to the Northeastern state. Addressing a gathering before the Rabindra Shatabrshiki Bhaban (Tagore Centenary Hall) here, Banerjee alleged that law and order has collapsed in the state and development has come to a standstill ever since the BJP came to power in Tripura. He also termed all poll pledges made by the ruling BJP as jumla' (fake promise) as he claimed these had not been fulfilled despite the party being in power for more than three and half years. “They say BJP is a double engine government ... (but) If we compare the reports cards of West Bengal with that of the BJP led government in Tripura and in the centre, we see hardly any developments there (in Tripura and nationally),” Banerjee claimed. He said that TMC would fight in all the seats of the civic polls in the state including the Agartala Municipal Council slated for November 25 next and the sixty member assembly elections to be held in 2023 to ‘unseat the BJP’. “We must fight and defeat the BJP, otherwise the situation in Tripura would turn out to be similar to Afghanistan. BJP leaders have already instigated their party workers to launch attacks on TMC activists in Talibani style,” Banerjee said. He added “The double engine government of BJP is like coronavirus and they need only one dose which is Mamata Bandopaddhayay.” He claimed that TMC would be able to form a government in Goa in three months by defeating the BJP-led Government there. Banerjee said, TMC did not believe in forming governments by the back door. “If we want, we can break (Goa) government even now. 15 MLAs are ready to join us, but we do not believe in back-door politics. We want to form a government in a democratic manner. We are enjoying an overwhelming response from common people, who are fed up with this government. We are sure we will form the government in Tripura in 2023,” he said. Ashish Das, a BJP legislator from Tripura and Rajib Banerjee, a national body member of BJP on Sunday joined TMC and Banerjee welcomed them with his party's flag on- stage. He said TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee would visit Tripura in December and address a gathering here. Whatever is possible to oust BJP from the government will be done. If necessary, I will spill blood, Banerjee said. He alleged that the government had hatched a conspiracy to cancel Sunday's programme by misusing police and administration, but could not succeed due to the interjection by the Tripura High Court. The High Court of Tripura late Saturday night gave permission to the Trinamool Congress to hold its planned rally for the party's national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee after the local police cancelled its earlier permission, subject to the proviso that not more than 500 people would be allowed to attend. Amid a spike in coronavirus cases in parts of the country, the BJP-led state government had on Saturday also issued fresh guidelines making COVID-19 tests mandatory for people entering Tripura from several states including West Bengal. TMC had promptly reacted calling this a politically motivated move. "The BJP is scared of Abhishek. They are using coronavirus as a shield to stop him from addressing the people of Tripura. This shows they know well that the people of Tripura are no longer with the BJP," TMC leader Partha Chatterjee had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||PM to hold review meeting with districts having low vaccination coverage on Nov 3||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a review meeting on November 3 with district magistrates of over 40 districts having low COVID-19 vaccination coverage, the PMO said on Sunday.  The meeting will include districts with less than 50 per cent coverage of the first dose and low coverage of the second dose of the vaccine, it said.  The 40 districts are spread across Jharkhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra and Meghalaya among other states, and chief ministers of these states will also attend the meeting.  Modi will be holding the meeting immediately on his return from abroad after attending the G20 and COP26 meetings, the PMO noted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||Wait for visa appointment to be significantly longer, says US Embassy||The US Embassy here has said there will be significant appointment wait times for some non-immigrant visa categories as it builds back from COVID-19-related interruptions.  From November 8, an estimated three million visa holders from India, with proof of vaccination, will be able to travel to the United States under the new international air travel policy, the embassy said.  "Facilitating legitimate travel to support our strong and growing bilateral ties is our top priority. As we build back from COVID-19-related interruptions, we expect significant appointment wait times for some nonimmigrant visa categories at our Embassy and Consulates," it said.  The mission thanked people for their patience while "we work to increase our capacity and maintain the safety of our applicants and staff".  Describing the vaccination requirements, the US Embassy said that starting November 8, foreign national air travellers to the United States will be required to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and to provide proof of vaccination status prior to boarding an airplane to fly to the US, with only limited exceptions.  "The CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) has determined that for the purposes of entry into the United States, vaccines accepted will include those FDA approved or authorized, as well as vaccines with an emergency use listing (EUL) from the World Health Organization (WHO)," it said.  The embassy said that Covishield will be accepted for the purposes of entry into the United States since it has an emergency use listing from the WHO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||Jammu-Rajouri national highway reopens for traffic after 2 weeks||The authorities reopened a stretch of the Jammu-Rajouri national highway for traffic on Sunday morning, more than two weeks after it was shut in view of an ongoing counter-insurgency operation in an adjoining dense forest belt, officials said.  The operation to track down a group of hiding terrorists, who are responsible for the killing of nine soldiers, in Bhatti Durrian forest in Mendhar along with Surankote forest in Poonch and nearby Thanamandi in Rajouri district entered the 21st day on Sunday, the officials said.  While the operation is underway, the authorities allowed traffic on the main highway between Bhimber Gali in Mendhar and Jera Wali Gali in Surankote in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, much to the relief of residents, especially taxi operators who have been demanding its reopening.  The road stretch, which passes along the cordoned-off forest belt, was closed as a precautionary measure on October 15, a day after four army personnel, including a JCO, were killed in an exchange of fire with the hiding terrorists in Bhatti Durrian forest, the officials said.  The operation started in Surankote forest on October 11 following the killing of five soldiers, including a JCO, and was subsequently extended to Mendhar to neutralize the fleeing terrorists.  A Pakistani terrorist, who was moved from the Kot Bhalwal Central Jail in Jammu to Mendhar on police remand for questioning in connection with the ongoing operation, was killed when the security forces accompanying him to identify a hideout came under fire from hiding terrorists on October 24.  The contact with the hiding terrorists was only established twice on October 11 at Surankote and Thanamandi and again at Bhatti Durrian on October 14, the officials said. After the firing on October 24 in Bhatti Durrian which left the Pakistani terrorist killed, there was no contact with the hiding terrorists.  A major part of the forest belt was cleared to allow the authorities to reopen the highway and villagers to resume normal activities, the officials said.  They said there was no breakthrough against the holed up terrorists who are avoiding direct contact with the search parties and are on the run taking advantage of thick foliage, natural caves and difficult terrain.  The operation is now going on deep inside the forest with a number of natural caves. The search parties are clearing the caves and moving cautiously to neutralize the suspected terrorists, an official said.  Over a dozen persons, including two women, were detained so far for questioning after it came to light that they allegedly provided logistic support, including food and shelter, to the terrorists, the officials said.  Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region have witnessed a rise in infiltration attempts since June this year, resulting in the killing of nine terrorists in separate encounters.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||Congress pays tributes to Indira Gandhi on death anniversary||The Congress on Sunday paid tributes to former prime minister Indira Gandhi on her death anniversary, with former party chief Rahul Gandhi hailing her as a great example of women power.  Rahul Gandhi paid floral tributes to Indira Gandhi at her memorial "Shakti Sthal" here.  Indira Gandhi, the then prime minister, was assassinated on this day in 1984 by two of her own security guards.  "My grandmother served the country fearlessly till the last moment -- her life is a source of inspiration for us," Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi.  "A great example of women power, humble tributes to Mrs. Indira Gandhi on her martyrdom day," he said. The Congress, in a tweet from its official Twitter handle, also lauded the former prime minister's contribution to the country.  "She represented strength. She epitomised sacrifice. She personified service. A billion salutes to the Iron Lady of India, our very first woman Prime Minister, a true Bharat Ratna, Smt. Indira Gandhi, on her death anniversary," the Congress said in its tweet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||Covid: India logs 12,830 new cases, active cases lowest in 247 days||With 12,830 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,42,73,300, while the active cases declined to 1,59,272, the lowest in 247 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.  The death toll climbed to 4,58,186 with 446 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 23 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 126 consecutive days now.  The active cases comprise 0.46 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.20 per cent, the ministry said.  A decline of 2,283 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,36,55,842, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.34 per cent.  The daily positivity rate was recorded at 1.13 per cent. It has been less than two per cent for last 27 days. The weekly positivity rate was also recorded at 1.18 per cent. It has been below two per cent for the last 37 days, according to the ministry.  The cumulative doses administered in the country so far under the nationwide COVID-19 vaccination drive has exceeded 106.14 crore.  India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 2020, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23.  The 446 new fatalities include 358 from Kerala and 26 from Maharashtra.  Kerala has been reconciling Covid deaths since the past few days.  A total of 4,58,186 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,40,196 from Maharashtra, 38,071 from Karnataka, 36,097 from Tamil Nadu, 31,514 from Kerala, 25,091 from Delhi, 22,900 from Uttar Pradesh and 19,126 from West Bengal.  The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.  "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||Vakkom Moulavi: The scholar who believed in the power of journalism ||Last week the postal department issued a special cover on the unsung heroes of Indian freedom struggle. Vakkom Abdul Khader Moulavi, widely known as Vakkom Moulavi, was one of the four names from Kerala. While he rightly deserved the recognition, it would have been more apt if he had been recognised for his pioneering contributions to journalism in early 20th century. Today is his 89th death anniversary. Vakkom Moulavi was a man of many facets. But nearly nine decades after his death, he is remembered more as a religious reformer in Kerala than as a fearless journalist who had strong convictions of nationalism and a visionary understanding of the power of journalism, and yet the spine to stand up for ‘freedom of press’ in 1910. Who was Vakkom Moulavi? If you google, you will find him as a socio-religious reformer and Muslim scholar in Kerala. But not much emphasis has been given or written about him being one of the early proponents of journalism as a powerful tool for social reformation. Born into a wealthy family in the erstwhile princely state of Travancore in 1873, he was trained in languages and subjects by hand-picked scholars. His wide reading and quest for knowledge helped him shape a national outlook and realise the importance of education for social development. Through foreign publications and books, he was in touch with what was happening around the world, be it matters to do with Islam, science or geopolitics. Before the age of 30, he had a patriotic heart beating fervently within him. He believed in the critical role of media in social reformation and in achieving and protecting civil rights and liberty. He questioned the ‘divinity’ of the royal and stood up for the rights of the people as citizens and not as mere ‘subjects’ of a king. In 1905, at the young age of 32, he launched Swadeshabhimani (ThePatriot) as a weekly newspaper. It was not to uplift the Muslim community in and around him but to empower the citizens of Travancore, to make them aware of their rights to freedom and liberty, and to remind the royal rulers and the dewans appointed by the British that the people of the land were not ‘subjects’. He was championing the democratic rights at a time when civil rights movement had not gained any momentum across India. His decision to start the newspaper was not at all a result of an adrenalin rush. Nor was it an emotional decision out of any epiphanic experience. It was taken after careful deliberation and thought. He imported an automatic flatbed printing press through Pierce Leslie from England more than a century ago at a cost of Rs 12,000—when an acre of land in Thiruvananthapuram could be bought for Rs 100! If he had to start printing a newspaper from an imported press from England at the age of 32 in 1905, he must have started planning it at least close to five years, which means when he was 27! That Swadeshabhimani was the first newspaper in Kerala to subscribe to the Reuters news agency shows that young Vakkom Moulavi was abreast of the latest trends in the industry. He named both the printing press and the newspaper ‘Swadeshabhimani’ as the leitmotif of his activities was patriotism, not business interests. He knew it well that publishing a newspaper was not a lucrative business and when some of his relatives tried to dissuade him from launching Swadeshabhimani, Vakkom Moulavi said: “I am not a businessman. What I want to achieve with the newspaper is social service and patriotism. Money is not the ultimate profit I need. I firmly believe that my country will get what I am looking for. That is enough for me.” In the editorial of the first edition of Swadeshabhimani on January 19, 1905, its editor CP Govinda Pillai wrote: We don't declare that Swadeshabhimani will perform great things for the Muslim community and other communities, who desire their well-being. Our primary objective is that Swadeshabhimani's work should promote public welfare and prosperity. To achieve this objective we will do our utmost. We will not conceal any public grievances fearing dangers that may happen to us. Vakkom Moulavi knew it well that it would not be a bed of roses for him or for his paper when he had decided to use journalism for public welfare. One of the mission statements of Swadeshabhimani was that the paper would not ‘conceal any public grievances fearing danger that may happen to us’. Dr Jose Abraham, author of Islamic Reform and Colonial Discourse on Modernity in India: Socio-Political and Religious Thought of Vakkom Moulavi, writes: “When people's rights and privileges were not respected by state bureaucrats, no one dared to raise voice against it and bring it to the attention of the Maharaja. Moreover, no journals in Travancore were ready to carry out this challenging responsibility. This was the gap that Swadesabhimani promised to fill. Through editorials and columns, people's rights — where these were challenged or denied — were highlighted even by risking everything and always living up to its ideals. Therefore, taking into consideration the political and social structures of Travancore at the beginning of the twentieth century, Swadeshabhimani was the medium to express public grievances to the government, and indeed to challenge its responsibility.” “Fear, crookedness and greed will not build a country” — Vakkom Moulavi printed the line under the masthead of Swadeshabhimani, and practised such a brand of journalism that no one had till then dared to do in India, let alone in Travancore. Influential nationalist newspapers like Leader (1909) from Allahabad and Bombay Chronicle (1910) from Bombay were published only after Swadeshabhimani was suppressed, the press confiscated and its editor Ramakrishna Pillai was sent into exile through royal decree. When Vakkom Moulavi teamed up with Ramakrishna Pillai, who was the second editor of Swadeshabhimani, both brave, passionate, honest and committed to their causes and profession, it was the beginning of an unparalleled professional association. The way and to the extent Vakkom Moulavi gave professional freedom to his editor, Ramakrishna Pillai, was unheard of in the history of journalism even today. To make Swadeshabhimani a spearhead in political journalism, Vakkom Moulavi did not have to depend on anyone else. He himself was good enough to edit and lead publications with strong socioreligious messages as it was evident in the cases of his other publications—Muslim, Deepika and Al Islam. The late MA Shakoor, who was Senior Assistant Editor of Dawn and later London Correspondent of Pakistan Times and one of Vakkom Moulavi’s nephews, once wrote: “The dual task of running ‘The Patriot’(Swadeshabhimani) and leading the Muslim reformist movement at the same time soon proved unmanageable, and Maulavi Abdul Qadir looked for an editor for ‘The Patriot’ who would measure up to the high standard ofintegrity, courage and political principles he had set for his journal. He was lucky to have found such a man in a young graduate called Ramakrishna Pillai who had just then been sacked by his own uncle from the editorship of his weekly journal because of his views and uncompromising adherence to principles…Not once throughout the stormy life of the journal did Maulavi Abdul Qadir find the need to interfere in the editorial policy of his journal to keep it on course he had charted for it. This political collaboration which began in 1906 between two young radical democrats forms a glorious chapter in the political history of Kerala.” When the king of Travancore, on the recommendations of the Dewan, suppressed Swadeshabhimani, confiscated the press and sent the editor into exile, Vakkom Moulavi refused to apologise for what he stood for and reportedly said that he did not want the press without the editor! Though it incurred huge financial loss to him, the setback did not deter his journalistic activities. He went on to publish Deepika and Al Islam in his efforts to reform the Muslim community which was steeped in superstitions, and to argue his case for the need to educate Muslim women. In his own right and by the merit of his sharp and incisive writing, Vakkom Moulavi was a shining example of a journalist and a media entrepreneur, whose knees did not jerk nor did his spine bend in servitude to the powers-that-be but had the cold-blooded courage to fight rampant bureaucratic corruption, and to stand up for the democratic rights of the people. Moreover, he did not fire from anyone else’s shoulder but his own, and spent almost all his bequeathed wealth for the sake of his society and community. Vakkom Moulavi’s sense of patriotism and his unselfish journalistic efforts to propagate nationalism and the people’s right to freedom and liberty a century ago should not be brushed under the carpet at any pretext. Nor should his clear-eyed understanding of the role and place of cultural and community identities in the unique sociopolitical mosaic of India. It will be a gross injustice to Vakkom Moulavi and his visionary journalistic attempts if we do not tell his story in right earnest — that he was not just a generous newspaper owner but was himself a fearless journalist, well-read and with felicity of language and moral honesty and intent to spend even his last penny for its cause. When he died at the relatively young age of 59 on Oct. 31, 1932—89 years ago—he was in debt, having spent all his money for the society and community. (Sabin Iqbal is a senior journalist and novelist based in Bangalore. A grandson of Vakkom Moulavi, Sabin is Vice-President of Vakkom Moulavi Memorial and Research Centre)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||Global policy must weigh risks of adopting booster doses: Doctor ||Any moves now to offer a third Covid-19 vaccine dose to all people 12 years or older amid vaccine inequity across countries could generate conditions for the emergence of new variants and fresh waves, an Indian public health expert has cautioned. K. Srinath Reddy, president of the Public Health Foundation of India and member of the Lancet Covid-19 Commission India Task Force, said if the practice of administering a third dose became established in vaccine-rich countries, it could aggravate shortages for other nations. In this scenario, he said, under-vaccinated populations could generate conditions for the emergence of new variants — not only more infectious, but also with greater immune escape potential — that could trigger fresh waves of infection even in vaccine-rich countries. “That is not the kind of natural experiment the world would like to see,” Reddy said in a commentary on Friday in The Lancet, a medical journal. “Global policy must weigh the risks of adopting booster doses ad libitum across the world at this stage of the pandemic.” His commentary comes amid moves by European and US regulators to recommend booster doses to specific groups of people. The European Medicines Agency recommended earlier this month booster doses for people with severely weakened immune systems. The US Food and Drug Administration has approved boosters to individuals 65 years or older and those between 18 and 64 either at high risk of severe Covid-19 or with institutional or occupational exposure that puts them at high risk of serious complications of Covid-19 or serious Covid-19. India’s Covid-19 vaccination policy is aimed at fully inoculating all adults before any decision on booster doses. About 734 million (78 per cent) of the country’s estimated 944 million adults have received one dose and 330 million (34 per cent) have got both. Proponents of booster doses have cited studies showing declining antibody levels and real-life evidence of protection against breakthrough infections in Israel. But, Reddy said, there is no consensus yet in any geographical region on when, for whom and for which vaccines a booster dose is needed at present. The Israel study had reported around 85 per cent reduction in Covid-19 hospitalisation, 76 per cent decrease in severe disease and 94 per cent decline in deaths when the three-dose recipients were compared with those who had got two. But Reddy said such real-world assessments need to take into account the influence of “confounding variables” or other factors — such as behavioural or biological attributes — that could also determine the outcome of exposure to the virus. He said booster doses might also bring safety concerns, citing reports from Israel of cases of myocarditis and pericarditis — heart complications — as rare events after receiving mRNA Covid-19 vaccines. “Concerns exist regarding vaccine-induced thrombotic thromobocytopenia (a blood clotting disorder) in younger recipients of virus vector vaccines,” Reddy also said, citing a very rare adverse effect associated with vaccines such as Covishield. “We await data on the safety of third-dose boosters with different vaccines.” With 12,830 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,42,73,300, while the active cases declined to 1,59,272, the lowest in 247 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.  The death toll climbed to 4,58,186 with 446 fresh fatalities, according to the data updated at 8 am.  The daily rise in new coronavirus infections has been below 20,000 for 23 straight days and less than 50,000 daily new cases have been reported for 126 consecutive days now.  The active cases comprise 0.46 per cent of the total infections, the lowest since March 2020, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 98.20 per cent, the ministry said.  A decline of 2,283 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-73
31-10-2021||India||All must unite under Congress to defeat BJP, says Lalu Prasad||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad asserted on Saturday that his party would continue the alliance with the Congress and said all Opposition parties must come under the umbrella of the Congress to defeat the BJP across the country. “The Congress is a big party of this country and the RJD’s alliance with it will continue. All Opposition parties in the country will have to come under the Congress’s banner if they want to defeat the BJP. It’s high time to do so,” Lalu, who has returned to Bihar after three years, told reporters. “(Congress president) Sonia Gandhi called me recently to enquire about my health. She is my well-wisher. I reminded her that the next general election is going to be held in 2024 and told her that if you want a change then convene a meeting of the leaders of all like-minded parties. She has assured me that she would do so in November,” Lalu added. The veteran leader’s comments came on a day Trinamul Congress chief Mamata Banerjee said Prime Minister Narendra Modi would become more powerful as the Congress was not serious about politics. Mamata, in Goa to mark her party’s foray in the state, alleged that the country was suffering because the Congress does not take decisions. Prashant Kishor, the election consultant who guided Mamata’s campaign in the Bengal Assembly elections earlier this year, has been training his guns on Rahul Gandhi and claiming that the Congress had failed to fathom the popularity and strength of the BJP. Last week AICC Bihar in-charge Bhakta Charan Das had said the Congress had exited the RJD-led Grand Alliance in Bihar and that the national party would go solo in future elections in the state. Das’s announcement had come after the RJD “unilaterally” decided to contest the bypoll to the Kusheshwar Asthan Assembly seat. Both the RJD and the Congress fielded candidates in Kusheshwar Asthan and Tarapur in the by-elections held on Saturday. Lalu sought to differentiate between the Bihar Congress and the central unit of the party. “The Congressmen of Bihar have no concern for the condition of the country. I have talked to Congress president Sonia Gandhi. She and Rahul Gandhi decide about alliances. The future of the Grand Alliance in Bihar is bright,” the former chief minister said, denying that there was any rupture among the Opposition parties in the state. Lalu asserted that the RJD was going to win both the seats in the bypolls, which he said would pave the way for the end of the NDA regime in Bihar led by chief minister Nitish Kumar. “I have devised a formula to bring down this government. Nitish’s retirement from politics is certain now,” the RJD chief added. Lalu said everything was fine between his two legislator sons — Tej Pratap Yadav and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav — but indicated that the latter would lead the party against the backdrop of its stellar performance in last year’s Assembly elections in which “Nitish cheated him of the opportunity to form the government in the state”. The counting for the Tarapur and Kusheshwar Asthan bypolls will be held on November 2. Around 49.59 per cent votes were polled.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
31-10-2021||India||At Vatican, Narendra Modi invites Pope Francis to visit India||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday invited Pope Francis, the spiritual and temporal head of the Catholic Church, to visit India when he called on the pontiff at the Vatican in the morning. The invite comes ahead of the Goa elections — where Catholics account for a quarter of the population — and is being used to address criticism overseas about India moving away from its constitutional path of a secular, liberal democracy. The BJP, which drew a blank in the recent Assembly elections in Kerala, has also been trying to court Christians in the southern state. The choice of some of the gifts the Prime Minister and the Pope exchanged was telling: Modi presented a silver candle stand usually used in altars; the Pope gave him the document on Human Fraternity, signed on February 4, 2019, in Abu Dhabi by the pontiff and the Grand Imam of Al-Azhar. The BJP sought to amplify the meeting. Party president J.P. Nadda, himself a product of a Catholic school, said: “The meeting between (the) Prime Minister of the world’s largest democracy and the supreme head of the world’s largest Christian denomination is an occasion fit for the history books.” Although many in the party and several fellow travellers have targeted the Christian community, Nadda used the optics of the meeting to assert: “India is a vibrant and inclusive democracy, where the Christian community has played a pivotal role in areas like politics, films, business & armed forces….” Modi himself announced the invitation in a tweet with pictures of the meeting, including his trademark hug of the pontiff. Later, the external affairs ministry, in a readout on the “private audience at the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican”, said the Prime Minister had invited the Pope to “visit India at an early date which was accepted with pleasure”. Briefing journalists in Rome later in the day, foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla paraphrased the Pope as saying: “You have given me the greatest gift. I am looking forward to visiting India.” Asked specifically if religious freedom had come up in the one-to-one meeting between the Prime Minister and the Pope, the foreign secretary said: “The discussion was completely devoid of any extraneous issues. It was very warm and convivial.” The official communiqué issued by The Holy See did not mention the invitation. According to the Vatican News, the official news website of The Holy See, “the Vatican has not made any comment or declaration regarding the invitation”. It added: “The request for a papal visit to India ha(d) already been advanced in 2017, in view of the Pope’s apostolic journey to neighbouring Bangladesh and Myanmar in 2018, but it was not possible to follow up.” About the meeting, the ministry said the two leaders had discussed the pandemic and climate change. “His Holiness appreciated India’s assistance to countries in need during the pandemic,” the readout said, underscoring that this was the first meeting between an Indian Premier and the Pope in over two decades. Former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had been the last to call on the Pope, in June 2000. If the India visit happens, it will be the second visit by a Pope on a BJP government’s watch — the last one was in 1999 when Vajpayee was Prime Minister. It will also be the fourth papal visit to India, the first happening in 1964 and the second in 1986. The Vatican statement on the meeting detailed all those whom Modi had met and said: “During a brief conversation, the cordial relations between The Holy See and India were discussed.” Shringla said the “meeting that was scheduled only for 20 minutes went on for an hour”. The Italian Catholic newspaper, Avvenire, said: “The Prime Minister was welcomed by Francesco in the Sala del Tronetto at 8.25am, the face-to-face ended at 9.20am.” Besides the silver candle stand, Modi gave the Pope a book listing the NDA government’s initiatives to address climate change. The Prime Minister told the pontiff that the book was on his “most favourite subject”. The Pope, who has been very vocal on climate change, on Friday urged world leaders heading to Glasgow for the Cop26 Conference to “take radical decisions”. According to Vatican News, the Pope presented the Prime Minister with a bronze plaque carrying the inscription “The desert will become a garden”, volumes of papal documents, his message for the World Day of Peace and the document on Human Fraternity. A six-member Indian delegation, including foreign minister S. Jaishankar, NSA Ajit Doval and foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla were present when the presents were exchanged. While the visit caught eyeballs internationally, most reports also mentioned the attacks on minorities in India. Avvenire said “the situation of Christians in India is not easy” and referred to a recent report on the community being targeted along with a mention of Jesuit priest Stan Swamy’s arrest on “terrorism charges” and subsequent death in custody. The Vatican News report on the meeting also mentioned the “growing anti-Christian violence in India”. Reacting to the optics of the meeting, Opposition leaders highlighted the BJP’s doublespeak. “Raising and praising Indian diversity abroad and showing scant disregard and disrespect for the same at home.… This seems to be the mantra in ‘New India’,” tweeted the RJD’s Manoj Jha. Trinamul’s Jawhar Sircar wondered: “Will Modi promise Pope that his goons will not attack Christians and churches?” There was no mention whether Modi discussed with Pope Francis, the first Jesuit pontiff, the death of  Father Stan Swamy, the Jesuit priest and one of the oldest terrorism accused in India who passed away in custody on July 5. Modi has not yet made any public statement on Father Stan. The Vatican had not issued any direct statement but the news portal of The Holy See had published a statement by the Federation of Asian Bishops Conferences calling for the release of Father Stan in October 2020. The Holy See portal published an obituary of Father Stan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
31-10-2021||India||Rahul avoids any reference to TMC during his first election tour in Goa||Rahul Gandhi on Saturday avoided any reference to the Trinamul Congress during his first election tour of Goa, describing the contest as an ideological battle between the BJP and the Congress. Other Congress leaders have made passing references to a “party from Bengal” (Trinamul) and another “from Delhi” (AAP) but Rahul mentioned neither, ignoring Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s acerbic attack on the Congress. Mamata, also in Goa, accused the Congress of suffering from indecision and thereby strengthening the hands of the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Congress doesn’t want to recognise Trinamul’s intervention in Goa and give credence to the claims about a triangular fight. At all the three interactions he had during the day, Rahul persisted with his unifocal attack on Modi. Alleging that Goa’s being turned into a coal hub was meant to benefit the Adani group, he accused Modi of pursuing an agenda to hand over the entire country to a few industrialists. Rahul said: “These are not random events. There is a systematic plan in operation to attack the unorganised sector and small businesses so as to hand over everything to five-six biggest business houses.” “While five-six people are benefiting in every sector — ports, coal, airport, agriculture, retail, telecom — the lives of millions and millions are destroyed.” Rahul added: “A national tragedy is unfolding. The media is a friend of the government; it portrays a distorted reality. The Chinese have grabbed India’s territory, as big a space as Delhi, and the Prime Minister says nobody has entered. “The nation is divided; hate is being spread everywhere. Their goal is to help their friends no matter if India burns. The farm laws are designed to harm the farmers, the GST was designed to harm small and medium businesses. India’s backbone is being broken.” The main banner at the Congress workers’ convention read: “Only goal — say no to coal.” “We will not allow Goa to become a coal hub. We will not destroy Goa’s environment. We can develop Goa and create employment opportunities by making it an education and healthcare hub and promoting tourism,” Rahul said. “Don’t see this as an election, this is a fight for the future of Goa, where people can live in peace and communicate with others with love and affection.” At an earlier interaction with the fishing community, Rahul had said that unlike many other leaders, he attached importance to credibility and would therefore not make false promises. Environmental issues dominated the conversation. Most of the questions were about the transport of coal, doubling of railway lines and environmental degradation. Rahul promised that the Congress wouldn’t allow any reckless exploitation of resources that can damage the environment. Responding to questions about local concerns at motorised boats coming from outside to corner the bulk of the fish, he said: “Unlike many other leaders, my credibility is important to me. I won’t make promises that I can’t fulfil. “Our manifestos are guarantees; we fulfil our promises. You can go to Chhattisgarh and Punjab and ask people whether we have delivered on our manifestos. And our manifestos reflect people’s concerns and aspirations.” He added: “There should be a balance between development and environment. There should be a balance between the big fishermen and small fishermen. The balance should be in favour of the poor and the locals.” Rahul said the difference between the BJP and the Congress was: “We unite, we know that every citizen must be given space, everybody will have to be taken together. The BJP spreads hatred and divides people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
31-10-2021||India||The Prejudice & The Pride||The tendency of the incumbent regime to single out Jawaharlal Nehru to blame for just about any of their troubles is now legendary. It has not gone unnoticed that in its criticism of dynastic politics, the regime does not attack Indira Gandhi with similar single-mindedness. The Emergency is a blot on independent India, an exceptional disruption of democracy that dealt indelible blows to our democratic polity and aspirations and set terrible precedents for later tyrants to mimic. Is this legacy of Indira Gandhi treated with kid gloves by the current regime because Emergency is their favoured model without even the declaration of it? The personality and conduct of Indira Gandhi was often at odds with what she professed to believe in. These contradictions are apparent when you examine her closely in different phases of her life — a young person growing in a household full of freedom fighters, as Nehru’s daughter while being partner of Feroz Gandhi, one of Nehru’s most vocal critics in Parliament, going from being the heir apparent in the Congress to splitting it. Her imperious political style and her close self-identification with India during the Emergency gave birth to an alarming authoritarianism and left our democracy mangled. It bears pointing out that by contrast Nehru’s ideas about Indian democracy were not based on an individual quirk of personality. They were based on a principled faith that the foundations of a multicultural democracy lie in strengthening civil liberties and instituting processes that ensured social justice and harmony, and not on overconfidence in his personal ability to lead India. In this Nehru was also being mindful of the serious warning about the role of “Bhakti” sounded by Ambedkar in his final address to the Constituent Assembly. Ambedkar had clearly said that the path of hero worship in politics could lead to eventual degradation of democracy and pave the way for authoritarianism. Indira Gandhi’s “Emergency years” are probably inspirational to the present regime; and the stiffest challenge to their project to reimagine India as “New” comes from the Nehruvian idea of democracy and democratic functioning. Nehruvian ideals and his legacy command a deep and pervasive influence on the people of this country including his critics. “The Gentle Colossus” as he was called by veteran Communist parliamentarian Hiren Mukherjee, Jawaharlal Nehru embodies much that is grand and laudable about Indian democracy. In the last parliamentary session, the government disallowed questions on topics of national importance such as widespread surveillance and the farm laws. The decision to restrict Question Hour in the monsoon session of 2020 was shamelessly undemocratic. Narendra Modi has rarely answered questions on the departments and ministries held by him. His silence on the issues of importance and his absences from parliamentary debates remain a stark reminder of deteriorating democracy in India. Contrast this to Nehru, who, despite having a staggering majority in Parliament, never brushed aside the Opposition and gave dissent its due space. He did not shy away from uncomfortable questions and sat through the debates and interventions meant to criticise him. For instance, during the much-condemned China fiasco, Nehru made as many as 32 statements and interventions on China on the floor of the Parliament. He was present in Parliament even on days that the Prime Minister’s business was not listed, and participated in debates that did not strictly relate to the working of his department. Putting into practice the ideas and values of the leadership of the newly independent India, Nehru took on the unique task of building a nation rather than merely administering it. It is entirely conceivable that when Prime Minister Narendra Modi told Parliament in 2018 that rich democratic traditions have long been a part of Indian culture and that India does not owe democracy to its first Prime Minister, he was merely revealing his blinkered understanding of the past. Jawaharlal Nehru was a true democrat who laid the strong foundations on which we stand today and pride ourselves on being the world’s biggest democracy. He deeply believed that Indians could not merely adopt democracy; they had to develop it. Nehru was at pains to underline that democracies had no special claim to survival. Democracies are as likely to fail or succeed as any other political institution. In this, he appeared to wholeheartedly agree with his venerable colleague, B.R. Ambedkar who had argued in his last address to the Constituent Assembly that while the Constitution provides the blueprint for the workings of the State, it is up to the people to “carry out their wishes and their politics”. A government unaccountable to Parliament seems to be knocking down this far from perfect, yet painstakingly built, democratic ethos of our country. Today, regrettably, it would not be exaggeration to say that India is a functional electoral democracy found wanting in the very elements that make for vibrant and open democracies — inclusion, deliberation and accountability. In a letter dated March 1, 1950, Nehru wrote, “Loyalty is not produced to order by fear. It comes as a natural growth from circumstances that make loyalty not only a sentiment which appeals to one but also profitable in the long run”. In the same letter, he offered long-term policy solutions to consolidate India by making all minorities in the country at home. Nehru warned that even though India would survive any attack on its secular moral characteristic, she would be grievously wounded and take a long time to recover. The contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) passed in the midst of protests defies this vision of inclusivity. Constitutional experts as well as international watch bodies have observed that the amended law will cause Muslims to face exclusion. We have failed to learn the right lessons from the experience in Assam of the consequences of such policies. There is no denying that democratic forces in India have found themselves under strain in recent times. It is inevitable that the dark memories of Emergency have been invoked, as we see those very practices being normalised today. Activists, journalists, politicians, and students are being threatened through systemic misuse of institutions. The media was officially censored for 21 months following the imposition of Emergency in 1975. Today we have ended up largely with a media that is expert at falsification, misrepresentation and distortion of reality. On the other hand, media entities that show autonomy find staggering curbs imposed on their freedoms through dubious methods, without any formal suspension of rights. Central agencies are being used as tools to scare those who dare to openly dissent and question. Arbitrary Internet shutdowns, restrictive IT guidelines and the proposed changes in the Cinematograph (Amendment) Bill are just some of the actions of the NDA government that clearly tell us that control over expression and opinion remains it top priority. Imposing sedition laws without any due process has been deeply concerning, to the extent that a sitting judge had to remark, “The offence of sedition cannot be invoked to minister to the wounded vanity of the governments.” Vanity is probably another quality that holds the current regime in thrall of Indira Gandhi. The writer is an RJD member of the Rajya Sabha and teaches at Delhi University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-74
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Jaideep Nandi returns to TMC from BJP||A group of leaders from the BJP joined the Trinamul with their supporters here on Saturday. Former state minister and veteran Trinamul leader Gautam Deb along with Papiya Ghosh, the Darjeeling (plains) district president, welcomed them into the party at a function held at the district office. Among those who joined the TMC include Jaideep Nandi, a former councillor of Siliguri Municipal Corporation and a prominent political face of New Jalpaiguri area, who had defected to the BJP last year and was made the party’s district vice-president. “It is like a homecoming for me. As I have always followed the Trinamul’s ideology, I found it missing in the BJP and could not continue there,” he said. His decision came a day after he resigned from his post and the primary membership of the BJP. Among others who switched over to Mamata Banerjee’s party from the saffron camp include Dindayal Singha, the Siliguri branch president of BJP’s Kishan Morcha, Nanda Prasad Roy, the BJP convener of Phansidewa block, and Dipankar Paul, secretary of BJP’s Siliguri unit. “During the past couple of weeks, the BJP leaders were in touch with us and wanted to join the Trinamul. We consulted with our senior leaders and workers functioning at different levels and decided to induct them into the party. Along with them, hundreds of BJP supporters have also joined the Trinamul,” Ghosh said. At the induction programme, Deb and some other leaders came up with a clarification about a seven-member committee that the party had announced on Friday. The committee was formed to oversee political activities across Siliguri Municipal Corporation areas before and during the civic polls, party leaders had said. The announcement had led to repercussions within the party and also in the local political arena as the committee did not have senior leaders like Deb and former district president Ranjan Sarkar in it. On Saturday, the Trinamul made an attempt to control the damage. “I would like to clarify that a seven-member monitoring cell has been formed to look after the activities of our booth-level workers across the civic area. It has nothing to do with civic poll preparation or campaign,” Deb said. “The party will take care of these issues and will draw appropriate plans in due course,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-27
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Traders cheer as Nepal route reopens||Movement of passenger vehicles between India and Nepal along the Panitanki-Kakarvitta route has resumed on Friday after a gap of 20 months. The development has come as a major relief for around 1,200 traders who are based in Panitanki, located around 35km from here. Their business had taken a hit after the movement of people through the international border was suspended following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in March last year. During this period, only vehicles carrying goods were allowed to move through the border. A few weeks back, the traders had hit the streets and demonstrated on Asian Highway II, demanding the resumption of the movement of people along the route. “We are glad that the authorities of both the countries have reopened the border for movement of passenger vehicles ahead of the Diwali celebrations. Only those who have received both doses of vaccines or carrying a negative RTPCR test report issued not more than 48 hours of their travel are being allowed to cross the border. Even then, we believe, this will largely help in the revival of business in Panitanki,” said Ramkumar Chhetri, an adviser of Panitanki Byabsayee Samiti. According to the traders, around 50,000 residents of Nepal enter India through Panitanki every day and among them around 30,000 visit the local market to buy items ranging from household goods and garments to food items and furniture. “Ahead of the pandemic, goods worth around Rs 1 crore were sold from the local market in Panitanki. This had dried up as the movement of people was stopped,” Chhetri added. A senior trader based in Panitanki said they too, did not want an unrestrained movement of people through the border. “But now that only people who are fully vaccinated or are carrying negative RTPCR reports are being allowed, it is evident that all those entering through the border would be screened. In such a case, movement of local transport should be allowed,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri jail guard arrested for cannabis ||A jail guard posted at the central correctional home in Jalpaiguri was arrested on Saturday for carrying cannabis with him. Mohammad Mafizuddin, the guard, is accused of supplying narcotics to the inmates of the correctional home. Charges under NDPS Act have been brought against him and an inquiry ordered.. Sources said on Saturday morning, as Mafizuddin joined his duty, some other guards  on duty felt he was behaving suspiciously. When they frisked him, they found at least 12 packs of cannabis (weighing around 120 grams in all) concealed in his cap. Senior officials of the correctional home  started an inquiry and informed the police. Kotwali police led by Arghya Sarkar, inspector-in-charge, reached there. “The guard has been arrested on the basis of a complaint filed by an official of the correctional home. He has been booked under NDPS Act and some other rules, and will be produced before the court on Sunday,” said Debarshi Dutta, SP, Jalpaiguri. “We are trying to find out if he had an accomplice and the source of his supply,” said source. Gamblers arrested Acting on a tip off, a team of Bagdogra police station under Siliguri Metropolitan Police arrested 12 persons from Rangapani on the outskirts of Siliguri for being involved in illegal gambling. “We have also recovered around Rs 1.04 lakh used as board money. Such raids will continue,” said a police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||The Telegraph School Awards recognises ‘action’ of individuals during pandemic||Stories of hope, understanding and generosity marked a 90-minute award ceremony that recognised the “action” of individuals and institutions in reaching out to people during the pandemic. These challenging times do not allow physical hugs. But from the online platform of the IIHM presents The Telegraph School Awards for Excellence 2021, 26th edition, in association with The Bhawanipur Education Society College, partnered by Tutopia, a request went out on Saturday for an “action hug”. “I’m requesting you from today onwards to give an action hug — an action hug to yourself and an action hug to others,” said Barry O’Brien, trustee, The Telegraph Education Foundation, who hosted the event. “We are so happy to tell you that there are many action hugs going around, and so let’s keep talking about action hugs throughout today’s event.” O’Brien said the “h” in hug stood for hope, the “u” for understanding and the “g” for generosity. “The day we lose hope we’ve lost everything. Please be understanding with yourself, be patient with yourself — we are very impatient with ourselves nowadays and it’s causing all of us mental health issues,” he said. “Finally, ‘g’ is for generosity. You can’t take it with you, friends — whether you go to the smashan ghat, the burial or the cemetery. You can’t take anything with you. So those of us who are privileged enough, blessed enough, let’s be generous, generous with our time, generous with the way we approach life and generous with our money.” Such generosity in pandemic times was exemplified by a “shy school” (it had never before entered itself for the awards) called Future Hope School that travelled almost across the state distributing 90,600 bags packed with relief material by its boys and girls. Similar generosity was shown by “a small school with a huge heart” — the Chowringhee High School, which carried forward the legacy of its late administrator, Perminder Dasani. Within months of Dasani’s death from Covid, his wife and daughters and the team he had left behind collected Rs 3 lakh and donated it for the people of the Sunderbans. They are also carrying on with all the charitable work their mentor did. Both these schools won The Telegraph School of the Year along with the Lakshmipat Singhania Academy. Individuals too had stood up to be counted. Cadet Amit Raj of Sainik School Purulia rescued two teenagers from a fire at his Bihar village but himself died of burns. A gas leak had caused a fire in a building. Amit saved a 15-year-old and a 13-year-old and went in again to look for anyone left behind, suffering fatal burns. Amit was one of the recipients of The Surrendra Paul Memorial Award for Courage. The stage also recognised Mamoon Akhtar who had to leave school because his father, an iron fabricator, could not pay his fees but went on to complete his education later and start a non-formal school in 2001. Akhtar, founder of the Samaritan Help Mission in Tikiapara, Howrah, on Saturday won The Bhawanipur Education Society College Honour for an Educationist. Amid the pandemic, Akhtar provided food and education to thousands of children and their families. At a time parents are struggling to pay school fees, O’Brien’s appeal to schools was: “Let’s not ask children to leave school.” The MOM Sundarbans Self Help Group — formed by a group of former and present students of Kanaknagar SD Institution, Hingalganj — received The Somak Dutta Endowment. The group trained women in tailoring and provided livelihood to them during the pandemic. Some of these women’s families had no other source of income. The Somak Dutta Endowment went also to the Rokeya Siksha Kendra, a “learning centre” run in Patuli by a group of doctors, engineers, teachers and activists, and to the Sudhu Sundarban Charcha, Hooghly, a group that has in the last 12 years provided education-related material such as books, bags and school uniforms worth Rs 20 lakh to 5,000 students in the remote areas of the Sunderbans. Delhi Public School Megacity and Don Bosco School, Liluah, were joint winners of The Anand Paul Memorial Award for Social Service. Students of DPS Megacity have started the Calcutta Anti-Covid Belt, whose more than 1,200 members have been working with Covid patients and their families, and which now has seven organisational partners. DPS Megacity provided relief during Cyclone Yaas and gave donations for Amphan victims. The MCKV Charity Trust announced 25 scholarships at the award ceremony on the occasion of the MC Kejriwal Vidyapeeth, which it runs, completing 25 years. The trust has been doing social work in Howrah and parts of Jharkhand. O’Brien dedicated the event to Covid warriors — doctors, nurses, attendants, ambulance drivers — many of whom have died. What had started “as a small seed of an idea 26 years ago” has grown strong, O’Brien said. With uncertainty looming large, one needs to stoke the “goodness” inside, he added. “Life is really short, life is really uncertain. So let’s live for ourselves, our families. Let’s live for others too. We will see you next year. Let the movement go on. Start reaching out from tomorrow if you haven’t already,” O’Brien said. The number of entries this year was higher compared with not just last year but even the pre-Covid years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Man shot at by kin over loan repayment||A person in his early thirties was allegedly shot at by his brother-in-law when he asked the latter to repay a loan. The incident occurred at 16th Mile area under Baishnabnagar police station on Saturday afternoon. Om Prakash Quilya, the injured youth, was rushed to the local rural hospital and sent to Malda Medical College and Hospital where he is under treatment. Sources said that a few months back, Quilya had lent Rs 10,000 to his brother-in-law Gopal Ghosh. On Saturday, when Quilya asked Ghosh to repay the loan, an altercation ensued, said sources, and suddenly, Ghosh took out a firearm and shot at him. The bullet hit Quilya on his right leg. Other relatives took Quilya to the hospital. Police have arrested Ghosh based on a complaint filed by relatives of the injured and a probe has started, said a police officer. Woman fleeced A woman from Milanpally of Siliguri was fleeced by two persons who posed as policemen and took away gold ornaments worth around Rs 8 lakh from her on Saturday. Police sources said she was walking through Punjabipara area of the city when the duo approached on a motorcycle and told her that she was wearing excess gold ornaments and could be fined up to Rs 5,000. They suggested she carry her ornaments in a bag. With their help, the lady took off the ornaments which the duo wrapped in paper and handed over to her. When she reached home, she found iron pieces wrapped in the paper. A complaint has been filed with Siliguri Metropolitan Police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Anupam meets BJP workers ‘left in the lurch’||The BJP’s national general secretary Anupam Hazra on Saturday said around 100 party workers had written to him accusing local saffron party leaders of leaving them  in the lurch since the Assembly poll drubbing. Hazra, who said hundreds of party workers across Birbhum had met him or informed in writing that many of these party leaders don’t even take their calls nowadays, promised to raise the issue at a forthcoming working committee meeting where Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to attend. “I have received at least a hundred letters from BJP workers from several Assembly segments in Birbhum. The letters say how local leaders are not responding to calls and have not stood with them on the ground to address their problems. I will inform Narendra Modi who is scheduled to attend the party’s working committee meeting on November 7,” said Hazra after meeting around a dozen such aggrieved party workers at his Santiniketan residence. A BJP worker who met Hazra on Saturday said before Assembly polls they were assured of all support and leaders had spoken about the BJP's clout in Delhi. “It was shocking when the party leaders left us alone when we faced attacks by the ruling party immediately after the poll debacle. Many of us have been booked under false cases but BJP leaders are not helping us in legal issues. They don’t even take our calls,” said the BJP worker who refused to be identified. Asked to comment on the issue, Trinamul’s Birbhum district chief Anubrata Mondal was brief in his reply. “It has been established in this Assembly election that the BJP neither had any leader or worker. I will not say anything more in this connection,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Digha tourists drop Covid guard, land in jail||The majority of tourists visiting East Midnapore’s Digha amid the progressive reopening of the local hospitality industry are shunning Covid protocols and likely causing a spike in the number of new reported cases in the district. Police sources said they had “been forced” to arrest errant citizens following reported laxity in enforcing pandemic protocols during Durga Puja. Digha Police Station and Digha Coastal Police Station have arrested 100 tourists over the past three days, with cases being filed against them under Section 51B of the Disaster Management Act (2005). Digha police station officer-in-charge Buddhadev Mal said: “There was an unusual crowd in Digha over the holiday season. According to Covid protocols, police are making loudspeaker announcements exhorting tourists to follow the guidelines, but no one is listening.” Police sources said rowdy tourists had even beaten up civic volunteers on a few occasions when the latter tried to do their job. “This is a certain class of tourists who wantonly flout the rules. This week’s arrests were a precedent to other tourists,” an officer added. Arrested tourists are being kept in the police station for several hours and are being granted bail on personal bonds. Although all these tourists can go home, they will have to appear in court on a subsequent infraction as well as pay a fine. “The administration has warned tourists as well as hotels. Most hotel staff do not wear face masks,” said a district official. On Friday, the block administration held an emergency meeting with two hoteliers’ associations in Digha. Block development officer of Ramnagar-1, Bishnupada Roy, said local trains would start from Sunday. “Crowds could grow in the long run. Hotel staff have been instructed to look into the matter in consultation with the hotel owners’ association and be vigilant.” The crackdown, however, has not gone down well with tourists. “Some of the tourists are very upset because of the strict action. Enforcement is not so strict anywhere in the state. So why is it being exaggerated here?” asked a friend of the arrested tourist, adding that the police could have rather detained him. Bipradas Chakraborty, joint secretary of the Digha Shankarpur Hoteliers’ Association, said the police were doing “the right thing” by arresting reckless tourists. “We have asked the police to take action in any hotel break rules.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||State expedites development of private industrial parks||The Bengal government that is putting impetus on job creation in the state has taken up the task to expedite private industrial parks by identifying prospective plots for such parks. On Friday, Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi wrote to all district magistrates of the state, instructing them to identify all parcels of private land measuring 5 acres and above where owners  intend to develop industrial parks. “The idea is to encourage MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) units which can generate employment. Recently, the state has brought a change in its policy and has reduced the quantum of land from 20 acres to 5 acres for setting up of private industrial parks. This has encouraged investors across the state, including north Bengal. That is why, it seems, the state wants to keep a comprehensive database of such plots with it,” said Sanjay Tibrewal, chairman of the north Bengal zonal council of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). In the letter, Dwivedi has said that the district magistrates should find such land that are free from all encumbrances, have necessary road connectivity and availability of water and power. “The DMs have been asked to send a list of such plots to the principal secretary of the state MSME department by November 15. This shows the state’s keenness to develop parks. We want 100 such parks to come up across Bengal in the next three years,” said a an official. Earlier this week, the issue was flagged by representatives of trade bodies of north Bengal before chief minister Mamata Banerjee during an administrative review meeting in Kurseong. Mamata, at the meeting, had underscored  they had brought down the land ceiling and asked the trade bodies to see to it that such parks mushroom in north Bengal. “Several people can get jobs at the units in these parks. Instead of going to other states, they can make a living here,” Mamata had said. In his letter, the chief secretary has said the state has amended its Scheme for Approved Industrial Park which can help the private developers enjoy certain incentives. These include subsidies on government charges and creation of basic infrastructure such as roads and power supply. Tibrewal said they had given information to their members who have been asked to give relevant details of their land to the administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 980 new cases, 880 recoveries and 13 deaths||Bengal on Saturday logged 980 new Covid-19 cases, 880 recoveries and 13 deaths. Active cases, or Covid patients under treatment in Bengal, rose by 87 to 8,310. Bengal has 5.4 per cent of India’s active cases, and is fifth among states with the most such cases. Since September 26, when Bengal snapped out of a 97-day streak of fall in active cases, there has been a net rise of 636 in the state’s total of active cases. Calcutta logged 272 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths on Saturday. A minister said the new infections reported on Saturday were indicative of people that got infected between October 21 and 25. Calcutta reported 272 new infections and four deaths. North 24-Parganas reported 148 new infections and five deaths. These were only two of the state’s 23 districts with a three-digit figure of new cases found. Five districts reported a single-digit figure. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah, Hooghly and Nadia accounted for 705 – 71.94 per cent – of the new infections detected on Friday. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.08 per cent on Saturday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.2, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has nearly 15.92 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was logged in March last year. The total includes over 15.64 lakh recoveries and 19,126 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal bypolls: TMC leader’s son ‘hit’ by Khardah BJP candidate's security||Arjyadeep Sinha, son of deceased Trinamul leader Kajal Sinha, alleged he was roughed up by the security personnel of Khardah’s BJP candidate Joy Saha in front of a polling booth on Saturday. “Saha accused one of our workers of being a Bangladeshi. I tried contesting his claim. His security personnel started beating me up,” he told the media from the hospital. Arjyadeep’s father was elected as Khardah's MLA in the Assembly polls but died of Covid, necessitating a bypoll. Saha dismissed the allegation and claimed he was attacked by Trinamul goons when he identified a false voter. “I have told Union home minister Amit Shah that a Bangladeshi national was caught casting a false vote... This compromises our national security,” Saha said The chief electoral officer's office asked for a report from the DM on this. Sources said the report rejected Saha's claims. The Election Commission is said to have sought a report from the state CEO. High turnout Bypolls to four Assembly segments in Bengal, Khardah, Gosaba, Dinhata and Santipur, on Saturday saw high voter turnout. Till 5pm, voter turnout was 69.97 per cent in Cooch Behar's Dihata, 76.14 per cent in Nadia's Santipur, 75.91 per cent in Gosaba in South 24 Parganas and 63.90 per cent in Khardah in North 24 Parganas. "The three Assembly segments, except Khardah, reported more than 80 per cent polling during the Assembly polls in April-May. The trends till 5pm suggest that the turnout would touch that figure and may even cross that in Santipur and Gosaba. Normally, polling percentages are lower in bypolls, but this time, it is bucking the trend," a source in the poll panel said. A section of bureaucrats said the trend suggested people's eagerness to cast their votes in favour of the ruling party, which rolled out a slew of social welfare schemes after coming back to power for the third time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||In Goa, Mamata Banerjee dubs Congress as BJP’s ‘TRP’||Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Goa on Saturday accused the Congress of suffering from indecision and thereby strengthening the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Her statements came on a day when Congress MP Rahul Gandhi was also in Goa. “Modiji is going to be more powerful because of the Congress... Congress is the BJP's TRP,” Mamata told journalists at Panaji on the last day of her maiden trip to Goa. “If they (Congress) can’t take a decision the country will suffer. Why should the country suffer...(Congress) have had enough opportunity,” Mamata added but did not specify the Congress’s indecision. Making a reference to the Left-Congress pact in the summer polls in Bengal, she reminded journalists about Rahul’s party taking on the Trinamul instead of the BJP. “Instead of contesting against the BJP, they (Congress) contested against me in my state... They expect we would give flowers to them?” she said. Mamata’s comments came days after her poll strategist Prashant Kishor said for the next few decades the BJP would remain at the centre of Indian politics, even if it wasn’t in power. He had also said Rahul Gandhi was under the misconception that people would be angry enough to overthrow the Modi government. “What I think he (Kishor) meant was that the BJP cannot be defeated the way Congress is functioning...There should be strong decisions. This is what he meant,” Mamata said. However, she refused to speak on what the Congress should do to combat the BJP, saying it wasn’t her party. Mamata also used the last day of her Goa trip to sound out probable alliance partners for the February 2022 Assembly polls there. Trinamul has already said it will contest in all 40 seats in Goa. Mamata met chief of Goa Forward Party Vijay Sardesai and discussed a possible alliance. Sardesai, a BJP ally till April this year, met Mamata in the backdrop of his overtures to the Congress for a possible poll pact being rebuffed. Referring to Mamata as a “symbol of regional pride”, Sardesai welcomed her statement on the need for all regional parties to come together. He said his party had also been speaking in favour of a regional alliance for two years and nobody had paid heed. “We are also a regional party. We welcome her statement...We've been saying the same thing for two years and nobody listened... Trinamul was not there then... I met her today (Saturday) and now we will discuss it (a potential alliance)in our party,” Sardesai told journalists later. Mamata also stressed on the necessity to avoid the division of votes. About her meeting Sardesai, she  said the two parties discussed how the BJP could be defeated through a combined effort. "We discussed the matter... let's work together to fight against the BJP. (Now) it is their decision...We want to avoid division of votes,” she said. She also said her party believed in distributing seats to regional parties. “I want regional parties to be strong. We want the federal structure to be strong. We should make states strong, if states are strong, then the Centre will be strong. Delhi ka dadagiri amka naka (We don’t want Delhi’s bullying), enough is enough,” she said. Reacting to Mamata’s attack, Bengal Congress chief and MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury hit out at the Trinamul supremo and termed her as the BJP’s “Trojan horse”. The Congress leader alleged that Mamata was in touch with BJP leaders, including Union ministers Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari, as well as RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-28
31-10-2021||West Bengal||Bengal bypolls: BJP poll agent locked up by mom in fear of attack||Afraid of a possible attack on her son, deputed as a BJP polling agent, a woman locked him up at home on Saturday in Nadia’s Santipur, one of the four seats where bypolls were held on Saturday. Tapas Das, 27, a weaver, was supposed to go to a Phuliapara booth as the polling agent for BJP candidate Niranjan Biswas, but mother Madhabi would have none of it. Tapas alleged that on Friday night Trinamul workers reached his home and threatened him with dire consequences if he dared to join as BJP polling agent at the booth near his home on Saturday. His 56-year-old mother ordered him not to step out of home, he said. Fearful that he might disobey her, she locked him up in a room. Later asked why, Madhabi added: “Some youths, who I know well, came around 10.30pm and asked me not to allow my son to visit the polling station. They claimed if my son decided to ignore this diktat, he would be found dead outside the booth. How can I risk my son’s life?” Madhabi said her elder son Tapan, a CPM worker, was unable to withstand threats by ruling party goons in 2018, and suffered a fatal heart attack. When the news of the threats spread, BJP candidate Niranjan Biswas rushed to convince Madhabi to change her mind.Madhabi did not budge. All six members of the family decided not to vote. When the EC representatives visited Tapas’ home and offered security so that the family could vote, Tapas asked zonal magistrate Kaushik Barui: “Will you provide us security after polls?” Biswas said Tapas’s mother did what any mother would have done. “Trinamul-backed goons threatened villagers with dire consequences if they dare visit polling stations. Police were mum. The EC did not respond,” he alleged. BJP MP from Ranaghat Jagannath Sarkar won the Assembly polls, but stayed on as MP, which led to the bypoll. Trinamul candidate Brajakishore Das termed the allegations of threat baseless and BJP’s ploy to mislead voters. However, a local source said the BJP’s victory in the summer polls perhaps made the Trinamul camp want to “plug the loopholes” this time. “There was no threat in the last election (earlier this year). But recently known faces have begun to behave like strangers. Saturday night’s threat was alarming” Tapas said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-29
31-10-2021||North East||Tripura HC allows TMC to hold rally after local police denied permission||The High Court of Tripura late Saturday night gave permission to the Trinamool Congress to hold its planned rally for party's national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee after the local police cancelled its earlier permission.  After the police rescinded its permission to hold the rally in front of Rabindra Shatabarshiki Bhawan (Tagore Centenary Hall) here on Sunday and asked for the meeting venue to be shifted, the TMC filed an urgent case before the high court.  Justice Subhashish Talapatra, who heard the case, permitted the TMC to organise its rally after the party gave an undertaking that it would not allow more than 500 people at the venue.  The Trinamool Congress also gave an undertaking before the high court that there would be no gathering at all in other places, a promise they had made earlier in a letter addressed to the local police chief on October 29.  TMC Rajya Sabha MP Sushmita Dev thanked the High court of Tripura for "allowing the party to hold a meeting before the Rabindra Satabarshiki Bhavan on Sunday" with certain conditions due to COVID-19.  Banerjee, who will be the main speaker at the rally, promptly retweeted Dev's social media post.  The petitioners have undertaken before this court that the assembly will not be formed of more than 500 people and leaders of the petitioner shall aid the police in order to ensure that not more than 500 people enter the venue This undertaking shall strictly be observed by the petitioners. The police may put Nakas at the appropriate places to regulate the inflow of the supporters of the petitioner , the court said in its order.  Banerjee also shared a poster on his Facebook page, which said that "Badla Noy, Badal Chai (No revenge but want change), and appealed to party workers to attend his meeting.  Amid a spike in coronavirus cases in parts of the country, the BJP-led state government had on Saturday issued fresh guidelines, making COVID-19 tests mandatory for people entering Tripura from several states including West Bengal.  The TMC had promptly reacted to it and called this a political move.  "The BJP is scared of Abhishek. They are using coronavirus as a shield to stop him from addressing the people of Tripura. This shows they know well that the people of Tripura are no longer with the BJP," TMC leader Partha Chatterjee had claimed.  The TMC is trying to gain foothold in the northeastern state ahead of assembly elections in 2023.  The party had on Saturday accused the Biplab Deb government in Tripura of making every effort to stop the party from expanding its base in the northeastern state, dubbing the move to make COVID-19 tests mandatory for certain travellers a tactic to stonewall its campaigns.  Responding to the taunts, BJP national vice-president Dilip Ghosh had claimed that the TMC was trying to "import the politics of violence in Tripura from Bengal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-3
31-10-2021||Opinion||Not that kind of sport||At last check cricket was a sport. Now, the dictionary defines sport as a type of physical activity people indulge in for enjoyment. Something about sport being derived from the Old French desport, meaning leisure — no word in there about it not being an enjoyment for any party or a proxy war. Cricket is a sport and yet one cannot be blamed for wondering who derived unadulterated enjoyment from the game played recently in Dubai between India and Pakistan. Not Virat Kohli going by the post-match presser — he seemed to be having a far better time when he was making witty posts about brand Wrogn in pre-match social media posts. Not the Twitterati, here or there, fixated as they were on settling scores instead of game and play and stroke. Not the Kashmiri students in Sangrur and Agra, Samba and Srinagar. Not Nasir Khuehami, national spokesperson of the Jammu and Kashmir Students’ Association — he reportedly spent long hours fielding calls. Nor the unsuspecting India cricketer Mohammed Shami. Certainly not the cheery schoolteacher in Udaipur who found herself suspended. And perhaps not all those cops on their toes. Though BCCI’s Maharaja had generously commented ahead of the match, “Pakistan is also a good team. If one or two players click, then anything can happen… It will be a great match,” there is no guaranteeing that it was unadulterated enjoyment that he experienced when the match got underway. Cricket qualifies as a sport, and enjoyment ought to be in the flick of a wrist, a lighting run, a smooth catch, and yet here was a match that was all about moves and counter moves, offenders and defenders off-field. Since we are talking about literal word meanings and etymology, let's look up the English word hate. The word sport may exist in every language of the world, dead and living, but chances are it would not be as nuanced as hate. Hate is derived from the Old English hatian. Linguist and etymologist Anatoly Liberman writes, “In Old English, only hatian has been recorded, and it meant 'to pursue'." Pursue as in chase, chase like chasing a score or runs or, to put it in the Old English way, hating for leisure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
31-10-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Chain that binds unites all factions||Chain that binds Sir — An Indian luxury brand has achieved what none else in the country could — in a political win, it brought the left, right, and centre factions of the country together in common cause over an utter distaste for a new product, designer mangalsutras. The overtly sexual tenor of the advertisement for the product has not gone down well. Some say it is too much empowerment, others say nobody asked for this specific type of empowerment, while most are too tired of the hype over what is, in essence, a piece of jewellery. Whatever the opinion, it marks a moment of historic unity. Shinjini Paul, Calcutta Dangerous lies Sir — It is shocking that the National Tiger Conservation Authority has found violations in the name of setting up a tiger safari project in the Corbett Tiger Reserve. Forged documents to justify illegal constructions and unsanctioned construction activities are some of the findings of the NTCA report. The report further highlights the dark underbelly of the Corbett park’s administration and its collusion with Uttarakhand forest officials to clear forest land for construction activities. National parks and reserves should be inviolable. Allowing any kind of construction activity inside them — no matter the reason — opens doors to all kinds of malpractices and is inimical to the interests of wildlife. M.L. Shah, New Delhi Too late Sir — The editorial, “Armageddon” (Oct 30), is timely and serves as a stern warning to humans. The time to act on climate change is now — it is already too late and any further delay will spell doom for the planet. Every single day that is wasted, brings us closer to a global catastrophe. Anwar Saeed, Calcutta Sir — The ‘armageddon’ is already here as the editorial of the same name underlines with hard, unpalatable facts. The Cop-26 is perhaps the last opportunity to take decisive action. India, the third-largest emitter of greenhouse gases after the United States of America and China, has already rejected calls to announce a net zero carbon emissions target and said it was more important for the world to lay out a pathway to reduce such emissions and avert a dangerous rise in global temperatures. The pathway has been laid out several times; it is now time to walk that path. Shobhita Singh, Raipur, Madhya Pradesh Growing presence Sir — It is good to see that the Olympic champion and sporting legend, Leander Paes, and the former swimmer and actress, Nafisa Ali, have extended their support to the Trinamul Congress in Goa (“Leander, Nafisa Ali join TMC in Goa”, Oct 30). This will no doubt help the TMC increase its footprint across india. The party’s landslide victory in the West Bengal assembly election caused much euphoria and attracted popular names to the party. It remains to be seen what role these inductees play in building a movement to stop the Bharatiya Janata Party juggernaut. Jayanta Datta, Hooghly Futile rules Sir — Pandemic-related restrictions have been extended till November 30 in Calcutta. Yet, it must be asked if these restrictions hold any real meaning. Both two and four wheelers ply on the streets even after the curfew. Many eateries, too, remain open after stipulated hours, while others down the shutters in name only while dishing out food to cars that line up outside them. Are these rules issued just to make the government look good on paper? Murtaza Ahmad, Calcutta Parting shot Sir — It is encouraging that steps are being taken to clean the Maidan of excrement from police horses (“Diapers for police horses”, Oct 30). But what about the stray animals that graze there? T. Mazumder, Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
31-10-2021||Opinion||'Can't you see Lalu ji has come out all guns blazing?'||All guns blazing When the chief minister of Bihar, Nitish Kumar, said that his friend-turned-foe and Rashtriya Janata Dal chief, Lalu Prasad, could get him shot, it stunned everybody. Lalu reportedly asked if he indulged in such activities, asserting that he had only spoken about his arrival to ensure the immersion of the Kumar-led government. Then Lalu claimed that he had spoken to the Congress president, Sonia Gandhi, but Congress leaders denied it. Then he reportedly accused Kumar of not enquiring about his health when he was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Delhi. But Kumar had earlier told his aides that he keeps a regular track of the RJD chief’s recovery. Lalu also called All India Congress Committee Bihar in-charge, Bhakta Charan Das, ‘bhakchonhar’ (stupid), leading to Congress workers burning his effigy in Patna. Then Lalu vowed to topple the National Democratic Alliance government and to uproot the Bharatiya Janata Party. “Can’t you see that Lalu ji has come out all guns blazing? He is not going to spare anyone. Hide, surrender or rally behind him, else you will be shot. And yes there will be no dearth of fireworks this Diwali,” said a senior leader who has worked long stints with both Kumar and Lalu. Latent grudges Younger leaders of the Congress were numbed into silence while the veterans were angry with reports of Prashant Kishor joining the party at a prominent position. While the senior leaders privately criticized Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for the “immature handling” that led to rumours that Kishor will now revive the Congress, younger leaders suppressed their emotions out of loyalty. But as soon as indications of a fallout came, they erupted in joy, mocking the “consultant” who is available for hire. What is surprising is that Rahul and Priyanka met him several times, oblivious to the reservations among the rank and file. One leader said, “We have spent 40 years in Congress but haven’t been given 40 minutes of conversation with Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi. We have details of every constituency of our state in our mind but only those who explain through computer data are given importance. Our loyalty to party is obviously less valuable than ideology-neutral Kishor’s dalliance with every party.” Another leader pointed to Kishor’s intimacy with the former Punjab CM, Amarinder Singh, whose rapport with Amit Shah is no secret. Congressmen hope their top leaders do not fall into the trap of the Narendra Modi-Amit Shah duo by embracing Kishor again in the future. Real threat Many BJP leaders who got dropped from the Union ministry or had their  hopes of becoming ministers dashed have been approached by the Aam Aadmi Party, the Trinamul Congress or both. The two parties have been trying to spread wings across the country and are looking to rope in potential leaders. Internally, BJP strategists are happy that the efforts of the two parties will hurt their principal rival, the Congress. The latter has already accused the TMC of providing cover fire to the BJP in Goa, heading for polls. Some old-timers, however, feel this understanding is flawed. They fear that more than the TMC, the AAP poses a threat. It has been playing both the trump cards of the BJP — nationalism and Hindutva. A senior BJP leader, recently dropped from the cabinet, was amazed to receive a call from Arvind Kejriwal. But he soon realized the political project of the AAP chief. Fodder for thought The bypolls to the five seats in Assam on Saturday were not shorn of drama. While seeking votes for the ruling BJP and its ally, the United People’s Party Liberal, its star campaigner and CM, Himanta Biswa Sarma, equated the two parties to cows that will give 26 litres of milk a day instead of voting for the Opposition, which would not give any milk and, instead, have to be fed for five years. The Congress leader, Debabrata Saikia, responded by sending four kilogrammes of high-quality grass seeds each to the BJP state president, Bhabesh Kalita, and the UPPL chief, Pramod Boro. “I sent the grass seeds because of chief minister’s remarks during campaigning that BJP can give 26 litres of milk a day which the Congress and other parties can’t. We know cow gives milk but for that you need adequate and quality dana (fodder). As such I ordered high class grass seeds for the two parties so they can remain productive and our people can benefit,” Saikia said. Deep fissure The bypolls to two assembly seats in Bihar has, once again, revealed that all is not well between the ruling partners — the Janata Dal (United) and the BJP. The JD(U) is contesting both seats. The main opponent, the RJD, is all charged up with its national president, Lalu Prasad, campaigning for it, but the two ruling parties could not hold a single joint public rally to woo voters. “Nitish is behaving as if he is not bothered about us. Our party leaders have also campaigned half-heartedly. We hope the results will be in our favour,” a BJP leader said. A former minister and senior leader of the JD(U) pointed out that the two parties committed a similar mistake in the 2020 assembly elections and were almost swept out of power. “Nitish and the then deputy chief minister and BJP leader, Sushil Kumar Modi, did not hold joint campaigns. Though it cost us dear, nobody seems to have learnt from it,” he said. The two parties do not see eye to eye on many serious issues like the caste census and the National Register of Citizens. Either a miracle or the hunger for power keeps them together. Footnote The Odisha CM, Naveen Patnaik, recently dropped the minister of state for home, Dibya Shankar Mishra, who is caught in the Kalahandi murder case controversy, from his Mayurbhanj tour. While the Opposition is demanding Mishra’s resignation, the situation turned even more embarrassing for the Biju Janata Dal with one of its MLAs and editor-turned-politician, Soumya Ranjan Patnaik, raising uncomfortable questions about the functioning of the government in an editorial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
31-10-2021||Opinion||Editorial: The royal knot ||Everyone loves a wedding, but nothing rivals the fanfare generated by a royal wedding. Historically, royal marriages were matters of State, not of the heart. They were private affairs, used to cement alliances with either foreign nations or domestic noble families with an eye on perpetuating the monarchy. Royalty, today, is a relic of the past when it comes to wielding power. But royalty and its trappings have, in these modern times, been transformed into cultural capital meant to augment the hold of the State. The pomp and ceremony, thus, continue, but the patron is usually the government of the day. As usual, there is a quid pro quo. Royal weddings are designed to be surreal experiences that would help citizens forget their everyday trials and tribulations, the lapses of the State, not to mention the strain that monarchies put on the public exchequer. However, occasionally, royal weddings, while not being funereal, can be tempered in tone. Princess Mako of Japan, the emperor’s niece, has shown how. She married her college sweetheart in a quiet ceremony away from the public eye, even though this meant giving up her royal title. Significantly, the princess’s preference for moderation, for a discernibly ordinary life, has not gone down too well. Such was the public disapproval of her abdication that during the four years of her engagement she was diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder owing to the excessive online trolling. This exposes an interesting fault line. The royals are often the subjects of public ridicule; yet, an attempt on their part to turn the proverbial blue blood with a tinge of the mundane red variety is received with equal displeasure. Could it then be that there remain dregs of veneration — servility? — in the public consciousness for an institution even though it is no longer potent? There is ample evidence of public support for the other stunts that have been pulled off by royal households. For instance, the Harry-Meghan wedding, which began — ironically — with a sermon on wiping out poverty, cost £20 million in terms of security arrangements alone. But the people did not mind: apparently new lines were being broken with a woman of colour marrying into the British royal household. But some lines, especially the unbending ones held sacred by fuddy-duddy institutions, can hold firm — brutally so. The marriage of Prince Charles with Diana had been projected as an act of inclusiveness. Diana’s subsequent traumas — the result of a resounding cultural clash between hoi polloi and royalty — and Buckingham Palace’s unresponsiveness to her sufferings bear evidence that there need not be a happily-ever-after even in a carefully scripted union. The problem lies in the script. The royalty’s aversion to individual autonomy and its complicity in prioritizing the interests of the throne over rights and dignity can spell disaster for love. The wise Japanese princess, unlike Diana, had, perhaps, smelt a rat. Is it not better to taste love as a commoner than remain loveless as a royal?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
31-10-2021||Opinion||Slower pleasures||The CoP-26 conference in Glasgow begins today. I have been considering what I can do to help combat climate change. Eat less meat? Use an electric car? Heat pump instead of the old gas boiler? Take the train instead of a short-haul flight? All of the above, to be sure. But as someone who has spent much of his life flying around Europe, the last seems especially pertinent. Roughly half of all flights in Europe are short-haul, defined by the European Union as journeys of less than 1,500 kilometres. A detailed study by ETH Zürich university shows that short-haul flights on selected European routes from Zurich cause between three and nineteen times the CO2 emissions of an equivalent train journey. (Nineteen is Zurich-Milan: the shorter the route, the bigger the excess.) Britain’s Campaign for Better Transport recently staged a ‘race’ from central London to Glasgow city centre. The train passenger arrived just two minutes later than the person who came by plane, and the CO2 emissions were an estimated 20 kilogrammes, compared with 137 kg for the flight. But, this being Britain, the train ticket cost twice as much. That is not true everywhere. For example, in December, I have to get from Bremen, where I am speaking on a Thursday evening, to Bavaria, where I speak on the Friday evening. Until recently, I would just automatically have booked a flight. Now I find that there is an excellent inter-city train connection, which gets me from Bremen to Munich in five and a half hours. Yes, it takes a little longer than the flight, which would be just one and a quarter hours — and Lufthansa offers no less than five direct flights that day. But that does not take account of the car journey out to the airport, check-in and waiting time, and then the long drive in from Munich’s faraway airport. Unlike for London-Glasgow, the train is also cheaper: just 27.99 euros at the supersaver price. On top of that, the train journey will almost certainly be more enjoyable. None of those traffic jams on the way to the airport. No sweaty striptease at airport security, and weary standing around waiting for your flight to be called. No need to cram yourself into a narrow seat, packed like a sardine into a large metal tube filled with pressurized, recycled air. From the train, I will be able to view the gradually changing German landscape pass by my window; to read and write comfortably, with good Wi-Fi (although a patchy mobile signal); to get up, take a stroll, and have lunch in the restaurant car. Then I can step out at journey’s end, straight into central Munich. I recently came across some notes I made at a meeting of the parliamentary party of the then youthful German Greens in October 1984. Green MPs, I recorded, would in principle not use domestic flights inside Germany. ‘Here we are, protesting against Startbahn West [a new runway at Frankfurt airport],’ said one, ‘and then we fly from it!’ My notes have a tone of mild amusement, especially when someone confesses ‘I do take a Bundestag chauffeured car to the pub in the evening!’ But now I think to myself: if only the Greens’ approach had prevailed 40 years ago. Imagine that we had spent the last four decades prioritizing European rail connections over short-haul flights. Today, as the Greens prepare to take their place in a new German government, you can bet your bottom euro that airlines are quietly lobbying away, explaining the cost — also in lost jobs — of too rapidly slashing all those short-haul flights among European cities. Italy shows both what can be done and the possible cost. In the last two decades, it has built up an impressive network of comfortable, high-speed, inter-city trains. You can do Rome to Milan in two hours and 59 minutes. Alitalia, however, is no more. (Yes, I know the story of Alitalia is more complicated — but you get the point.) In a public opinion poll conducted last year for my research team in Oxford, respondents across the EU-27 and the UK were asked: “To help combat climate change, would you support a ban on short flights to destinations that could be reached within 12 hours by train?” Almost two thirds of them (65 per cent) agreed. One reason for the high level of support may be that relatively few Europeans actually do much intra-European flying: 76 per cent told us they fly within Europe once a year or less. It’s frequent travellers like me who are the problem. On our project website, we have a map showing how far you can get from Berlin, Brussels and Paris in a train journey of up to 12 hours, including transfer time: from Brussels to Barcelona, for example, or from Paris to Berlin. That 12-hour goal may be overambitious. But a radius of, say, six hours’ time distance, established as a norm by individual travellers and employers, is surely not unrealistic. To move more rapidly from short-haul plane to train, we need change on the demand side (that’s us), the supply side and the regulatory framework. The EU is trying to play some role here. I bet you didn’t know that 2021 is the European Year of Rail. Brussels recently sent a Connecting Europe Express around the EU, although this rather highlighted some of the problems, since it needed three different trains, one for the main European gauge, one for the Iberian gauge, and one for the Baltic (post-Soviet) gauge in the Baltic states. At least as important will be train operators, booking agencies and consumer pressure groups. It is still much easier to book flights across Europe than it is to book train journeys. One of the best places to start is a mildly eccentric website, seat61.com, run by a British train fanatic called Mark Smith. It tells you where to go online to make your reservation for almost any trip across Europe, adding some connoisseur’s advice on the actual trains. Two good websites for pan-European train bookings are raileurope.com and thetrainline.com, but both have significant geographical limitations. Too often, you end up having to book on the individual national rail sites, with all the attendant sign-up hassle. Another good idea is to revive long-distance, overnight trains. The night train was once part of the great romance of European travel (brilliantly and amusingly evoked in Stephen Poliakoff’s film, Caught on a Train). There are few of them left. Bring back the night trains — and make those couchettes more comfortable, while we are about it. ‘Let the train take the strain’ was a great advertising slogan of the 1980s. Forty years on, the condition of the planet urgently requires us to do it — and, by and large, it should also be a pleasure. Timothy Garton Ash is Professor of European Studies at Oxford University and a Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, Stanford University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-11
31-10-2021||Jharkhand||Bengali Classical singer unveils ‘Bangla Chhath Geet’||Intended at promoting Chhath songs among people, a 44-year-old Bengali Classical singer, Anindita Banerjeee has sung two Bengali songs which were launched today during a function organised at Durga Mandir Mandap of Dhanbad. The songs have been released under the banner of Studio Higher Octave of Bokaro. Each song of seven minutes was also composed by Banerjee herself. These musical compositions uploaded on the official YouTube channel of Studio Higher Octove became an instant hit among the Chhath revellers. Talking to The Telgraph Online, Banerjee said, “I have started singing chhath songs since last year. My song titled Chhath mayer koto je mahima se kiar mukhe bola jaye launched last year has received altogether 9847 k hits on YouTube.” She further added, “This year, like the previous year, I have composed and sung two songs including the one titled, Nutun kore jachhi tumay abar chatth ma tumi sara daay, and other titled Otho go he suruj dev uday hober samay holo, argh debo samay holo, have been sung in traditional folk tunes of Chhath song.” Mritunjoy Bhattacharjee, music teacher of Delhi Public School, Bokaro who directed both the song videos said, “Though this year, like last year faced a lot of difficulties in recording as well as making the videos of the songs due to Covid restrictions but by the grace of the Sun god we succeeded in coming up with the songs which have been released today.”. Banerjee wife of Barun Kumar Banerjee, a Tata Steel Sijua group mining engineer said, “Though born and brought at Bishnupur in Bengal I initially could not understand the meaning of the words of the traditional Chhath song during the initial period although the I could feel the devotion inherent in song but with the passage of time I understood the meaning of the song and decided to offer my gratitude to Sun god by singing the Chhath song.” Banerjee, daughter of Bishnupur’s famous sitarist Alok Kanti Acharya, said, ‘I initially learnt Rabindra Sangeet from Maya Sen of Bengal but after my marriage, when I shifted to Dhanbad in 1999 I learnt classical Hindi song from famous classical singer of Dhanbad, Balkishan Singh alias Munna Bhaiya for several years.” “This effort is not only a cultural awakening but it is also a heartfelt tribute to Chhath Puja the most famous and virtuous festival of Hindi language which has transcended the boundaries of language and community”further said Banerjee. “Bangla Chhath Geet  has given a cultural gift not only to the Bengali Community of Jharkhand and Bihar but also to the Bengali speaking people living in West Bengal, Assam who worship Chhath Maiya with joy and reverence,” summed up Banerjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-14
31-10-2021||Jharkhand||Over 70% eligible population  partially vaccinated in Ranchi||More than 70 per cent of eligible beneficiaries in Ranchi, the worst-affected Jharkhand district in terms of Covid caseload and fatalities, have received at least one dose of vaccine against Covid-19, government data revealed on Sunday. Besides Ranchi, only East Singhbhum and Ramgarh districts have managed to inoculate more than 70 per cent of the eligible population. At least 75 per cent of the close to 7 lakh eligible residents in Ramgarh and  85 per cent of the nearly 17 lakh eligible residents in East Singhbhum have received the first dose of vaccine, highlights government data. As per the state health department, at least 15,07,282 of the over 21 lakh  beneficiaries in Ranchi have received the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19. On the other hand, as many as 6,51,400 residents here have also received the second jab. The vaccine coverage for the first dose is about 71 per cent in Ranchi, while that for the second dose is 31 per cent. The health machinery in the state is now focused on ensuring that the second dose beneficiaries are administered the jab on time. State Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Arun Kumar Singh recently wrote to health officials, directing them to intensify vaccination and claiming that timely immunisation was the most important part of overcoming the Covid-19 pandemic. The state is also set to launch door-to-door vaccination campaign in order to improve the vaccination coverage. However, the health department in Jharkhand is yet to achieve the set target of administering at least 3 lakh jabs daily. “The coverage for the first dose of vaccine is quite encouraging. We are focused on ensuring that the second dose beneficiaries also get their jabs on time,” said state epidemiologist Dr Praveen Kumar Karn, adding that several initiatives are to be taken in the days to come to encourage vaccination even in the far-flung villages. As per government data, there are a total of 2.41 crore eligible vaccine beneficiaries in Jharkhand. The state has so far managed to administer the first dose of vaccine to at least 1.49 crore residents, about 62 per cent of the total eligible population. Over 55 lakh residents, about 23 per cent of the total eligible population, have also received the second dose of vaccine. Barring Garwah, all the remaining 23 districts in Jharkhand have administered the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 to more than 50 per cent of the eligible population. Despite having a low eligible population of 9.67 lakh, Garwah only managed to administer the first dose of vaccine to 47 per cent of this population.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
31-10-2021||Jharkhand||TMH launches new facility for cardiac care||Tata Main Hospital (TMH) has introduced a new facility for cardiac care (IVUS - FFR) that helps conduct complex angioplasty procedures seamlessly. The facility was used for the first time on Saturday for cardiac cases. IVUS (Intravascular Ultrasound) helps in better strategizing angioplasty cases and ensures optimal stent deployment. FFR (Fractional Flow Reserve) is a modality to assess functional significance of coronary lesions to know whether revascularisation will be of benefit or not. With this development, TMH can now match the best hospitals  in performing complex angioplasties. TMH, a corporate hospital owned by Tata Steel,  has introduced seamless access to the hospital and its  clinics for persons with disabilities and senior citizens above 75 years for doctor consultations, diagnostics and medicines without prior appointment. TMH continues to cater to increased patient load of over 16.5 lakh OPD patients and 60,000 admissions annually with year-on-year increase of customer satisfaction and advocacy measured through a robust Net Promoter Score ( NPS ) methodology. Net Promoter Score  is a customer loyalty and satisfaction measurement taken from asking customers how likely they are to recommend product or service to others on a scale of 0-10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
31-10-2021||Jharkhand||Gumla chief of banned outift gunned down||Chief of the Gumla unit of the banned rebel outfit, Jharkhand Jan Mukti Parishad (JJMP), Sukar Oraon, was allegedly shot dead by members of his own cadre late on Saturday night at a nondescript village under Ghagra police station, police said. JJMP rebels riddled Oraon’s body with bullets while he was asleep, and fled with arms, ammunition and cash he had in his possession, sources added. Police recovered about a dozen empty cartridges from the spot. The bullets were of AK-47 and INSAS rifles, sources said. While the motive behind the murder was not clear yet, prima facie, it seems that Sukar’s aides killed him over levy. Gumla SP Ehtesham Waquarib did not respond to phone calls from The Telegraph Online on Sunday. However, an inspector rank official in the district police said that disputes over distribution of levy often led to bad blood among insurgents in Jharkhand. However, police ara not ruljng out the possibility of Oraon dying in an encounter between JJMP and CPI (M). In July, the CPI (Maoist) had issued a poster threatening to kill four JJMP operatives namely Pappu, Ravindra, Sukar and Mandu, accusing  the  JJMP of spying on their cadres for the police. Oraon was earlier with the CPI (Maoist). In 2009, he ran away from CPI (Maoist) along with weapons. He was a native of Lohardaga. As per police records, JJMP is one of 17 splinter outfits active in Jharkhand. At least 19 of 24 districts in Jharkhand are LWE-affected as per figures with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Members of these splinter outfits, police say, are nothing more than hired guns and thugs who have unleashed a reign of terror on  villagers in the hinterlands of Jharkhand. They are involved in trafficking children, extorting levy and even killing for sport, police say. JJMP had claimed responsibility for the killing of BJP leader Jaivardhan Singh in Latehar last year. In 2017, at least three BJP leaders were shot dead by splinter outfits in various districts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
31-10-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand: Call to promote solar power in farming||The use of solar energy in agriculture can help Jharkhand save Rs 12,465 crore and prevent carbon dioxide emission of over 36.4 million tonnes in the next 15 years. This was indicated in a document outlining a road map of energy transition in the sector that was unveiled by state agriculture minister Badal Patralekh at a function in Ranchi on Friday. Considering that Jharkhand is a predominantly agricultural state despite its industrial tag, the Centre for Environment and Energy Development (CEED), Jharkhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (JREDA) and Central University of Jharkhand came up with the structural road map aided by constructive policy initiative, infrastructure and market support. “It’s an important document as it chalks out a strategic path for increasing agro productivity,” Patralekh said. Contrary to the popular conception that agriculture is a loss-making venture, it is actually a promising sector as it contributes 13 per cent to the state’s economy whereas it consumes less than 3 per cent of electricity, the document said, explaining why emphasis should be given on agriculture. The energy consumption in agriculture was expected to increase at an annual rate of 12.09 per cent from 2017 to 2037, the document said, adding that power requirement for the sector would go up from 256 billion units (BU) in 2017 to at least 1,987 BU in 2037. “This is a strong argument in favour of using renewable energy that can not only help manage the climate change impact caused by fossil fuel-based economies but also rejuvenate the agriculture sector,” CEED chief executive officer Ramapati Kumar said. The report noted that solar energy usage in agriculture processes will help the state add solar capacity of 4,250MW in 15 years, ending 2037-38. Solarisation of 2.34 lakh grid-connected pumps and installation of 4.05 lakh standalone off-grid solar pumps can cater to the demand of around 700MW power, it further said. “As a state nodal agency, we are committed to promote infusion of renewable energy in every sphere of economic activity,” JREDA director K.K. Verma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-15
