02-10-2021||Patiala||Patiala: Three daily wagers die in lightning strike, one gravely wounded||Three daily wagers died and one was seriously injured in a lightning strike in Bhadson Block’s Rai Mal Majra village, officials said.Gurpeet Singh, Laal Singh, and Gulzar Singh worked at a brick kiln in the village.Doctors at Nabha Civil Hospital are conducting an autopsy.The wounded, Lakhvir Singh, has been taken to Patiala’s Government Rajindra Hospital for treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-three-daily-wagers-die-in-lightning-strike-one-gravely-wounded-319222
02-10-2021||---||Property tax target revised, Patiala MC collects more than half||Patiala, October 1After several reductions in the property tax collection target, the local Municipal Corporation has managed to reach more than half the revised full-year target. By September 30, the MC has collected Rs 10.80 crore as property tax against its yearly target of Rs 18 crore, which is supposed to be achieved by March 2022.The property tax collection target was reduced from Rs 23 crore to Rs 18 crore during the corporation’s special budget meeting held in March this year.The corporation had collected around Rs 14 crore in the financial year 2020-21, against an estimated collection target of Rs 23 crore. Thereafter, the target amount was reduced to Rs 18 crore. Earlier, in the 2019-20 financial year, it managed to collect Rs 17 crore against its target collection of Rs 28 crore. The target collection for the subsequent financial year 2020-21 was reduced to Rs 23 crore.Officials said the tax collection had breached the 50 per cent collection amount by September end. “This was despite the fact that Covid-19 had had an effect on the market and subsequently the tax collection”, they said.“Last year also the MC had revised down its property tax estimate collection target due to Covid-19,” Raminder Singh, superintendent at the property tax department of the MC, said.The MC said the residents would be able to avail a rebate of 10 per cent on their previous years’ outstanding property tax amount. An official of the MC said the last date to deposit property tax with a 10 per cent rebate for the financial year 2021-22 was September 30. The 10 per cent rebate on previous years’ outstanding property tax amount can also be availed only by November end, the MC said.Officials informed the department had managed to collect over Rs 1 crore as property tax from various government establishments. “Some amount has been collected, while the collection of the remaining amount is pending.”MC Joint Commissioner Avikesh Gupta was unavailable for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/property-tax-target-revised-patiala-mc-collects-more-than-half-319091
02-10-2021||Karam Prakash||Private health centres in Patiala under scanner||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 1Private health centres in the city are under the scanner of SBI General Insurance for alleged anomalies in the implementation of the Ayushman Bharat— Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (AB-SSBY), a health insurance scheme. It has been learnt that SBI General Insurance, which was recently chosen by the Punjab Government for the yojana, has outsourced the inspection and audit of the health centres where the beneficiaries of the scheme have got treatment.The private companies have been tasked with checking the health claims under the AB-SSBY scheme by the private health centres. The scheme provides cashless health insurance cover of up to Rs 5 lakh annually to eligible families.Around four health centres have already been inspected by the auditors of the inspection company in the city. The sources informed that some of the private health centres in the city had been indulging in wrong practices. Some of the private hospitals are said to have been adding extra packages in the claims than that of the actual treatment. A health officer of the District Health Department, pleading anonymity, said, “They (hospitals) include additional packages to increase the insurance amount. The patients are misguided that they will get free treatment only if they add extra packages.”In some cases, poor patients are said to have been coerced into adding extra packages if they want free treatment.Meanwhile, Dr Sajila Khan, Deputy Medical Commissioner, said, “It was a routine check by the insurance company. They have checked records of a few health centres in the city. Until now, they have not submitted any report.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/private-health-centres-in-patiala-under-scanner-319090
02-10-2021||---||Child rights panel conducts safety audit of schools in Patiala district, finds lapses||Patiala, October 1To ensure safe transportation of schoolchildren, the Punjab State Commission for Protection of Child Rights conducted an inspection of two private schools in the district today. The commission observed that school buses of both private schools did not comply with the norms of the Punjab Safe School Vahan Policy.It has been learnt that the school buses had no medicines in the first-aid box and had expired fire extinguisher certificates. Besides, CCTV cameras and female attendants, which are mandatory under the policy, were not there in the buses.Due to failure to comply with the norms, six challans were issued by thetraffic police.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/child-rights-panel-conducts-safety-audit-of-schools-in-patiala-district-finds-lapses-319089
02-10-2021||Patiala||Patiala district sees 8 more dengue cases||Dengue seems to be spreading its tentacles in the district as positive cases continue to rise. With eight fresh cases reported on Friday, the total dengue positive cases in the district has already risen to 63 in this season. Of 63, 28 positive dengue cases are from Patiala city alone.The Health Department said they had already tested over 800 people with suspected dengue fever, however, only 63 tested positive so far. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-sees-8-more-dengue-cases-319088
02-10-2021||Ravneet Singh||Shift dairies only after providing facilities, CM Channi to  Patiala authorities||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 1Milk dairies of Patiala city will now be shifted to the new site at Ablowal village only after the administration provides all necessary facilities there. Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi issued directions to the Patiala DC in this regard after dairy farmers called on him in Chandigarh late on Thursday.As per the Patiala MC orders, the dairies were supposed to be shifted to the new site by September 30. Devising a plan to ensure compliance of its orders, the MC had been issuing challans to dairy owners for various violations, including dumping waste into the sewerage lines.In a video that has gone viral, the CM can be heard directing an official that the dairy farmers be shifted to the new site only after the access road and internal roads along with facilities, including water supply and others, are provided there. On the request of the dairy farmers, he said, “The Mayor in Patiala is stating that the dairies will be evicted forcefully, but that should not be allowed. The needs of the dairy farmers should be cared for.”Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit said he had received verbal orders on the issue from the Chief Minister. “We have been directed to provide all basic facilities to the dairy farmers at the site before shifting them. As such, all facilities will be provided to the dairy farmers as per the Municipal Corporation Act.”Meanwhile, dairy farmers have submitted a memorandum to the DC demanding that the dairies be shifted to four different areas, instead of one. They said the size of plots should be increased and they be provided all necessary facilities, including an STP, dispensary and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/shift-dairies-only-after-providing-facilities-cm-channi-to-patiala-authorities-318868
