03-10-2021||---||Gandhi, Shastri remembered on their birth anniversaries||Patiala, October 2Senior Secondary Model School, Punjabi University, celebrated the 152nd birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi here today. In view of the national holiday, the students organised a Google meet and discussed life and teachings of Mahatma Gandhi. NCC cadet Mehak Sharma said that values laid down by the Father of Nation are still relevant.The students also paid a tribute to former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri who shares his birthday with Mahatma Gandhi. Cadet Jatin enumerated several incidents from his life that show his humility. Cadet Jaspreet told the gathering that former PM coined the slogan ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’ which readily resonated with masses.Principal of the school, Dr Nirmal Goyal, urged the students to take inspiration from Gandhi and Shastri and achieve big but stay humble. ANO Satvir Singh, Gagandeep Singh, and other teachers also participated in the meet and motivated the students.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/gandhi-shastri-remembered-on-their-birth-anniversaries-319528
03-10-2021||Aman Sood||Light showers in Patiala district may delay paddy harvesting, procurement||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 2Light showers in several areas of Patiala district on Saturday morning marked the onset of the winter, but are likely to hamper the harvesting of paddy crop by a few days—and also procurement. Already the Centre has allowed procurement from Sunday, after earlier announcement of starting from October 10 after it met with stiff resistance from the farmers, state government and political parties in the state.Paddy crop in many areas has already matured and is ready to be harvested. In many villages, farmers have already started bringing paddy to mandis. To date, 13,000 metric tonnes of paddy has arrived in the Punjab mandis. The early transplanted and the early maturing paddy varieties are ready for harvest or have already been harvested.Farmer Shingara Singh from Fatehpur village showing his damaged paddy crop after unexpected rainfall at New Grain Market Sirhind Road Patiala said that lack of arrangements led to his entire produce lying in the open. “Already the norms for moisture are stringent and I think I will have to spend another few days again drying my paddy here”, he said.Officials in the Agriculture Department said there would be a delay in harvesting the standing crop in the rain-hit areas, though it did not cause any major damage. “The fears about a rise in the moisture level of paddy will be allayed once the Sun is out. The clouds are still hovering over the sky and harvesting will not be carried out under overcast conditions as this could add to the moisture-level in the grains”, they said.The procurement agencies were strict and had laid down parameters on the moisture level and on damaged or discoloured grains. This means paddy harvesting will be delayed by few days.Meanwhile, experts opine that the dip in temperature was good for late-sown varieties of paddy, particularly for the crop which was sown after June 20 this year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/light-showers-in-patiala-district-may-delay-paddy-harvesting-procurement-319527
