04-10-2021||Karam Prakash||Death due to Lightning: Labourers were not registered with dept||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 3A day after three construction workers were killed when lightning struck them at Rai Mal Majra village in Bhadson block in the district, it has come to the fore that the deceased were not registered with the Labour Department.We are trying our best to provide compensation under the BOCW Act at the earliest. Besides, we will also look for any other scheme under which family members of the deceased can be provided compensation. — Jagpreet Singh, Assistant Labour CommissionerThe incident, once again, has exposed the tall claims of the Labour Department regarding updation of registration of construction workers. Had they been registered, they would have been fully compensated as per the Building and Other Constructions Workers (BOCW) Act.Meanwhile, a team of labour officials visited the village today to meet family members of the deceased and collect documents for compensation. Had the labourers been registered, they would have got Rs4 lakh each. Now, they will get only half the money.Jagpreet Singh, Assistant Labour Commissioner, said labour officials had already collected the necessary documents of the deceased, and he would ask the higher-ups to move the file for compensation. “We are trying our best to provide compensation under the BOCW Act at the earliest. Besides, we will also look for any other scheme under which family members of the deceased can be provided compensation.”Asked about why the workers were not registered by the department, Jagpreet said, “Awareness camps have already been conducted by officials. Besides, more teams will be sent at brick kilns to register workers in the coming days.”Meanwhile, it has been learnt that the deceaseds’ families can get a compensation of Rs5 lakh each under the Employees Compensation Act.Vijay Walia, an activist fighting for the rights of construction workers, said the family members should approach the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) for free legal aid. He said, “The DLSA is a watchdog for the rights of unorganised labour under the NLSA Unorganised Workers Scheme, 2015. The DLSA should ensure that family members get timely compensation without any hassle and middleman.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/death-due-to-lightning-labourers-were-not-registered-with-dept-319791
04-10-2021||---||Paddy procurement begins in Rajpura, Ghanaur mandis||Tribune News ServiceRajpura/Ghanaur, Oct 3Rajpura MLA Hardial Singh Kambhoj and Ghanaur MLA Madan Lal Jalalpur today formally kickstarted the paddy procurement operations in the grain markets of Rajpura and Ghanaur.MLA Kamboj and Jalalpur while kickstarting the government purchase of paddy said: “Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi’s efforts have paid off, so the farmers’ crop will now be taken care of on time.” Both the MLAs said that every single grain of the farmers would be procured bringing for sale in the mandis and the payment for the purchased crop would also be made at the same time.Kamboj said the Central government had postponed the procurement of paddy till October 11 in a spirit of revenge to harass the farmers of Punjab. The Punjab Chief Minister immediately swung into action, approached Prime Minister Narendra Modi and urged him to relook his government’s decision of delayed procurement in the larger interests of farmers and the agrarian state.Jalalpur said the Modi Government wanted to derail the economy of farmers but with the intervention of the Chief Minister the procurement started on time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/paddy-procurement-begins-in-rajpura-ghanaur-mandis-319792
04-10-2021||Patiala||Vision document for farmers on Agri Minister Kaka Randeep Singh Nabha’s mind||Agriculture Minister Kaka Randeep Singh Nabha got a rousing welcome from residents upon his arrival at his ancestral town Nabha. This was his first visit after being inducted as cabinet minister.He said, “His head always bows and heart beats for the people of his ancestral and birth place Nabha and his constituency Amloh for showering a lot of love and affection on him”.Interacting with media, he said, “We are working on a vision document to bail out the farming community from the present distress state and to make the agriculture profession more profitable. ”On being asked upon the fate of sacrilege incident, he said the perpetrators of the sacrilege incident would not be spared. Reiterating commitment of Deputy Chief Minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa to bring the result in this case in the coming days, he said the people of Punjab would see an important development in this case with in a month.Earlier, Agricultural Minister Randeep Singh Nabha was given a guard of honour by the district police. Deputy Commissioner Kumar Amit, SSP Sandeep Garg, SDM Kanu Garg and Nabha DSP Rajesh Chhiber were also present there to welcome the minister. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/vision-document-for-farmers-on-agri-minister-kaka-randeep-singh-nabhas-mind-319793
04-10-2021||---||Legal awareness van flagged off||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 3As part of the “Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav”, Nation India Awareness and Outreach Programme, an awareness van was flagged off by District and Sessions Judge Rajinder Aggarwal yesterday on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti. The awareness and outreach campaign would continue until November 14. Besides, legal services week would be observed from November 8 to 14 as part of this campaign, said Aggarwal.District Legal Services Authority, Patiala, would cover 1,038 villages and urban areas of Patiala to hold awareness programmes. The villages have been divided into 92 clusters and awareness programmes would be conducted for 92 clusters of villages.Earlier in the morning, a rally was taken out in collaboration with students of Government Mohindra College and students of Government Senior Secondary School, New Power House Colony, Patiala, in the city spreading legal awareness through placards.Thereafter, Parminder Kaur, CJM-cum-Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, conducted an awareness seminar and make people aware about free legal aid, toll free number 1968 and legal services app.Rajinder Aggarwal, District and Sessions Judge, Patiala-cum-Chairman, District Legal Services Authority, while interacting with mediapersons congratulated everyone on Gandhi Jayanti. He said the dream of Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of Nation, to wipe every tear from every eye, could be fulfilled only if each and every individual was made aware of their legal rights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/legal-awareness-van-flagged-off-319794
04-10-2021||---||Govt Medical College, Patiala, takes control of incomplete new building||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 3Finally, after a lapse of three years, Government Medical College here took control over its new building —worth Rs 35 crore — with deficiencies as it was lying unused. However, the medical college authorities claimed that the pending work of the facility would be completed soon. Meanwhile, sources said the authorities were not serious and work was yet to be started. The said building that had already turned a white elephant was supposed to be completed by the Punjab System Health Corporation in 2018.It has been learnt that the handover was delayed owing to deficiencies in the building. However, Dr Avnish Kumar, Director-Principal, Government Medical College, said the Public Works Department had already floated tenders and work would start soon. He said, “We are trying our best to make the building functional at the earliest. As soon as the work is completed, we will start shifting departments.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/govt-medical-college-patiala-takes-control-of-incomplete-new-building-319795
04-10-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University holds lecture on legal issues||The Department of Laws, Punjabi University, during a special lecture on “Contemporary Legal Issues in Law Making”, said laws were important in the changing society. The lecture was delivered by Prof M Afzal Wani, Dean, Department of Laws, Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University, Delhi.He said in the present time, the role of law was all the more important, especially in view of the changing character of society. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-holds-lecture-on-legal-issues-319796
04-10-2021||Patiala||Gram sabha meetings held||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/gram-sabha-meetings-held-319797
04-10-2021||Karam Prakash||Intelligence officer’s death in Jammu due to negligence: Probe panel||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 3The deployment of homoeopathic doctors — instead of allopathic — in the emergency wing of a private hospital in J&K’s Jammu has allegedly resulted in the death of an intelligence officer.A resident of Patiala, the deceased officer of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) — Himanshu Sharma — was posted in Jammu.It has been learnt that on the complaint of the father of the deceased, the Director, Health Services, Jammu, had formed a panel to find out the cause of the death. The said panel found that the staff at the hospital, especially the homoeopathic doctor, were not qualified enough to handle such a medical emergency. Consequently, the treatment protocol was not followed in a professional manner, the panel added.Himanshu accompanied by his father Vinay Sharma reached a private hospital in Jammu on July 7, 2021, with a complaint of stomach ache. The officer — as per the report — allegedly died within a few minutes after the initial treatment given by the emergency staff therein. The report, however, reveals that an additional team of experts reached the emergency, but the condition of the deceased had already deteriorated. The panel pointed out that the specialists were called only after the patient had suffered irreversible damage.Meanwhile, Vinay Sharma, father of the deceased, said he had been making rounds of the police station so that a case could be registered against the doctor and hospital authorities. He said, “Though the inquiry panel has already found negligence by the hospital authorities, the police have not registered the case so far.” Vinay further said he gave a written complaint to the Jammu SSP for lodging an FIR into the case last month, but to no avail.Meanwhile, the Jammu police did not respond to queries until the filing of the report.Patiala native had stomach acheOn July 7, 2021, Patiala resident Himanshu Sharma, intelligence officer posted in J&K, reached a private hospital in Jammu with a complaint of stomach ache. He was accompanied by his father Vinay Sharma. The officer allegedly died within a few minutes after the initial treatment given by the emergency staff of the hospital.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/intelligence-officers-death-in-jammu-due-to-negligence-probe-panel-319675
04-10-2021||Aman Sood||Week’s coal stock left: Punjab CM’s SOS to Centre||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 3Power rates at the national exchange have shot up following low availability of coal, leaving Punjab and many other states staring at another crisis with various thermal plants, both private and state-owned, left with less than a week’s stock now.To ensure timely supply, Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi has written to the union power ministry.The dwindling coal stock at all thermal plants across the country is leading to increase in power purchase prices through power exchanges manifold. However, the demand in Punjab is gradually coming down following less demand in fields, so the state is managing with the limited coal stock.According to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) officials, the demand in the state has dipped after the paddy season but is still around 8,600 MW, down from the earlier peak demand of 15,500 MW.The thermal generation in Punjab is about 780 lakh units, which is 40 per cent of the total demand of about 1,920 lakh units. As against the 30-day coal stocks, majority of the plants are facing acute shortage of coal due to poor supplies.In Punjab, the coal stock at all three private thermal plants is in critical condition.The Rajpura plant has little over four days of coal stock, Talwandi Sabo power project three days and Goindwal Sahib power plan has two days’ coal stock left. The state thermal plants of Lehra Mohabatt and Ropar have seven and nine days of coal stock left, respectively.As per officials, all five thermal plants in the state are currently running with two units each of all the three private sector plants, while in state sector two units of Ropar plant and three units of Lehra Mohabatt plant are providing power.“Across India, the overall power demand has increased but coal stocks in more than half of the thermal plants have become very critical, resulting in no generation at more than 34 plants. Meanwhile, 38 thermal plants have less than three days of coal stock,” said VK Gupta of All India Power Engineers’ Federation (AIPEF).“The installed capacity of thermal plants in India is about 50 per cent of the total installed capacity. Even in Punjab, the surge in power demand, which started in August, led to the depletion of coal stock across the country. To cope with the coal shortage, the supply to those having stock of 15 days was stopped for a week,” he said.PSPCL CMD A Venu Prasad told The Tribune that the coal “stocks were on lower side”. “The CM has written a demi-official letter to the Power Minister. But our demand has also reduced as paddy season is over now,” he added.Meeting to pick PPSC chief heldChandigarh: The CM held a meeting with Vidhan Sabha Speaker Rana KP Singh and Leader of Opposition Harpal Cheema to select the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) Chairman. Sources say the three candidates under consideration are BK Uppal, Chief Director, State Vigilance Bureau; Lt Gen IS Ghuman (retd), former Army Commander; and JS Powar, former DG, National Academy of Audits and Accounts.Channi to keep 1 of 4 CM bungalows||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/weeks-coal-stock-left-punjab-cms-sos-to-centre-319688
