05-10-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala: Gobindpura Paind government school sans drinking water for months||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 4Though the government makes tall claims regarding smart schools in the state, government school at Gobindpura Paind village in Patran block of the district has a different story to tell. It has been learnt that students in the school are without potable water for several months.The tubewell, the only source of water at the school, is reportely lying defunct for the past over six months. Mid-day meal workers, who are supposed to cook meals, are busy ferrying drinking water in earthen pots and buckets from neighbouring households for students and the school staff. Making drinking water arrangements for the school has become a routine work for the workers.Staff at the school said they had already informed the higher-ups several times about the water problem. However, nothing had been done in this regard. Villagers urged the Education Minister to get the tubewell repaired immediately. They said that there was no use of painting the school walls and installing LEDs if the government could not ensure drinking water on the school premises.Harinder Kaur, District Education Officer, said the matter had already come to her notice and work on repairing the tubewell had already been started. She said, “As soon as the matter came to my notice, I directed the officials concerned to start the work immediately. Schoolchildren and staff will get drinking water in a day or two.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-gobindpura-paind-government-school-sans-drinking-water-for-months-320378
05-10-2021||Patiala||Lakhimpur violence: Cong workers stage protest in Patiala||The District Congress Committee (Urban) today held a protest against Union Minister of State for Home Ajay Mishra for his son’s alleged involvement in the Lakhimpur Kheri incident.The protesting Congress workers burnt an effigy of the minister. Condemning the incident, KK Malhotra, president, District Congress Committee, appealed Prime Minister Narendra Modi to remove Ajay Mishra from the Cabinet. Malhotra said the incident had exposed the cruel repressing nature of the BJP. PRTC chairman KK Sharma, Patiala Mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu, along with some other local leaders, participated in the protest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/lakhimpur-violence-cong-workers-stage-protest-in-patiala-320376
05-10-2021||---||Centre for criminology opened at Patiala law university||Patiala, October 4Former Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra inaugurated the Centre for Criminology, Criminal Justice and Victimology (CCV) during the virtual programme organised by Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL), here. Prof GS Bajpai, Vice-Chancellor, RGNUL, while welcoming the guests elaborated on the objectives of the centre. He said, “To advance research in disciplines of criminology, criminal justice and victimology, the centre will undertake specific research projects and provide consultancy by way of legal start-ups and collaborations.” Prof Bajpai observed that CCV would assist law enforcement agencies, initiate victim advocacy clinic and focus on capacity development programmes. “Victim justice, operation of criminal law, empirical research and student-centric activities will be taken up by the CCV,” he added.Justice Dipak Misra reflected on the ideas of punishment, fundamental rights of victims, role of students in rendering assistance to victims, interests of the weaker section and social cultural hygiene. He alluded to the ideology of Plato, Jeremy Bentham and Immanuel Kant to explain various concepts related to justice. The former chief justice, while inaugurating the centre, reiterated that investigation and prosecution wings should remain separated to provide victim space for seeking justice. He accentuated on the role of students in providing assistance to victims under the supervision of competent jail officials and faculty. “Connecting with victim is a great art,” said Dipak Misra.Prof Robert Peacock, academic head, Department of Criminology, expanded on the globalised and glocalised justice patterns. While speaking about the incongruity of patterns in western and indigenous communities, he pitched on the need to carve a people-oriented emancipatory agenda.Prof Michael O’ Connell, Secretary-General, World Society of Victimology, Australia; Prof Sarah Simons, dean, Faculty of Psychology and Criminology, Frantz Fanon University, UK; Prof Xin Ren, Division of Criminal Justice, California State University, USA; and Prof Naresh Kumar Vats, Registrar, RGNUL, were present during the e-inaugural of CCV.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/centre-for-criminology-opened-at-patiala-law-university-320375
05-10-2021||---||Health Dept may shift staff working at same place for 3 years or more||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 4To bring transparency, the Health Department is planning to shift employees who have been working at the same place for three or more years. The Health Department today asked all civil surgeons in the state to prepare a list of such employees and send them to state headquarters within three days.It has been learnt that many health employees, especially those officials dealing with the public, have been working at the same position and place for years and have already developed cliques in the system. This, over the years, has led to alleged corruption in the department.The sources informed that many clerks and superintendents have been working at the same position for more than five years, some doctors, especially in rural areas, have been posted at the same position for 10 years. The sources added that some drivers and officials of the food wing of the Health Department had been indulging in wrong practices because they had been sitting at the same position for long and had become familiar with different loopholes in the system.Dr Andesh Kang, Director, Health and Family Welfare, said the reason to issue the said orders was to bring more transparency and provide better services to the people of Punjab. She said, “We have asked civil surgeons to reshuffle employees who have been at the same position within the district. The idea is to stop bad practices, if there is any, and to create a transparent environment in the department.”Dr Kang said with festive season around the corner, the department was taking steps to ensure the safety of the people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/health-dept-may-shift-staff-working-at-same-place-for-3-years-or-more-320370
05-10-2021||Patiala||5-day faculty development programme at Punjabi University||The Department of Computer Science, Punjabi University, here organised a five-day online faculty development programme (FDP) sponsored by the AICTE. The FDP was based on the theme of machine learning applications in NLP and computer vision.Prof Arvind, Vice-Chancellor, inaugurated the FDP and briefly talked about the need of applications in NLP and computer vision. He said during the ongoing pandemic, technology was proving very helpful in contactless communication and security. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/5-day-faculty-development-programme-at-punjabi-university-320368
05-10-2021||---||Punjab transfers 6 deputy commissioners, 18 other IAS officers||Chandigarh, October 4In a major administrative reshuffle, Punjab has transferred six deputy commissioners among 24 IAS officers.Patiala DC Kumar Amit, who was appointed to the post in 2017 just after formation of the Congress government, was transferred in the late-night reshuffle order and will be replaced by Moga DC Sandeep Hans.He remained Patiala DC for over four years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjab-transfers-6-deputy-commissioners-18-other-ias-officers-320010
