06-10-2021||---||Quiz, poster-making contest mark World Tourism Day at Punjabi University, Patiala||Patiala, October 5Department of tourism, hospitality and hotel management, Punjabi University, celebrated World Tourism Day. The department invited various schools to participate in a quiz, poster-making competition and a debate on “Travel and tourism and urban tourism vs cultural heritage”.The event was organised, and put up by the students and faculty of the department of tourism, hospitality and hotel management, Punjabi University, in which students from schools, including Mukat Public school, Scholars Public School and the university school from Rajpura participated. Officials said the travel and tourism sector was aggressively trying to bounce back and revive itself after a set-back during the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/quiz-poster-making-contest-mark-world-tourism-day-at-punjabi-university-patiala-320790
06-10-2021||---||Patiala district reports 4 dengue cases||Patiala, October 5With four fresh cases reported on Tuesday, the number of dengue cases in the district has risen to 70 this season. Though the Health Department said the situation was under control, the hospitalisation of dengue patients was being reported in the district. Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said that the dengue cases were bound to rise due to the conducive environment for dengue breeding at this point of time, however, the situation was not alarming. “Our teams on the ground are destroying dengue larvae during anti-dengue drives. People need to drain out stagnant water in their households once a week. It will stop dengue breeding and save themselves from the disease,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-reports-4-dengue-cases-320776
06-10-2021||---||Mega vaccination drive: 20K jabbed in Patiala district||Patiala, October 5Around 20,000 beneficiaries were jabbed by the Health Department during a mega Covid vaccination drive here today. With this, the vaccination count in the district stands at 13.35 lakh. As per the Health Department, around 3.5 lakh people have fully been vaccinated, while 9.93 lakh beneficiaries have received their first dose in the district.The Health Department said that they would again hold a vaccination camp in the district on Wednesday. Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Sodhi said they had been holding mega vaccination camps regularly. He said, “Above 70 per cent of the target population has already received the first dose. In the coming days we will be able to cover 100 per cent of the population with the first dose.”Meanwhile, Dr Veenu Goyal, district immunisation officer, inspected various vaccination sites in the district on Tuesday to ensure the smooth vaccination process. It has been learnt that many people in the rural areas have become complacent about the pandemic situation, and that behaviour should not be there at all.500 vaccinated at Pbi varsityAs many as 500 persons above the age of 18 years, including students, staff, faculty and residents of Punjabi University, Patiala, were vaccinated during the seventh camp organised by the university on Tuesday.The university said it was the seventh Covishield vaccination camp and more than 2,550 persons had already been vaccinated in the camps.Vice-Chancellor Arvind said following the offline mode of classes, vaccination on the campus was very necessary to make the university Covid-19 free. He said every person above the age of 18 years should get both doses of the vaccine to stave off the third wave. Dr Regina Maini, SMO, Bhai Ghaniya Health Centre, said the vaccination of the university staff, employees and faculty was done in collaboration with the office of the Civil Surgeon, Patiala.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/mega-vaccination-drive-20k-jabbed-in-patiala-district-320775
06-10-2021||---||Sandeep Hans assumes charge as Deputy Commissioner of Patiala||Patiala, October 5Sandeep Hans, a 2010-batch IAS officer, today took over as new Deputy Commissioner of Patiala. He has assumed office following the transfer of his predecessor Kumar Amit who formally welcomed the new DC today.Earlier, Hans was working as DC Moga and transferred to Patiala recently. Having graduation in electronics and communications engineering, Sandeep is known for his administrative skills as well as ability to find immediate and appropriate solutions to the problems and grievances of the common man as he has a long experience of working on various administrative posts, including Chief Administrator, Punjab Urban Development Authority, SAS Nagar, Commissioner Municipal Corporation, Mohali, and many other coveted posts. He has also served at Patiala as Additional Deputy Commissioner (G) in 2017.Earlier today, at the Mini Secretariat, Sandeep was given a guard of honour by the district police before joining. He was formally welcomed by ADC (Urban Development) Gautam Jain, SP (H) Harkamal Kaur, SDM Patran Ankurjit Singh, SDM Patiala Charanjit Singh, Jashanpreet Kaur Gill, Estate Officer, Patiala Development Authority, SDM Nabha Kannu Garg, Assistant Commissioner (UT) Chandra Jyoti Singh, Assistant Commissioner (General) Jasleen Kaur Bhullar, Assistant Commissioner (Grievances) Kiran Sharma, District Revenue Officer Mukesh Kumar and other officers and staff of the Deputy Commissioner office.After assuming office, Sandeep said, “As per the directions of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, it will be his prime responsibility to extend the benefits of the Punjab Government’s public welfare schemes to the needy at grassroots level and provide transparent, corruption free and pro-people administration to the people.”The DC, while getting information about the district and the ongoing development works from the officers, directed that the development works should be completed in stipulated time. He also directed the officers and employees to be present in their offices on time and give priority to resolving the grievances of the people on so that no citizen has to be felt unattended in government offices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sandeep-hans-assumes-charge-as-deputy-commissioner-of-patiala-320774
06-10-2021||---||Despite bylaws, Patiala Municipal Corporation fails to keep record of animal registration||Patiala, October 5Despite bylaws on registration, proper control of stray animals and compensation to victims of animal attacks having been notified last year, the Municipal Corporation has failed to maintain a proper record of complaints received regarding registered pets and demand for compensation in case of animal attacks.This was revealed in the Municipal Corporation’s response to an RTI applicant. The RTI activist also demanded information regarding certificates issued for registration of animals, fees and revenue collected as per the bylaws and complaints received from the city.In response, the Municipal Corporation said the office did not have any data regarding the information sought.Meanwhile, a resident of the city, Anu, said she had complained to the corporation over a dog that had bitten her husband. “I submitted a complaint to the Municipal Corporation on July 22 after my husband, Manoj Kumar, was bitten by a stray dog. We had to get costly treatment for it. I submitted an application along with the medical report and bills generated for medicines and treatment but the corporation has failed to compensate us since,” she said.Meanwhile, an RTI activist Davinderpal Singh said, “People are unaware of the process for compensation.”“They need to first report that matter to a hospital and submit a complaint with the Municipal Corporation along with medical report generated from the hospital,” Singh said.As per a recent report of the Health Department, on average 900 dog bite cases are being reported from the district every month, he added.When contacted, an employee of the MC on the condition of anonymity said, “We usually get complaints of dog bites in various areas. People complain that a specific dog that is biting people should be removed. In the case of dogs, we take the animal in possession and sterilise it. It is then left in the same area as per directions. We do not get complaints demanding compensation for dog bites. We will check if any complaint is received along with the medical report, and will take appropriate action on it.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/despite-bylaws-patiala-municipal-corporation-fails-to-keep-record-of-animal-registration-320773
06-10-2021||Aman Sood||Punjab state economy may take hit as coal stock dwindles||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 5Worsening arrival of coal and dwindling supply is triggering a power crisis in Punjab that can hit the state economy. Over 10,000 industrial units have already been closed due to Covid in the state and any outage is likely to worsen the situation.Demand falling, will manageWe hope to manage with the available stock as the power demand is decreasing. However, we are keeping tabs on the coal position in the state. As of now, we are managing things. A Venu Prasad, PSPCL CMDPunjab’s coal-fired power stations are now left with less than three-day stock. With demand expected to go down after October 10, the state still faces power crisis, if the coal situation does not improve in the coming week.Supplies to power plants are currently short following prolonged rains that have drenched coal pits as unusually heavy rain last month in major coal mining centres have worsened the situation.At present, the power demand is around 9,924 MW, out of which central sector contributes 5,010 MW, private plants 2,510 MW, two state-owned plants 1,091 MW, while state-owned hyrdo projects supply 392 MW and solar and biomass 291 MW.As per Punjab State Power Corporation Limited, private plants have less than three-day stock and if run at low capacity, it will last for a few more days. While Talwandi Sabo has 2.5 days’ stock, Rajpura Thermal has 2.9 days and Goindwal Sahib has 1.9 days of coal availability. Meanwhile, the state-owned two thermal plants have coal stock of 5.9 and 7.8 days, respectively.“A majority of our plants are running at less than half their capacity, as shutting and then restarting a unit costs lakhs of rupees,” said a PSPCL officer.“The industry has finally started operating after the Covid-induced lockdown and any power pangs now will hit the state’s economy hard,” he said, adding that the government had been apprised of the matter. India’s power sector is the largest consumer of coal in the country, with state-run Coal India Limited (CIL) being the largest miner of the fossil fuel.Coal stocks are low at power projects due to an unprecedented increase in electricity demand with India’s economy revival, heavy rains in September impacting coal production and dispatch, a spike in imported coal prices, resulting in lower electricity generation, among others.Power experts confirmed that not building up adequate coal stocks before monsoon resulted in inadequate supplies. “The CIL has already said if thermal power generation plants had maintained 22-day fuel stocks prescribed by the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), the low coal situation at thermal power projects could have been averted,” said a former chief engineer with PSPCL.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjab-state-economy-may-take-hit-as-coal-stock-dwindles-320638
