07-10-2021||Patiala||Cyber security issues discussed in Punjabi University workshop||Punjabi University, Patiala, organised one-day workshop titled ‘Cyber Threat and Detection’ at its campus here on Wednesday. Officials said cyber threats had become a key challenge for the cybersecurity community due to the phenomenal rise in usage of the Internet.The workshop was organised by the Zero Day Club of the university’s department of computer science and engineering. Vipin Gupta, director, UNET Solutions, was resource person for the workshop. Dr Arvind, Vice-Chancellor of the university, discussed cybersecurity issues and quantum computing techniques.Dr Raman Maini, HoD, CSE, said cybersecurity had emerged as a key challenge for the cybersecurity community. He talked about various activities being carried out under technical clubs to help students build their technical profile for better placements. Over 100 students participated in the workshop. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/cyber-security-issues-discussed-in-punjabi-university-workshop-321393
07-10-2021||Patiala||Six candidates in fray for PUTA elections||Only six candidates are left in the fray for the posts of president, vice-president and secretary for the elections to the Punjabi University Teachers Association (PUTA).The PUTA will have 11 members, including four office-bearers and seven members of the executive council. The university said six candidates have filed nomination papers for the post of president. This includes Dr Gurnam Singh Virk, Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar, Dr Bhiminder Singh, Dr Nirmal Singh, Dr Bhupinder Singh and Dr Dharamvir Sharma. Similarly, six members have filed nomination papers for the posts of vice-president and secretary each, while seven have filed papers for the post of joint secretary.As many as 17 individuals have filed nomination papers for seven posts of executive member. The university said the final list of candidates will be issued on October 11 and the elections will be held on October 14.Meanwhile, one candidate each has filed nomination papers for the four office-bearer posts of Punjabi University Constituent College Teachers’ Association (PUCCTA) and seven persons have filed nominations for executive member posts. candidates nomination papers that have been filed for executive member posts. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/six-candidates-in-fray-for-puta-elections-321392
07-10-2021||Patiala||11 fresh dengue cases reported in Patiala||Patiala on Wednesday reported 11 fresh dengue positive cases. With this, the total count of dengue cases in the district has touched 80 in the current season. Of 11 fresh cases, nine cases were reported from urban areas, while two were reported from rural areas.The Health Department informed that Patiala city reported the maximum cases in the district, followed by 14 in Rajpura town. After Rajpura, Kallon Majra, a rural block adjoining Rajpura town reported 12 positive cases of dengue. However, no dengue suspected death has been reported in the season so far. Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said, “Comparison to other districts, the situation in Patiala is very much under control. No clustering has been reported in any area of the district.”Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said dengue larvae were being destroyed to curb the spread of the disease further. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/11-fresh-dengue-cases-reported-in-patiala-321391
07-10-2021||Patiala||RTI important weapon to ensure transparency: Patiala RGNUL VC||The Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) held a national workshop on “Right to Information: A Revolutionary Law” in collaboration with the Punjab State Information Commission (PSIC) in observance of RTI week here. The workshop will continue till October 12.Suresh Arora, former DGP Punjab and Chief Information Commissioner, was the chief guest during the inaugural session of the workshop. He called the RTI Act a sunshine law and also discussed changes ushered by the enactment of the RTI Act.University Vice-Chancellor GS Bajpai highlighted the significant changes heralded by the Act and said, “The RTI is a tool that ensures transparency in decision making and effectively promotes accountability.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rti-important-weapon-to-ensure-transparency-patiala-rgnul-vc-321390
07-10-2021||---||Nabha Power ranked among top 10 thermal plants in country||Patiala, October 6Nabha Power, which owns and operates the 2x700 MW supercritical thermal power plant at Rajpura, has been ranked among the top 10 thermal power plants of the country in the latest report of the Union Power Ministry based on the plant load factors (PLF) during the peak summer season. The Rajpura thermal power plant operated at a high PLF of 90.17 per cent against the national average of 58.64 per cent during the first six months of the current fiscal to be placed among the best of the thermal power plants in the country. The 700MW unit number 2 of the plant remained in continuous operations for 184 days surpassing its previous record of 160 days and unit-1 generated power continuously for 174 days making it one of the best thermal power plants in the country.Chief executive of the Nabha Power, SK Narang, said, “The engineers at Nabha Power worked tirelessly to guarantee uninterrupted supply of power to the state of Punjab. The plant adopted the best operational and maintenance practices while improving safety, reliability, and efficiency. Besides, the plant also registered the best heat rate and the lowest auxiliary power consumption in India during FY21.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/nabha-power-ranked-among-top-10-thermal-plants-in-country-321389
07-10-2021||Karam Prakash||Raid on  food outlets abandoned halfway in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 6A nine-member team, led by Patiala Civil Surgeon (CS), that had planned raid on food outlets had to abandon halfway because the District Health Officer (DHO) allegedly did not want to become part of the team.It has been learnt that the CS reportedly had to go on a secret raid with the DHO. However, the DHO was not free to accompany CS and conveyed the same to the CS.Meanwhile, Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said that they had secret information, therefore, a team was constituted, including the DHO. However, the DHO did not report the team despite the fact that she was informed well in time. “Since DHO did not come, we could not complete the raid and had to come back.”Sources informed that the DHO was repeatedly called by the CS to come for the raid, however, the DHO did not turn up.Giving her version, DHO Dr Shelly Jetly said that the food wing of the Health Department was working under the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), therefore, Civil Surgeon could not constitute such a team on its own for any raid. She said, “I was not given any information about the details of the raid. Besides, he (CS) did not share any secret information. It is a clear encroachment upon the power.”Both the officials, after the fiasco, said that they had already informed their higher ups about the incident.Meanwhile, the DHO said that she had already asked the two food safety officers of her office, who without informing her, had agreed to be the part of the said raid with the CS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/raid-on-food-outlets-abandoned-halfway-in-patiala-321388
07-10-2021||---||Patiala: Street vendors’ project in limbo since February||Patiala, October 6The Patiala Municipal Corporation’s project of shifting street vendors has been delayed due to various reasons, including pending civil works. The corporation has failed to shift any more street vendors to designated sites since the previous shifting process carried out eight months ago.The MC had shifted a set of vegetable vendors from the Ragho Majra sabzi mandi to the new Sanauri adda site on February 11. Over 400 vendors were shifted from near the Mayor’s residence in one go. While civil work at a number of sites is going on, officials said they had also stopped payments of the contractors working on the project due to various lapses.Superintendent Surjit Singh Cheema of the land branch of the Municipal Corporation said we had stopped half the payment of the contractor as a number of lapses were found in the work. Some street vendors were not issued vendor IDs while others names and identifications were wrong. We need the matter to be sorted out before we release the remaining payments.He said, “The vending project is in pipeline but the corporation has faced a number of issues, including shifting of vendors from the city during the Covid-19 pandemic. Many vendors shifted to the city anew while others left from here. So we have decided to allot vending sites to those who are available here.”He said, “The branch will carry out the shifting process but is awaiting civil work being carried out at the new sites. The civil work being carried out by the engineering branch of the corporation is going on at a new site in Tripuri, DMW and a few other places. We will shift the vendors as soon as the engineering branch provide us with the new site.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-street-vendors-project-in-limbo-since-february-321387
07-10-2021||---||Panchayat repairs Gobindpura Paind village govt school tubewell||Patiala, October 6After the problem of water in a government school was highlighted by The Tribune, the repair work on the tubewell at Government School in Gobindpura Paind village in Patran block of the district has already started. Ironically, the repair work is said to have been started by the village panchayat and not by the Education Department.The tube well, the only source of water at the school, was lying defunct for over the past six months. As a result, mid-day meal workers, who are supposed to cook meals, had to ferry drinking water in earthen pots and buckets from neighbouring households for students and school staff. It has been learnt that work would be completed in a day or two and children would soon get potable water.Gobindpura Paind village sarpanch Gurwinder said the work would be completed by tomorrow. He said, “Almost everything has been repaired. I am hopeful that school staff and children will have potable drinking water in the premises by Thursday.” He added that the village panchayat had already spent over Rs 1 lakh on school in the last one year. He said the panchayat was dedicated to provide all facilities to the schoolchildren.Meanwhile, school teachers informed that a functional tube well would provide much needed relief and a lot of the time of the mid-day meal workers would be saved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/panchayat-repairs-gobindpura-paind-village-govt-school-tubewell-321386
07-10-2021||---||Capt Amarinder Singh’s exit from Congress will hurt party prospects: Brahm Mohindra||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 6Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra today said the announcement by Capt Amarinder Singh that he would not stay in the Congress would have an “obvious effect” on the party prospects. Mohindra, who was addressing a press conference during his visit to the city, said he was unaware of any efforts being put in for reconciliation. He was given a guard of honour and a formal welcome by the district administration after becoming a Cabinet Minister.Mohindra said there were no differences among Congress workers and leaders, adding that the party would decide the MLA candidates. “I am only a small worker of the party”, he said.He said the Congress high command had recognised his seniority in the party and long political experience. Asked about Capt Amarinder Singh, he said, “I have worked with him for over four years. A senior leader’s exit from the party does obviously have an effect but I am unaware of any efforts being put in for reconciliation,” he said.On the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, he said the Punjab Cabinet had already condemned the tragic incident and expressed his condolences to kin of the victims.He said Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had shown the Punjab Government’s commitment to back farmers in getting the “black laws” repealed and added that Punjab had emerged as the lone state across the country to raise a voice against these laws by calling a special session of the Vidhan Sabha.He said he was here to study the pending development works and was meeting people of the constituency in this regard. He said a gap had evolved among the people due to Covid-19. “I am meeting everyone in this process,” he said.He added that the state government did not allow works of development to be put on hold during Covid-19 and that all works were being carried out in full swing.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/capt-amarinder-singhs-exit-from-congress-will-hurt-party-prospects-brahm-mohindra-321385
