10-10-2021||---||Covid cases can increase if norms not followed: Experts||Tribune News Service Patiala, October 9Amid the ongoing festive season, health experts have warned that coronavirus cases might rise if the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is disregarded. Health officials said that mass gatherings sans Covid appropriate behaviour during upcoming festivals could lead to a spike in Covid-19 cases. The Health Department said that it would soon be holding a meeting with the district administration in the coming days to take necessary steps to prevent the spread of virus. Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said that people should avoid mass gatherings and follow Covid appropriate behaviour during the festive season. He said, “People should realise that wearing face masks and avoiding gatherings will decrease the risk of Covid spike.  If people will not follow the Health Department guidelines then there will be a spike in the number of positive cases.”He added that awareness activities at various religious and market places would be expedited from Monday while they would be increasing Covid sampling across the district in the coming days.It has been learnt that residents, including senior government officials, seem to have become complacent towards the Covid.  Many senior government officials, including health, could be seen without face masks in public places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/covid-cases-can-increase-if-norms-not-followed-experts-322554
10-10-2021||---||MD of PIDB takes stock of paddy procurement in dist||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 9Krishan Kumar, Secretary, Higher Education, and MD, PIDB, today visited about a dozen grain markets in the district following directions to senior administrative officers to monitor the welfare and development schemes implemented by the Punjab Government and the ongoing activities in the districts. Kumar took stock of the paddy procurement and directed officials to follow the instructions issued by the government regarding the procurement and lifting of paddy in the mandis. He checked the moisture content of paddy in the mandis. He directed the mandi authorities not to cause any inconvenience to the farmers in the payment of paddy crop and other procurement related operations. He interacted with farmers present in the mandis. He directed the officials not to procure paddy brought in the mandis from states outside Punjab and as and when such a case comes to light, relevant and legal action should be taken and the report should be sent to the government immediately. Meanwhile, Kumar inspected the paddy piles in Ghanour, Samana, Dakala, Patiala and other mandis and checked the moisture level on the spot. The farmers present on the occasion expressed satisfaction over the government procurement process.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/md-of-pidb-takes-stock-of-paddy-procurement-in-dist-322555
10-10-2021||Patiala||Illegal mining: Two officials, contractor booked||The district police have booked two officials of the Mining Department and a contractor for allegedly causing loss to the exchequer. They have been booked under Section 21 of the Mines and Mineral Act.The accused have been identified as Nishant Garg (sub-divisional officer-cum-assistant district mining officer), Kamaljeet Singh (mining inspector-cum-junior engineer), and Naresh Kumar (contractor).The police said they had received a complaint that illegal mining was carried out near Dhablan village. During investigation, it was found that an average 1.74m deep field was dug against permitted 1m. Besides, no record of transport of the sand was found with them. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/illegal-mining-two-officials-contractor-booked-322556
10-10-2021||---||New bus stand to be completed within stipulated time, says DC||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 9Patiala Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans today took stock of the construction of the new modern bus stand which is coming up on the Patiala-Rajpura road. Expressing satisfaction over the work, he said the work of this project would be completed within stipulated time.Appreciating the patience of people for taking alternate traffic routes due to the ongoing construction of connecting flyover there, he said soon they (commuters) would be having this route to commute on.Regretting the difficulties being faced by the people due to the construction of connecting flyover, he said that technically and practically, it was not possible to have the uninterrupted entry of buses from Rajpura and Sirhind bypass to the new bus stand sans this flyover. “To make the smooth entry of buses without distributing the traffic flow on the high ways, this flyover is being made in advance. This will certainly facilitate the movements of people in future,” he said. The Deputy Commissioner said that all roof slabs of the bus stand building had been laid. “Now the work of flooring, plastering and pavement for buses is in full swing,” said Hans.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/new-bus-stand-to-be-completed-within-stipulated-time-says-dc-322557
