12-10-2021||Bhubaneswar||3 Maoists gunned down in Odisha’s Malkangiri||At least three suspected Maoists, including two women, were gunned down in an exchange of fire in Tulasi Forest Range in Odisha's Malkangiri district, a top police officer said on Tuesday.Acting on intelligence inputs, a joint team of the special operation group and Malkangiri district voluntary force had launched a combing operation in the area, DGP Abhay said.Upon learning about the presence of jawans in the forest near Kerimiti village along the border of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, they opened fire and the security personnel retaliated, he said.All the three Maoists died on the spot, he said, adding that their bodies had been recovered and two guns seized.The DGP said the combing operation is still under way as about 30-40 Naxals are suspected to be in the area.In 2020, 16 members of the banned CPI (Maoist) were killed in gun-battles with security forces in Odisha. Seven civilians and two policemen had also lost their lives in Naxal violence last year, officials said. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/3-maoists-gunned-down-in-odishas-malkangiri-323573
12-10-2021||---||Amid dengue surge, Patiala DC directs health officials to work in tandem||Patiala, October 11Amid rising dengue cases, The Deputy Commissioner today directed all stakeholders — officials of Government Medical College and Rajindra Hospital and District Health Department — to work in tandem for prevention and control of it. The district has already reported around 88 dengue positive cases in this season.Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans called on the people to protect themselves from dengue by keeping their surroundings clean and not letting the water stagnant. He directed the Health Department to take the dengue prevention and awareness campaign to rural area also.Municipal Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said councillors and mohalla committees have already been conducting door-to-door checking of dengue larvae. The dry day is observed every Friday in the city, she added.District epidemiologist Dr Sumit Singh said the Health Department had released the Gambusia fish in 600 pounds in villages of the district and the mosquito larvae were being destroyed after conducting house-to-house surveys.Meanwhile, the vice-principal of Government Medical College, Dr RPS Sibia; Medical Superintendent Rajindra Hospital Dr HS Rekhi and Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi apprised the DC about the arrangements in wake of potential third wave of Covid and the impact thereof on younger children.The DC also reviewed the condition of commissioning of oxygen plants and oxygen concentrators in the district.Additional Deputy Commissioner (Development) Dr Preeti Yadav said that all preparations had been completed in the district to deal with the possible third wave of Covid.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/amid-dengue-surge-patiala-dc-directs-health-officials-to-work-in-tandem-323476
12-10-2021||Ravneet Singh||PUTA Poll: Rival groups release manifesto||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 11Stage is all set for the Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) and Punjabi University Constituent College Teachers' Association (PUCCTA) elections following the declaration of the final list of candidates. Teachers associated with one of the two groups for the PUTA elections have decided to contest for a corruption-free administrative setup. The other group wants to work for availing enough grants for the cash-strapped university from the state government for its proper functioning. The elections will be held on October 14.Two alliances of teachers — Progressive Teachers’ Alliance (PTA) and Teachers’ United Front (TUF) will face each other.The PTA as per its manifesto aims for a financial grant from the state government for the university to better its economic position. The members also met Cabinet Minister Pargat Singh over the same today. The alliance is contesting with a promise to work for implementation of the new pay scales for faculty members, pending CAS promotions, release of pending amounts, efforts toward autonomy of the university among others. The alliance said they would also work for the increase in retirement age to 65 years.PTA convener Dr Rajbans Singh Gill said, “We will try to pressurise the government to provide funding for the university permanently in the budget and will work to sort out pending CAS promotions and other problems of teachers.”TUF convener Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar said the alliance wants to work for a corruption-free administrative setup. “If we win the elections, the PUTA will not become a hurdle in the investigation of corruption against an official.”Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar of the department of economics is contesting for the post of president from the TUF against PTA’s Dr Bhupinder Singh, who is a professor of Law. Similarly, Dr Gurnam Singh Virk of social work will contest for vice-president against Dr Poonam Patyar of the chemistry department. Dr Sikandar Singh Cheema of CSE department and Sukhjinder Singh of mechanical engineering are both contesting for post of secretary, while Dr Gurjit Singh of CSE and Dr Jashandeep Singh Sandhu of history are contesting for post of Joint secretary-cum-treasurer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/puta-poll-rival-groups-release-manifesto-323475
12-10-2021||Karam Prakash||Regular staff oppose appointment of 26 retired professors at GMC, Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 11Though Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi had announced that government employees would not be given extension in service after attaining 58 years of age, 26 re-employed professors,a majority of them aged above 65, are still working at Government Medical College (GMC), Patiala.The retirement age in the department is 62 years and the department of medical education gives re-employment up to 70 years of age. The re-employed doctors get the salary equivalent to their last drawn pay as regular employee minus the pension amount.Many regular employees told The Tribune that they were against the policy of re-employment because that had blocked their promotion avenues.The regular employees also alleged that re-employed professors hardly attend OPDs and perform ward duties. And in the face of their seniority the authorities dare not take action against them.A regular employee, pleading anonymity, said, “Owing to the current re-employment policy, a super-specialist doctor has to report to a specialist re-employed doctor because they (re-employed) are given administrative powers. This is very demoralising for the regular employees.”Assistant professor Dr Iqbal Singh of the physiology department said, “The decision of Chief Minister is a good one. I am the victim of re-employment policy. I have not been promoted for the past 14 years because re-employed faculty occupies the vacancy and doesn’t leave room for our promotions. The government should scrap the policy and get new young doctors to work with. Re-employed professors are a burden on the state exchequer.”One of the re-employed professors at the GMC Patiala on the condition of anonymity said, “We are working on less salary as compared to regular employees. If we teach in a private medical college, we will get double salary. Besides, the college does not lose any PG seats because of us as three seats are allotted against one professor.”Meanwhile, Medical Education and Research Minister Dr Raj Kumar Verka said, “I have to check whether the doctors will be exempted from the re-employment policy or not. However, we will think of making changes in the policy.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/regular-staff-oppose-appointment-of-26-retired-professors-at-gmc-patiala-323474
12-10-2021||---||4 booked for illegal mining by Patiala police||Patiala, October 11The Patiala police have registered a case against four persons for illegal mining. A police party stopped a tractor trolley, laden with sand, mined illegally, and registered a case against Karamvir of Kaithal, Satish Kumar, Bhim Singh and Kala of Ghagga. Officials said the police party at Badshahpur stopped a tractor trolley filled with sand.They said the driver of the vehicle, Karamvir, did not respond to police questions after which mining inspector Rakwinder Singh was called to the spot.The police said as per the driver’s statement, Kala, a resident of Buta Singh village was illegally mining sand from his farm land with the help of JCB owner Satish Kumar and driver Bhim Singh.The police have registered a case under Sections 4 and 21 of the Mine and Minerals Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/4-booked-for-illegal-mining-by-patiala-police-323473
12-10-2021||---||Three drug smugglers held by Patiala police||Patiala, October 11The district police arrested two drug smugglers and seized 73,000 narcotic pills from their possession.The accused have been identified as Gurbaj Singh and Pal Singh. Both the accused hailed from Samana block of the district. Superintendent of Police (SP) Dr Mehtab Singh said the arrest of these two smugglers was the result of ongoing crackdown against drug traffickers. He said the police had registered a case against the accused under Section 22, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act at the Sadar Samana police sation.In another case, inspector Rahul Kaushal, incharge CT wing Patiala, arrested one drug smuggler and seized 40,000 narcotic pills from his possession. The accused has been identified as Vasudev Sharma of Sunam town of Sangrur, and presently residing at Sadoke village in Moga. The accused has been sent on two-day police remand, Kaushal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/three-drug-smugglers-held-by-patiala-police-323472
12-10-2021||Patiala||Jagjit Singh remembered||Punjabi University today held an online programme ‘Kahan Tum Chale Gaye’ on the 10th death anniversary of ghazal singer Jagjit Singh. Head of the music department, Dr Nivedita Singh, said we need to pay homage to the musician. Students and others from India and abroad participated in the event. Recordists and others who have worked with Jagjit Singh said he was a great human being.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/jagjit-singh-remembered-323449
