13-10-2021||Patiala||Rally spreads awareness on mental health||Punjabi University’s department of psychology along with its NSS wing organised an event in relation to world mental health awareness week. Various activities by the students were part of the event.The department organised a rally and nukkad natak to commemorate the world mental health awareness week on the theme ‘Mental Health in an Unequal World’. The university inaugurated Manodarpan, a vision board. The faculty visited various labs of the department and interacted with students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/rally-spreads-awareness-on-mental-health-323905
13-10-2021||Patiala||Literary citations in judgments discussed||Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law (RGNUL) during an online symposium organised on ‘Law and Literature: Literary Citations in Judgments’ discussed literary citations in judgments.Vice-Chancellor GS Bajpai elaborated upon judgments that incorporated literary references to voice the rights of marginalised. He said, “The legal fraternity drafted a verdict decriminalising section 377 by quoting the words from the literary works of Goethe, Vikram Seth and William Shakespeare to emphasise on the uniqueness of identity, freedom and individuality.”“Judges profusely use literary sources to explicate legal terms and substantiate crucial concepts. William Shakespeare, Franz Kafka, Oscar Wilde, Charles Dickens, Milton and Yeats have been perennial favourites to this day and have been cited in varied ways by judges to advance equity and justice,” he pointed out.Participants from CNLU Patna, Law College Pune, MDU Rohtak and RGNUL attended the online symposium. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/literary-citations-in-judgments-discussed-323889
13-10-2021||---||Now, Punjabi University’s Bathinda South Campus is Guru Kashi Campus||Patiala, October 12Punjabi University has decided to change the name of its South Campus at Bathinda which was restructured recently in June. The university had clubbed its three centres— Punjabi University Guru Kashi Campus Damdama Sahib, Yadavindra College of Engineering and University School of Business Studies at Talwandi Sabo— under the name Punjabi University Patiala South Campus. The decision has been taken after a ruckus was created at the campus over its name on the university VC’s visit there on Monday. The outsiders who raised a number of demands also attempted to ‘gherao’ the VC.The VC had paid a visit to South Campus over administrative matters. “Outsiders reached the site and created a ruckus”, an official said.In a video that went viral, the VC was also seen explaining to the protesters that the name of the campus was decided after its officials sent the university administration a proposal for the same.When contacted VC Arvind said some people had been trying to create a ruckus over various matters. “Now they raised the issue of religion in the campus’s name. Our original idea of restructuring was not the change of name but restructuring of departments and courses for better functioning and output for students. Now after a discussion with Jathedar Gurdwara Damdama Sahib, we have decided to rename the South Campus as Punjabi University Guru Kashi Campus, Damdama Sahib (Talwandi Sabo).”He added that the restructuring of departments, colleges and courses, as was done recently, is not being changed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/now-punjabi-universitys-bathinda-south-campus-is-guru-kashi-campus-323888
13-10-2021||---||Dengue continues to sting, 20 new cases surface in Patiala district||Patiala, October 12The deadly dengue continues to spread its tentacles in the district as 20 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday. Total dengue cases in the district have risen to 109 in the current season.Spike in cases has already led to an increase in hospitalisation of dengue patients. The Health Department said that dengue larvae continued to be detected in large numbers from households during the anti-dengue drive.Though cases have started to rise, the situation is under control. Residents should take necessary precautions like draining out stagnant water from discarded items, especially desert coolers, to avoid dengue breeding. Dr Sumeet Singh, District EpidemiologistHealth officials informed that 46 per cent of dengue larvae in households were detected in desert coolers, while 26 per cent were found in waste containers lying in the open.In the wake of the worsening situation, the Health Department called on the residents to actively participate in the fight against dengue.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said though cases had started to rise, the situation remained under control. He said there was no clustering of dengue cases so far.He said, “Residents should do more and take necessary precautions like draining out stagnant water from discarded items, especially desert coolers to avoid dengue breeding. Besides, they (people) should get themselves tested for dengue immediately on the onset of dengue-like symptoms.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dengue-continues-to-sting-20-new-cases-surface-in-patiala-district-323887
