14-10-2021||---||Plantation drive by Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University, Patiala||Patiala, October 13Jagat Guru Nanak Dev Punjab State Open University, Patiala, organised a tree plantation drive in collaboration with Rotary Club on Wednesday. Saplings of different varieties were planted on the occasion. Around 40 volunteers, including employees of the university, took part in the campaign.Vice-Chancellor Karamjeet Singh said environment conservation drives, including tree plantation, were stepping stones towards a healthy and prosperous community. He said initiatives of this kind go a long way in inculcating awareness among public about environment protection.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/plantation-drive-by-jagat-guru-nanak-dev-punjab-state-open-university-patiala-324334
14-10-2021||---||Mental health awareness talk at Mohindra College, Patiala||Patiala, October 13The department of psychology, Government Mohindra College, under the guidance of principal Dr Simrat Kaur, organised mental health talks to create awareness among college students.A workshop was also organised on understanding and handling mental health issues in youth of Punjab. The workshop was conducted by Amandeep Singh, who is working as a community psychologist in the department of humanities and social sciences, IIT Ropar.Dr Gurpreet Kaur Sandhu, head, department of psychology, said the workshop addressed the community problems of drug abuse, suicide among farmers and alcohol abuse as well. Principal Simrat Kaur gave certificates to students for best contribution in promoting mental health awareness by conducting talks on the issue and digital presentations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/mental-health-awareness-talk-at-mohindra-college-patiala-324333
14-10-2021||---||Hoardings continue to deface city, Patiala Municipal Corporation looks other way||Patiala, October 13While owners of business establishments who flout the outdoor advertising laws are issued challans, the Municipal Corporation here does not issue challans to political leaders who also install flex boards illegally and in violation of the Outdoor Advertisement Act. Such flex boards and posters are merely removed. This is despite the fact that apart from causing defacement, the practice of installation of illegal flex boards of all kinds leads to loss of income for the Municipal Corporation.As per records, the Municipal Corporation reduced its target income from outdoor advertisements this year. A look at its yearly income from outdoor advertisement shows it managed to collect merely 5.7 per cent of its targeted advertisement revenue of Rs 5 crore in financial year 2020-21. It had failed to allocate tenders for outdoor advertisements despite seven repeated attempts. Thereafter, income from outdoor advertisement for the current year was reduced to Rs 2 crore. An official of the MC said: “All illegally installed flex boards are removed from time to time. We also issue challans. But the political class goes scot-free due to their influence. There is fear of action from senior political bosses in case we issue challans for their hoardings or remove them before their intended time.”MC Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said, “The owners of business establishments put up posters or banners for commercial purpose but the political banners carry congratulatory messages. We also carry out our regular exercise and remove them from time to time.”The MC Commissioner confirmed that the banners installed by political leaders also cause defacement similar to that caused by other banners. She said “They also cause defacement but are not for commercial purposes. They install such hoardings for a day or two and we remove them as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/hoardings-continue-to-deface-city-patiala-municipal-corporation-looks-other-way-324332
14-10-2021||---||Fear of dengue outbreak looms large; Patiala district steps up fogging||Patiala, October 13The district is seemingly witnessing a dengue outbreak as 46 fresh cases have already been reported over the past 24 hours.The number of people infected with dengue fever has risen to 155 so far in the district. Worryingly, around 66 new cases have been reported in the district over the past 48 hours.Of 46 cases reported on Wednesday, 35 cases were reported from urban areas, including 24 from Patiala city alone. The Health Department in the wake of a sudden spike in cases termed the situation as alarming.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said health officials were doing what they could to contain the spread. He said the Municipal Corporation had been asked to carry out fogging aggressively. “Besides fogging, health officials will visit houses of positive patients to destroy dengue larvae, if there were any. We will also conduct indoor spray in households wherever it is required,” said Dr Sumeet.The Health Department said that fresh cases had been reported from Tafzalpura, Urban Estate, Guru Nanak Nagar, New Mehar Singh Singh colony, DMW and Ekta Nagar in Patiala city. Besides, several cases were also reported from Rajpura block of the district.Meanwhile, the Health Department said they also held a meeting with the Rural Medical Officer and officials of the Department of Rural Development and Panchayats to carry out anti-dengue activities in the rural areas.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/fear-of-dengue-outbreak-looms-large-patiala-district-steps-up-fogging-324304
14-10-2021||---||Row over soil extracted for beautification project in Patiala||Patiala, October 13Officials of the drainage wing of the Water Resources Department are now in conflict over the use of ‘soil’ extracted from the nearby Chhoti Nadi for its beautification project. While drainage SDO Nishant Garg has alleged that soil is being illegally extracted from near the Nadi and is being used without permissions, drainage XEN Sangrur Gagan Gill, who is looking after the Chhoti Nadi project has rejected the claims.Drainage SDO Nishant Garg on Wednesday said soil had been extracted from near the Chhoti Nadi where land had been dug 20 feet. “We have written a letter to officials of the Water Resources Department demanding an explanation on extracting soil. It is being extracted without permission. Officials of the department are aware that they need permission for extracting soil. I am not sure if the letter sent today has been delivered,” Garg said.Responding to the allegations, drainage XEN Sangrur Gagan Gill said, “There is no illegal mining and the soil is ‘good earth’. We have been permitted to use good earth for the Chhoti Nadi project, which is put in the compaction zone. It is not sand. The good earth was required for the project and we have the necessary permissions for the same. It is incidental to the project. The soil being used is of the Chhoti Nadi only. We have permission for its use.”Gagan said he had no knowledge of a letter written by officials of the Water Resources Department over the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/row-over-soil-extracted-for-beautification-project-in-patiala-324303
