15-10-2021||Ravneet Singh||Works worth Rs11 crore cleared at F&CC meet of Patiala Municipal Corporation||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 14The Finance and Contract Committee (F&CC) of the Patiala Municipal Corporation, at its meeting held here today, decided to install PVC speed humps on various roads in the city. The matter was passed prior to deciding the particular places for the installation. The MC has also decided to bear all electricity expenses of more than 42 public toilets in the name of avoiding its misuse. The MC will construct an office building at the existing fire brigade station.In the 30-minute meeting, 37 agenda items worth Rs11 crore were discussed and cleared. “Some agenda items were not even read out,” an insider said. The MC decided to spend Rs6.50 lakh on installation of PVC speed humps on various roads in the city. Municipal Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur said, “The specific locations for the speed breakers have not been decided. The fund allocation and decision has been made in advance. They will be installed where speed controls are desired. Earlier, the MC had installed speed breakers all across the city by flouting the IRC norms. Now, the civic body will follow the specifications laid down by the Public Works Department.”The Municipal Corporation decided to increase the payment for the maintenance of over 42 public toilets in the city. The contractor has been allowed to keep two persons at each unit for maintenance. As per demand raised by the contractor, the MC has decided to bear electricity expenses at the units in order to avoid its misuse. The MC Commissioner said the civic body would install meters and check the expanses. “The contractor was submitting inflated power bills,” she said.Besides, the MC will spend Rs 99 lakh on the construction of main fire office building at the existing structure of the fire office. The existing structure has no sitting, pantry and washroom facilities, officials of the MC said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/works-worth-rs11-crore-cleared-at-fcc-meet-of-patiala-municipal-corporation-324745
15-10-2021||---||Bhupinder is new president of Punjabi varsity teachers’ body||Patiala, October 14Only one woman professor has made it to the executive body of the Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA). The results of the elections were declared today. Interestingly, the university has over 60 per cent women teaching staff. The elections for four office-bearer and seven executive member posts of the association were held on Wednesday in which the Progressive Teachers’ Alliance (PTA) grabbed three of the four office-bearer posts, including president, secretary and joint secretary.Of the three women contestants out of 17, Dr Poonam Patyar, assistant professor, chemistry, who contested for the post of vice-president lost to Dr Gurnam Singh Virk of the Teachers United Front (TUF) by a margin of 18 votes. Dr Rajni, assistant professor, department of Hindi, and Dr Ranvinderjit Kaur, assistant professor, public administration, were contesting for executive member posts, of whom, only the latter could make it to the executive body.This is for the second consecutive year that the PUTA executive has little representation of women. In 2020, only one woman professor, Dr Parneet Kaur of the department of history, became an executive member of PUTA. No woman professor grabbed any of the four office-bearer posts.Results: The teachers’ unions were divided between two alliances— Progressive Teachers’ Alliance (PTA) and Teachers’ United Front (TUF). Dr Bhupinder Singh Virk from the law department has been elected as the new president of the association. Virk defeated Dr Jaswinder Singh Brar by a margin of 102 votes. Dr Sukhjinder Singh has been elected as secretary of the teachers’ body. He defeated Dr Sikandar Singh, while Dr Jashandeep Singh defeated Dr Gurjit Singh Bhathal and won the post of joint secretary. Dr Gurnam Singh Virk of the TUF got a place in the executive body.Meanwhile, all four contestants of executive member posts from the PTA— Dr Navdeep Kanwal, Dr Gulshan Bansal, Ranvinderjit Kaur and Dr Baldeep Singh made it to the final list along with Dr Gaurav Gupta and Dr Bhiminder Singh of the TUF and another professor Amandeep Singh.The newly elected president Bhupinder Singh Virk said, “We will work for the release of pending promotions of teachers, dues and other matters of the teaching fraternity.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/bhupinder-is-new-president-of-punjabi-varsity-teachers-body-324744
15-10-2021||---||Bhullar takes charge as SSP,  crime-free Patiala on his mind||Patiala, October 14Harcharan Singh Bhullar, a 2007-batch IPS officer, today took over as Patiala SSP replacing Sandeep Garg, who has been posted as SSP Mansa.Assuming his office, Bhullar sought cooperation of the people of Patiala for the prevention of drugs and crime. He said that drug de-addiction camps would be organised to save the youth, who have fallen prey to drugs, while legal action would be taken against the drug smugglers.Bhullar said that as per the directions of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, intensive monitoring would be conducted by the Patiala Police to curb the spread of crime and drugs. “The Patiala Police will act as friends of people as they are also part of the society. The police will always be at their service to make the district crime and anti-social activities free. Apart from this, the doors of his office are open to the general public and they can also come to him to get resolve their problems,” he added.Before this posting, Harcharan Singh Bhullar has earlier served as Joint Director, Vigilance Bureau, and SSP Jagraon (Ludhiana Rural), Barnala, Sangrur, Fatehgarh Sahib, Khanna, Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur and SAS Nagar Mohali.Earlier, Bhullar met senior police officials of the district and held a closed-door meeting with the DSP and above level officers.Patiala gets new IGMukhwinder Singh Chhina today took over as IG Patiala Range. An IPS officer of 1997 batch, Chhina has earlier served as IG Human Rights, in addition to IG Crimeand as IG of Bathinda and Ferozepur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/bhullar-takes-charge-as-ssp-crime-free-patiala-on-his-mind-324743
15-10-2021||Patiala||Role of forensic science in criminal justice system discussed||The forensic division at RGNUL organised a masterclass on ‘role of forensic science in the criminal justice system’. Officials said the masterclass was organised to address the need to systematically apply scientific principles for investigation of crime and collection of evidence.Fifty students from different specialisations participated in the masterclass. Forensic experts from Rashtriya Raksha University, Gandhi Nagar, Gujarat; department of forensic science, Punjabi University, Patiala; Forensic Science Lab, NCT Delhi; and senior police officers deliberated on various topics including wildlife forensics, forensic biology, cyber forensics. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/role-of-forensic-science-in-criminal-justice-system-discussed-324742
