16-10-2021||---||PRTC driver booked for rash driving||Patiala, October 15The Patiala police have booked a Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) driver for rash driving after he allegedly rammed into a two-wheeler.The suspect driver, identified as Sukhvir Singh, has been booked under Sections 279, 337 and 427 of the IPC.The PRTC bus driver had allegedly hit a scooterist on the DCW Road here on Wednesday morning.The video of the entire incident has already been making rounds on social media. In the video, the PRTC bus rams into a two-wheeler that is coming from the opposite side. The bus clearly went to the other side of the road and hit the two-wheeler. Both the riders were injured in the incident.When asked about the accident, Transport Minister Amrinder Singh Raja Warring said he would direct senior officials to take action against such drivers. The minister was in the city for a surprise visit today.Meanwhile, Nitish Singla, Additional Managing Director, PRTC, said there was an SOS button in the bus to complain about the bus driver or conductor. The PRTC also has a GPS tracking system, whereby they can monitor the buses exceeding the speed limit, Singla added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/prtc-driver-booked-for-rash-driving-325212
16-10-2021||---||DLSA organises drawing, writing competitions||Patiala, October 15The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) held drawing and writing competitions at various schools on World Students’ Day today.During one such seminar at Government Bikram College, Secretary, DLSA, Parminder Kaur made the participants aware about free legal services, toll free number 1968, and mediation and counselling centres.She also informed that writing competitions were held at 203 schools across the district.Parminder said the initiative was launched on Gandhi Jayanti and continued till October 14. People from different walks of life were contacted to make the campaign successful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dlsa-organises-drawing-writing-competitions-325211
16-10-2021||---||Outdoor Advertisements: Patiala Municipal Corporation awaits govt approval for change in tendering process||Patiala, October 15Over six months after the Municipal Corporation here had sent a proposal to the state government for changes in its tendering process for outdoor advertisements, the civic body is still awaiting a response on the matter.The tenders for a number of locations in the city are awaiting allocation, leading to loss in exchequer. As per the policy, only one tender is allowed for the whole city.MC Commissioner Poonamdeep Kaur told The Tribune: “Patiala is not that big a city which generates a lot of money through advertisements… We had written to the head office to divide the city into two or three parts.”Last year, the Municipal Corporation had floated the tender for the outdoor advertisements seven times but it was not allotted. It was mainly due to lack of bidding capacity among the contractors, said the MC chief.“We reduced the price, but were still not able to allocate the tender. We are facing losses as we are not getting money for the advertisement sites. The same is now under the consideration of the head office,” she said. “A meeting was also held in this regard.”The earlier tender floated by the MC is already in place, she said. However, the tenders to be allotted for the new sites are pending.“If the proposal is accepted, the city could be divided into at least two parts for getting the advertisements,” said the Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/outdoor-advertisements-patiala-municipal-corporation-awaits-govt-approval-for-change-in-tendering-process-325210
16-10-2021||Patiala||Demand for inverters, generators subsides||After a spurt in the demand for inverters and generators due to irregular supply of electricity caused by alleged coal shortage, the situation has returned to normal.Shopkeepers said they witnessed an increased demand for a few days, but the situation has returned to normal as the proper supply has been restored.Power cuts were observed for a few days only. We did not see any increase in the demand for generators. A shop owner“The demand for generator related services go up every time electricity cuts are witnessed. This time as well, the demand shot up within a day. Mostly generators lay defunct for during normal power supply a long time, consequently we are still getting orders for repair works,” said a dealer at the Tractor market.Rajiv Madan, who runs Madan Power Solutions near the YPS School, said there were frequent power cuts in the city few days ago. “We sell silent generators. Inquiries for these had increased as the power cuts peaked. Now, the demand has subsided as power cuts have gone down.”The owners of Free India Electric Corporation, a shop selling all kinds of generators, said: “Power cuts were observed for a few days only. We did not see any increase in the demand for generators,” they said. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/demand-for-inverters-generators-subsides-325204
16-10-2021||---||Patiala Health Department caps dengue test at Rs 600||Patiala, October 15Amid rising dengue cases, the Patiala Health Department has put a cap on the cost of dengue confirmatory test. The department warned the private labs that overpricing would invite action.“People should not be charged more than Rs600 for the ELISA test,” stated the Health Department.The private hospitals and practitioners have also been asked to comply with the latest directions.We have directed all labs and hospitals that do not have ELISA test facilities to send their blood samples to the government labs for confirmation. Those private facilities which have the ELISA test facilities should not charge more than Rs 600. Dr Sumeet Singh, District EpidemiologistIt had come to the fore that many private labs were conducting antigen card tests for dengue confirmation, instead of valid ELISA tests. Consequently, the Health Department had to direct the testing centres to conduct only ELISA test to confirm dengue.Currently, two private labs and an equal number of private hospitals are reportedly conducting the ELISA test in the district.The Health Department has been conducting dengue tests for free at four centres – Government Rajindra Hospital, Government Mata Kaushalya Hospital, Civil Hospital Nabha and Civil Hospital Rajpura.Dr Sumeet Singh, District Epidemiologist, said the ELISA test was the only confirmatory test for dengue as recommended by the state government.“We have directed all the labs and hospitals that do not have ELISA test facilities to send their blood samples to the government labs for confirmation. Those private facilities, which have the ELISA test facilities, should not charge more than Rs600,” said Dr Singh.Meanwhile, Patiala reported seven new cases of dengue today, taking the total tally in the district to 167.The Health Department said despite a sudden rise, the situation was under control.The department urged the citizens to play an active role in the fight against dengue and drain out any stagnant water in their surroundings, at least once a week.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-health-department-caps-dengue-test-at-rs-600-325184
