17-10-2021||Patiala||Voter awareness campaign in Patiala||To encourage the participation of voters in the Assembly polls, the District Sweep Team organised a voter awareness campaign during the Dasehra celebrations. The team rigged up a canopy painted with slogans to educate voters at the Dasehra ground in Urban Estate. People were explained how to make a new voter card and get a correction done or download instant voter card to cast their vote. Singers Vijay Yamla and Manak Ali enthralled the audience with Punjabi songs. District Nodal Officer Gurbakhshish Singh, Nodal Officer Sanour, along with Satvir Singh, was present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/voter-awareness-campaign-in-patiala-325691
17-10-2021||---||World Food Day celebrated at govt school in Patiala district||Patiala, October 16Impact Organisation organised a session on the importance of good nutrition on World Food Day here today. An interactive session was conducted at Government Senior School, Aluna Basantpura village, in Rajpura block of Patiala district.School principal Rajwinder encouraged and motivated students to eat and bring healthy food to the school. She said healthy food played an important role in overall development of the child. Amandeep Singh, information education communication (IEC), specialist of Impact Organisation said, “ The World Food Day is a day of action against Hunger.” He explained and shared the IEC material with students such as posters and drawing on benefits of healthy food, clean drinking water and balanced diet. Students were motivated to reduce food waste and water.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/world-food-day-celebrated-at-govt-school-in-patiala-district-325674
17-10-2021||---||Food safety team takes samples of milk cake in Patiala||Patiala, October 16Taking a tough stance on food adulteration, a food safety team collected the samples of milk cake from two vehicles on Saturday evening. The vehicles were intercepted by the Julka police.Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said that as per information received from the police station Julka, a team led by District Health Officer Dr Shally immediately rushed to the site and collected samples of the milk cake that was procured from outside state for supply in the district.He said that till the analysis of samples collected from the vehicles, the milk cake in question would be kept under observation in a safe environment in police custody.After that, it would be decided as per the results of samples.Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said that this was the second such case in the district during this fortnight, in which samples of sweets have been collected to ensure the quality standards as prescribed by the state government, in wake of festive seasons.Earlier a tempo carrying petha was intercepted by the Shambhu police on October 4 and samples were collected to check whether the quality was upto mark or not, said District Health Officer Dr Shally. She said that though the samples analysed at food safety lab found satisfactory later on, however, they were taking extra care of health of the people in the wake of festive season.The Deputy Commissioner said that the Health Department and food safety teams had been directed to not to allow adulteration in food and nobody would be spared, if found guilty and indulged in adulteration.He made an appeal to the food business operators and sweet shop owners of the district to not to compromise with the quality of their food preparations as it directly linked to the people’s health.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/food-safety-team-takes-samples-of-milk-cake-in-patiala-325660
17-10-2021|| Karam Prakash||After minister’s visit, PRTC staff paste rate lists at Patiala bus stand||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 16A day after Transport Minister Amrinder Raja Warring inspected the Patiala bus stand, the PRTC authorities pasted rate lists outside the stalls here. Following a complaint by visitors, the minister, during his inspection on Friday, inquired about people being charged above the MRP by shopkeepers at the bus stand.In the rate list, the authorities have also requested the travellers to complain to them if any shopkeeper indulges in overcharging. The action by the authorities is said to have come after the minister found that the shopkeepers at the bus stand were selling packaged food items above the MRP. Consequently, the minister had fixed the accountability of the officials following which the swift action was taken within 24 hours of the visit.It has been learnt that many branded packaged items, including beverages, were being sold at Rs 5 to 10 over the MRP.Nitish Singla, Assistant Managing Director, PRTC, said they had put up rate lists at shops in the Patiala bus stand to curb the overcharging by the shopkeepers. “Initially, we have put the rate list on banners, but we will very soon be making a permanent solution of this problem of tempering with the rate lists by shopkeepers.”Singla added that they had shared the complaint numbers on the banners. Besides, they would be conducting checks, he claimed. “If we find any shopkeeper charging over the fixed rates, we will definitely take action against such person,” said Nitish Singla.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/after-ministers-visit-prtc-staff-paste-rate-lists-at-patiala-bus-stand-325659
17-10-2021||---||Missing child found dead in septic tank in Patiala village, factory owner arrested||Patiala, October 16The district police arrested the owner of a plywood factory after a missing three-year-old girl’s body was found in a septic tank on the premises of his factory, near Badanpur village, in the Samana block of the district.The owner, identified as Purshottam Kumar Garg, has been booked under Section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. The police said the victim, daughter of a migrant labourer, Dilavar, from West Bengal, who works at the factory, had gone missing around 3 pm on Wednesday.The following day (October 14), the father of the victim approached the police with the missing complaint of his daughter. Acting swiftly, the police visited the factory and started searching the surroundings. Ankurdeep Singh, Station House Officer, Samana Sadar, said that during search they found the body of the girl in the septic tank. The SHO said, “After registering a case on the statement of the victim’s father, we have arrested the factory owner under Section 304- A of the IPC. The body has been handed over to the victim’s kin.”The SHO said every factory owner should take necessary steps to ensure the safety of the labourers and their family members to avoid untoward incidents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/missing-child-found-dead-in-septic-tank-in-patiala-village-factory-owner-arrested-325650
