18-10-2021||Aman Sood||DGP Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota meets officers of Patiala Range, reviews law and order||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 17Punjab officiating Director General of Police (DGP) Iqbal Preet Singh Sahota today reviewed policing and law and order situation by holding a comprehensive meeting of SSPs of Patiala range during his visit to the range office here. Upcoming elections was one of the key issues discussed during the meeting attended by all SSPs. Ensure Speedy disposal of pending casesReviewing the pendency of cases in Patiala Range districts, the DGP directed all district heads of police to dispose of the pending cases by taking day-to-day stock of inquiry and investigation status. He said each and every person who approached the police station should be given a patience hearing and ensure that they got justice after following a proper procedure of investigation.IG Patiala Mukhwinder Singh Chhina was also present in the meeting.In the wake of coming Vidhan Sabha elections, the DGP asked the SSPs to take extra precautions and keep intensive vigil to maintain the law and order. Stressing on the need to keep close watch on drug suppliers, he asked the officials to adopt a zero tolerance policy so that no one can supply or store drugs in their respective districts.Reiterating his commitment for providing clean and transparent policing, the DGP asked the SSPs to caution all their subordinates to obey the orders honestly. He said that as per the clear directions of Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, if any police personnel found indulged in corruption or any other unscrupulous activity, he/she will be dealt strictly.Reviewing the pendency of cases in Patiala Range districts, he directed all district heads of police to dispose of the pending cases by taking day-to-day stock of enquiry and investigation status. He said that each and every person who approaches the police station, should be given a patience hearing and ensure justice to them after following a proper procedure of investigation.IG Mukhwinder Singh Chhina, SSP Patiala Harcharan Singh Bhullar, SSP Sangrur Swapan Sharma , SSP Barnala Alka Meena and SSP Malerkotla Ravjot Grewal were among those present at the meeting.Earlier, a contingent of the Patiala Police presented guard of honour to Director General of Police Sahota, on his visit to Patiala Range IG office.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dgp-iqbal-preet-singh-sahota-meets-officers-of-patiala-range-reviews-law-and-order-325994
18-10-2021||---||Only 27% target population fully vaccinated in Patiala district||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 17Despite the government’s best efforts, only 27 per cent of the target population in the district has been fully vaccinated to date. Of a target population of 14 lakh, around 3.75 lakh beneficiaries have received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. Besides, not even a single village in the district has been declared fully vaccinated, despite several special efforts to cover the rural population.The Health Department, however, said that around 10. 22 lakh (73 percent) beneficiaries had received their first dose in the district. The district health authorities on Sunday administered 1,536 doses of Covid vaccine.It has been learnt that the daily vaccination count has been low over the past week. Officials of the Health Department claimed that the vaccination drive had reached a saturation point due to various reasons. Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said that the vaccination drive was hit by the ongoing festive season, consequently, the daily count has gone down.He also admitted that people had become complacent about the virus, in the face of the minimal daily positive cases in the district. He said, “People due to festival season are not coming forward for vaccination. We are expecting that number will increase once the festival season is over.”When asked about poor vaccination in rural areas, Sodhi said that the Health Department had recently held a meeting with the district administration wherein it was decided that officials of the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat and other departments would mobilise people for the vaccination. He said, “We have already made a strategy to cover a maximum population in the rural areas. We have already given vaccination targets to doctors in villages.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/only-27-target-population-fully-vaccinated-in-patiala-district-325995
18-10-2021||---||Punjabi University demands hike  in annual grant||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 17Punjabi University has now demanded an increase in its grant for the university’s constituent colleges here. University officials said the demand, if accepted, would help in paying guest faculty better. It is currently getting a yearly grant of Rs1.5 crore for each of its 12 constituent colleges.The university has been facing shortage of funds for the last many years now has to utilise PTA funds of its constituent colleges to pay salaries to its regular teachers functioning on the university campus. The faculty at its constituent colleges had raised questions over the same.While talking to The Tribune about salaries being paid to the university’s guest faculty, university Vice-Chancellor Arvind said, “We are raising demands with the state government for an increase in the yearly grants for each of our 12 constituent colleges. Till now we are getting Rs 1.5 crore for each college per year. We want the state government to provide Rs 2.5 crore per year.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-demands-hike-in-annual-grant-325996
18-10-2021||---||SAD leader expresses concern over low paddy procurement by FCI||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 17Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) senior vice-president and former MP Prem Singh Chandumajra expressed concern over the FCI’s low procurement of paddy during a visit to Ghanaur. He alleged that the FCI’s procurement remained less than the decided quantity this year because the corporation wanted to exit the procurement of wheat and rice. He alleged that the Central Government was miffed over the farmers’ protest and was using tactics, including procuring the produce at lower rates.He expressed concern over the Centre’s increment of BSF’s powers in the state and said treating Punjab as a separate identity from the whole nation was alarming in terms of the country’s unity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/sad-leader-expresses-concern-over-low-paddy-procurement-by-fci-325997
18-10-2021||---||MC launches drive to check mosquito breeding in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 17Amid the rising dengue cases in the city, the Municipal Corporation has started holding drives to check dengue breeding in coolers, discarded vehicle tyres and empty household items. The city has reported more than 46 cases of dengue this season.The Health Department had detected and destroyed dengue larvae from over 2,000 places and 40 challans had been issued under the law till last month.Officials of the MC said now they had strengthened their drive and started paying visits apart from those held along with officials of the Health Department.An official said, “As per directions of the Municipal Health Officer, we have started going out to various places as part of dengue challan issuing drives. The municipal area is divided into seven sectors, led by one health inspector each. We have started visiting places, clearing off stranded and blocked water and holding awareness drives.”They said the drive will be instrumental in removing new breeding sites. “It is the job of health officials to identify dengue larvae in coolers, discarded vehicle tires and empty household items, but our drive will help clear off any stranded, collected rainwater, which is the prime dengue breeding site.”Municipal Corporation Health Officer Dr Jasveer Kaur said, “We have prepared a 15-day roster for branch inspectors of the MC to hold drive in their respective areas. They will carry out the same challaning and awareness drive on all 15 days and will revisit their areas after 15 days.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/mc-launches-drive-to-check-mosquito-breeding-in-patiala-325998
