20-10-2021||---||Affiliated colleges stopped by Punjabi University from admitting students to BEd course||Patiala, October 19Punjabi University has restricted its 11 affiliated colleges from admitting students in BEd first year course for the session 2021-22 due to their inability to hire regular teachers and principals. The university said the students studying in other classes and courses in these colleges were also suffering due to the absence of proper teaching faculty due to which the decision was taken.Acting tough against the education colleges, the university today said the colleges were flouting the NCTE and university faculty norms.A university official said, “The first counselling for admission to BEd colleges is due on October 21. According to the NCTE guidelines, there is a requirement of 16 fulltime faculty members, including one principal for an intake of 100 students for BEd course. But these colleges have not recruited any university-approved faculty member and principal despite many reminders and warnings since many years.”It had also issued a warning in August as well. Officials said they have now banned the colleges from admitting any student in BEd first year course. “In the absence of proper teaching faculty, the students studying in other classes and courses in these colleges are also suffering and the colleges have further been strictly instructed to appoint the minimum required faculty and principal within two months for those students”, the university said.Dean Colleges Dr Gurpreet Singh Lehal said that Punjabi University had initiated the usage of ICT technologies to bring transparency and efficiency in the working of the college development council. “All affiliated colleges have been instructed to display detailed faculty information with photographs, along with other information such as infrastructure, time table and facilities for students and faculty on their official website”, he said.The university is also developing a comprehensive database of faculty members of all affiliated colleges. The searchable database will be made available on the university website and will serve as a useful resource for creating a pool of subject experts for examination, evaluation, expert talk, board of studies member and others. The database will also be useful in mitigating the menace of ‘ghost faculty’, the university said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/affiliated-colleges-stopped-by-punjabi-university-from-admitting-students-to-bed-course-326883
20-10-2021||Karam Prakash||Dengue tightens grip on Patiala district, 76 cases in 48 hours||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 19The deadly dengue seems to have gripped the district as 38 fresh cases of the mosquito-borne disease were reported on Tuesday. Of 38 cases, 24 were reported from Patiala city alone. With this the district count of dengue cases has now risen to 246. As many as 76 cases have already been reported over the last 48 hours.The Health Department said Patiala city was worst hit by dengue. Of the 246 positive cases in the district, 147 are from the city, 28 from Rajpura town, 14 from Nabha, three from Samana, and 54 from different villages across the district.Dr Sumeet Singh, district epidemiologist, said that some areas in Patiala city had turned into hotspots after positive cases were reported repeatedly therein. The areas are Abchal Nagar, Ekta Nagar, Tafazalpura, Factory Area, New Mehar Singh Colony and Preet Nagar.Health officials visit Bathonia villageMeanwhile, a team of the health officials visited Bathonia village in the Rajpura block after reports of many villagers suffering from fever.The village on Tuesday reported three positive cases which raised alarm bells. Dr Jagpalinder Singh, Senior Medical Officer, Rajpura; Dr Sajila Khan, Deputy Medical Commissioner; and Dr Sukhminder Singh, Assistant Health Officer; visited the village to assess the situation. The team found dengue larvae there and said that fogging was required. The health officials, who were part of the team, carried out indoor residual spray at the residence of dengue positive patients. The team collected around 20 blood samples from the village.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dengue-tightens-grip-on-patiala-district-76-cases-in-48-hours-326882
20-10-2021||---||Patiala: PPSC office staff continue pen-down strike||Patiala, October 19Work at the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) office here remained affected due to the employees’ protest over various demands. They are demanding regularisation of services and implementation of the 6th pay panel report with revised multiplication factor. The employees are on pen-down strike since October 6. “The employees have been protesting over the state government’s indifferent attitude towards their demands.“They are demanding regularisation of the staff at the PPSC and other government departments. Despite holding parleys with officials of the state government number of times, the issues have not been resolved,” Inderjit Singh, one of the employees said.He said the employees would continue their protest till October 24.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-ppsc-office-staff-continue-pen-down-strike-326881
20-10-2021||Patiala||4 held with 58 boxes of liquor in Patiala||The Sadar police arrested four persons and confiscated 58 boxes (696 bottles) of liquor meant for sale in Haryana, in two cases. A team of the Sadar police, under the command of Sadar SHO Sukhdev Singh, arrested Piyush and Abhimanyu, both residents of Mathura Colony here, and seized 96 bottles of ‘Charli Santra’ liquor.In another case, Amrik Singh of Lopo village in Samrala and Robandeep Singh of Nasingpura in Bassi Pathana were arrested with 360 bottles of illicit liquor ‘Charli’ (for sale in Haryana) and 240 bottles of ‘First Choice’ liquor (for sale in Haryana).SHO Sukhdev Singh said that two FIRs under various Sections of the Excise Act were registered against the accused. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/4-held-with-58-boxes-of-liquor-in-patiala-326880
