21-10-2021||---||Punjabi University campus turns a garbage dump||Patiala, October 20The deadlock between Punjabi University daily wagers and the administration has left the university stinking. As many as 700 daily wagers, including security guards, sanitation workers and others are on strike for the past one week due to which garbage has not been lifted from the campus hostels, classrooms and various blocks. This is while the university administration has been making efforts to come to a truce.Also read: Punjabi University students lock officials in office over lack of cleanlinessGarbage has been strewn at various places on the campus for the past one week. The hostel washrooms, where the university has appointed daily wagers for the work, have also not been cleaned for a week, which led to a melee at the office of dean student welfare on Tuesday, wherein the DSW was locked by a student group in her office along with other officials.The daily wage workers have been demanding promotions for the cleanliness workers, sewadars and others for long.Jatinder Singh Kala, a daily wager, said, “Over 700 workers are protesting over demands. We have met the officials concerned several times but they have agreed to our demands only verbally. We want them to give us in writing about fulfilling our demands.”University officials said the administration had formed a committee to look into the demands of the workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-campus-turns-a-garbage-dump-327473
21-10-2021||---||DC reviews paddy procurement arrangements at Patiala district mandis||Patiala, October 20Reviewing the arrangements for paddy procurement at mandis in the district during a meeting with procurement agencies, Mandi Board officials, tehsildars and agriculture officials this morning, Patiala Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans asked them not to compromise with moisture content specifications.He said as the district administration had already issued prohibitory orders for harvester combines not to work after 7 pm and before 10 am. “The concerned executive magistrates should ensure compliance of these orders”, he directed.The Deputy Commissioner said to avoid inconvenience to farmers in procurement process, it’s our prime responsibility to ensure proper check on arrival of produce as per moisture content specifications.He said as per the weather changes taking place in wake of decrease in temperature, the moisture content would also increase if continue harvesting in the wee hours. “So, we should exhort the farmers to avoid harvesting in wee hours in order to ensure moisture content and other specifications as per the specifications laid by the Central Government”, he said.DFSC Gurpreet Singh Kang while briefing the Deputy Commissioner of the arrival and procurement status in the mandis, said that so far a total of 3.06 lakh MT of paddy has been procured while 93 per cent of the purchased produce has been lifted. “Similarly, 89 per cent of payment has been done, so far”, he said.Hans further reviewed the working of nine flying squads deputed to check the influx of paddy from other states. These flying squads are being led by executive magistrates.So far a total of 2,053 vehicles have been checked by these flying squad and five FIRs have been lodged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/dc-reviews-paddy-procurement-arrangements-at-patiala-district-mandis-327472
21-10-2021||---||Houses adjacent to Patiala drain damaged, residents blame construction work||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 20Three houses adjacent to a drain near Government Rajindra College here were damaged allegedly due to the ongoing work of covering the drain being carried out by the Irrigation Department. While the residents have been going pillar-to-post over the matter, officials of the Irrigation Department said no work was being carried out at the site at the time of the incident.The incident occurred at around 8 pm on Tuesday. Residents of the area said no one was hurt in it though the three houses suffered damage.Pastor Jacob, who lives in one of the houses, said the incident took place Tuesday late evening. “The back-side wall of the house was damaged along with furniture. Luckily we all escaped unhurt,” he said.He said the walls collapsed due to ongoing work of covering the drain. “They have been carrying out the work for some time. Earlier also a few houses were damaged. They have dug deep below the foundation of the house,” Jacob said. He said he had met the Mayor over the same but the matter did not come under the ambit of the corporation. It was a holiday today. Therefore, we will meet the Deputy Commissioner tomorrow.Raghav Garg, SDO, Irrigation Department, said, “The work was not being carried out at the time of the incident. They have carried out constructions of their houses on government land which belongs to the corporation. We are only carrying out the work at the site. We have issued notices to the residents regarding the constructions.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/houses-adjacent-to-patiala-drain-damaged-residents-blame-construction-work-327471
21-10-2021||Patiala||Punjabi University students lock officials in office over lack of cleanliness||High drama was witnessed on the Punjabi University campus yesterday as students locked up some faculty members in the DSW office over cleanliness at one of the university hostels. The students were miffed over a lack of cleanliness at the Homi Bhaba boys’ hostel.Also read: Punjabi University campus turns a garbage dumpOfficials on the campus informed that contractual cleanliness workers of the university were on strike over their demands, including regularisation of jobs and other for some days due to which the cleanliness at the hostels and across the university were affected. They said the students blocked the Dean Student Welfare, Provost, a hostel warden and an SDO in the DSW office.Students associated with the SYFI said, “We had been meeting the officials over the matter of cleanliness for a few days but to no avail. Our hostel has not been cleaned for days and a bad smell emanates everywhere. Finally, we had to resort to blocking the officials in their way for a timely resolution to the problem.”An official who was locked in the DSW office along with others said, “The sanitation employees working at the particular hostel are all contractual. They were on strike due to which the issue was created. Now the hostel has been cleaned and a sanitation worker who is a regular employee has been deputed there. The matter has been resolved.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-students-lock-officials-in-office-over-lack-of-cleanliness-327470
21-10-2021||---||Patiala's private hospital accused of medical negligence||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 20A resident of Bathinda has levelled allegations of medical negligence against a private hospital in Patiala, while the hospital has denied it. The hospital authorities said they were ready for any probe by a competent authority. The complaint has already been filed to the DGP Punjab, says the father of the patient.Mukesh Kumar, a Bathinda resident, said that his son studying in Patiala was operated upon by a surgeon for stone at the private hospital, near 21 Railway crossing, last month. After two weeks, the 16-year-old boy started complaining of acute stomach pain with hematuria (blood in urine). The patient reached the same private hospital again.The doctor said he had put a stent in, and that might have created pain. The doctor removed the stent. However, pain continued and the patient had to rush third time into the hospital. This time the doctor advised to undergo the surgery again which the family of the patient denied.Family took their son to Bathinda hospital for a second opinion.Mukesh Kumar said, “We were shocked to know that after ultrasound and CT scan, the stone was still there.”Mukesh Kumar said that he had already filed a complaint to the Director General of Police for action against the hospital concerned.Meanwhile, the hospital authorities said, “In the medical field, there can be complications after any operation. We are ready for any probe by any competent authority. Let the Health Department form a board to look into the allegations.” The surgeon could not be contacted despite several attempts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patialas-private-hospital-accused-of-medical-negligence-327469
21-10-2021||---||There’s need to understand diversity in society: Navtej Johar||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 20Thinker and Bharatanatyam dancer Navtej Johar discussed diversity in society and the need to understand it during Dr Balkar Singh memorial lecture at Punjabi University. During the lecture, Johar said humanity prevailed in understanding dilemmas and diversity in a harmonious way. He said there was a need to question the establishment to make a better future for the people. He said, “We have put ourselves in various prisms and cages. There is a need to pull ourselves out of such cages.”Prof Arvind discussed the problems and limitations of tradition of knowledge in India. He said it was important to break traditions as well. Students discussed a number of matters with Navtej Johar including his understanding of dance in context to religious philosophy and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/theres-need-to-understand-diversity-in-society-navtej-johar-327468
