23-10-2021||Ravneet Singh||Cash-hit Punjabi University plans switching to free software||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 22Facing an acute shortage of funds, Punjabi University has decided to switch to free public domain open-source software from the commercial software it is using at present. The move comes in the wake of the expiry of the licences of the software being used by the university.Sources said departments on the campus and its regional and neighbourhood campuses had been using pirated software and utilising activation keys to access commercial software.Vice-Chancellor Prof Arvind confirmed that the university had decided to shift to the free public domain software. “It will also shift to the Linux operating system. We are working towards stopping the use of commercial software. We will replace the Microsoft Office with some open office software so that we do not need to buy the commercial software anymore. We are facing resistance as the employees need to be trained for the new software as well, but we will completely shift to the new process gradually.”The VC said, “For a university which does not have funds, it is a good long-term option.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/cash-hit-punjabi-university-plans-switching-to-free-software-328354
23-10-2021||---||Patiala: Dengue stings 45 more, tally increases to 326||Patiala, October 22As many as 45 fresh cases of dengue surfaced in the district today, taking the overall tally this season to 326.Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi, who, along with other health officials, participated in the anti-dengue drive today, said around 23,627 households were checked during the anti-dengue drive and larvae were found at 421 households. Health officials destroyed the larvae immediately, the Civil Surgeon said.The Health Department also held a meeting with private hospitals to assess the availability of beds for dengue patients. The hospitals have been asked to report dengue cases to the department. Hospitals have also been asked to conduct only the ELISA test for confirmation of the vector-borne disease.Meanwhile, the Health Department issued an advisory, asking residents to wear full-sleeved clothes during the day. The department also asked residents to use mosquito repellent until the end of this month to prevent being bitten by mosquitoes.6 cases at Bathonia villageThe Health Department informed that six fresh cases of dengue surfaced at Bathonia village in the Rajpura block of the district. With this, around 22 cases have already been reported from the village over the past few days.Health advisoryThe Health Department has issued an advisory, asking residents to wear full-sleeved clothes during the day. The department also asked residents to use mosquito repellent until the end of this month to prevent being bitten by mosquitoes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-dengue-stings-45-more-tally-increases-to-326-328353
23-10-2021||Karam Prakash||Patiala: 3 months after roof collapse, family still putting up at inn||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 22A family is compelled to live in a dharamshala at Shagar village in the Shutrana block of the district for the past three months after the roof of their house in the village collapsed due to heavy rain.The family of 56-year-old Kashmir Singh of Shagar village, who belongs to the Scheduled Caste category, had to shift to the inn following the roof collapse incident. He said the rain during the monsoon was more of a bane for him.A daily wage labourer, Kashmir Singh couldn’t mobilise enough money to build a new roof of his house. Left with no help from any quarter, Kashmir Singh is now homeless and putting up in the inn at the village.Talking to Chandigarh Tribune, the hopeless victim said, “No one helped us. Therefore, we – my wife, son and daughter-in-law – are living in a dharamshala.” He added that it was humiliating for them to live in an inn, that too in their own village, when they had land to live but didn’t have money to get the roof reconstructed.Dr Jatinder Singh Mattu, who is fighting for the people of Shutrana block to create a social and political awareness there, said he had visited the village and met Kashmir Singh. He added, “We will apply for financial help to him under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. The district administration should come forward and provide some interim financial help to the family.”Mattu said there were many poor families in Shutrana villages who did not have pucca houses to live in. “The government should conduct a survey in the area and help the poor instead of making tall claims of providing aid to poor people.”Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said, “I will ask the Patran SDM to look into the case and provide financial help to the family under the government scheme at the earliest.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-3-months-after-roof-collapse-family-still-putting-up-at-inn-328352
23-10-2021||---||Land acquisition: Five sarpanches in Ghanaur block claim no wrongful payment||Patiala, October 22Sarpanches of five villages in the Ghanaur block — Sehri, Sehra, Aakhri, Takhtu Majra and Pabra — today rejected allegations of wrongful payment of compensation in connection with acquisition of village land.Residents of the villages had yesterday alleged that Rs100 crore were siphoned off during acquisition of 1,102 acres in five villages. They had alleged that the sarpanches of the villages were being supported by political leaders in the region and had allegedly got the compensation for the acquired village land transferred in the bank accounts of their associates, instead of legitimate tillers.Rejecting the allegations today, Harsangat Singh of Takhtu Majra, Jagroop Singh, Harjinder Singh, Manjit Singh and Satnam Singh Dhillon today said the appropriate process was followed for acquisition of the shamlat land.They claimed, “All the tillers have been paid Rs9 lakh each as compensation. We have all the records.” They said the matter had been probed a number of times but they were not found guilty.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/land-acquisition-five-sarpanches-in-ghanaur-block-claim-no-wrongful-payment-328351
