26-10-2021||Patiala||New classrooms handed over to panchayats in Patiala district||Newly constructed classrooms at two government schools of Ugani and Uppal Heri villages in Patiala district were handed over to the village panchayats during separate functions held on the premises of schools.To promote enrolment and retention in government schools, L&T-owned Nabha Power, which operates the 2x700 MW Supercritical Thermal Power Plant at Rajpura, had undertook two major renovation projects at the government schools of Ugani and Uppal Heri villages in Patiala district to provide a better learning environment for village students. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/new-classrooms-handed-over-to-panchayats-in-patiala-district-329680
26-10-2021||Patiala||Nostalgia marks Yadavindra Public School, Patiala, alumni meet||Yadavindra Public School, Patiala, conducted an alumni meet for the golden and silver jubilee batches at the Captain Amarinder Singh Auditorium of the school. The event also included selected students and staff members of the YPS.Following the age-old tradition, the YPS organised an alumni meet for the golden jubilee batches of 1970 and 1971 and the silver jubilee batch of 1995.The alumni meet is conducted every year to reconnect with old students of the school. Last year’s alumni meet was conducted virtually due to the pandemic. This time, around 100 old Yadavindrians were present physically to relive their old school days and share their life experience with the present students.The programme included an interaction with present students, power-point presentations on how the YPS has evolved and progressed with the changing times in terms of facilities and infrastructure, a march past by the golden and silver jubilee batches followed by the school tour. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/nostalgia-marks-yadavindra-public-school-patiala-alumni-meet-329679
26-10-2021||---||Punjabi University, Patiala, students protest hike in course fee||Patiala, October 25Protesters have brought work to a halt at Punjabi University, Patiala. While a select number of contractual staff of the university had been protesting for two weeks now, students have also started a protest against the increase in course fee outside the VC office here.Student activists associated with the Democratic Students’ Organisation (DSO), Punjab, Punjab Student Union, AISF, PRSU and PSU (Lalkar) participated in the protest under the banner of the Sanjha Vidyarthi Morcha.The students said they held a rally over their concerns on Friday as well. “We have now decided to hold an indefinite strike outside the VC office. The protest will continue until our demands are met by the administration,” the students said.Vikram Singh, a student leader associated with the Democratic Students’ Organisation (DSO), Punjab, said: “We want the university to rollback its decision of increase in course fee. They have increased the fee ranging from 3.4 per cent to over 109 per cent. Excessive fee being charged for the newly launched five-year integrated courses should also be reduced.”He said other issues being raised by students included restarting fellowships of some students, carrying out regular hiring of teaching staff for the campus, creating provisions for infrastructure, including hostels and classrooms, restarting MPhil course and rollback of increased late fee on books issued from the library.Lakhwinder, another student leader of the PSU, said: “It is the government’s duty to provide education to people. But the government has decreased the university’s grant in the past several years, leading to financial losses.”The students said they also held a meeting with a number of officials, but could not reach a conclusion.“We have decided to hold an indefinite strike outside the VC office. Students from one each of arts and sciences courses will take part in the protest each day till our demands are met”, students pointed out.Action sought against staff ‘involved’ in scamsStudents associated with the Secular Youth Federation of India (SYFI) held a poster campaign on the campus demanding action against employees allegedly involved in various scams. The students pasted posters at various places on the campus and demanded action against “those involved” in the scams. Leading the protest, SYFI president Yadvinder Singh said: “There will be no need to increase the fee if the university initiates action against those involved in the scams.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjabi-university-patiala-students-protest-hike-in-course-fee-329678
26-10-2021||---||Despite ban, pressure horns a nuisance on Patiala roads||Patiala, October 25Almost four years after the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) decided to ban the manufacture, sale, purchase and fitting of pressure horns and such sound-emitting devices in the state, transporters, including truck and bus owners, continue to flout the rules with impunity and make driving hell for other motorists. Buses can be seen plying at a high speed on highways and using pressure horns.Despite the presence of traffic police personnel in the city, hundreds of vehicles flout traffic norms. The district transport office and the traffic police have failed to enforce the ban orders on the use of pressure horns, especially in the vicinity of schools and hospitals. Ravee Singh Ahluwalia, Patiala Foundation, NGOIn 2017, the Punjab Pollution Control Board had put a ban on the manufacturing of high-decibel horns so that vehicles should not be fitted with power, pressure or musical horns, giving a sharp, shrill and alarming noise. Vehicles found with such horns would be challaned and horns would be confiscated, the PPCB had warned.“Traffic junctions have no rules on permissible sound levels for honking or vehicular noise. Horns on highways emanate noise as high as 100 to 10 decibels (db) – equal to the noise levels at a rock concert,” said PPCB officials.“This is above the safe limit suggested by the World Health Organisation (WHO), which cautions that long-term exposure to noise levels from 85 db to 90 db can lead to hearing loss,” they added.Meanwhile, caring two hoots about the norms, government as well as private vehicles continue to use pressure horns and hooters to make their presence felt on the city roads.“Despite the presence of traffic police personnel in the city, hundreds of vehicles flout traffic norms on the roads. The district transport office and the traffic police have failed to enforce the ban orders on the use of pressure horns, especially in the vicinity of schools and hospitals,” said Ravee Singh Ahluwalia from Patiala Foundation, an NGO that works on road safety.A traffic police official said: “A majority of the heavy vehicles such as trucks and buses using pressure horns are owned either by politicians or persons having political connections. When we stop them, they contact some senior official and we have to obey the orders. For proper implementation, we need clear directions in this regard from the seniors”.Meanwhile, senior officials confirmed that they would launch a drive to check such misuse.The orderIn 2017, the Punjab Pollution Control Board had put a ban on the manufacturing of high-decibel horns so that vehicles should not be fitted with power, pressure or musical horns, giving a sharp, shrill and alarming noise. Vehicles found with such horns would be challaned and horns would be confiscated, the PPCB had warned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/despite-ban-pressure-horns-a-nuisance-on-patiala-roads-329677
26-10-2021||Karam Prakash||Festive season: Health Department goes soft on food adulteration in Patiala||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 25Amid the ongoing festival season, the food wing of the Health Department is seemingly going soft on food adulteration in the district. The department has collected only 28 food samples this month so far.The monthly target of food sample collection is around 65. The food wing, however, said they would collect more samples in the coming days.A few days ago, Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans had claimed that district administration was acting tough against food adulteration.District Health Officer Dr Shelly Jetly said: “The month is not over yet. We will collect more samples in the coming days.” She said they had been taking all possible measures to check food adulteration.Patiala Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said he would inquire from the Health Department about lesser sample collections.Infighting in deptIt has been learned that infighting within the Food Wing Department is taking a toll on residents’ health. Earlier this month, lack of coordination among health agencies had come to the fore when a nine-member team, led by the Patiala Civil Surgeon, had to abandon the raid halfway because the District Health Officer allegedly couldn’t be part of the team. In one more such instance of infighting, some of the officials of the department are complaining that they could not carry out raids as sampling slips were not available with the department.Samples collectedA food safety team from Patiala, led by DHO Dr Shelly, inspected various sweets shops in Nabha on Monday. Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans said a total of nine samples of sweets, including ‘kalakand’, ‘khoya burfi’, ‘besan ladoo’, ‘chena murki’, ‘milk cake’, ‘cham cham’, ‘coconut burfi’ and ‘cham cham’ (pink), were collected during the inspection. Apart from this, around 12 kg of ‘khoya burfi’ and 15 kg of ‘cham cham’ (pink) were destroyed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/festive-season-health-department-goes-soft-on-food-adulteration-in-patiala-329676
26-10-2021||---||Patiala district sees 33 fresh cases of dengue||Patiala, October 25The Civil Surgeon, Patiala, today directed SMOs in the region to ensure spray of larvicide and fogging in the wake of rain that lashed the district yesterday. BDPOs in the region said they had also issued guidelines to village panchayats to carry out spray of larvicide and fogging in view of the dengue threat. The tallyOfficials said 33 new cases of dengue were reported today, including 26 from urban areas (those under municipal corporations and municipal councils) and seven from rural areas. The total count has now reached 451.The threat of dengue spread due of water accumulated in various villages has increased. People should be made aware of the spread of the disease from water and should be informed about proper clearance of breeding sites. Larvicide should be sprayed at all necessary places while the record of dengue positive cases should be shared with offices of municipal committees. Dr Prince Sodhi, Civil SurgeonThe Civil Surgeon, Dr Prince Sodhi, said the threat of dengue spread due of water accumulated in various villages had increased. He said, “People should be made aware of the spread of the disease from water and should be informed about proper clearance of breeding sites.”He said larvicide should be sprayed at all necessary places while the record of dengue positive cases should be shared with offices of municipal committees.”Officials of the Health Department pointed out that despite rain and a drop in the temperature yesterday, mercury inthe region remain conducive to the spread of dengue. “People should take measures to destroy dengue larvae as the temperature is expected to remain conducive to dengue for another 10 days,” they said.The Civil Surgeon also directed officials to increase Covid testing in the region. He said, “Proper vigil should be carried out during the festival season. He said the process of holding Covid-19 vaccination camps would be restarted and it would be held thrice a week — on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.Meanwhile, steps to contain the spread of dengue in villages have been intensified.BDPO offices today stated that they had been given permission for the purchase of fogging equipment.Ramesh Kumar, Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO), Rajpura, said, “As per the directions of the department, we have told panchayats to carry out fogging and larvacide in all villages. All stagnant water is being cleared. Also, some villages in our area are already in possession of fogging machines. We have bought four hand-held machines for fogging and provided these for use.”Rajnish, Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO), Patiala (rural), said, “A meeting was held with officials of the Health Department. We have directed the panchayats to ensure all empty overhead water tanks are cleaned. We usually do not have separate equipment for fogging. We have received permission from the panchayat samiti to purchase equipment for fogging.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/patiala-district-sees-33-fresh-cases-of-dengue-329675
