27-10-2021||---||Shortage of staff hits PDA functioning||Patiala, October 26The office of the Patiala Urban Planning and Development Authority (PDA) is facing a shortage of manpower and is being run by way of allocation of additional charge to officials.This includes the posts of the Chief Administrator, Additional Chief Administrator, Chief Engineer and Superintending Engineer among others. Only the estate officer is on a regular charge.The Divisional Engineer Civil and Divisional Engineer Public Health are also on additional charges.Blaming the shortage of staff, residents have complained about the pending works. They said the work of residents was being delayed due to lack of regular appointments of officials.A resident said: “The rainwater pipe in front of various houses in Urban Estate Phase-1 remains damaged. A similar situation prevails near a religious place in the area.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/shortage-of-staff-hits-pda-functioning-330154
27-10-2021||---||Industry assured of help for infra boost||Patiala, October 26Industrialists, entrepreneurs and investors from Patiala virtually joined the Progressive Punjab Investors’ Summit 2021 plenary session from Rajiv Gandhi National University of Law.Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans assured the attendees of help for expanding the existing infrastructure and setting up new ventures and said as per the vision of Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi, the district administration would welcome new ideas to boost the industry in the district.Citing examples of successful ventures running in Nabha, Samana, Patiala and Rajpura, the DC added that the state government had set up a mega industrial park for manufacturing units in 1,104 acres in Ghanaur-Rajpura belt of the district.“Invest Punjab and the Punjab Small Industry Export Corporation have been developing it for establishing state-of-the-art facilities here,” he said, adding that for logistics support, the process of the Amritsar-Katra Industrial Corridor (expressway) was also in progress for providing better road connectivity.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/industry-assured-of-help-for-infra-boost-330153
27-10-2021||Karam Prakash||4-member panel to probe private practice by govt doctors||Tribune News ServicePatiala, October 26The Patiala Health Department has ordered an inquiry into the alleged private practice by some doctors of Rajpura Civil Hospital. The Patiala Civil Surgeon has formed a four-member committee to look into the allegations.Doctors at the Rajpura Civil Hospital have been accused of running private OPDs at their government accommodations.I was not aware that government doctors were running private OPDs. In fact, I had recently issued a letter to all doctors of the hospital to refrain from private practice. Dr Jagpalinder Singh, SMO, RajpuraPrivate practice by doctors of the Civil Hospital has been rampant for many years now. It is a lapse on the part of the administration of the hospital. A doctor, Rajpura Civil HospitalHealth officials informed that two senior doctors of the hospital were allegedly running private OPDs at their government accommodations inside the hospital premises. The inquiry committee will also look into the alleged private practice by another specialist doctor at a private hospital in Rajpura.The Health Department added that the inquiry committee would also look into the allegations against a medical officer for allegedly taking bribes on camera and influencing a medico-legal report (MLR).Meanwhile, sources in Rajpura Civil Hospital said private practice by doctors was an open secret and had been a new normal for many years.It was also alleged a nexus between doctors and private labs is being run in front of the hospital.Dr Jagpalinder Singh, Senior Medical Officer, Rajpura, said: “I was not aware that doctors were running private OPDs. In fact, I had recently issued a letter to all doctors of the hospital to refrain themselves from banner practice.”A doctor at Rajpura Civil Hospital said: “Private practice by doctors of the hospital has been rampant for years now. It is a lapse on the part of the administration of the hospital.”Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said: “As soon as the inquiry committee submits the report, we will send it to the higher ups for action.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/4-member-panel-to-probe-private-practice-by-govt-doctors-330152
27-10-2021||Patiala||36 fresh dengue cases take Patiala district count to 500||With 36 new cases, the dengue count in the district touched the 500 mark today. This is the highest number of cases reported in a day since 2018.Of the 36 cases, 22 were reported from urban areas, 11 from rural and three from other districts.Data from the Health Department reveals that Patiala had 2,334 cases in 2018. However, cases drastically dropped in the following year with only 271 cases. The number of cases reported in 2020 was 307.This year, the count stands at 500 so far. Meanwhile, the Health Department has identified hotspots in the city. They include Urban Estate, Tafazalpura, Factory area, Guru Nanak Nagar, Bharat Nagar and Ekta Nagar.Health officials said 25 dengue cases had been reported from the Urban Estate area alone.Patiala Deputy Commissioner Sandeep Hans held a meeting with the Health Department and ordered them to give extra focus on the hotspots to curb the spread of dengue. The DC also asked the Municipal Corporation to conduct fogging in the hotspot areas.Patiala Civil Surgeon Dr Prince Sodhi said that the MC would conduct fogging in high-risk areas twice a day with hand-held fogging machines. Besides, people should start wearing full-sleeve clothes and use mosquito repellents, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/36-fresh-dengue-cases-take-patiala-district-count-to-500-330151
