29-10-2021||---||Stalemate over fee hike in Punjabi University continues||Patiala, October 28The deadlock between Punjabi University students and the administration regarding the increase in the course fee continued for the fourth day today. Over 600 students held a protest march on the campus, while a number of events were going on there, including an expert discussion on farm laws and an awareness seminar organised with the DLSA. The students have been holding an indefinite protest outside the office of the Vice-Chancellor.Students associated with a number of organisations, including PRSU, Democratic Students’ Organisation, Punjab Student Union, AISF and PSU (Lalkar) are leading the protest.Students said they have raised a number of demands with the university, including increased fees, various scams on the campus and need of a special grant for the university. “We have held two meetings with the university. The main issue being raised with the university is fees. The university during a meeting has offered to reduce overdue library book fees but no consensus has been reached on the issues,” they said.The students said the reduction in high fee for newly launched courses was also being discussed by the university.“We held a demonstration outside the Kala Bhawan and also met the farmer leaders who had come to participate in an expert discussion on farm laws. We are against the privatisation of education”, Sandeep Kaur, a student leader associated with the PRSU said.The student leaders said they were making efforts to meet the higher education minister over the matters as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/stalemate-over-fee-hike-in-punjabi-university-continues-331388
29-10-2021||---||Implement MSP, not farm laws, agriculture experts ask Centre||Patiala, October 28Experts during a discussion on three farm laws at Punjabi University on Thursday said, “The government needs to work toward implementing MSP, increasing government procurement mandis and establishing co-operative societies for agriculture.” They said reformations similar to those being brought about in India (farm laws) were implemented in the USA and Canada but these led to negative effects for farmers there.Agriculture expert Devinder Sharma, farmer leaders Balbir singh Rajewal, Joginder Singh Ugrahan, Dr Sucha Singh Gill, former professor, Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), were part of the event among others.University Vice-Chancellor Professor Arvind said, “The university will study and publish a book on the history of peasants. Punjabi University is the first university to have directly associated itself with the farmers’ protest.”Agriculture expert Devinder Sharma said the agriculture had been deliberately impoverished wherein people had been pushed from rural areas to urban areas. Citing establishment of ITIs on a large scale in the country, he said, “The ITIs were established in India a year after the World Bank directed for youngsters to be taught industrial labour. Our economic design is aimed at pushing us out of agriculture.”Dr Sucha Singh Gill said, “The farm laws are neither in favour of farmers, nor the consumers. There are a number of co-operative models, including the agro-processing and marketing model that can be implemented. We need to think about the farming sector from the community angle.”Harish Chauhan, president of the Fruit Vegetable and Flower Association, Himachal Pradesh, said, “The MSP should be implemented on all crops. The apple growers of Himachal Pradesh are suffering because of private procurement of crops in the state. In the beginning, the private companies offered us high rates, but after the farmers became dependent on them, the offered rates were reduced. We want MSP to be implemented on all crops.”Farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said the people’s representatives need to be made answerable to the public.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/implement-msp-not-farm-laws-agriculture-experts-ask-centre-331389
29-10-2021||---||Students told to take part in legal awareness camps||Patiala, October 28The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) and Punjab School of Law, Punjabi University, organised an awareness programme in celebration of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav at Punjabi University, Patiala.Dr Varinder Kumar Kaushik, head, Punjab School of Law Punjabi University Patiala emphasised on the importance of justice delivery mechanism and right to equality and social, political and economic justice. Parminder Kaur, Secretary, DLSA, focused on free legal services provided to the marginalised sections of society and emphasised on various victim compensation schemes executed by the Punjab Government and the NLSA.Rajinder Aggarwal, Sessions Judge-cum-Chairman, DLSA, motivated the students to participate in legal awareness camps as volunteers to spread legal education to the weaker sections of the society. He said ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ is being celebrated from October 2 up to November 14. “In this mahotsav, various legal awareness camps and seminars are being organised to celebrate it”, he pointed out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/students-told-to-take-part-in-legal-awareness-camps-331392
29-10-2021||Patiala||‘Blending of imported coal with domestic may hike power cost by 30%’||The All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF), in a letter to Union Power Minister RK Singh, has expressed concern that electricity cost may increase at least by 30 per cent due to the blending of imported coal with domestic coal.The Union Ministry of Power has advised all coal-based thermal generating stations to maintain adequate coal stock according to their obligations. In the case of domestic coal shortage, the generators can blend the imported coal up to 15 per cent with domestic coal, to meet the increased power demand in the country, said VK Gupta, spokesperson of the federation.The private generators are not covered under the CAG audit and they can manipulate the increase in tariff by forged documents, VK Gupta further added. The global prices of coal have increased which would make import a costly option. Moreover, the coal production in India has stagnated in the past three years while the demand is increasing every year. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/blending-of-imported-coal-with-domestic-may-hike-power-cost-by-30-331393
29-10-2021||Patiala||Punjab Public School, Nabha: 3-day online students’ conclave ends||Punjab Public School, Nabha, hosted a three-day online IPSC students’ conclave on the theme “Schools: The Cradles of i-Generation Leaders”. More than 180 student delegates from 30 prestigious public schools of the country took part in the conclave that concluded today.A former Army Chief, Gen Bikram Singh, an alumnus of the school, was the keynote speaker at the opening ceremony. He dwelt at length on the qualities that go into the making of an effective leader. The motivational speaker, Ketan Bhagat, was the keynote speaker on Day 2 of the conclave. He spoke on the theme— “Deconstructing Leadership for i-Generation”. The final day came to a close with former deputy commissioner of Panchkula and motivational speaker Vivek Atray appealing to the young leaders to realise their responsibility towards society in general and nation in particular. Headmaster Ajay Singh and Deputy Headmaster Gurvinder Kaur were present during all the sessions. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/punjab-public-school-nabha-3-day-online-students-conclave-ends-331402
29-10-2021||Patiala||Young Patiala Reads organises ‘Meet the author’ event||Members of ‘Young Patiala Reads’, a local book club for youngsters, held a ‘meet the author’ event recently. Noted American author Kathryn Erskine interacted with students in an engrossing online session. Erskine has written nine books till now and her next book, ‘My dad is a DJ’, will be out soon. The session was dedicated to Kathryn’s much-acclaimed book “Mockingbird” that has won around 15 prestigious awards. The session was attended by Avrita Dang ( Apeejay School, Jalandhar), Manasvi Bansal ( The British Co-Ed High School, Patiala), Avraj Manchanda ( YPS, Patiala), Aahana Goel ( YPS, Patiala), Issmat Kaur ( Our Lady of Fatima Convent School, Patiala), Aishmeen ( Budha Dal Public School, Patiala) and Drishti Goyal ( YPS, Mohali). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/patiala/young-patiala-reads-organises-meet-the-author-event-331403
