27-03-2021||World||Bhutan rolls out nationwide Covid-19 vaccination program||Bhutan initiated its nationwide Covid-19 vaccination program on Saturday.A 30-year-old woman was the first one to get a jab of Covishield vaccine on Saturday morning in Thimphu city, reported XinhuaBhutan Prime Minister, Lotay Tshering, took his jab right after returning from Bangladesh a day before and is currently in his quarantine period, according to an update from Prime Minister's office.In order to spread awareness about the safety of the Covid-19 vaccine and that it far outweighs the risk of the Covid-19 virus, the prime minister decided to get vaccinated on the first day along with his family of 50 members.Cabinet ministers have also been inoculated along with other parliament representatives.Vaccines have been distributed to all 20 districts across the country, as the country expects to run the mass vaccination within a week's time.Earlier, Bhutan thanked the people of India and Prime Minister Narendra Modi for sending consignments of Covid vaccine that would cover its population of slightly over 533,500.Bhutan was the first country to receive India's gift of the Covid vaccines, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII). Bhutan received the first consignment of 1.5 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine Covishield as a gift from India in January. Earlier this week as it received a gift of additional 400,000 doses of Covishield from India.Bhutan is likely to be one of the first countries to protect its entire population against Covid-19, with assistance from India, according to a release.According to Johns Hopkins University data, Bhutan has reported 869 coronavirus cases and one death so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bhutan-rolls-out-nationwide-covid-19-vaccination-program-101616868524308.html
27-03-2021||World||'No accident': Georgia governor signs voting bill under slave plantation painting, sparks row||Amid criticism of Georgia’s new voting rules, some Twitter users have pointed to a problematic detail about a photograph of Brian Kemp, governor of the US state, in which he can be seen signing the bill into law while being surrounded by other white politicians. In a series of tweets, The Philadelphia Inquirer columnist Will Bunch highlighted the details of a painting hanging behind Kemp in the photograph. Bunch said that the 98-page measure to “limit Black voting” was signed under the image of a “notorious slave plantation in Wilkes County” where more than 100 Black people had been enslaved.Sharing a link to the ExploreGeorgia website, Bunch said that the Callaway Plantation spread in 56-acre “only thrived because of the back-breaking labor of more than 100 slaves who were held in cruel human bondage”. He said the harsh reality of life for slaves in the era of the Callaway Plantation is captured in the oral-history of Mariah Callaway, a woman who was born into slavery on the Willis plantation.“There were some slaves who were unruly; so the master built a house off to itself and called it the Willis jail. Here he would keep those whom he had to punish. I have known some slaves to run away on other plantations and the hounds would bite plugs out of their legs,” Callaway has noted in the oral history “Slave Narrative of Mariah Callaway”.3. If you scroll about halfway down this PDF link, you can see that the painting is clearly "Brickhouse Road -- Callaway PLNT" (PLNT for "Plantation...subtle, right?) by artist Olessia Maximenko from Wilkes County, GA https://t.co/rnUGyhs9wR pic.twitter.com/mkd04jbXs5The columnist, who later published an op-ed in The Philadephia Inquiry on the same issue, said that the symbolism of the photograph is no accident. US President Joe Biden on Friday called the sweeping voting restrictions “Jim Crow in the 21st century”, comparing it with the 19th-century law that legalised racial segregation and disenfranchised Black citizens in America’s South.“Brian Kemp and his white henchmen have created an image for our times, in working to continue a tradition of inhumanity and white supremacy that now spans centuries, from the human bondage that took place behind the placid scenery of Brickhouse Road in Wilkes County, to the suppression now hidden behind a phony facade of ‘voter integrity,’” tweeted Bunch.The Election Integrity Act of 2021 empowers the state election board to interfere in the election offices of 159 counties in Georgia and imposes ID requirements for absentee ballots, replacing the earlier system that required only signatures. The law also restricts people from handing out anything, including food and water, to voters in the queue and shortens the time for runoffs in the state from nine weeks to four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/georgia-governor-signs-voting-bill-under-slave-plantation-painting-sparks-row-101616862914324.html
27-03-2021||World||Air France said to be near deal for state rescue plan||The French government is close to finalizing a recapitalization plan for Air France after addressing some antitrust concerns raised by the European Commission, according to people familiar with the matter.The multi-billion-euro package could be announced in coming days following final approval from Brussels and the board of parent Air France-KLM, said the people, who asked not to be named because the information isn’t public.A spokeswoman for Air France declined to comment, as did the government. The European Commission said it’s in discussion with French authorities and “won’t prejudge the timing or outcome of these contacts.”France and the Netherlands, which own a combined 28% stake in Air France-KLM, have been in talks for months on follow-on funding plan after granting the group 10.4 billion euros ($12.3 billion) in direct loans and state-backed guarantees last year. The carrier, which had net debt of 11 billion euros at the end of last year, has said it’s planning to raise equity and quasi-equity.France has said it plans to provide support to the French brand, while seeking to soften Commission demands for measures aimed at boosting competition, including the surrender of coveted landing rights at Paris-Orly and Amsterdam Schiphol airports. The Netherlands has also pledged aid.As part of its state-aid deal last year, Deutsche Lufthansa AG agreed to hand 24 slots a day in Munich and Frankfurt to rivals, according to an EU document. Les Echos reported Thursday that Air France will need to give up fewer positions at Orly, together with some at its main Paris Charles de Gaulle hub.Lufthansa’s deal also stipulates that it can’t acquire a stake of more than 10% in an operator in the same line of business until at least 75% of the aid is repaid. Dividends, share buybacks and executive pay are also curtailed.Air France-KLM last month reported an increase in cash burn in the last three months of 2020. Chief Financial Officer Frederic Gagey said a recapitalization was due within days or weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/air-france-said-to-be-near-deal-for-state-rescue-plan-101616834449262.html
27-03-2021||World||As Covid-19 daily deaths near 4,000, worst may lie ahead for Brazil||Brazil currently accounts for one-quarter of the entire world’s daily Covid-19 deaths, far more than any other single nation, and health experts are warning that the nation is on the verge of even greater calamity.The nation’s seven-day average of 2,400 deaths stands to reach to 3,000 within weeks, six experts told the Associated Press. That’s nearly the worst level seen by the US, though Brazil has two-thirds its population. Spikes of daily deaths could soon hit 4,000; on Friday there were 3,650.Having glimpsed the abyss, there is growing recognition shutdowns are no longer avoidable -- not just among experts, but also many mayors and governors. Restrictions on activity they implemented last year were half-hearted and consistently sabotaged by President Jair Bolsonaro, who sought to stave off economic doom. He remains unconvinced of any need for clampdown, which leaves local leaders pursuing a patchwork of measures to prevent the death toll from spiraling further.It may be too late, with a more contagious variant rampaging across Brazil. For the first time, new daily cases topped 100,000 on March 25, with many more uncounted. Miguel Nicolelis, professor of Neurobiology at Duke University who advised several Brazilian governors and mayors on pandemic control, anticipates the total death toll reaching 500,000 by July and exceeding that of the U.S. by year-end.“We have surpassed levels never imagined for a country with a public health care system, a history of efficient immunization campaigns and health workers who are second to none in the world,” said Nicolelis, who is also an epidemiologist. “The next stage is the health system collapse.”The system is already buckling, with almost all states’ intensive care units near or at capacity. Dr. José Antônio Curiati, a supervisor at Sao Paulo's Hospital das Clinicas, the biggest hospital complex in Latin America, said its beds are full, but patients keep arriving. The city's oxygen supply isn't guaranteed, and stocks of sedatives required for intubation in intensive care units will soon run out.“Four thousand deaths a day seems to be right around the corner," Curiati said.On March 17 in northeastern Piaui state, nurse Polyena Silveira wept beside a COVID-19 patient who died on the floor for lack of beds at her public hospital. A photo capturing the moment went viral and served as a national wake-up call.“When he was gone, I had two minutes to feel sorry before moving to the next patient,” Silveira, 33, told the AP. “In eight years as a nurse, I'd never felt as much pain as that night. I'm near my limit, physically and mentally.”Brazil's state-run science and technology institute, Fiocruz, on Tuesday called for a 14-day lockdown to reduce transmission by 40%. Natalia Pasternak, a microbiologist who presides over the Question of Science Institute, pointed to a local example of success: The mid-size city of Araraquara in Sao Paulo state last month implemented lockdown and has seen its cases and deaths recede.Pasternak declined to estimate Brazil’s looming daily death toll but said the trend is for continued growth if nothing is done.“We need coordinated action, and that’s probably not going to happen because the federal government has no real interest in pursuing preventative actions,” Pasternak said. “(Mayors and governors) are trying to implement preventative measures, but separately and in their own ways. This isn’t the best approach, but it’s better than nothing.”Minas Gerais, Brazil’s second most populous state, has closed nonessential shops. Espirito Santo state will enter lockdown Sunday. Brazil’s two biggest cities, Rio and Sao Paulo, have imposed extensive restrictions on nonessential activities. Their state authorities brought forward holidays to create a 10-day period of repose, which started Friday.Restrictive measures, however, are only as strong as citizens' compliance. And Bolsonaro continues to undermine their willingness by painting even partial shutdown as an assault on one's right to earn an honest day’s wages. He has lashed out at local leaders, particularly governors, who dare defy him.“We need to open our eyes and understand this is no joke,” Rio's Mayor Eduardo Paes said in a recorded message on the eve of the 10-day shutdown, stressing that no mayor wants to cause unemployment. “People are dying and, if everything continues as is, nothing is done, God only knows what could happen. No one knows this disease's limit. No one knows how many variants could emerge.”Hundreds of protesters marched along Rio’s Copacabana beach the next morning. Most sported green-and-yellow shirts that are a hallmark of pro-Bolsonaro rallies and many declined to wear masks. They chanted “We want to work!” and directed vitriol at Paes.The World Health Organization’s director, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, on Monday called for everyone in Brazil to muster a serious response -- “whether it’s the government or the people.”“It’s a concerted effort of all actors that will really reverse this upward trend. It is actually very fast and accelerating really, really fast,” he said. “Especially we’re worried about the (weekly) death rate, which doubled in just one month from 7,000 to 15,000.”The virus's spread has been turbocharged by the more contagious P1 variant that has become cause for concern beyond Brazil’s borders, not just in South America. It has already been identified in the U.S., this week in New York. Dr. Anthony Fauci, the top U.S. infectious disease expert, said Wednesday that his team will be meeting with Brazilian authorities and are “quite concerned” about the situation in Brazil.The U.S. has seen its death toll plunge since late January amid a massive vaccine rollout, and its seven-day average has dipped below 1,000. By contrast, Brazil’s vaccine rollout has been strained, at best. The government bet big on a single vaccine provider, AstraZeneca, while for months rejecting offers to purchase others. Only after delivery delays from AstraZeneca jeopardized rollout did Brazil’s health ministry begin buying — but too late for most deliveries to arrive in the first half of this year.The nation has fully vaccinated less than 2% of its citizens, which experts widely consider an embarrassment for a country long regarded as a global model for vaccination programs.More than 500 of the nation’s most influential economists and executives this week wrote an open letter calling for mass vaccination and decrying the situation. They said that controversy regarding economic impacts of social distancing is a false dilemma and all levels of government should be prepared to implement emergency lockdown.While Brazil’s economy didn’t contract as much as regional peers last year, the worsening health crisis casts a shadow over the 2021, according to William Jackson, chief emerging markets economist at Capital Economics. GDP will return to pre-crisis levels late this year, at earliest, marking a rather weak recovery relative to other emerging markets.Monica de Bolle, a Brazilian senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, is more pessimistic, and expects another recession in 2021. Exactly how bad things become in coming months hinges on whether the P1 variant is already dominant nationwide, and is proven to cause reinfections or be more severe.Either way, there’s no time left to delay decisive action, she said.“All in all, it’s a huge disaster,” said de Bolle, who has done postgraduate studies in immunology and genetics. “Could have been avoided; wasn’t. Very difficult to fix now. The only real fix is a very harsh lockdown with the population really abiding by it, which may be a hard sell.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-covid-19-daily-deaths-near-4-000-worst-may-lie-ahead-for-brazil-101616852147851.html
27-03-2021||World||Myanmar security forces kill over 90 in deadliest day since coup||Security forces killed more than 90 people, including some children, across Myanmar on Saturday in one of the bloodiest days of protests since a military coup last month, news reports and witnesses said.The lethal crackdown, which took place on Armed Forces Day, drew strong renewed criticism from Western countries. British Ambassador Dan Chugg said the security forces had "disgraced themselves" and the U.S. envoy called the violence horrifying.Senior General Min Aung Hlaing, the junta leader, said during a parade to mark Armed Forces Day that the military would protect the people and strive for democracy.Also Read: Concerned by loss of lives in Myanmar, India calls for restraintState television had said on Friday that protesters risked being shot "in the head and back". Despite this, demonstrators came out on the streets of Yangon, Mandalay and other towns, as they have done almost daily since the Feb. 1 coup that ousted elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi.The Myanmar Now news portal said 91 people were killed across the country by security forces.At least 29 people, including a 13-year-old girl, were killed in Mandalay, and at least 24 people were killed in Yangon, Myanmar Now said. A boy as young as five was earlier reported among the dead in Mandalay but there were conflicting reports later that he may have survived. Another 13-year-old was among the dead in the central Sagaing region."Today is a day of shame for the armed forces," Dr. Sasa, a spokesman for CRPH, an anti-junta group set up by deposed lawmakers, told an online forum.Meanwhile, one of Myanmar's two dozen ethnic armed groups, the Karen National Union, said it had overrun an army post near the Thai border, killing 10 people - including a lieutenant colonel - and losing one of its own fighters.A military spokesman did not respond to calls seeking comment on the killings by security forces or the insurgent attack on its post."They are killing us like birds or chickens, even in our homes," said Thu Ya Zaw in the central town of Myingyan, where at least two protesters were killed. "We will keep protesting regardless... We must fight until the junta falls."The deaths on Saturday would take the number of civilians reported killed since the coup to well over 400.'TERROR AND DISHONOUR'U.S. Ambassador Thomas Vajda said on social media: "This bloodshed is horrifying," adding "Myanmar’s people have spoken clearly: they do not want to live under military rule."Also Read | Myanmar coup: UN rights expert 'terrified' as more military deployed in cities ahead of public demonstrationsBritish foreign minister Dominic Raab said the killing of unarmed civilians and children marked a new low, while the EU delegation to Myanmar said Saturday would "forever stay engraved as a day of terror and dishonour."News reports said there were deaths in Sagaing, Lashio in the east, in the Bago region, near Yangon, and elsewhere. A one-year-old baby was hit in the eye with a rubber bullet.Min Aung Hlaing, speaking at the parade in the capital Naypyitaw, reiterated a promise to hold elections, without giving any time-frame."The army seeks to join hands with the entire nation to safeguard democracy," he said in a live broadcast on state television. "Violent acts that affect stability and security in order to make demands are inappropriate."The military has said it took power because November elections won by Suu Kyi's party were fraudulent, an assertion dismissed by the country's election commission. Suu Kyi remains in detention at an undisclosed location and many other figures in her party are also being held in custody.RUSSIA 'A TRUE FRIEND'New U.S. and European sanctions this week increased external pressure on the junta, but the condemnation is not universal.Russia's deputy defence minister Alexander Fomin attended the parade in Naypyitaw, having met senior junta leaders a day earlier."Russia is a true friend," Min Aung Hlaing said.Diplomats said eight countries - Russia, China, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Vietnam, Laos and Thailand - sent representatives, but Russia was the only one to send a minister to the parade on Armed Forces Day, which commemorates the start of the resistance to Japanese occupation in 1945.Support from Russia and China, which has also refrained from criticism, is important for the junta as those two countries are permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and can block potential U.N. actions.In its warning on Friday evening, state television said protesters were "in danger of getting shot to the head and back". It did not specifically say security forces had been given shoot-to-kill orders and the junta has previously suggested some fatal shootings have come from within the crowds.Gunshots hit the U.S. cultural centre in Yangon on Saturday, but nobody was hurt and the incident was being investigated, U.S. Embassy spokesperson Aryani Manring said.Author and historian Thant Myint-U wrote on Twitter: "Even after weeks of appalling violence, today's killing of civilians is shocking both in nature and scale, with again children amongst the dead, and deserves the world's concerted attention and help."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-security-forces-kill-over-90-in-horrifying-day-of-bloodshed-101616859275959.html
27-03-2021||World||Venezuelan President Maduro's Facebook account frozen over misinformation||Facebook said Saturday that it was "freezing" Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro's page for a month after repeated violations of the platform's rules against Covid-19 misinformation."Due to repeated violations of our rules, we are also freezing the page for 30 days, during which it will be read-only," a Facebook spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/venezuelan-president-maduro-s-facebook-account-frozen-over-misinformation-101616857903254.html
27-03-2021||World||Amid Covid-19 surge, Philippines to reimpose stricter curbs in capital||The Philippines will reimpose stricter quarantine measures in the capital Manila and nearby provinces, a senior official said on Saturday, as the country battles to contain a surge in Covid-19 cases that put a bigger strain on hospitals.Presidential spokesman Harry Roque said the measures would be in effect from March 29 to April 4.The health ministry on Saturday reported 9,595 new coronavirus cases, marking the second straight day the daily jump in infections remained above 9,000. The country posted a record rise in three of the past five days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-covid-19-surge-philippines-to-reimpose-stricter-curbs-in-capital-101616842650528.html
27-03-2021||World||Spain to require arrivals by land from France to present negative Covid test||Spain is to require people arriving by land from France to present a negative Covid-19 test, the Health Ministry said on Saturday, amid rising numbers of French arrivals and an uptick in Spain's coronavirus rate.Anyone arriving by land from risk areas will have to present a negative PCR (polymerase chain reaction) test that was taken within 72 hours prior to their arrival."The order will take effect three days after its publication in the Official State Gazette and until the government declares the end of the health crisis situation caused by Covid-19," the Health Ministry said in a statement.The new requirement will not apply to truck drivers, cross-border workers, and people who live within 30 kilometres (20 miles) of the border.Many French people, weary of their own lockdown, have been flocking over the border to enjoy open bars and restaurants in areas such as Madrid.But Spain's coronavirus infection rate has continued to climb steadily over the past week, suggesting a long decline could be in danger of reversing.The rate, which is measured over the preceding 14 days, rose on Friday to 138.6 per 100,000 people from 134 on Thursday, the Health Ministry said. It reported 7,586 new cases, bringing Spain's overall tally to 3.26 million. The death toll rose by 590 to 75,010.The Health Ministry said risk areas were those classified by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. The centre's map shows that includes the whole of France.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spain-to-require-arrivals-by-land-from-france-to-present-negative-covid-test-101616842674588.html
27-03-2021||World||Indonesia sees vaccination slowdown as India delays shipments||Indonesia expects a slowdown in Covid-19 inoculations next month as India delays shipments of AstraZeneca vaccines, its health minister said on Saturday.India has put a temporary hold on all major exports of the AstraZeneca coronavirus shot made by Serum Institute of India (SII), prioritising domestic demand as infections rise, Reuters reported earlier this week.India's move will affect supplies to the GAVI/WHO-backed global COVAX vaccine-sharing facility, through which 64 lower-income countries including Indonesia are supposed to get doses from SII.Indonesia, which is suffering one of the worst coronavirus outbreaks in Asia, was scheduled to receive 2.5 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine through the COVAX programme on March 22 and 7.8 million doses next month, Health Minister Budi Gunadi Sadikin told a media briefing."This definitely will affect (the vaccination process) because in April we only have around 7 million doses from Sinovac," Budi said, referring to the Chinese maker of rival vaccines which has also been supplying Indonesia.As Indonesia is injecting around 500,000 doses per day, the supply for April will be used within around two weeks, he added.Indonesia had received 1.1 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine at the start of the month and had started their rollout this week.Southeast Asia's biggest country launched its immunisation programme in January and aims to reach 181.5 million people within a year.As of Saturday, roughly 3.2 million people had been fully vaccinated, official data showed. Some 1.49 million people have been infected in Indonesia since the start of the pandemic and more than 40,000 killed."We are still lobbying GAVI in the hope of securing even a small number of doses from AstraZeneca in April," Budi said.He said GAVI, an alliance of countries, companies and charities that promotes vaccination, had indicated to the government that shipments may resume in May but this was not yet certain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-sees-vaccination-slowdown-as-india-delays-shipments-101616856104748.html
27-03-2021||World||China sanctions US, Canada individuals as Xinjiang spat deepens||China announced retaliatory sanctions on individuals in the US and Canada in a widening spat over allegations of human-rights abuses in Xinjiang province.The sanctions targeting the chair of the US Commission on International Religious Freedom and a Canadian lawmaker were made in response to penalties announced a week ago by the US and China, measures that were “based on rumors and disinformation,” the Chinese Foreign Ministry said in a statement posted on its website Saturday.The Chinese government is “firmly determined” to safeguard its national sovereignty, security and development interests, and urges the relevant parties “to clearly understand the situation and redress their mistakes,” the ministry said.The measures ratchet up tension with the West after several countries levied sanctions on China over allegations of abuse of minority ethnic Uyghurs in the western province of Xinjiang. Beijing denies such allegations, routinely dismissing them as lies.“They must stop political manipulation on Xinjiang-related issues, stop interfering in China’s internal affairs in any form and re rain from going further down the wrong path,” the statement said. “Otherwise, they will get their fingers burnt.”The sanctions target USCIRF Chair Gayle Manchin, who is the wife of Democratic Senator Joe Manchin; USCIRF Vice Chair Tony Perkins; Canadian MP Michael Chong, and the Subcommittee on International Human Rights of the Canadian Parliament’s Foreign Affairs committee.Those concerned are prohibited from entering China, Hong Kong and Macau, while Chinese citizens and institutions are prohibited from doing business with the individuals and having exchanges with the committee. China’s previous sanctions on US individuals “who have seriously undermined China’s sovereignty and interests on Xinjiang-related issues remain effective,” the ministry said.China sanctioned European politicians and a think tank earlier this week, including a German and a French member of the European Parliament and a former leader of Britain’s ruling Conservative Party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-sanctions-us-canada-individuals-as-xinjiang-spat-deepens-101616853822279.html
27-03-2021||World||Covid-19 vaccines haven't cured loneliness in New York nursing homes||Vaccines have begun saving lives in New York's nursing homes, but they haven't yet cured another crisis caused by the pandemic: loneliness.Persistently high rates of Covid-19 have left the majority of the state's nursing homes off limits to visitors, despite relaxed guidance meant to help reopen them.Until this week, under state and federal rules, they could admit visitors only if they had no new infections among either patients or staff for 14 days.That mark proved too hard for most to reach. A little more than half of the state’s 616 nursing homes were ineligible for indoor visits in mid-March, according to an Associated Press analysis of data from the US Centers for Medicaid and Medicare. That’s the highest percentage of any state.New York updated its visitation rules Thursday in a way that will now allow visits to resume under certain conditions, even if a resident or staffer has recently tested positive. But that relaxed standard might not clear the way for visitation in many homes having trouble keeping the virus out.The lack of visits has frustrated people like Debbie Barbano, who has been able to see her 69-year-old mother at a central New York nursing home only through a window.“When this hit last year, it was like a bullet to your chest,” Barbano said. “She didn’t understand why I wasn’t coming. It was like I was abandoning her.”Under New York’s new guidelines, homes would still have to halt visits after any resident or staffer tested positive, but they could potentially resume for some patients if a thorough round of further testing revealed the outbreak was confined to just one part of the facility.It’s unclear, though, exactly how that guidance will be applied and whether the change would mostly affect large homes with multiple buildings, floors or units with little mingling of staff or residents between units.State Health Commissioner Howard Zucker has justified restrictions on visits by pointing to a winter surge that infected 15,000 nursing home residents, killing at least 3,000.The federal program to vaccinate nursing home residents has helped drive down Covid-19 outbreaks and deaths in nursing homes nationwide. In New York, 41 nursing home residents died of Covid-19 in the second week in March, down from 382 for the week ending Jan. 17.Decreased infections nationwide have allowed 80% of nursing homes nationally eligible to open doors by mid-March, including the vast majority of nearly 1,200 facilities in California.Infections in New York are dropping more quickly among nursing home residents than among staffers. Some workers have been hesitant to take the vaccine. And as New York City and its suburbs see an uptick in cases, the state’s data shows just 68% of nursing home residents and 51% of staffers in New York City have been vaccinated.“Nursing homes have finally started to see the light at the end of the tunnel,” said Christopher Laxton, executive director of the Society for Post-Acute and Long-Term Care Medicine, whose group is seeking clarify on the new rules from the US Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. “But we’re not out of the tunnel. We’re seeing the end of it.”Meanwhile, some relatives are fighting to see loved ones.Family members in New York and nationwide who have organized on Facebook groups say their loved ones are losing weight, falling, declining cognitively, dying alone and suffering from lack of attention. Federal and state guidance allows compassionate care visits, but families in New York and elsewhere say nursing homes don’t always allow them.Laura Corridi, a 56-year-old senior programmer analyst in Hamlin, New York, has driven an hour and a half on the weekends to stand outside her 93-year-old mother’s nursing home and shout to her through a window throughout the past year.“She gets very upset sometimes,” Corridi said. “She’ll say: ‘It’s cold out. You can’t be out there.’ She starts to cry, ‘Why don’t they let you in?’ She doesn’t want me standing out in the cold.”State lawmakers passed a bill this year that would allow nursing home residents to designate as many as two caregivers who can visit them even if general visitation isn’t allowed, as long as they get tested and follow other infection protocols.Gov. Andrew Cuomo hasn’t yet signed the legislation, however, and his office didn’t respond to a request for comment on whether he intended to do so. Cuomo has taken political heat over recent revelations that his administration did not disclose the full number of nursing home residents who died during the pandemic's peak.New York is one of at least 17 states where lawmakers are considering similar legislation, according to the AP review.But many New Yorkers with relatives in nursing homes say their loved ones can’t wait for companionship.“They’re dying now,” Karen Costner, of Greece, New York, said. “My mother’s losing her will to live every week. And I need to get in there now.”Zucker told lawmakers last month he’s “very empathetic” to family members, but claimed the state's hands are “tied” by federal guidance.“Too many elderly have been isolated, lonely, frightened,” said Arthur Caplan, director of the division of medical ethics at the New York University Grossman School of Medicine. “Many people with cognitive disabilities have been frightened with seeing everybody in masks and not seeing familiar people.”But Caplan, whose mother died at a Massachusetts nursing home last year, said he still worries not enough is being done to protect vulnerable residents. Staffers should be required to be vaccinated, and visitors must be tested, he urged.“If the staff isn’t vaccinated I think people who have family members in there should be screaming for them to get vaccinated,” Caplan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-vaccines-haven-t-cured-loneliness-in-new-york-nursing-homes-101616852538032.html
27-03-2021||World||Prosecutors struggle with consistent story on US Capitol riots||There’s little doubt the Oath Keepers were planning for something on Jan. 6. The question at the heart of the criminal case against its members and associates in the attack on the US Capitol is: What, exactly, did they intend to do?Authorities suggested for weeks in court hearings and papers that members of the far-right militia group plotted their attack in advance in an effort to block the peaceful transition of power. But prosecutors have since said it is not clear whether the group was targeting the Capitol before Jan. 6.“The plan was to unlawfully stop the certification of the Electoral College vote ... and the plan was to be prepared to use violence if necessary,” Assistant US Attorney Kathryn Rakoczy said during a hearing this month. But the Oath Keepers “did not know precisely the way in which force and violence might be needed to support this plan,” she said.Authorities are still combing through a sea of evidence in what they say is likely the most complex investigation ever prosecuted by the Justice Department. More than 300 people are facing federal charges and more are expected. The most serious charges have been brought against 10 people described as members and associates of the Oath Keepers and several members of another far-right extremist group, the Proud Boys.But as the sprawling investigation has unfolded, prosecutors have sometimes struggled to maintain a consistent narrative and had to walk back statements made in court hearings or in papers. It has created an opening for defense attorneys to try to sow doubt in the case.“The government presented a theory (without evidence) that there was a weeks long plan to invade the Capitol,” an attorney for one of the Oath Keepers, Jessica Watkins, wrote in a recent court filing. “There was no such plan.”In one case, prosecutors declared in court documents in January there was “strong evidence” the pro-Trump mob aimed to “capture and assassinate elected officials." The Justice Department quickly clarified it had no such evidence, blaming it on a miscommunication between prosecutors.After she was pressed by a judge in a recent hearing, Rakoczy conceded authorities “do not have at this point someone explicitly saying, ‘our plan is to force entry into the Capitol in order to stop the certification,’” but cautioned that the investigation is ongoing.“Part of the reason that there wasn’t necessarily as concrete a plan that one might expect is that they were waiting and watching to see what leadership did,” she said.Just a month earlier, Rakoczy told the same judge there’s no other way to read the group’s messages about stationing a “quick reaction force” outside the city other than that they needed weapons available “in the event the activities at the Capitol went badly.”“And those activities at the Capitol were a planned and very well-coordinated attack on the United States Capitol,” she said.Defense attorneys argue any discussions their clients had before Jan. 6 were in reference to providing security at the rally before the riot or protecting themselves against possible attacks from antifa activists.The defendants can still be convicted of conspiring to obstruct Congress even if the plan was formulated only moments before they stormed the Capitol, said Jimmy Gurule, a former federal prosecutor who’s now a professor at the University of Notre Dame law school. And prosecutors have some “pretty compelling circumstantial evidence,” he said.Communications detailed in court documents show the group discussing things like gear and training in the weeks leading up to Jan. 6. One man suggested getting a boat to ferry weapons across the Potomac River into their “waiting arms," authorities say.In December, Kelly Meggs, who officials say was the leader of the Oath Keepers' Florida chapter, wrote in a message that he had “organized an alliance” with the Proud Boys. Days before Jan. 6, Meggs instructed someone to tell their friend “this isn't a rally," authorities say.Many came dressed for battle on Jan. 6 in tactical vests and helmets. The leader of the Oath Keepers, who has not been charged, communicated with some of the defendants over a Signal chat called “DC OP: Jan 6 21," which prosecutors say shows the group was “activating a plan to use force on Jan. 6.”Authorities wrote in court papers that the group not only conspired to “forcibly storm the US Capitol on January 6, 2021 — they planned their attack in advance.” The evidence is “irrefutable,” prosecutors wrote in another document, that Watkins “recruited others to join, trained for, planned, and participated in a coordinated effort to, as she put it, ‘forc(e) entry into the Capitol Building.’”US District Judge Amit Mehta agreed in February to keep Thomas Caldwell, who authorities have portrayed as a leader of the conspiracy, locked up while he awaits trial, saying the evidence showed he “engaged in planning and communications with others ... to plan a potential military-like incursion on the Capitol on January the 6th.”But after Caldwell's lawyer challenged that assessment, the judge reversed his decision and released Caldwell to home confinement. Mehta said there's no evidence he entered the Capitol on Jan. 6 or had been plotting to do so.“Last time we were here 30 days ago, I was convinced that it was a plan to execute an incursion on the Capitol building," the judge told Caldwell's attorney. “You’ve raised some evidence that, I think, rebuts that notion.”The judge has since released other defendants, noting there's no evidence they assaulted anyone at the Capitol or, in some cases, don't appear to be as involved in the planning before Jan. 6.But Mehta on Friday ordered Meggs to remain locked up, calling him a danger to the community. The judge said his communications in the weeks leading up to the attack show he was planning for violence in the streets of Washington even if none specifically mention a plot to storm the Capitol.Prosecutors have also apparently been unable to get on the same page about what to say to the press.A judge recently scolded the Justice Department over a “60 Minutes” interview during which the prosecutor who was leading the investigation suggested some of the rioters could face sedition charges. Former acting District of Columbia US Attorney Michael Sherwin’s interview appeared to violate Justice Department rules and Sherwin is now under internal investigation, a prosecutor told the judge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prosecutors-struggle-with-consistent-story-on-us-capitol-riots-101616849788372.html
27-03-2021||World||US embassy in Myanmar blasts junta for 'murdering unarmed civilians'||The US embassy in Myanmar condemned the junta for "murdering" civilians on Saturday as the military celebrates its Armed Forces Day."Security forces are murdering unarmed civilians, including children, the very people they swore to protect," said a statement released on the embassy's Facebook page."These are not the actions of a professional military or police force."AFP has confirmed at least 24 people were killed across Myanmar on Saturday, though local media has put the death toll far higher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-embassy-in-myanmar-blasts-junta-for-murdering-unarmed-civilians-101616848612321.html
27-03-2021||World||Boris Johnson criticises violence at ‘Kill the Bill’ protests as ‘disgraceful’||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Saturday condemned “disgraceful attacks” on police officers during ‘Kill the Bill’ protests in Bristol on Friday against a new policing law. “Last night saw disgraceful attacks against police officers in Bristol. Our officers should not have to face having bricks, bottles and fireworks being thrown at them by a mob intent on violence and causing damage to property. The police and the city have my full support,” Johnson tweeted.Ten people were arrested by the Bristol City Police, said the Avon and Somerset Police in an official press release. Demonstrators had gathered in front of a police station in Bristol for a sit-down protest against the police, crime, sentencing and courts bill, which is currently going through the British parliament. This was the third such ‘Kill the Bill’ protest in the UK, two other similar protests in Bristol also witnessed clashes between demonstrators and the police.Avon and Somerset Police said on Saturday that police officers were attacked with glass bottles and bricks, fireworks were launched against the mounted police, and one police horse was covered in paint. “Officers repeatedly encouraged people to disperse but once the atmosphere changed and people became physical it was necessary to take action,” said the police in an official statement.Johnson’s home secretary Priti Patel joined him in condemning the attacks. “I am disgusted by the disorder in Bristol and the violence being directed towards the police,” tweeted Patel.The Associated Press reported that police have been accused of a “heavy-handed response and of exaggerating the scale of injuries to officers” after it went back on an initial report of injuries. The UK police have come under the scanner in recent months, starting with the Metropolitan Police breaking up a vigil in memory of Sarah Everard, who was murdered by a police officer, for violating coronavirus restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-criticises-violence-at-kill-the-bill-protests-as-disgraceful-101616847073778.html
27-03-2021||World||UK protesters scuffle with police during rally over new law||Police in the English city of Bristol say they arrested 10 people during a third night of protest against a new policing law.Hundreds of demonstrators against the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Bill staged a sit-down protest outside a police station in the southwest England city on Friday night, and some scuffled with officers in helmets and shields who tried to break up the gathering.The Avon and Somerset Police force said Saturday that eggs, bottles and bricks were thrown at officers and a police horse was daubed with paint.Prime Minister Boris Johnson condemned what he called “disgraceful attacks against police officers in Bristol.”“Our officers should not have to face having bricks, bottles and fireworks being thrown at them by a mob intent on violence and causing damage to property," he said on Twitter. "The police and the city have my full support.”The contentious bill, which is currently going through Parliament, gives police stronger powers to restrict protests. Two other “Kill the Bill” demonstrations against the legislation in Bristol this week also saw clashes. Police blamed a minority of troublemakers among the largely peaceful demonstrators.But some have accused the force of a heavy-handed response and of exaggerating the scale of injuries to officers. Police initially claimed that two had suffered broken bones during a protest that turned into a riot on Sunday. The force later said no officer had fractures but 40 were lightly injured.Police Superintendent Mark Runacres said officers “showed exceptional patience in the face of a significant disorder” and had used “reasonable force.”Police conduct and priorities in Britain have come under intense scrutiny following the death of Sarah Everard, a 33-year-old London woman who disappeared while walking home from a friend’s house on March 3. A serving police officer has been charged with murdering her.Tensions rose when police broke up a vigil in Everard’s memory because it violated coronavirus restrictions barring mass gatherings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-protesters-scuffle-with-police-during-rally-over-new-law-101616844298214.html
27-03-2021||World||Covid vaccine: Social media urged to remove these 12 anti-vaxxers dubbed as ‘Disinformation Dozen’||US House lawmakers on Thursday grilled top executives of Facebook, Twitter, and Google for allowing disinformation and harmful content on their social media platforms. Representative Mike Doyle, a Democrat, challenged Mark Zuckerberg, Jack Dorsey and Sundar Pichai to remove the accounts of 12 leading influential creators of digital anti-vaccine content.The Center for Countering Digital Hate (CCDH), a not-for-profit NGO that seeks to disrupt the architecture of online hate and misinformation, recently published a report on 12 anti-vaxxers “who play leading roles in spreading digital misinformation” about vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). According to the report, the majority of them remain on major social media platforms despite repeated violations of their terms of service.After analysing a sample of anti-vaccine content that was shared on Facebook and Twitter, the study found that 65% of the content could be traced to those 12 individuals, dubbed as “the Disinformation Dozen”. The report called on social media firms to follow their repeated promises with concrete action, adding that “updated policies and statements hold little value unless they are strongly and consistently enforced.”Here’s the list of 12 anti-vaxxers identified in the report:Joseph Mercola: The report claims that Mercola peddles dietary supplements and false cures as alternatives to vaccines. Mercola’s social media accounts on Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram remain active and his combined personal social media accounts have around 3.6 million followers.Robert F Kennedy Jr: The long-standing anti-vaxxer and his Children’s Health Defense (CHD) hosts a range of anti-vaccine articles. Kennedy’s personal Instagram account was banned on February 8, but his Facebook page remains active, as does the CHD’s Instagram page.Ty and Charlene Bollinger: The anti-vax entrepreneur duo has a network of accounts that market books and DVDs about vaccines, cancer and Covid-19. The Bollingers have promoted the conspiracy theory that Bill Gates plans to inject everyone with microchips as part of a vaccination program.Sherri Tenpenny: The osteopath physician is accused of spreading anti-vaccine sentiment and false claims about the safety and efficacy of masks. While Facebook has removed her account, Twitter and Instagram have not de-platformed her yet.Rizza Islam: He promoted the false conspiracy theory that Covid-19 vaccines make women infertile in a tweet last June. Rizza Islam’s anti-vaccine posts aim to spread vaccine hesitancy amongst African Americans, the report said. Facebook removed Rizza Islam’s Facebook Page in February, but he continues to post anti-vaccine messages from his Instagram and Twitter accounts.Rashid Buttar: The osteopath physician and conspiracy theorist is known for videos posted on his YouTube channel. In a Facebook post, Buttar claimed that Covid vaccines cause infertility. His Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram accounts are active.Erin Elizabeth: Mercola’s partner runs a prominent ‘alternative health’ website with affiliated newsletter and social media accounts. In an Instagram post, she claimed that vaccines are part of a medical industry plan to create “a chronically-ill population”.Sayer Ji: He runs a popular alternative health website, GreenMedInfo.com, and affiliated social media accounts that promote pseudoscience and anti-vaccine misinformation. Recently, he shared claims on his Facebook account that the Pfizer vaccine has killed more people than Covid. GreenMedInfo accounts on Twitter and Instagram have been removed but is still available on Facebook.Kelly Brogan: Brogan, Sayer Ji’s partner, claims to practice “holistic psychiatry” and sells a range of books and courses from her website. Last year, she posted messages on Instagram encouraging users not to wear masks.Christiane Northrup: Northrup is an obstetrics and gynaecology physician who has embraced alternative medicine and anti-vaccine conspiracies. Northrup shared a link to Google Doc on Facebook that recommends HCQ and Ivermectin among several substances as cures for Covid-19. She also claimed that vaccines cause an 800% increase in chronic illness. Her Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram accounts are active.Ben Tapper: A chiropractor with a growing following on social media, Tapper has routinely posted disinformation on coronavirus and spoken out against wearing a mask.Kevin Jenkins: The anti-vaccine activist has appeared at public events with Robert F Kennedy where has called vaccines a “conspiracy” to “wipe out” black people. Jenkins is a co-founder of the Freedom Airway & Freedom Travel Alliance, a company founded in late 2020 to help its members travel around the world without observing any masking, quarantining, vaccination, or other pandemic control measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/disinformation-dozen-social-media-urged-to-remove-these-12-antivaxxers-101616843774586.html
27-03-2021||World||UK police probe school sexual assault claims flooding website||British police are looking into cases of sexual assault reported by girls amid a deluge of witness testimonies collated online that is embroiling some of the country's top private schools.Nearly 6,000 incidents have been described anonymously on the website "Everyone's Invited". Its founder Soma Sara said they exposed a "rape culture" in schools and beyond.The harrowing accounts by schoolgirls come after a London police officer was remanded in custody on March 16, charged with the kidnap and murder of a woman who vanished as she walked home.The disappearance of Sarah Everard sparked outrage and a national debate on women's safety, and raised pressure on London's Metropolitan Police force after officers broke up a vigil for Everard, forcibly dragging away some female protesters.The Met said officers were determining whether any potential victims at schools could be encouraged to report crimes, and "a number of reports of specific offences" were being examined.Incidents involving boys from more than 100 schools have been collated, including some attending elite fee-paying ones such as Sherborne, Westminster and Eton -- where Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Prince William studied.Pupils demanding change at the private Highgate School in London walked out of classes this week after a dossier with more than 200 testimonies by former and current students was published online. The school said it was launching an independent review."I think it's more widespread than private schools," Detective Superintendent Mel Laremore, the Met's lead officer for rape and sexual offences, stressed on BBC radio Saturday."I think we're still looking into the exact scope of how wide this is spread. But certainly I know there's already over 100 schools cited on the website, which do reach out to national parameters," she said.However, private schools are not obliged to adhere to the government's "safer schools" guidance followed by state schools, Laremore noted.University student Sara, who started sharing witness testimonies in June 2020 after suffering an assault herself, said the focus should go beyond a handful of elite schools."When we narrow our focus on a school, a demographic, or as an individual, we risk making these cases seem like anomalies. But this isn't rare, it happens all the time," she wrote in Friday's i newspaper."When we direct the blame onto a person or place we are undermining the most important message: rape culture is everywhere. And because it's everywhere it affects everyone."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-police-probe-school-sexual-assault-claims-flooding-website-101616844306320.html
27-03-2021||World||Iran, China sign 25-year cooperation accord: Iranian state media||The Chinese and Iranian foreign ministers on Saturday signed a 25-year cooperation agreement between the two allies in a ceremony carried lived on state television."Our relations with Iran will not be affected by the current situation, but will be permanent and strategic," Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi was earlier quoted by Iranian news agencies as saying."Iran decides independently on its relations with other countries and is not like some countries that change their position with one phone call."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-china-sign-25-year-cooperation-accord-iranian-state-media-101616841614806.html
27-03-2021||World||Hong Kong looks at easing travel for vaccinated residents: Carrie Lam||Hong Kong is looking into making it easier for vaccinated residents to travel to encourage more people to get inoculated, Chief Executive Carrie Lam said in a statement on Saturday.“We have been actively studying whether social distancing measures can be further adjusted if a certain number of people are vaccinated, and we will discuss with other regions whether we can mutually provide travel convenience to vaccinated tourists,” Lam said in an emailed release.About 430,000 people in Hong Kong have received at least the first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine since the city began inoculating on Feb. 26, according to Lam. This accounts for 6.6% of people in Hong Kong aged 16 or older who are eligible for inoculation, she said.The city’s vaccination campaign suffered a setback this week when it and Macau temporarily suspended shots manufactured by BioNTech SE because of packaging defects. The suspension risks eroding public confidence in the inoculation, which gave Hong Kong residents an alternative to the one made by Chinese firm Sinovac Biotech Ltd.BioNTech and Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical Group Co., which has the rights to market the mRNA vaccine across mainland China, Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan, have initiated an investigation into the issue, according to statements from the Hong Kong and Macau governments.The former British colony’s vaccine roll-out has been beset by challenges including a number of post-vaccine deaths, public distrust in the Beijing-backed government and widespread hesitation.Hong Kong has imposed a stringent tracing and testing program and conducted 100,000 nucleic acid tests a day on average in March, according to Lam. After an outbreak in a gym near the city center this month, an average of 10 close contacts were identified for each confirmed case. About 1,500 people from the cluster were sent to quarantine centers and some 3,300 people underwent virus testing, the chief executive said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-looks-at-easing-travel-for-vaccinated-residents-carrie-lam-101616836915404.html
27-03-2021||World||Explained: Georgia's new voting law that Biden called 'Jim Crow in 21st century'||US President Joe Biden criticised the new voting law in the state of Georgia, in a statement on Friday, and compared it to Jim Crow laws, put in place in the 19th century to legalise racial segregation and disenfranchise Black citizens in America’s South. "This is Jim Crow in the 21st Century. It must end," Biden said. Biden said that the law was an attack on the US constitution and the justice department was “taking a look” at it.The 98-page measure, which was signed into law on Thursday by Republican governor Brian Kemp, intends to make several changes in the way elections are conducted in the state. The Democrat party has said that the law will restrict voting access, especially for people of colour. The Republican party claims that the new law will help to restore the confidence which people have lost in Georgia’s elections after the 2020 elections.Why is the law being imposed in Georgia?The state of Georgia was at the centre of the US presidential election last year as it was termed as one of the battleground states. The state had continued to vote for the Republican party but this changed in the 2020 election as Biden became the first Democrat candidate to win Georgia since 1992. Analysts believed that the state turned blue as a large number of people of colour voted for the Democrat party.After the elections, the state became the centre of claims of voter fraud that were made by former president Donald Trump and the Republican party, so much so, that Trump pressured elected officials in the state, repeatedly, to investigate the claims. In the two Senate run-off races in January, Democrats took control of the US Senate as Georgia Republicans lost. Despite the gains made by the Democrats, the government in Georgia is still controlled by the Republicans which brought the Election Integrity Act of 2021.What does the new law say?The law gives the state election board powers to interfere in the election offices of 159 counties of the state and imposes ID requirements for absentee ballots, replacing the current system that required only signatures. The law also limits the use of ballot drop boxes which are said to make voting easier. The law also makes handing out anything, including food and water to people queuing to vote, a misdemeanour. The new law also shortens the time for runoffs in the state from nine weeks to four weeks, thus reducing the span of runoffs in Georgia which is the only state in the US that mandates runoff elections between the top two candidates in case no candidate achieves a majority.What will happen next?Three groups, the New Georgia Project, Black Voters Matter and Rise Inc, have already filed lawsuits against the law saying the law violates the First and 14th amendments of the US Constitution and some parts of the federal Voting Rights Act. “These unjustified measures will individually and cumulatively operate to impose unconstitutional burdens on the right to vote, to deny or abridge the voting rights of Black Georgians, and to deny Black voters in Georgia an equal opportunity to participate in the electoral process and elect candidates of their choice,” the groups said in the lawsuit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-georgia-s-new-voting-law-that-biden-called-jim-crow-in-21st-century-101616839811457.html
27-03-2021||World||Explainer: What does Georgia's new GOP election law do?||The sweeping rewrite of Georgia's election rules represents the first big set of changes since former President Donald Trump's repeated, baseless claims of fraud following his presidential loss to Joe Biden.Georgia has been at the center of that storm. Trump zeroed in on his loss in the state, even as two Democrats won election to the US Senate in January, flipping control of the chamber to their party. The 98-page measure that was signed into law Thursday by Republican Gov. Brian Kemp makes numerous changes to how elections will be administered, including a new photo ID requirement for voting absentee by mail.Republican supporters say the law is needed to restore confidence in Georgia’s elections. Democrats say it will restrict voting access, especially for voters of color. Here's a look at some of the top issues:Can the state take over local election offices?Much of the work administering elections in Georgia is handled by the state’s 159 counties. The law gives the State Election Board new powers to intervene in county election offices and to remove and replace local election officials. That has led to concerns that the Republican-controlled state board could exert more influence over the administration of elections, including the certification of county results.One target for intervention could be Fulton County, a Democratic stronghold that contains most of Atlanta. The heavily populated county has been plagued by problems, including long lines, and it is often singled out by Republican officials. Under the law, the board could intervene in up to four counties at a time and install a temporary superintendent with the ability to hire and fire personnel including elections directors and poll officers.Are people banned from handing out snacks or water to voters in line?The new law makes it a misdemeanor to hand out “any money or gifts, including, but not limited to, food and drink” to anyone standing in line to vote. The prohibition extends 150 feet from a polling place and 25 feet from any person standing in line.Advocates of the law say they are attempting to crack down on political organizations or advocacy groups trying to influence voters just before they cast a ballot. Critics say it’s cruel and would penalize even nonpartisan groups or individuals for something as simple as giving water to someone waiting in a long line. Democratic state Senate Minority Leader Gloria Butler slammed the proposal Thursday before the bill was signed into law, saying: “They want to make it a crime to bring Grandma some water while she’s waiting in line.”Polling places would be able to, but not required to, set up self-serve water dispensers for voters.Does the bill eliminate Sunday voting?Republicans had proposed at one time to limit early voting on weekends, a time when many Black churches conduct “souls to the polls” efforts to take congregants to vote. But Republicans reversed themselves, and the measure now expands weekend early voting. Previously, one day of weekend voting was required, with counties given the option of offering more. Now two Saturdays will be required, and counties can offer two Sunday voting days as well. Republicans point to this provision to argue they are actually expanding, rather than restricting, voting access.“Contrary to the hyper-partisan rhetoric you may have heard inside and outside this gold dome, the facts are that this new law will expand voting access in the Peach State," Kemp said Thursday.How will runoffs change?Georgia is the only state in the nation that mandates runoff elections between the top two finishers following general elections in which no candidate achieves a majority. Like some other states, Georgia also mandates runoffs for candidates who do not win a majority in a party primary.The system came under scrutiny from Republicans after Sens. Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff won twin runoffs in January.The new law shortens the time for runoffs from nine weeks to four, with lawmakers saying the current span is “exhausting” and needs to be shortened to a “more manageable period."Military and overseas voters will use ranked-choice absentee ballots to rank all possible candidates before a primary or general election, allowing their preferences to be determined in any possible runoff. Georgia only had three weeks before runoffs until 2013, when a federal judge ordered a longer gap to give military and overseas voters more time to return ballots.The shorter period means less time for early and mail voting. Early voting had lasted three weeks before runoffs. Now early voting would begin “as soon as possible” but no later than the second Monday before the election, possibly leaving as little as five weekdays and no weekend days of early voting. Voters would also have less time to apply for a mail ballot.No new voters could be registered in the period before a runoff because the registration deadline would be the day before the earlier election.What's nextThree groups filed a lawsuit late Thursday to try to block the law. The New Georgia Project, Black Voters Matter and Rise Inc. say the law violates the First and 14th Amendments of the U.S. Constitution, as well as parts of the federal Voting Rights Act that say states cannot restrict Black voter participation.“These unjustified measures will individually and cumulatively operate to impose unconstitutional burdens on the right to vote, to deny or abridge the voting rights of Black Georgians, and to deny Black voters in Georgia an equal opportunity to participate in the electoral process and elect candidates of their choice,” says the lawsuit, which is filed against Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger and Georgia's State Elections Board.Opponents are also looking to Congress, which is considering nationwide voting standards. A Democratic-backed measure passed the House earlier this month, but faces opposition from Senate Republicans wary of a federal takeover of state elections.The federal proposal would create automatic voter registration nationwide, allow former felons to vote, and limit the ways states can remove registered voters from their rolls. It would expand voting by mail, promote early voting and give states money to track absentee ballots.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explainer-what-does-georgia-s-new-gop-election-law-do-101616837072383.html
27-03-2021||World||Suez Canal blockage: Stalemate going on for 5th day. What we know so far||The large container ship with all Indian crew remains stuck for the fifth day in Suez Canal on Saturday, while efforts are on to unblock one of the world’s busiest trade routes. Yukito Higaki, the president of Japanese firm Shoei Kisen KK that owns the wedged vessel Ever Given, has already apologised for the incident and said 10 tug boats were deployed and workers were dredging the bank and sea floors near the ship’s bow to free it.Here’s what we know so far about the Suez blockage:It is estimated that more than 200 vessels are stuck in the traffic jam created by the blockage of the narrow canal by the over 220,000-tonne container ship. If the clearance of the blockage now takes more than two days, then it will take a week to clear the backlog as more ships are adding to the chock-a-block.Also Read | Serum Institute's Adar Poonawalla hopes to launch 2nd Covid vaccine by SeptemberThe US has also offered to help clear the blockage as the Suez Canal Authority welcomed international assistance in the matter. “We have equipment and capacity that most countries don’t have and we’re seeing what we can do and what help we can be,” Reuters quoted President Biden as saying. Additionally, the White House press secretary said the US sees the impact on the energy market from the challenge at the canal and it will continue to monitor the market situation and will respond appropriately if needed, as the key route for oil transit remains blocked.India has also chalked out a four-point plan regarding the issue. The plan includes identifying perishable cargo for its priority movement. Container Shipping Lines Association (CSLA) has said that the freight rates will be maintained as per the existing contracts. The ministry of ports, shipping and waterways has assured to issue an advisory to the ports of JNPT, Mundra and Hazira to boost arrangements and ensure efficient handling during the upcoming busy period as the clearance of the blockage anticipates some clustering at these ports, news agency ANI reported.The Suez Canal Authority said at least two efforts were planned to be made on Saturday to free the canal, depending on the time of the tide. The attempt to free Ever Given failed on Friday and two more tugs should arrive by Sunday to join others in the effort, said the technical manager of the ship Bernhard Schulte Shipmanagement.Also Read | Stuck in Suez: Thousands of animals packed tight in ship hullsNatural gas prices have increased and the food supply chain has been disrupted as the canal blockage wreaked havoc on the sea trade, reported Bloomberg. Moody’s investor has estimated an impact on 10-15 per cent of world container throughout and said that the timing could not be worse.The closure of the canal could also impact the oil and gas shipment to Europe from the Middle East as 10 per cent of the world trade flows through the canal. Reuters quoted an analyst as saying that while there is no loss of oil supply, it can tie up tankers for longer if they have to navigate through the Cape of Good Hope, the southern tip of Africa that takes an extra two weeks to reach the destination.Multiple ships in the Indian Ocean that were intended to pass through the canal have detoured to avoid the blockage. One of them is Panama-flagged Ever Greet.The 400 meter long container is stuck in the single-lane stretch of the canal about 6km north of the southern entrance near the city of Suez. The 193km canal connects the Mediterranean Sea to the Red Sea and is the shortest route between Asia and Europe.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suez-canal-blockage-stalemate-going-on-for-5th-day-what-we-know-so-far-101616831653862.html
27-03-2021||World||Stuck in Suez: Thousands of animals packed tight in ship hulls||Of all the millions of tons of cargo that’s piled up in the Suez Canal, none is more delicate than the animals crammed into the hulls of several of the ships.Little information is available, with neither canal officials nor shipping executives willing to talk, but data compiled by Bloomberg indicate as many as 10 vessels stuck in and around the canal could be carrying livestock. Given the Europe-to-Saudi Arabia itinerary, they are most likely carrying sheep.While much of the waylaid cargo is commodity products such as oil that can be stored on ships for long periods, livestock need food and water, and such deliveries usually carry only enough for a few extra days. That could create a critical situation for ships to find feed supplies at a local port, or force them to turn around. Dislodging the vessel blocking the canal may take at least a week, longer than initially feared, people familiar with the matter said.“I wouldn’t expect just after a two-day delay for a problem to have built up,” said Peter Stevenson, chief policy officer at animal-welfare group Compassion in World Farming, which has called for an end to the live-animal shipments. “It’s as time goes by that the problems get worse. Occasionally, there are real scandals when things go wrong, but it’s a day-to-day horror.”Cattle can also be transported by sea, and ships would generally have at least two or three days’ worth of extra hay or feed on board, said Bob Bishop, president of the Livestock Exporters Association of the USA. If the feed runs out, they could get more from a port while refueling. A ship that can’t get to dock could get feed from a barge in what’s known as “midstream loading,” he said.Weighing Options“If you’re getting low on feed, I would look at coming into port and putting on extra feed,” Bishop said by phone from New York. “If I was the owner of the sheep, I would try to find a country that needed sheep,” he added. “The shorter route would be back to Romania.”At least 10 vessels designed to ship animals are parked near the shuttered canal, and several appear to be en route between Romania and Saudi Arabia, according to ship data compiled by Bloomberg. The ones departing the European country are likely carrying sheep, which Saudi Arabia purchases so that the animals can be slaughtered according to religious preferences. Those traveling the other direction could be empty vessels.The Middle Eastern nation is the world’s largest sheep importer by a wide margin, United Nations data shows. But the trade route has faced disaster at times. About 14,000 sheep being shipped from Romania to Saudi Arabia were killed when a vessel partly capsized in 2019, according to media reports at the time. Rescuers were only able to save a a little over 200 animals.Risks En RouteVessels that crowd thousands of sheep and longer journeys raise the risk of disease and stress, said Stevenson of the animal welfare group. Some ships used to transport animals also have been converted from other purposes and aren’t ideally suited, he said. It can be difficult to reverse course after departure due to health rules.Bishop said mortality rates for livestock generally are no higher at sea than on land, with most ships having a veterinarian.A U.S. shipment of dairy cattle left the Texas port of Galveston late last year en route to Pakistan via the Suez, according to Bishop. Another recent shipment of U.S. cattle sailed from the West Coast to Pakistan, avoiding the Suez due to tolls, he said.“After this container ship, you might see more and more of that,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/stuck-in-suez-thousands-of-animals-packed-tight-in-ship-hulls-101616836988286.html
27-03-2021||World||Western Countries urge UNSC to discuss North Korean missile issue on Tuesday||Several Western countries urged the UN Security Council (UNSC) to hold discussions about the recent missile launch conducted by North Korea.The UNSC meeting will be held on March 30."A number of Western countries have requested closed consultations about the situation around the recent missile launches conducted by North Korea to be held on Tuesday," Sputnik reported citing sources.According to Sputnik, on Thursday, North Korea fired two projectiles toward the Sea of Japan which is described as new tactical guided missiles. On Sunday, Pyongyang also launched two cruise missiles toward the Yellow Sea.The Japanese defence ministry sources said that on Thursday a missile, which was probably ballistic, was fired from the territory of North Korea. Two launches of missiles were conducted from North Korea's territory last week.On Wednesday, South Korea's Joint Chiefs of Staff (JCS) had confirmed that North Korea fired two cruise missiles off the West Coast on March 21, marking Pyongyang's first missile test in about a year seen as testing US President Joe Biden's administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/western-countries-urge-unsc-to-discuss-north-korean-missile-issue-on-tuesday-101616836365595.html
27-03-2021||World||UN expresses gratitude as India gifts 200,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses for peacekeepers||Top United Nations officials, including the UN peacekeeping chief, have expressed gratitude to India for its gift of 200,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses for peacekeepers, saying the donation will enable the Blue Helmets to continue their life-saving work in a safe manner.The 200,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines, announced as a gift by India for UN peacekeepers, left Mumbai in the early hours of Saturday and will arrive at Copenhagen, Denmark. They will then be distributed to all UN peacekeeping missions.Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix and Under-Secretary-General for Operational Support Atul Khare on Friday hailed India’s contribution of the vaccine doses for the UN peacekeepers.“An effective roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccine to all peacekeepers is a key priority for the United Nations in order to protect our personnel and their capacity to continue their crucial work, help protect vulnerable communities and deliver on their mandates,” Lacroix said.“India is a longstanding and steadfast supporter of Peacekeeping and I want to thank the Government and people of India, who have generously donated Covid-19 vaccines to benefit our peacekeeping personnel and enable them to continue their life-saving work in a safe manner.”Khare thanked India for donating the 200,000 vaccines to UN peacekeeping missions."This important donation will allow us to ensure that UN peacekeepers are able to remain healthy and deliver in some of the most difficult environments in the world without relying on already stretched national health systems or ongoing COVAX efforts.”He added that “we also remain engaged with our troop and police-contributing countries to ensure that wherever possible, uniformed personnel are vaccinated through their national systems prior to deployment. At the same time, my Department is leading UN system-wide arrangements to support national efforts in vaccinating UN civilian personnel and family members.”External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had announced in February that India will gift 200,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses for UN peacekeepers.“Keeping in mind the UN Peacekeepers who operate in such difficult circumstances, we would like to announce today a gift of 200,000 doses for them,” Jaishankar had said while addressing the UN Security Council open debate on the implementation of resolution 2532 (2020) on the cessation of hostilities in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic.Quoting the Bhagavad Gita, Jaishankar had said “Do your work with the welfare of others always in mind.”The 200,000 doses essentially mean that it will be possible to administer the required double doses of Covid vaccines to all UN peacekeepers across missions.According to UN Peacekeeping, as of January 31, 2021 a total of 85,782 personnel are serving in 12 peacekeeping operations across the world led by the Department of Peace Operations.A total of 121 nations are contributing uniformed personnel to the UN peacekeeping missions.India is one of the largest contributors of troops and police to UN peacekeeping missions, with more than 5,000 men and women deployed in nine missions, including in The Democratic Republic of the Congo, South Sudan and Lebanon.The 200,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine left Mumbai via Qatar Airways on March 27 at 04:10 am.The shipment will go to Copenhagen, where it will be safely stored in a facility, re-packaged and quickly distributed to peacekeeping missions for the peacekeepers.The vaccine Covishield is the version of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India. Covaxin is the indigenously developed vaccine by pharma company Bharat Biotech.The Department of Peace Operations said that over the past year, UN peacekeepers around the world have undertaken “remarkable efforts” as they adjusted and responded to the unprecedented global health crisis.Nearly 100,000 peacekeepers, already operating within complex and challenging environments, managed to keep themselves and others safe while supporting national and local authorities in their response to the pandemic. It added that despite the unexpected challenges posed by Covid-19, peacekeepers demonstrated adaptability and flexibility to continue implementing their core mandates, which is to protect people and build sustainable peace.UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres had said that he is “extremely grateful” for the gift of 200,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses for UN peacekeepers announced by India.Under India’s ‘Vaccine Maitri’ initiative, which translates into Vaccine Friendship, the country has been providing vaccines to nations across the world - from India’s immediate neighbours to countries in Latin America and Africa - and is a significant source of supply to the COVAX facility.More than 58 million Made in India coronavirus vaccine doses have reached about 70 countries in recent weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/un-expresses-gratitude-as-india-gifts-200-000-vaccine-doses-for-peacekeepers-101616835612676.html
27-03-2021||World||Vaccinated Britain is about to face its biggest Covid-19 test yet||The UK looks to be in an enviable place as a third wave of coronavirus infections sweeps across Europe. A rapid vaccine rollout and weeks of lockdown to suppress what the continent refers to as the “English strain” has seen deaths and hospitalizations plummet.Yet concerns are growing inside the government in London that progress could be undermined by any vaccine-resistant variants and a toxic political row with the European Union over exports that could result in a shortfall of doses. Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The jump in infections on Britain’s doorstep could now be the first real global test of whether a pace-setting inoculation program is enough to keep a country protected. It will also give an indication of whether it’s enough to ensure there’s no setback to reopening the economy.After a steady fall, Covid-19 infections across the UK are plateauing nationwide and starting to rise among the under-19s after schools reopened this month. There’s also the prospect of having to prioritize dwindling vaccine supplies on giving people second doses after the UK decided to lengthen the gap between shots. That would mean the younger end of the population will remain unvaccinated for longer.The UK has given 43% of the country at least one dose—or more than half the adult population—compared with 9.6% in the European Union, according to Bloomberg’s Vaccine Tracker. That’s made Britain stand out for positive reasons after recording Europe’s highest death toll from Covid-19 and a series of government missteps.But the UK still finds itself in an “incredibly risky situation,” said Susan Michie, a behavioral scientist who sits on the government’s scientific advisory committee SAGE. “We’ve got a partially vaccinated population with high transmission levels still—which means lots of mutations, variants,” she said. “The more variants, the more likely there are to be variants that undermine the vaccination program.”The third wave in Europe is driven mainly by the more contagious U.K. strain of the virus, but the South African and Brazilian versions account for up to 40% of all new cases in some regions of France, according to data presented to the U.K. government seen by The Times newspaper.Any rise in these new strains is highly worrying because it’s not yet clear how resistant they are to vaccines. “When a wave hits our friends,” Prime Minister Boris Johnson warned on March 22. “I'm afraid it washes up on our shores as well.”Politically, it’s also a mess. Officials in the UK and the EU are in talks over how best to resolve a dispute over sharing vaccines after the bloc toughened restrictions on exports. That followed a temporary suspension of the AstraZeneca Plc vaccine in some countries over concerns about side effects, which has undermined public confidence.The UK government has—in the main—attempted to stay above the fray in public. Johnson has repeatedly said that all countries are “fighting the same pandemic.” The government doesn’t want to lose the “moral high ground,” according to one minister, speaking on condition of anonymity.But behind closed doors, there are fears in government about what a blockade of vaccines from Europe would mean for Britain—especially because the U.K. is facing a significant reduction in supply in April due to a delayed delivery from India and the re-testing of a separate batch.French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said on Friday that the tensions over AstraZeneca supply was partially due to British vaccination strategy and suggested the U.K. was blackmailing Europe. “One has wanted to massively vaccinate with a first dose and then one finds oneself slightly handicapped for the second dose,” he said. “Europe doesn’t have to pay the price for this policy.”One senior EU official said the U.K. was “over-committed” because it had rolled out so many first doses without securing supplies for second doses. That means Johnson’s government now badly needs the EU’s help, the official claimed. The UK government says that vaccine supplies remain secure and there is no threat to people getting their second dose within 12 weeks. There are also new shots in the pipeline. The Moderna Inc. vaccine, made in the US, has been approved by the UK regulator and is due to be rolled out within weeks. The Novavax Inc. shot, to be made in the UK, is awaiting approval. Having a broad supply of vaccines is vital to getting people under 50 immunized, keeping cases down and preventing new variants from South Africa and Brazil taking hold in the UK., said Lawrence Young, a virologist at Warwick Medical School. He pointed to a surge in the number of younger people being hospitalized in Brazil. “That’s a worry and that’s why I don't think there’s any room for complacency.”The government, though, is under pressure to reopen the economy and give people some semblance of normality this summer. “If pubs, restaurants, and the wedding industry don’t get back up and running then people are going to lose their jobs and people will lose what brings them joy,” said Steve Baker, a senior parliamentarian in the governing Conservative Party.Johnson already conceded this week that vacations abroad “look difficult for the time being,” another blow to the travel industry. He will set out plans on travel in early April, but privately those inside government are pessimistic.One UK official warned that if Britons were allowed to go overseas this summer, it would be “madness.” “It’s like: ‘Hello new variants, come on in’,” the person said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccinated-britain-is-about-to-face-its-biggest-covid-19-test-yet-101616835966377.html
27-03-2021||World||Indonesia's Merapi volcano spews ash, debris in new eruption||Indonesia’s most volatile volcano was erupting again Saturday, releasing plumes of ash high into the air and sending streams of lava and debris down its slopes. No casualties were reported.An avalanche of rocks spilled down Mount Merapi's slopes before dawn and clouds of hot ash shot 200 meters (656 feet) into the air as the mountain groaned and rumbled, said Hanik Humaida, the head of Yogyakarta’s Volcanology and Geological Hazard Mitigation Center.The volcano unleashed hot clouds of ash at least eight times since the morning as well as a series of pyroclastic flows — a mixture of rock, debris, lava and gasses — that had reached nearly 2 kilometers (1.2 miles) down its slopes, Humaida said.The 2,968-meter (9,737-foot) high volcano is on densely populated Java island near the ancient city of Yogyakarta. It is the most active of dozens of Indonesian volcanoes and has repeatedly erupted recently.Indonesia’s Volcanology and Geological Hazard Mitigation Center has advised villagers living on Merapi’s slopes to stay 5 kilometers (3.1 miles) from its crater and be aware of the peril of lava.Merapi’s last major eruption in 2010 killed 347 people.Indonesia, an archipelago of 270 million people, sits along the Pacific Ring of Fire, a horseshoe-shaped area along the edge of the ocean that is prone to earthquakes and volcanic activity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesias-merapi-volcano-spews-ash-debris-in-new-eruption-101616835499235.html
27-03-2021||World||US Congressman sends Holi greetings to Indian-Americans||Sending Holi greetings to Indian-Americans, an influential US Congressman from New York on Friday said the festival of colour sends renewed opportunity to celebrate peace, friendship and opportunity.“Holi Mubarak to all celebrating on Long Island, in New York and all around the world. While this year’s celebration will once again look different, families can celebrate this festival of love, colours, and spring safely. But as sure as winter turns to spring, so does this renewed opportunity to celebrate peace, friendship, and opportunity,” Congressman Tom Suozzi, a Democrat, said.Over the years, Suozzi said he has had the chance to be a part of many Holi celebrations.“It is always a wonderful time filled with amazing food and the company of good friends. To all my friends in the Indian-American community and others who are celebrating, I wish you a happy Holi!” Suozzi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-congressman-sends-holi-greetings-to-indianamericans-101616834112148.html
27-03-2021||World||Suez Canal remains blocked amid efforts to free stuck vessel||A giant container ship remained stuck sideways in Egypt's Suez Canal for a fifth day Saturday, as authorities prepared to make new attempts to free the vessel and reopen a crucial east-west waterway for global shipping.The Ever Given, a Panama-flagged ship that carries cargo between Asia and Europe, ran aground Tuesday in the narrow canal that runs between Africa and the Sinai Peninsula.The massive vessel got stuck in a single-lane stretch of the canal, about six kilometers (3.7 miles) north of the southern entrance, near the city of Suez.Bernhard Schulte Shipmanagement, the technical manager of the Ever Given, said an attempt Friday to free it failed.Plans were in the works to pump water from interior spaces of the vessel, and two more tugs should arrive by Sunday to join others already trying to move the massive ship, it said.An official at the Suez Canal Authority said they planned to make at least two attempts Saturday to free the vessel when the high tide goes down. He said the timing depends on the tide.The official spoke on condition of anonymity because he was not authorised to brief journalists.Egyptian authorities have prohibited media access to the site. The canal authority said its head, Lt. Gen. Osama Rabei, would hold a news conference Saturday in the city of Suez, a few kilometers (miles) from the site of the vessel.Shoei Kisen President Yukito Higaki told a news conference at company headquarters in Imabari in western Japan that 10 tugboats were deployed and workers were dredging the banks and sea floor near the vessel's bow to try to get it afloat again as the high tide starts to go out.Shoei Kisen said in a statement Saturday the company was considering removing containers to lighten the vessel if refloating efforts fail, but that would be a difficult operation.The White House said it has offered to help Egypt reopen the canal. “We have equipment and capacity that most countries don't have and we're seeing what we can do and what help we can be,” President Joe Biden told reporters Friday.An initial investigation showed the vessel ran aground due to strong winds and ruled out mechanical or engine failure, the company and the canal authority said.GAC, a global shipping and logistics company, had previously said the ship had experienced a power blackout, but it did not elaborate.A maritime traffic jam grew to around 280 vessels Saturday outside the Suez Canal, according to canal service provider Leth Agencies.Some vessels began changing course and dozens of ships were still en route to the waterway, according to the data firm Refinitiv.A prolonged closure of the crucial waterway would cause delays in the global shipment chain. Some 19,000 vessels passed through the canal last year, according to official figures.About 10 per cent of world trade flows through the canal, which is particularly crucial for transporting oil. The closure could affect oil and gas shipments to Europe from the Middle East.It remained unclear how long the blockage would last. Even after reopening the canal that links factories in Asia to consumers in Europe, the waiting containers are likely to arrive at busy ports, forcing them to face additional delays before offloading.Apparently anticipating long delays, the owners of the stuck vessel diverted a sister ship, the Ever Greet, on a course around Africa instead, according to satellite data.Others also are being diverted. The liquid natural gas carrier Pan Americas changed course in the mid-Atlantic, now aiming south to go around the southern tip of Africa, according to satellite data from MarineTraffic.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suez-canal-remains-blocked-amid-efforts-to-free-stuck-vessel-101616834556650.html
27-03-2021||World||At least 50 protesters killed in Myanmar on 'day of shame for armed forces'||Myanmar's security forces shot and killed at least 50 protesters on Saturday, news reports and witnesses said, a brutal crackdown on dissent that came as the leader of the ruling junta said the military will protect the people and strive for democracy.Protesters against the Feb. 1 military coup came out on the streets of Yangon, Mandalay and other towns, defying a warning that they could be shot "in the head and back", while the country's generals celebrated Armed Forces Day."Today is a day of shame for the armed forces," Dr. Sasa, a spokesman for CRPH, an anti-junta group set up by deposed lawmakers, told an online forum."The military generals are celebrating Armed Forces Day after they just killed more than 300 innocent civilians," he said, giving a rough estimate of the toll since protests first erupted weeks ago.At least four people were killed when security forces opened fire at a crowd protesting outside a police station in Yangon's Dala suburb in the early hours of Saturday, Myanmar Now reported. At least 10 people were wounded, the news portal said.Three people, including a young man who plays in a local under-21 football team, were shot and killed in a protest in the Insein district of the city, a neighbour told Reuters.Thirteen people were killed in various incidents in Mandalay, Myanmar Now said. Deaths were also reported from the Sagaing region near Mandalay, Lashio town in the east, in the Bago region, near Yangon, and elsewhere, it said.Myanmar Now said a total of at least 50 people were killed on Saturday. Reuters could not independently verify the numbers killed.A military spokesman did not respond to calls seeking comment.After presiding over a military parade in the capital Naypyitaw to mark Armed Forces Day, Senior General Min Aung Hlaing reiterated a promise to hold elections, without giving any time-frame."The army seeks to join hands with the entire nation to safeguard democracy," the general said in a live broadcast on state television, adding that authorities also sought to protect the people and restore peace across the country."Violent acts that affect stability and security in order to make demands are inappropriate."The number of people killed in the turmoil since the coup against Aung San Suu Kyi's elected government is now nearly 380, based on Thursday's toll and a tally kept by an activist group.SHOTS TO HEADIn an ominous warning on Friday evening, state television said protesters were "in danger of getting shot to the head and back". The warning did not specifically say that security forces had been given shoot-to-kill orders but the junta has previously tried to suggest that some fatal shootings have come from within the crowds.But it showed the military's determination to prevent any disruptions around Armed Forces Day, which commemorates the start of the resistance to Japanese occupation in 1945 that was orchestrated by Suu Kyi's father, the founder of the military.Suu Kyi, Myanmar's most popular civilian politician, remains in detention at an undisclosed location. Many other figures in her party are also being held in custody.In a week that saw international pressure on the junta ramped up with new U.S. and European sanctions, Russia's deputy defence minister Alexander Fomin attended the parade in Naypyitaw, having meet senior junta leaders a day earlier."Russia is a true friend," Min Aung Hlaing said. There were no signs of other diplomats at an event that is usually attended by scores of officials from foreign nations.Support from Russia and China, which has also refrained from criticism, is important for the junta as they are permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and can block potential U.N. actions.Protesters have taken to the streets almost daily since the coup that derailed Myanmar's slow transition to democracy.Until Friday evening, activist group the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) counted at least 328 protesters who have been killed in the weeks of unrest. Its data shows that around a quarter of them died from shots to the head, raising suspicions they were targeted for killing.Myanmar's ethnic armed factions will not stand by and do nothing if the junta's forces continue to kill protesters, the leader of one of the main armed groups said."The Myanmar Armed Forces Day isn’t an armed forces day, it’s more like the day they killed people," General Yawd Serk, chair of the Restoration Council of Shan State/Shan State Army - South, told Reuters."It isn’t for the protection of democracy as well, it’s how they harm democracy...If they continue to shoot at protesters and bully the people, I think all the ethnic groups would not just stand by and do nothing."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-50-protesters-killed-in-myanmar-on-day-of-shame-for-armed-forces-101616834121357.html
27-03-2021||World||2 dead, 8 injured in Virginia Beach oceanfront shootings||Two people are dead and eight people were wounded in shootings along Virginia Beach's oceanfront, police said Saturday.Eight people were shot just after 11 p.m. Friday, Virginia Beach police said in a news release. All eight were taken to local hospitals, with some of their conditions ranging from serious to life-threatening.One woman died of a gunshot wound on the scene, the release said. At an earlier news conference, police Chief Paul Neudigate said the death possibly stemmed from an unrelated shooting.The release also said one officer suffered minor injuries. Neudigate had said the officer was struck by a vehicle during the investigation.A different officer fatally shot a man at the shooting scene. While officers were investigating the original shooting, shots were fired nearby, Neudigate said. The officer confronted the man, leading to the deadly gunfire.The officer has been placed on administrative leave. He has been with the department for five years and is assigned to its special operations division.The original shooting and the officer shooting were being investigated concurrently, the release said.“We have a very chaotic incident, a very chaotic night,” Neudigate said during the news conference.No suspect information was immediately available. Neudigate said several people were in police custody but their possible involvement in the shooting was still under investigation.Multiple roads were blocked off throughout the night while police worked in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/2-dead-8-injured-in-virginia-beach-oceanfront-shootings-101616834130237.html
27-03-2021||World||Ex-Trump adviser takes central role in Republican effort to tighten voting laws||A GOP lawyer who advised former President Donald Trump on his campaign to overturn the 2020 election results is now playing a central role coordinating the Republican effort to tighten voting laws around the country.Cleta Mitchell, a longtime Republican lawyer and advocate for conservative causes, was among the Trump advisers on a January phone call in which Trump asked Georgia election officials to “find” enough votes to declare him, and not Democrat Joe Biden, the winner of the battleground state.Now Mitchell has taken the helm of two separate efforts to push for tighter state voting laws and to fight Democratic efforts to expand access to the ballot at the federal level. She is also advising state lawmakers crafting the voting restriction proposals. And, she said Friday, she is in regular contact with Trump.“People are actually interested in getting involved and we have to harness all this energy,” Mitchell said in an interview. “There are a lot of groups that have projects on election integrity that never did before.”Mitchell's new prominence tightens the ties between the former president, who has falsely insisted he lost the election due to fraud, and the GOP-led state voting overhaul that has helped turn a foundational principle of democracy into a partisan battleground.Trump's false claims of fraud have fueled a wave of new voting restrictions. More than 250 proposed voting restrictions have been proposed this year by mostly Republican lawmakers, according to the Brennan Center for Justice. On Thursday, Georgia's GOP governor signed into law a measure requiring voters to present ID to vote by mail, gives the GOP-controlled state legislature new powers over local elections boards and outlaws providing food or water to people waiting in line to vote. Biden on Friday condemned it as “Jim Crow in the 21st Century.”In response, Democrats have stepped up the push for a massive federal election overhaul bill. That proposal, known as H.R. 1, would effectively neuter state-level voter ID laws, allow anyone to vote by mail if they wanted to and automatically register citizens to vote. Republicans view that as an encroachment on state control over elections and say it is designed to give Democrats an advantage.“The left is trying to dismantle 100 years of advancement in election administration,” Mitchell said, expressing bafflement at Democrats' charges that Republicans are trying to suppress votes. “We’re watching two different movies right now.”Mitchell's most public involvement in the voting wars came in participation on Trump's call to Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger Jan. 2. During that call, Mitchell insisted she had evidence of voting fraud, but officials with the Secretary of State's office told her that her data was incorrect.The call is part of an investigation by the Fulton County District Attorney's office into whether Trump or others improperly tried to influence election officials. Mitchell would not discuss the call or the investigation.Mitchell's involvement caused an outcry in the legal community and led to her departure from her longtime job at the law firm Foley & Lardner. But Mitchell says that has been a blessing.“One of the great advantages of resigning from my law firm is that I can devote all my time to something I love,” she said.Mitchell has two new roles in an emerging conservative voting operation. She's running a $10 million initiative at the limited government group FreedomWorks to both push for new restrictions in voting and help train conservatives to get involved in the nuts and bolts of local elections. She's also a senior legal fellow at the Conservative Partnership Institute, an organization run by former Republican Sen. Jim DeMint. She says she'll use that role to “coordinate” conservative voting positions, particularly in opposition to H.R. 1.A onetime Oklahoma state legislator, Mitchell, 70, has links to other influential players in the conservative movement. She also serves as outside counsel to the American Legislative Exchange Committee, a conservative group that provides model legislation to state lawmakers and organized a call with state lawmakers and Texas Sen. Ted Cruz on opposing H.R. 1.And Mitchell said she's been talking regularly with Republican state lawmakers about the need for new election laws. She would not identify whom she speaks with but said it's been a longtime passion."I’ve been working with state legislatures for several years to get them to pay attention to what I call the political process,” Mitchell said. “I love legislatures and working with legislators.”She similarly would not detail her conversations with Trump or say whether they involved the new voting fights. “I’m in touch with the president fairly frequently,” she said of Trump.Repeated audits have shown no significant problems with the 2020 election. Trump and his supporters lost more than 50 court cases challenging its results.Mitchell says she believes the courts used legal trickery to avoid ever truly addressing Trump’s allegations of voter fraud.That evidence had made some conservative groups careful not to echo Trump’s baseless claims of election fraud, even as they argue for tighter restrictions on who Americans vote.Mitchell’s role could complicate that effort to keep a distance.“I have concerns with the election but I do not think the election was stolen," said Noah Wall, executive vice president of FreedomWorks. However, Wall said he saw no conflict in working with Mitchell. “When we talk about what we’re going to be focused on, I don’t see any daylight between her issues and ours,” Wall said.Mitchell has a long history in the conservative movement, with positions on the boards of the National Rifle Association and the Bradley Foundation. She represented Trump's Environmental Protection Agency chief, Scott Pruitt, and has been the campaign attorney for several Republican senators. She also is chair of the Public Interest Legal Foundation, a conservative election law project that she said may get involved in litigation against H.R. 1, should it pass, or in support of new laws like the one in Georgia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/extrump-adviser-takes-central-role-in-republican-effort-to-tighten-voting-laws-101616822518650.html
27-03-2021||World||Will strive for democracy, says Myanmar junta as defiant protesters plan march||The leader of Myanmar's ruling junta said on Saturday that the military will protect the people and strive for democracy, as protesters called for a huge show of defiance against last month's coup despite warnings they risked being shot.Junta leader Min Aung Hlaing reiterated a promise to hold elections in a speech on Armed Forces Day, after a military parade in the capital Naypyitaw. He gave no date for elections."The army seeks to join hands with the entire nation to safeguard democracy," the general said in a live broadcast on state television, adding that authorities also sought to protect the people and restore peace across the country."Violent acts that affects stability and security in order to make demands are inappropriate".Troops killed four more people in demonstrations on Friday, taking the number of deaths to 328 in the crackdown that has followed the coup against Aung San Suu Kyi's elected government on Feb. 1.A broadcast on the state television on Friday evening said: "You should learn from the tragedy of earlier ugly deaths that you can be in danger of getting shot to the head and back".The warning did not specifically say that security forces had been given shoot-to-kill orders, and the junta has previously tried to suggest that some fatal shootings have come from within the crowds of protesters.But it indicated that the military was determined to prevent any disruptions around Armed Forces Day, which commemorates the start of the military's resistance to Japanese occupation in 1945.Min Aung Hlaing said the army had to seize power because of "unlawful acts" by Suu Kyi and her National League for Democracy, adding that some party leaders had been found guilty of corruption and legal action was being taken against them.In a week that saw international pressure on the junta ramped up with new U.S. and European sanctions, Russia's deputy defence minister Alexander Fomin attended the parade. On Friday, he met senior junta leaders and offered support for the military."Russia in a true friend," Min Aung Hlaing said. There were no signs of other diplomats at an event that is usually attended by scores of officials from other nations.SHOTS TO THE HEADProtesters have taken to the streets almost daily since the coup that derailed Myanmar's slow transition to democracy.At least 328 protesters have been killed in the weeks of unrest as of Friday night, according to figures from the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) activist group.Its data shows that at least 25% of them died from shots to the head, raising suspicions they were deliberately targeted for killing.Reuters could not independently verify the numbers killed.A military spokesman did not respond to calls seeking comment.The United Nations' special envoy on Myanmar, Christine Schraner Burgener, said the military had turned against its own citizens."Women, youth and children have been among those killed," she said in a statement.Defence ties between Russia and Myanmar have grown in recent years with Moscow providing training to thousands of soldiers as well as selling arms to the military.Russia's support for the junta is also important as it is a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council and along with China, which has also refrained from criticism, can block potential U.N. actions.Fomin's visit took place after the United States, Britain and the European Union imposed new sanctions on groups and individuals linked to the coup.The World Bank on Friday slashed its forecast for Myanmar's economy to a 10% contraction in 2021 from the growth expected previously.Suu Kyi, Myanmar's most popular civilian politician, remains in detention at an undisclosed location. Many other figures in her party are also being held in custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-strive-for-democracy-says-myanmar-junta-as-defiant-protesters-plan-march-101616815631024.html
27-03-2021||World||PM Modi, Xi Jinping on Joe Biden’s 40 leaders’ guest list for climate summit||US President Joe Biden has invited 40 world leaders including Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi for a virtual leaders summit on climate scheduled for next month.The leaders' summit on climate will underscore the urgency - and the economic benefits - of stronger climate action, according to a statement by the White House on Friday. The two-day summit will be held from April 22 to 23.It will be a key milestone on the road to the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) this November in Glasgow.Biden has invited 40 leaders of the summit including, Chinese President Xi Jinping, Russian President Vladimir Putin and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison. From Southeast Asia, he has invited -- PM Modi, Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Bhutan Prime Minister Lotay Tshering among others.In his invitation, the President urged leaders to use the summit as an opportunity to outline how their countries will contribute to stronger climate ambition, according to the White House statement.By the time of the Summit, the White House said that the US will announce an ambitious 2030 emissions target as its new Nationally Determined Contribution under the Paris Agreement.The summit will reconvene the US-led Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate, which brings together 17 countries responsible for approximately 80 per cent of global emissions and global GDP, the statement read."The President also invited the heads of other countries that are demonstrating strong climate leadership, are especially vulnerable to climate impacts, or are charting innovative pathways to a net-zero economy. Some business and civil society leaders will also participate in the Summit," the statement read.The themes of the Summit will include galvanising efforts by the world's major economies to reduce emissions during this critical decade to keep a limit to warming of 1.5 degree Celsius within reach and mobilising public and private sector finance to drive the net-zero transition and to help vulnerable countries cope with climate impacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-modi-xi-jinping-on-joe-biden-s-40-leaders-guest-list-for-climate-summit-101616812582624.html
27-03-2021||World||Efforts to refloat ship stranded in Suez Canal suspended till Saturday: Report||Efforts to refloat the giant container ship grounded in the Suez Canal were suspended late on Friday and will be resumed Saturday, three canal sources said.The latest attempt to dislodge the Ever Given tanker started earlier on Friday after dredging operations to remove 20,000 cubic metres of sand at the tanker's bow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/efforts-to-refloat-ship-stranded-in-suez-canal-suspended-till-saturday-report-101616808420814.html
27-03-2021||World||Biden, Johnson 'concerned' about China's response to Xinjiang-related sanctions||US President Joe Biden and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson have expressed concerns about actions taken by China after the UK, America and European Union (EU) imposed sanctions on human rights violators in Xinjiang.Biden and Johnson had a telephonic conversation on Friday (local time). The two leaders agreed to work closely on shared foreign policy priorities, including China and Iran, according to a statement by the White House.While the White House did not reveal details of the issues discussed, Downing Street issued an elaborate statement.According to the UK government, the two leaders discussed the fight against coronavirus and updated each other on their countries' vaccine rollouts. Prime Minister Johnson stressed that global access to vaccines will be key to defeating the pandemic.They talked about shared international challenges. The leaders agreed on the need for Iran to come back into compliance with the nuclear deal. On Northern Ireland, the two leaders reiterated their shared commitment to protecting the Good Friday Agreement."On China, the Prime Minister and President reflected on the significant action taken by the UK, the US and other international partners earlier this week to impose sanctions on human rights violators in Xinjiang and expressed their concern about retaliatory action taken by China," the Downing Street's statement read.On Friday, China introduced sanctions on nine UK citizens and four entities in response to London's sanctions on Beijing over the issue of human rights abuses in Xinjiang province.The United States, Canada and the United Kingdom joined the European Union (EU) on Monday to take what they described as "coordinated action" against China to send "a clear message about the human rights violations and abuses in Xinjiang".The sanctions blacklisted former and current officials in the Xinjiang region--Zhu Hailun, Wang Junzheng, Wang Mingshan and Chen Mingguo--for alleged abuses, which have sparked international outrage.The coordinated move also targeted the state-run Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps. The sanctions agreed on Monday mark the EU's first punitive measures on Beijing since it imposed an arms embargo after the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre.In retaliation to the bloc's sanctions, China has decided to introduce sanctions against 10 European Union officials and four European organisations after accusing them of spreading lies and false information about the Xinjiang region."China decided to sanction 10 people and four organisations who seriously harmed the country's sovereignty and interests by spreading lies and false information with evil intent," the ministry said in a statement as quoted by Sputnik.The dispute has seen a flurry of activity in diplomatic circles, with China and European nations summoning each other's ambassadors to answer for the move and responses to it, according to the South China Morning Post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-johnson-concerned-about-china-s-response-to-xinjiang-related-sanctions-101616806706493.html
27-03-2021||World||North Korea missile test: UNSC renews mandate of experts, asks for probe||The U.N. Security Council unanimously adopted a resolution Friday to renew the mandate of U.N. experts monitoring sanctions against North Korea hours after members met to discuss Pyongyang’s latest test firings of banned ballistic missiles.The ballistic missile launches were the first since President Joe Biden took office on Jan. 20 and appeared aimed at increasing pressure on his administration while nuclear negotiations between Washington and Pyongyang remain stalled. Negotiations faltered after the second summit between North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and then-President Donald Trump collapsed in February 2019 when the Americans rejected North Korean demands for major sanctions relief in exchange for a partial surrender of its nuclear capabilities.The Security Council has been meeting virtually because of the COVID-19 pandemic and email voting began after the North's missile launches on Thursday morning. The U.S. holds the council presidency this month and the unanimous result of the vote was announced Friday afternoon by acting U.S. deputy ambassador Jeffrey DeLaurentis.The U.S.-drafted resolution extends the panel of experts’ mandate until April 30, 2022, and emphasizes “the importance of credible, fact-based, independent assessments, analysis and recommendations.”In their latest report to the council in early February, the experts said North Korea has modernized its nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles by flaunting United Nations sanctions, using cyberattacks to help finance its programs and continuing to seek material and technology overseas for its arsenal including in Iran.The panel said North Korea’s “total theft of virtual assets from 2019 to November 2020 is valued at approximately $316.4 million,” according to one unidentified country. And the experts said their investigations found that North Korean-linked cyber actors continued to conduct operations in 2020 against financial institutions and virtual currency exchange houses to generate money to support its weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missile programs.At Friday morning’s virtual meeting of the committee monitoring sanctions and North Korea, where all 15 Security Council members are represented, U.N. diplomats said a significant majority expressed concern at Pyongyang’s latest violations of council resolutions banning ballistic missile launches.All council members agreed that the panel of experts should investigate the two latest ballistic missile launches on Thursday morning, they said.The diplomats, speaking on condition of anonymity because the discussion was private, said the Security Council is likely to hold a closed discussion on the missile launches next week.The council has imposed increasingly tough sanctions on North Korea since its first test explosion of a nuclear device in 2006. It has banned most of the country’s exports and severely limited its imports, trying to pressure Pyongyang into abandoning its nuclear and ballistic missile programs.But the report’s summary and some key findings and recommendations, obtained by The Associated Press, made clear that North Korea remains able to evade sanctions and develop its weapons and to illicitly import refined petroleum, access international banking channels and carry out “malicious cyber activities.”In North Korea’s weapons development, the experts said, Kim Jong Un’s government has produced fissile material — an essential ingredient for producing nuclear weapons — and maintained its nuclear facilities.“It displayed new short-range, medium-range, submarine-launched and intercontinental ballistic missile systems at military parades,” they said. “It announced preparation for testing and production of new ballistic missile warheads and, development of tactical nuclear weapons ... and upgraded its ballistic missile infrastructure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-missile-test-unsc-renews-mandate-of-experts-asks-for-probe-101616806322295.html
27-03-2021||World||Chinese apps join backlash against Western fashion brands over Xinjiang||China's top ride-hailing app dropped Swedish fashion retailer H&M from its listings as Chinese celebrities stopped endorsing foreign labels in a growing uproar over Western accusations of forced labour in Xinjiang.H&M faced a public backlash in China when social media users in the country circulated a statement the company made last year announcing it would no longer source cotton from Xinjiang after reports of the use of forced labour by Uighur Muslims.Western governments and rights groups have accused authorities in the farwestern region of detaining and torturing Uighurs in camps, where some former inmates have said they were subject to ideological indoctrination.Beijing denies the accusations and describes the camps in question as vocational training centres which help combat religious extremism.Search results for H&M in the Didi Chuxing ride-hailing app for all of China's major cities yielded no results on Friday. The company did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The backlash against H&M caused Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba Group Holding Ltd, shopping app Meituan and the maps app for search engine Baidu Inc to each remove the Swedish retailer from their listings.Other overseas brands, including Burberry Group PLC, Nike Inc, and Adidas AG have also faced an online blowback for making similar statements regarding their sourcing of cotton in Xinjiang.The Human Rights section of H&M's website hmgroup.com on Friday no longer carried the link to the 2020 statement on Xinjiang. The statement could still be accessed through the page's direct address.Statements expressing concern about or intolerance of forced labour in Xinjiang previously seen on the websites of Inditex, VF Corp, PVH and Abercrombie & Fitch were no longer available on Thursday.Following enquiries by Reuters, VF Corp pointed to a statement on a separate section of its website that said it did not source from Xinjiang. A Google cache showed the statement had been added in the last four days. VF did not respond to a question asking why the statement had been moved.PVH, Inditex and Abercrombie & Fitch did not respond to a request for comment."We have to stand by the brands keeping statements condemning slavery and shame those who are taking them down. This is a defining moment for these brands," said French MEP Raphael Glucksmann, one of 10 EU individuals sanctioned by China who has run social media campaigns calling on retailers to stand against forced labour in Xinjiang."Consumers in Europe need to place counter pressure on companies retracting their statements."CHINA CELEBS DROP BRANDSA message on the Chinese Weibo account of the German fashion house Hugo Boss said on Thursday that it would "continue to purchase and support Xinjiang cotton." Hugo Boss said on Friday that it was not an authorized post, and had been deleted accordingly.In an email to Reuters on Friday, company spokeswoman Carolin Westermann said that an undated English-language statement on its website stating that "so far, HUGO BOSS has not procured any goods originating in the Xinjiang region from direct suppliers" was its official position. The cotton row has spilled over into the entertainment world, with Chinese celebrities dropping several foreign retail labels, including six U.S. brands such as Nike.New Balance, Under Armour, Tommy Hilfiger and Converse, owned by Nike, have come under fire in China for statements saying they would not use Xinjiang cotton.Other brands affected include Adidas, Puma and Fast Retailing's Uniqlo."I can confirm that Uniqlo's Chinese brand ambassadors have terminated their contracts," said a Fast Retailing spokesperson."Regarding cotton, we only source sustainable cotton and this has not changed."At least 27 Chinese movie stars and singers have declared in the past two days that they would stop cooperating with foreign brands.Their decision was widely praised by Chinese internet users for being patriotic and trended high on the popular Twitter-like microblog Weibo."I have bought these kinds of products in the past and this situation doesn't mean that I will now throw them away, destroy them or something like that," said graduate Lucy Liu outside a Beijing shopping mall."What I'll do is just avoid buying them for the moment."Beyond the fashion and retail industry, China sanctioned British organisations and individuals on Friday over what it called "lies and disinformation" about Xinjiang, days after Britain imposed sanctions of its own."China is firmly determined to safeguard its national sovereignty, security and development interests, and warns the UK side not to go further down the wrong path," the Chinese Foreign Ministry said. "Otherwise, China will resolutely make further reactions."The sanctions are the latest sign of deteriorating relations between London and Beijing, including China's crackdown on dissent in the former British colony of Hong Kong, which had been guaranteed its freedoms when it returned to Chinese rule in 1997.(Reporting by Ryan Woo and Gabriel Crossley in Beijing, Josh Horwitz in Shanghai, Victoria Waldersee in Lisbon, Anna Ringstrom in Stockholm and William James, Sarah Young and Paul Sandle in London; Writing by Nick Macfie; Editing by Elaine Hardcastle and Daniel Wallis)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-apps-join-backlash-against-western-fashion-brands-over-xinjiang-101616798740241.html
27-03-2021||World||Popular children's book author Beverly Cleary dies at 104||American children's book author Beverly Cleary, who responded to a young reader's plea for realistic characters by bringing rare insight and humor to the lives of Ramona Quimby, Henry Huggins and the other children who populated her more than 40 books, has died at age 104, publisher HarperCollins said.Cleary died on Thursday at her home in Carmel, California, where she had lived since the 1960s, a statement from HarperCollins said. No cause of death was given.The author said she had aspirations of writing as a sixth grader, but first became a librarian. At a library in Yakima, Washington, a young boy provided the impetus for her writing career when he asked Cleary where he could find books about "kids like us."Cleary decided she wanted to write about ordinary "grubby kids," she told the Los Angeles Times, rather than the English schoolboys and girls who seemed to dominate the plots of children's literature at the time.That led to "Henry Huggins," her 1950 book about a boy growing up on Klickitat Street in Portland, Oregon, not far from the street where Cleary herself had lived. There would be six books about Henry and his dog, Ribsy, but he would be overshadowed by Ramona Quimby, who started as a supporting character in the Henry books and eventually was celebrated in her own series of eight books.Ramona was precocious, excitable and brimming with imagination in "Ramona the Pest," "Beezus and Ramona," "Ramona the Brave" and other books.Cleary's works did not offer heroic tales, lessons in life or grand adventures. Instead, they focused on kids' everyday lives, telling the story with enough humor to keep young readers engaged and ample understanding of how children see the world. She knew what made her readers happy, scared, angry and confused.Cleary told the New York Times she was fortunate to have strong memories of her own childhood to draw on and that she also used the experiences of her twins - a boy and a girl born in 1955 - for fodder."Beverly just beautifully captures the essence of childhood," best-selling children's writer Judy Blume told the Times. "We might not all have childhoods like that but there's still something so universal about it. I think kids will always love those books."Cleary's other works included "Ellen Tebbits," "Otis Spofford," "Lucky Chuck," "The Mouse and the Motorcycle" and two memoirs - "My Own Two Feet" and "A Girl From Yamhill." Her books sold more than 85 million copies worldwide, HarperCollins said."Her timeless books are an affirmation of her everlasting connection to the pleasures, challenges, and triumphs that are part of every childhood," said Suzanne Murphy, president and publisher of HarperCollins Children's Books.In 1995 the city of Portland created the Beverly Cleary Sculpture Garden for Children, with statues of Ramona, Henry and Ribsy. A school in the city also is named for Cleary.Cleary spent her early years on a farm in Yamhill, Oregon, before her family moved to Portland when she was 6. She was not much of a reader until she hit the third grade, she said.The Library of Congress declared Cleary a "living legend" and in 1984 she won the Newbery Medal, given annually for the most distinguished contribution to U.S. children's literature, for "Dear Mr. Henshaw," a novel about a boy who struggles with his parents' divorce as he corresponds with his favorite author.Cleary, who wrote her last book in 1999, met her future husband, Clarence Cleary, when she was a student at the University of California. He died in 2004.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/popular-children-s-book-author-beverly-cleary-dies-at-104-101616798735293.html
27-03-2021||World||Biden’s invites to virtual climate summit include Putin, Xi||President Joe Biden included Russia’s Vladimir Putin and China’s Xi Jinping among 40 world leaders he invited to a White House climate summit next month, showing he plans to include friends and foes in his administration’s first major international gathering.The virtual summit will bring together 17 countries responsible for 80% of global emissions and gross domestic product, the White House said in a statement. It will be open to the public through a webstream, the White House said.“By the time of the summit, the United States will announce an ambitious 2030 emissions target as its new Nationally Determined Contribution under the Paris Agreement,” the White House said. “In his invitation, the president urged leaders to use the summit as an opportunity to outline how their countries also will contribute to stronger climate ambition.”Biden’s April 22-23 summit is intended to accelerate global efforts to slash greenhouse gas emissions and reduce the use of fossil fuels. It helps fulfill a campaign pledge, after Biden put climate change at the center of his pitch to voters in 2020.One of his first actions after his inauguration was to re-enter the Paris Agreement on climate that his predecessor, former President Donald Trump, sought to abandon.Should Xi and Putin participate, it would be Biden’s first meeting as president with both leaders. He spoke to the Chinese and Russian heads of state on the phone in the weeks after he took office.The summit is seen as a key opportunity for Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry to illustrate the US commitment to fighting climate change after Trump’s withdrawal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bidens-invites-to-virtual-climate-summit-include-putin-xi-101616790195795.html
