01-01-2022||Even with the shadow of Omicron looming||While Chandigarh witnessed a happening party scene on New Year Eve, other major cities in Punjab toned down the celebratory mood due to Omicron threat||Peddlers had the band Yuga and live DJ playing for the partygoers. “Only in Chandigarh the party scene is happening, considering how Delhi and Mumbai have imposed restrictions. We are booked almost to full,” said Vipul Dua from Peddlers.Covid protocols in place, decor in red, and countdown on big screen, fireworks and DJ, Piccadilia too geared up for the night. “We have close to full reservations, some walk-ins and we are good to go” said Arpit Singh, owner, Piccadilia. “We maintained Covid protocol,” he added. Satinder Sartaaj’s performance was sold out at Hyatt, Chandigarh and the scene was similar at most hotels and clubs which hosted events to ring in 2022.Hills remained a favourite jaunt for city folks as well. “I am on a work-cum-celebrations trip to Shimla,” said choreographer Jas K Shan.A look around JalandharWith most people preferring to usher in 2022 with their families, most hoteliers in Jalandhar kept the New Year night celebrations a simple affair. Owners of most hotels in the city laid out lavish buffet spread and held live singing for its guests. One of the main attractions was an open light, sound and fire show at the PPR Market near Model Town. Popular podcaster from the city Simerjeet Singh too said, “For the past two years, we have been going out to gurdwara, offering prayers and listening to the hymns. We then organise bonfire and the family sits together. This time too, we did the same.”Missing fervour in AmritsarAmritsaris brought in 2022 minus the usual fervour. With most clubs in city calling off live shows party revellers celebrated New Year in a restricted manner.The clubs in the city, including Amritsar Club, Service Club and Heritage Club, called off New Year parties and settled for private dinners with limited gathering. “We are offering dinner service only for our club members. Usually, celebrities used to perform on the New Year’s Eve and we used to host multiple activities for guests, but in the given scenario, it’s not possible,” said Lalit Mohan Chandok, secretary, Amritsar Club.With caution in LudhianaLudhiana, on the contrary, celebrated New Year Eve with great zeal. According to Amarvir Singh, president of Hotel and Restaurant Association, New Year parties were organised at 35-40 hotels. "The persons who have got both doses of vaccination were allowed to attend the events. Party venues were allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity for maintaining social distancing."—Mona, Deepkamal Kaur, Neha Saini, Harshraj Singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/while-chandigarh-witnessed-a-happening-party-scene-on-new-year-eve-other-major-cities-in-punjab-toned-down-the-celebratory-mood-due-to-omicron-threat-356861
01-01-2022||---||Chandigarh ushers in New Year amid Covid restrictions||Chandigarh, December 31The City Beautiful celebrated the New Year’s Eve amid Covid restrictions. Only those fully vaccinated became part of the celebrations at many clubs and hotels. As the city welcomed the New Year amid Covid shadow for the second year in a row, there was no huge rush of revellers at hotels and clubs.In line with the UT Administration orders, vaccination certificates were being checked at the entrance of hotels and only fully-vaccinated individuals were allowed entry. However, norms went for a toss at some places.Arvinder Pal Singh from Metro– 43 said, “There is no rush at all in our hotel. Only a small party is going on. There are no walk-in customers. The hotels in Sector 43 and 35 have low footfall. It looks like people didn’t turn up due to Covid fear.” “There is a decent rush at our hotel on the New Year’s Eve. We are turning away those who have not received the two doses of the vaccine,” said Vinod Dua of Peddlers, Sector 35. Arsh Verma, owner of Paara Club, Centra Mall, said, “The rush is similar to any other day. Due to covid restrictions, people have not come in huge numbers for the New Year celebrations. Only those fully vaccinated are being allowed entry.”The UT had also restricted the gatherings to 50 per cent capacity of hotels or banquet halls. Arpit Nagpal, a city resident, said, “I visited two to three restaurants in Sector 26 and none of them asked for a Covid vaccination certificate. All were jam-packed and 50 per cent capacity norm was also violated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-ushers-in-new-year-amid-covid-restrictions-356808
01-01-2022||Amit Bathla||Vacant chairs greet minister at Panchkula MC office||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 31Haryana’s newly inducted Urban Local Bodies Minister Kamal Gupta today conducted a surprise inspection at the Municipal Corporation office in Sector 14 and found a majority of the employees absent.‘Shows officers’ incompetency’It is a matter of concern that a majority of the staff is absent. It shows officers’ incompetency. Strict action will be taken against absentees and senior officials will also be held accountable. —  Kamal Gupta, Urban Local Bodies MinisterOf the total strength of 48, 29 employees, including Joint Commissioner Vinesh Kumar, were found absent when the minister turned up at the corporation office for an unannounced inspection. Four other employees were on leave.He immediately ordered one-day salary cut for absentees and ordered the officials concerned to issue a show-cause notice to those missing from the office without a valid reason. “Only those missing from the office with a genuine reason will be exempted from the pay cut,” he said while speaking to mediapersons.“It is a matter of concern that the majority of the staff is absent. It shows the incompetency of our officers. Strict action will be taken against absentees and senior officials will also be held accountable. Such anomalies won’t be tolerated,” said Gupta after checking the attendance register at the establishment branch. No employee was allowed to enter the corporation office after 9 am.He also inspected the toilets in the MC office and told officials to ensure hygiene.Deputy Commissioner Mahavir Kaushik, MC Commissioner Dharamvir Singh and Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal were present on the occasion.To strengthen the civic body’s work system and ensure punctuality, Gupta ordered the MC Commissioner and the Mayor to conduct surprise inspections at least eight times a month and present a report to him. Gupta is a two-time MLA from the Hisar constituency.The senior BJP leader, along with Devender Singh Babli of JJP, was inducted into the Manohar Lal Khattar-led Council of Ministers on Tuesday. He was subsequently allocated the ULB portfolio, which was earlier held by Home Minister Anil Vij who used to conduct surprise visits in civic bodies in a similar fashion. Gupta was also given the charge of Housing for All, which was with the CM.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vacant-chairs-greet-minister-at-pkula-mc-office-356810
01-01-2022||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh mulls forming panel to resolve industrialists' issues||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 31The UT Administration is considering constitution of a committee to resolve the issues being faced by the industry.UT Adviser Dharam Pal stated this today after visiting the Industrial Area here to take stock of problems being faced by industrialists. He said during his visit, he found that industrial plots had been given on lease and many commercial activities were going on in the Ram Darbar area.To boost industrial activity, he said he would soon ask the Industries Department to identify the issues being faced by industrialists in Chandigarh and make a presentation on how these could be resolved. The proposals of the department would be discussed with people from the industry and thereafter, a committee could be constituted to resolve these issues.He said the recommendations of the committee would be considered before taking a final decision on providing a much-required impetus to the industry.Pankaj Khanna, president, Industries Association of Chandigarh, said the visit of the UT top brass to the Industrial Area was a welcome step. He said the Industrial Area needed a complete makeover. Long-pending issues need swift policy action for their immediate redressal, he added.It is pertinent to mention here that the Administration has taken a number of initiatives to upgrade the infrastructure in the city to boost economic growth in the region. Chandigarh has emerged as a regional hub in the areas of service industry, education, health, information technology, etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-mulls-forming-panel-to-resolve-industrialists-issues-356812
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Newly-elected councillors of Chandigarh municipal corporation to take oath today||The oath-taking ceremony of the newly elected members of the Municipal Corporation (MC) will be held at 11.30 am tomorrow. The oath of office will be administered by the Deputy Commissioner.The elections to the 35 wards of the MC were held on December 24 and results were declared on December 27. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which contested the MC election for the first time, bagged 14 seats while the ruling BJP managed to register win on 12 seats and the Congress remained third by winning eight seats. Meanwhile, one seat was bagged by a Shiromani Akali Dal nominee.Out of 203 candidates who contested the election, 103 lost their security deposit as they could not garner the required number of votes in the elections. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/newly-elected-councillors-to-take-oath-today-356813
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||49 contract Covid-19 virus in Chandigarh||27 test positive in MohaliMohali: Fresh 27 cases of Covid surfaced in the district in the past 24 hours. No new death due to the virus was reported. — TNS23 cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: In another significant spike, the district on Friday recorded 23 fresh cases of coronavirus. There was no fresh fatality. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/49-contract-virus-in-chandigarh-356814
01-01-2022||---||Minister lays foundation stone of projects worth Rs800 cr in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 31Sprucing up the pace of development works being carried out by the Punjab Government in Mohali, the foundation stone of various development projects to be constructed in the city at the cost of Rs800 crore were laid by Local Bodies Minister Brahm Mohindra on Friday.Mohindra was accompanied by MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, MC Commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg, district Congress president Rishav Jain and a large number of local leaders, councillors and other dignitaries.Addressing the gathering Mohindra said today he inaugurated the first phase of Rs375 crore water treatment plant being constructed at Sinhpur village and laid the foundation stone of its second phase. He also laid the foundation stone of new bus stand at Sector 77, Mohali, Bhagat Asa Ram Baidwan Auditorium at Sector 78, which would be constructed at a cost of Rs5 crore, and Rs145 crore sewage treatment plant at Sector 83.“The Punjab Government has also given consent for launching city bus service for Mohali city. The construction work of all these projects will be completed within the stipulated time frame. After the construction of a bus stand spread over 14 acres on Airport Road it will be convenient for passengers to travel to Chandigarh Sector-43 bus stand and other cities,” Mohindra added.“Conceding the long-pending demand of the people, the Punjab Government has decided to extend the perimeter of the Mohali Municipal Corporation up to 3 km, which will usher in a new era of prosperity and provide much needed impetus to the development of the city,” said Mohindra.Speaking on the occasion former Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the water treatment plant of Sinhpur village would meet requirement of the Mohali city for the next 20 years. GMADA had laid 80 MGD capacity water pipeline at a cost of Rs200 crore from Bhakra main line at Kajauli to Sinhpur village, Sidhu added.“Of this, 45 MGD part belongs to Mohali city. The first phase of the 20 MGD capacity treatment plant has been constructed at a cost of Rs115.80 crore. Under the second phase, 25 MGD capacity treatment plant is to be upgraded for which tenders worth Rs192 crore have already been floated,” said Sidhu.“Water supplied to Kharar and Morinda will be 6 MGD from the treatment plant to be constructed under the second phase. An auditorium named after playwright Gursharan Singh, alias Bhai Manna ji, will be constructed at Bhagat Asa Ram Baidwan Auditorium in Sector 78 so that emerging playwrights can take inspiration from his life and hone their skills,” Sidhu added.Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu welcomed Cabinet Minister Brahm Mohindra and other dignitaries present and apprised him of the demands and difficulties of the city.He also appealed Mohali residents to support Sidhu with a record number of votes in the forthcoming Assembly elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-lays-foundation-stone-of-projects-worth-800-cr-in-mohali-356815
01-01-2022||---||Vaccination of kids: Panchkula finalises 15 sites||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, December 31Children in the age group of 15 to 18 years will be vaccinated against Covid at all primary health centres and community health centres and five urban dispensaries across the district from January 3.We initially finalised just 15 centres for the rollout, but the number of sites will increase in the coming days. Later, we can conduct vaccination at community centres and in schools. — Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation OfficerThe district administration announced this after finalisation of the plan today. A total of 15 centres have been finalised for the rollout of the vaccination programme for children. The urban dispensaries in Sectors 11, 16, 19, 21 and 26 will be dedicated to kids’ vaccination.Points to rememberAround 40,000 children in the age group are eligible for vaccination in the district.Vaccination for children will be also be conducted at Command Hospital, but it will only be reserved for wards of military personnel.Vaccination sites for children would be separate from adults to ensure smooth conduct of the drive and no mixing of vaccines.Registrations on CoWIN portal will begin on January 1. Aadhaar card is compulsory for registration. School ID cards will also be accepted for registration.Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer, said they initially finalised just 15 centres for the rollout, but the number of sites would increase in the coming days. “Later, we can conduct vaccination at community centres and in schools,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-finalises-15-sites-356818
01-01-2022||---||Adviser launches colouring book for schoolkids||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 31Now, children will learn good practices on keeping the city clean through a novel colouring book, “Swachhata Ke Rang”. In a bid to create awareness about the “Mission Swachh Chandigarh” among children, the Municipal Corporation (MC) has released a colouring book on cleanliness.UT Adviser Dharam Pal today formally released the 20-page colouring book in the presence of Nitin Kumar Yadav, Home Secretary; Anindita Mitra, MC Commissioner; SS Gill, Secretary, Education; and other officers of the Administration.The Adviser said the book depicts cartoons with a message pertaining to solid waste management and general cleanliness along with segregation of waste at source.The book has been introduced for 51,000 students of Class 1 to 5 in the city.He said the youth and students were one of the biggest change agents for any social transformation. The colouring book was meant to inspire children to take steps and create a long-lasting impact on the cleanliness of their homes, schools, neighbourhoods and eventually their city. He said this initiative would push the “Mission Swachh Chandigarh” one step further towards making Swachh Bharat a ‘jan andolan’.The Adviser asked the Secretary, Education, to chalk out a policy to introduce this book in the school syllabus to engage children in the Swachh Bharat Mission in a different way. He said participation of every segment of society was necessary to make the cleanliness mission a success and releasing the colouring book was an effort to engage youth and children towards the mission.The description of cartoons had been designed to educate the schoolchildren about every aspect of the Swachh Bharat Mission.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/adviser-launches-colouring-book-for-schoolkids-356819
01-01-2022||Naina Mishra||December end marks beginning of third Covid wave in Chandigarh!||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, December 31The last week of this month marked the beginning of the third wave of Covid in the city.The UT reported a record 49 cases after a gap of six months today, putting the Administration again on a high alert. The surge in the City Beautiful is much higher than Mohali and Panchkula. While 23 cases were recorded in Panchkula, 27 persons tested positive in Mohali.‘No need to panic’ Most cases are asymptomatic and are in home isolation. There is no need to panic, but Covid protocol must be followed. - Yashpal Garg, UT Health SecretaryPoll rallies behind surge, say expertsExperts have attributed sudden rise in cases in Chandigarh to the Municipal Corporation elections that saw rallies violating social distancing norms.Experts have attributed sudden rise in cases in Chandigarh to the Municipal Corporation elections that saw rallies violating social distancing norms.On whether the increase can also be linked with the Omicron variant, Suman Singh, Director of Health Services, UT, said, “It is difficult to say if the new variant is causing the surge as only three cases have been detected in the city. Not all positive samples are being sent for genome sequencing to check the variant. However, elections did play some role in spiked cases.”The month of December witnessed 333 cases, which is 192 per cent more than the previous month tally of 114 cases.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said, “Most cases are asymptomatic and are in home isolation. There is no need to panic, but Covid protocol must be followed.”He added, “People should get fully vaccinated at the earliest. Vaccination may not stop infection but definitely provide antibodies to fight it out and reduce the fatality.”“A total of 12,243 doses were administered in the city today, which is the highest single-day vaccination count in the past four months. All Covid vaccination centres will remain open on Saturday and Sunday,” said Garg.Chandigarh will begin inoculating children in the age group of 15 to 18 years from January 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dec-end-marks-beginning-of-third-covid-wave-in-ut-356820
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher opens community centre||MP Kirron Kher today dedicated a community centre to the public in Sector 38-C here in the presence of Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma; MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra; former Mayor and area councillor Arun Sood; and other prominent persons of the area.The MP said with the provision for the state-of-the-art community centres within the city limits, citizens can now enjoy spacious location near their residences.The Mayor said the community centre had been constructed at a cost of Rs4.64 crore. The centre had a multipurpose hall, a kitchen and toilets at the ground floor, a room for bride and bridegroom, a dormitory, a store and toilets at the first floor.On poor performance of the BJP in the MC elections, Kher said the party would review the reasons behind getting the lesser number of seats. She said the party that would be able to get its Mayoral candidate elected would be the real winner. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mp-opens-community-centre-356821
01-01-2022||---||Minister lays stone for govt nursing college in Mohali||Tribune News ServiceMohali, December 31Punjab Medical Education and Research Minister Raj Kumar Verka today laid the foundation stone of a government nursing college to be constructed near the under-construction government medical college in Phase 6, here.Affordable treatmentPunjab Medical Education and Research Minister Raj Kumar Verka said this college would not only provide affordable treatment to people, but also produce medical students for the state. He also lauded the efforts of former Minister and MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu for this project.Addressing the gathering, the Minister said besides the construction of a government medical college and the nursing college, the Punjab government was spending around Rs600 crore for the betterment of this area.The Minister said this college would not only provide affordable treatment to the people, but also produce medical students for the state. He also lauded the efforts of former Minister and MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu for this project.Verka said every effort was being made to provide better healthcare facilities in the state so that people could get better treatment facilities in government hospitals. All shortcomings in the field of medical education and research were being addressed to provide better healthcare facilities to the people.Balbir Singh Sidhu said a medical college was coming into existence in the state after 45 years. His dream was to have a government dental college and a homeopathy college along with these colleges, which would make Mohali a medical hub.Principal Secretary Medical Education Alok Shekhar, Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia, DRME Dr Avinash, Director Principal of Dr BR Ambedkar, State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali Dr Bhawanit, Mayor Amarjit Singh Sidhu, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and District Congress president Rishav Jain were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minister-lays-stone-for-govt-nursing-college-in-mohali-356824
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Administrator greets people on NY's Eve||Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit extended greetings to the people of Punjab and Chandigarh on the New Year’s Eve. The Administrator, in his greetings, said the dawn of New Year was always welcomed with renewed hope and aspirations, which could only be fulfilled by working together with determination and dedication.“As we bid goodbye to a year that has taught us many life lessons through our united combat against one of the most disruptive pandemics in the recent memory, let us welcome the New Year with the spirit of optimism, hope and bonhomie. Let us hope that we hear auspicious news, view pleasant things and spend our lives meaningfully and peacefully in the coming year,” said Purohit, adding that “May all of you remain safe and healthy!” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/administrator-greets-people-on-nys-eve-356825
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh traders hail Centre's decision to defer rate hike||The Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CHB) has expressed gratitude to the Union Finance Minister for deferring increase in GST rates on fabric from 5 per cent to 12 per cent, which was supposed to be implemented January 1, 2022.Charanjiv Singh, president, CBM, said thousands of cloth merchants would heave a sigh of relief.Ram Karan Gupta, chairman of the GST sub-committee, CBM, said they demanded reduction in VAT rates on footwear and readymade garments as well.Kamaljit Singh Panchi, president, Chandigarh Traders Association, Sector 17, said it was a relief for traders of the country.— TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-traders-hail-centres-decision-to-defer-rate-hike-356827
01-01-2022||Mohali||Kejriwal draws flak over statement on reviving truck unions in Punjab||The Mohali Industries Association (MIA) on Friday condemned Delhi Chief Minister and Aam Aadmi Party president Arvind Kejriwal’s statement wherein he talked about revival of truck unions in Punjab in case AAP comes to power in the state.Anurag Aggarwal, president, MIA, said, “This anti-industry statement given by the AAP president is highly condemnable and is like fanning industrial unrest in Punjab. Such irresponsible statements coming from leader of such high standing is surprising.”The MIA would urge the CII, the PHD Chamber and other associations of Punjab to take up this matter in their areas so that the industry was not once again pushed back to cartelisation, syndication and exploitation at the hands of truck unions, he added. It was only after long struggle by industries associations that truck unions were abolished in Punjab, he said.At that time, truck union freight rates were higher by 50 to 60 per cent compared to those in the open market, he added. “Industries are not averse to truck operators from Punjab, but industrialists are fighting a competitive battle with their counterparts in other states. Punjab being landlocked state it is important that the freight rate is genuine for the survival of the industry,” he said.Rajeev Gupta, general secretary, MIA, said, “Kejriwal should clarify his stand for the upliftment of the industry in Punjab and refrain from adopting a please-all strategy without thinking of the economic consequences of his decisions.”Vivek Kapoor, vice-president, MIA, urged local AAP candidate Kulwant Singh to clarify his stand on truck unions otherwise the association would boycott any party, which takes anti-industry stand. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kejriwal-draws-flak-over-statement-on-reviving-truck-unions-in-punjab-356828
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cricketers shine in U-19 Asia Cup||City’s U-19 cricketers Harnoor Singh Pannu and Raj Angad Bawa capped off a successful campaign in the U-19 Asia Cup with India’s 9-wicket title win over Sri Lanka in Dubai today.Left hand batsman and right arm medium fast bowler Raj Angad Bawa scored 25 runs and took four wickets (4/56) against Pakistan. He contributed an unbeaten 43 and 1/66 against Afghanistan and 23 and 2/26 against Bangladesh. In the final, the 19-year-old took 1/23 against Sri Lanka on Friday. The Nahan-born player ended up as the tournament’s second highest wicket-taker (8) at an average of 21.37 in the four matches. He was fifth in the list of highest run scorers with 91 runs.Harnoor Singh Pannu scored 46 against Pakistan, 65 against Afghanistan, 15 against Bangladesh, and five against Sri Lanka. The 18-year-old right hand batsman and leg spinner ended the competition as the second highest run-scorer (131) at an average of 32.75 behind teammate Shaik Rasheed (133) in the four matches. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-cricketers-shine-in-u-19-asia-cup-356829
01-01-2022||Chandigarh||Owners of two Chandigarh clubs booked||Free Urdu classesChandigarh: The UT office of the Language Department of Punjab is organising free Urdu classes, which will be conducted in collaboration with GGDSD College, Sector 32. The course duration will be of six months, beginning January 5. At present, classes are held online. Once, new Covid-19 guidelines are released by the Administration, classes will be held at the college in the evening. Candidates desirous of seeking admission for Urdu class can contact Assistant Director, Hindi-Punjabi Cell, at the Civil Secretariat 2, Sector 9, Chandigarh, for more information. TNSMan succumbs to assault injuriesChandigarh: A 25-year-old man, who was assaulted by an unknown person around 10 days ago, succumbed to his injuries. The police have registered a murder case against the unknown person at the Mauli Jagran police station. According to the police, the victim, Damanjeet Singh, a resident of Vikas Nagar, Mauli Jagran, was assaulted by an unknown person. He suffered head injuries in the incident. The police said the victim succumbed to his injuries on the intervening night of December 28 and 29. A case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC has been registered. TNSYouth nabbed with pistolChandigarh: The Operation Cell of the UT police has arrested a Nayagaon resident while possessing a country-made pistol and three live cartridges. The suspect, identified as Sagar Masih (23), was nabbed from Kaimbwala village. A case under the Arms Act has been registered against him. TNSGolf meet to be held on Jan 10Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Golf Association (CGA) will organise 15th CGA Junior/Sub-Junior Golf Championship at the Chandigarh Golf Club here on January 10. The championship will be conducted in all five categories - A (15-17 years), B (13-14 years), C (11-12 years), D (8-10 years) and E (5-7 years). While A, B & C categories will be playing 18 holes, D & E categories will only play 9-hole a day. Winners of the Junior Championship held in 2019 will also participate in the event. TNS2 arrested with illicit liquorZirakpur: The police nabbed two suspects running an unlicensed pub, “PlanB”, and recovered 58 bottles of illicit liquor from them on Friday. The police also arrested a man with 4.5 kg of poppy powder. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/owners-of-two-clubs-booked-356832
