02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab records 417 fresh Covid cases, 3 more deaths||Three more people succumbed to COVID-19 in Punjab on Sunday, while 417 fresh cases of the disease pushed the state’s infection tally to 6,05,509, according to a medical bulletin.The fatalities were reported in Hoshiarpur, Ludhiana and Mohali, and with this, the death toll reached 16,648, it showed.Punjab is witnessing a consistent rise in the number of infections for the past few days.The state reported 100 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, 167 on Thursday, 221 on Friday and 332 on Saturday as daily Covid testing hovered around 15,000 to 16,000.The number of active cases now stands at 1,369, up from 1,041 a day back.Of the fresh cases, Patiala reported 133, followed by Pathankot with 78, Mohali 55 and Jalandhar 45.Fifty-two more people have recovered from the infection in the state, taking the number of recoveries to 5,87,492, the bulletin showed.The Union Territory of Chandigarh reported 96 more COVID-19 cases, taking its total count to 66,061.The death toll stands at 1,079 with no Covid-related fatality being reported in the city in a span of 24 hours.The number of active cases in the city rose to 321, as against 236 on Saturday, while the number of recoveries is 64,661. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-records-417-fresh-covid-cases-3-more-deaths-357367
02-01-2022||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh records 96 new Covid-19 cases with positivity rate of 5.50 per cent||Chandigarh on Sunday reported 96 new cases of Covid-19 with a positivity rate of 5.50 per cent.The cumulative number of cases has reached 66,061.A total of 1,744 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.The death toll remains 1,079 while 64,661 people have been cured till date.The number of active cases has risen to 321 whereas 11 patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-96-new-covid-19-cases-with-positivity-rate-of-5-50-per-cent-357357
02-01-2022||---||3 injured as Manali-Chandigarh Volvo bus collides with gate of powerhouse in Himachal’s Mandi||Mandi, January 2Three people were injured as a Volvo bus met with an accident at Dehar powerhouse in Mandi on Sunday.According to police, the bus was on its way from Manali to Chandigarh when the driver lost control over the vehicle. As a result, it collided with the gate of the powerhouse at Dehar.The driver and two other passengers were injured.Police have registered a case under Section 279 of the IPC and an investigation is on to ascertain the cause of the accident.The injured have been admitted to Nerchowk medical college, said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/himachal/3-injured-as-manali-chandigarh-volvo-bus-collides-with-gate-of-powerhouse-in-himachals-mandi-357310
02-01-2022||Mohali||Rajnath Singh to visit Chandigarh University tomorrow||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will inaugurate the Kalpana Chawla Centre for Research in Space Science & Technology (KCCRSST) at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, on January 3.Established with an objective of training students in space science and satellite development, this state-of-the-art space centre will be an earth station for Chandigarh University Student Satellite (CUSAT), an in-house developed nano-satellite being designed by students, besides other important projects.“The university has taken a giant leap by launching its own ground control station, KCCRSST, dedicated to the first woman astronaut of Indian origin to go into space,” said Chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rajnath-singh-to-visit-chandigarh-university-tomorrow-357186
02-01-2022||New Delhi||Firm directors booked for Rs 1,626-crore  bank fraud||The CBI today stated that it has booked a Chandigarh-based drug firm and its promoters/directors in a case of alleged bank fraud to the tune of Rs1,626.74 crore.Officials in the agency said besides the company’s Managing Director Paranav Gupta, Directors Vineet Gupta, Deepali Gupta, Rama Gupta, Jagjit Singh Chahal, Sanjeev Kumar, Vandana Singla, Ishrat Gill, and its guarantors TN Goyal and Nirmal Bansal and one JD Gupta have also been booked.Following the registration of an FIR, the CBI today conducted searches at 12 locations in Chandigarh, Panchkula, Ludhiana, Faridabad and Delhi at the office and residential premises of the accused, said CBI spokesperson RC Joshi.The raids resulted in recovery of incriminating documents, articles, and Rs1.58 crore, he added.According to the official, the private company was engaged in the manufacturing of drugs and allegedly defrauded the consortium of banks through criminal conspiracy and forgery, and funneled loans it took for other uses. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firm-directors-booked-for-rs-1-626-crore-bank-fraud-357185
02-01-2022||Panchkula||Thieves have a field day in Panchkula||Thieves had a field day on the New Year’s Eve as several incidents of theft were reported from the city today.A case of theft of AC copper pipe came to light at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 3. Manish Singla, a resident of Sunrise Home, Peer Muchhalla, in his complaint to the police, stated that he had taken the contract of installing AC copper pipe in the area outside the basketball ground in the stadium. He stated that today, he came to know that thieves made off with the copper pipe.In another case, gold jewellery worth Rs4 lakh was stolen from a locked house in Sector 14 here late on Friday night. Rakesh Kumar told the police that he had gone to admit his wife in Alchemist Hospital in Sector 21 as she had to undergo an operation. He said when he came back late at night, he found the lock on the main door broken and household items scattered in a bedroom. The complainant stated that thieves had taken away gold jewellery worth Rs4 lakh, Rs20,000 and taps from washroom and kitchen.In yet another case, thieves fled with household goods. Dev Dutt Gandhi, a resident of Modern Complex, stated that he had a house in Sector 17, which was locked. He stated that thieves stole fans, three ACs and three geysers from the house. Besides, a theft at a house in Sector 20 was reported. The house owner, Amit Verma, in his complaint to the police, stated that thieves broke the lock of an almirah and made off with Rs95,000 and a couple of ornaments. A case has been registered at the Sector 20 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/thieves-have-a-field-day-in-panchkula-357184
02-01-2022||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali MC awaits allotment of vending sites from GMADA||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 1The local Municipal Corporation (MC) is awaiting the allotment of vending zones, which have been identified by the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) and where more than 2,500 vendors are to be allotted space.Even though GMADA has approved seven of the eight proposed sites to relocate vendors, paving the way for the implementation of the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act in the city, these sites were yet to the allotted to the civic body. The approval had come during a meeting between officials of GMADA and the MC on September 22 last year.In October 2020, the GMADA had approved 14 sites which were identified in a joint survey it had conducted with the MC. However, the authority later reduced the number of sites to seven.The civic body, which is to implement the Street Vendors Act, had been writing letters to the authority for the past 21 months for approval and possession of the sites.Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi said they had been writing to GMADA officials to allot at least five vending sites to the civic body so that vendors could be relocated.“We are hopeful of getting possession soon, which will help us begin the process to rehabilitate vendors,” he added.Implementation of the Street Vendors’ Act has been hanging fire since 2015 when the MC had first ordered a survey to identify street vendors in the city.The Act is aimed at registering and rehabilitating street vendors, and also safeguarding them against exploitation at the hands of enforcement officers. It also calls for proper rationing of urban streets and spaces.Illegal vendors dot several main markets of the city, including those in Phases 7, 3B1, 3B2, 9, 10 and 11.A private firm hired by the MC to carry out the survey had initially shortlisted 2,295 vendors, but the MC House found gaps in the survey and ordered to carry out the exercise again. In 2017, the civic body concluded there were 993 moving and stationary vendors, a number that has since multiplied.In January last year, the MC had decided to implement the Act first in Phase 7, where as many as 139 vendors are registered. The MC Commissioner had even asked the agency that conducted the survey to mark vending space in the parking areas, but the plan had fallen flat following objections by the market welfare association and the area councillor.Thereon, the MC issued identity cards to 200 of the 993 vendors, but they were never given designated spaces to operate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mc-awaits-allotment-of-vending-sites-from-gmada-357183
02-01-2022||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh GST collection up 4% in December||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 1After witnessing an exponential revenue growth in November last year, the gross Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection increased by just 4 per cent in December 2021.According to the Ministry of Finance, the GST collection in Chandigarh stood at Rs164 crore in December last year, which was 4 per cent more than Rs158 crore collected during the same month in 2020. However, in November last year, the GST collection swelled to Rs180 crore, which was 27 per cent more than Rs141 crore collected during the same month in 2020.The GST collection in October last year was Rs158 crore, which was also 4 per cent higher than the tax of Rs152 crore generated in October 2020. The tax collection in September was recorded at Rs152 crore, which was 8 per cent higher than the GST of Rs141 crore generated during the same month in 2020.In August last year, the GST collection was Rs144 crore, an increase of 4 per cent on Rs139 crore tax received during the corresponding period in 2020.With a gross GST collection of Rs169 crore, the UT Administration had registered a robust growth of 23 per cent in July last year in comparison to the revenue of Rs137 crore generated in July 2020.The Finance Ministry did not release the state-wise data of the GST collection during January, April, May and June 2021. In March 2021, the GST collection was Rs165.27 crore, 8 per cent more than the revenue of Rs153.26 crore generated during the same period in 2020. The GST collection stood at Rs148.5 crore in February, 14 per cent less than the revenue of Rs172.37 crore received during the corresponding period in 2020.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-gst-collection-up-4-in-december-357182
02-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||1,700 plaints on domestic disputes pending in Chandigarh police stations: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 1In Chandigarh, no less than 1,700 complaints regarding domestic disputes are pending in the police stations. The observation by the Punjab and Haryana High Court to this effect came while taking up an appeal filed by a father against a lower court’s order. The Bench was hearing a matrimonial dispute case, in which the appellant-father was granted visitation rights to meet his minor daughter every third working Friday.The observation came less than three months after the Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma directed Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain and amicus curiae Divya Sharma to assist the court “as to how amendments recommended vide Law Commission report of 2015 are to be carried out”.As the case came up for resumed hearing, the Bench observed that the Law Commission report of 2015 was of the view that child support should continue even after attaining the age of 18 and the period may extend till the child turned 25. The Bench added that as per the commission’s report, a child had the birthright to meet his parents and the grandparents and many disputes could be resolved through mediation.Appearing before the Bench, Jain informed the court that the Union Ministry of Law and Justice, vide letter dated December 14, 2021, had informed him that the recommendations for amendment in the Guardianship and Wards Act, 1890, and various sections of the Hindu Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956, fell under the concurrent list as per the Constitution of India.Jain submitted that the department, as such, had sought views of all the state governments and the Union Territory administrations across the country in the matter. The study would take some time, Jain told the court.Taking a note of his submissions, the Bench asserted: “Appreciating that the first step has already been taken by the Ministry of Law and Justice for getting views from other states/UT Administrations, this matter is being adjourned….” The case will now come up for further hearing before the Bench in the third week of April.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/1-700-plaints-on-domestic-disputes-pending-in-ut-police-stations-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-357181
02-01-2022||---||Four arrested for creating ruckus near Pinjore eateries||Panchkula, January 1The police arrested four persons for creating a ruckus on the New Year’s Eve in Pinjore.According to information available, Sumer Chand, a resident of Mukandpur village in Ambala district, and Anil Kumar, a resident of Tudarpur village in Yamunagar district, were arrested for creating a ruckus near Kaushalya River Family Restaurant.The other two suspects, identified as Bhupinder of Bitna Sieuri village and Devinder of Loyar Kuradi village, were found creating nuisance near Time Pass, a restaurant.Cases under Section 160 of the Indian Penal Code have been registered against the suspects at the Pinjore police station.A Panchkula police spokesman said four persons were arrested for operating an illegal hukkah bar and serving liquor, thereby violating curfew restriction imposed in various parts of the district.The police said they had received information that some persons were creating a ruckus near Countryside Farmhouse in Mallah village of Pinjore. When cops reached the farmhouse, they found liquor bottles and five hukkahs.The police arrested Yashbir Singh Sandhu, the farm owner, Sandeep Singh, a resident of Sangrur in Punjab, and Labb, a resident of Moltha village in Tehri Garhwal, Uttarkhad. The latter two were working as a waiter and chef in a hotel in Zirakpur. The police recovered a hukkah and 30 bottles of India-made foreign liquor (IMFL).They were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Disaster Management Act-2005, the Haryana Excise Amendment Act-2020 and the Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products Act-2003.In another incident, the manager of Swiss Lodge in Sector 5, Panchkula, was arrested for operating an illegal hukkah bar and serving liquor, thus violating the night curfew restriction. During a raid, the police found young boys and girls sitting in groups.They were using hukkah and taking liquor.The police arrested the lodge manager, Mohan Singh of Mani Majra. A case under the IPC and the Disaster Management Act was registered at the Sector 5 police station.The police spokesman said 286 persons were challaned under the Motor Vehicles Act at 42 nakas in the district. He said 70 people were challaned for not wearing a mask.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/four-arrested-for-creating-ruckus-near-pinjore-eateries-357180
02-01-2022||---||Traffic cops challan 583 in Chandigarh on New Year’s Eve||Chandigarh, January 1The police came down heavily on traffic offenders as they handed out as many as 583 slips for various offences on the last day of the year 2021. As many as 221 challans were issued between 6 pm and 2 am.The maximum traffic slips were issued for wrong parking (120) and failing to lower headlight beam (117). Further, 62 challans were issued for lane changing (zigzag driving), 44 for passengers without wearing seatbelt, 36 for obscure number plate, 29 each for violation of road signs (no entry, one way) and stopping on roads (Madhya Marg, Dakshin Marg and Udyog Path), and 28 each for driving without seatbelt and dangerous driving.Twenty traffic slips were issued for taking a prohibited U-turn. Seventeen persons were fined for driving two-wheeler without helmet, while 16 were fined for the offence of pillion rider without helmet. Besides, four persons were issued traffic slips for triple-riding, said police officials.Six persons were found using handheld devices while driving while four were issued slips for jumping red light. Two persons were fined for smoking while driving. A driver was fined for using a red beacon on the vehicle.Like the last year, no drunken driving challan was issued this time as the use of breathalyser has been stopped due to the Covid-19 outbreak.Thirty special blockades were put up at prominent places. As many as 350 traffic police personnel were deployed for traffic arrangements. Individuals suspected to be driving under the influence of alcohol were handed over to the local police for medical examination, said the police.Last year, 282 traffic challans were issued for different violations on the New Year’s Eve.Three persons were booked for drinking at a public place near Cowboy Club in Sector 9. The police booked the owners and the management of Kakuna Club, Sector 7, for opening beyond permissible limit.The police received 531 distress calls, of which 251 events — 228 police service events, 28 medical service event and one fire service events — were generated. Sixty incidents of noise pollution, 29 accidents were also reported. There were 13 instances of creating nuisance in different parts of the city. Two snatchings, a case of eve teasing and 49 incidents of quarrel were reported to the police.Covid guidelines floutedAs many as 85 individuals were fined for not wearing a mask, while 124 were penalised for not maintaining social distance. Seventy-three persons were fined for spitting on public place. The police mopped up a fine of around Rs1.83 lakh from individuals for failing to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour on the New Year's Eve.Mohali peacefulThe police said it was all peaceful and no untoward incident was reported from Mohali on the New Year's Eve. No traffic slip was issued, said Jagbinder Singh, SP (Traffic). Last year, 63 motorists were fined for traffic violations at 57 checkposts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traffic-cops-challan-583-in-chandigarh-on-new-years-eve-357178
02-01-2022||---||Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Chandigarh, lads win hockey championship||Chandigarh, January 1Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, won the Panjab University Inter College Hockey (Men) Championship, concluded on the Panjab University campus grounds.In the final league match, Sector 26 -based Sri Guru Gobind Singh College hockey team outplayed GHG Khalsa College, Gurusar Sudhar (Ludhiana) 6-2. LLK Khalsa College, Dhudike, claimed third position in the championship.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sggs-lads-win-hockey-championship-357175
02-01-2022||---||Gursimran scripts St Joseph’s record win in cricket||Chandigarh, January 1Gursimran Singh played a brilliant 92-run innings to help St Joseph’s Senior Secondary School, Sector 44, register a 23-run win over GNPS Cricket Academy in the 10th Shaheed Major Sandeep Memorial Boys U-12 Cricket Tournament.Batting first, the Sector 44 team scored 188/6 in allotted 30 overs. Gursimran (92 off 69 balls, with 17 boundaries and one six) and Gurinder (32 off 43 balls) were the two main scorers for their side. Mohit Narayan claimed two wickets for the bowling side. Adhiraj claimed three wickets for the bowling side.In the second match, Satguru Cricket Academy defeated Chandigarh Cricket Academy by 117 runs. The Satguru Academy lads posted 204 runs with the help of Bhavin (90 off 60 balls, with 21 boundaries) and Ritesh Kumar (36 off 44 balls). Mohit Narayan remained the pick of the bowlers as he claimed 2/39.In reply, Chandigarh Cricket Academy bundled out for 90 runs. Trijal Goyal (26) were the main contributor in the total. Agamveer Singh claimed four wickets for the bowling side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gursimran-scripts-st-josephs-record-win-in-cricket-357172
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Deep, Pushti move to next round of ITF World Tour Tennis Tournament||Top seed Deep Munim outplayed Prag Jain 6-1, 6-0 to move ahead in the second round (qualifying) on the opening day of the ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-3) for boys and girls U-18, conducted by the Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA), at the Sector 10 complex.Tharakesh Ashokar faced a tough competition from Rushikesh Sonawane before recording a 5-7, 7-5 (10-5), while Chandan Shivaraj struggled before registering a 6-1, 3-6 (10-5) victory over Lakshya Chugh.Krish Tyagi, meanwhile, registered a one-sided 6-0, 6-0 win over Satvik Singh. Aryan Arora stunned second seed Sundararaman R 6-3, 6-3 and Arnav Yadav outplayed Yashvardhan Singh 6-4, 3-6 (10-7).Rakshit Dhankar R moved ahead by defeating Svarnanya Singh 6-1, 6-3, Akarsh Gaonkar defeated Prajwal Tewari 6-3, 6-2, Arunava Majumder outplayed Krish Karpe 6-4, 6-1, Yashvardhan Gaur defeated Tarun Sharma T 6-3, 6-3 and Arya Ganapathy K blanked Arnav Bishnoi 6-2, 6-3 in some other matches.Meanwhile, in the girls’ first round, second seed Pushti Laddha faced a tough resistance from Soha Singh before logging 6-3, 3-6 (11-9) win. Samaira Malik also march ahead by defeating Bhumi Kakkar 6-4, 6-2, Saijayani Banerjee S blanked Isheeta Midha 6-1, 6-4 and Sreenidhi Reddy Amireddy outplayed Kotistha Modak 7-5, 7-6(1). Maitree Diksha Rout easily sailed into second qualifying round by defeating Shagun Kumari 6-2, 6-2, whereas Tamanna Takoria defeated Russia’s Anastasia Timoshenko 6-2, 6-0 and Diva Bhatia outplayed Millee Chug 6-4, 6-1. Hitakamya Singh Narwal recorded a major upset by defeating third seed Riya Sachdeva 4-6, 6-0 (10-8) and Suhani Gaur ousted Sia Mahajan 6-1, 6-0.ResultsBoys (1st qualifying round): Kabir Chhabria bt Jasmeet Duhan 6-2 6-4, Senthil Kumar R bt Arjun Premkumar 6-0 7-6(1), Shyam Sundarr Shri Sailesh bt Mitul Chinmay Patel 6-1 6-1, Saharia Choudhary O bt Dhanush Varma Pericherla 6-2 1-6 (10-7), Hitesh Chauhan bt Jasandeep Singh Jashan 6-0 6-0.Girls (1st qualifying round): Rhea Arora bt Rhosyn William R 6-2 6-2, Janani Ramesh bt K Chetnani 6-3 6-1, Sree Tanvi Dasari bt S Verma 6-7(6) 6-2 (10-8), Suryanshi India bt Nihana Shresta Manikanti 6-3 6-2, Harnoor Sidhu bt Thaniya Sarai Gogulamanda 6-2 6-3. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deep-pushti-move-to-next-round-of-itf-world-tour-tennis-tournament-357170
02-01-2022||---||DAV College, Sector 10, Chandigarh, win Panjab University 2019-20 overall trophy||Chandigarh, January 1DAV College, Sector 10, claimed overall trophy of Panjab University Sports Meet (both men and women categories) for the session 2019-20. The college won two most prestigious trophies of Panjab University (PU) for general excellence in sports, Sir Shadi Lal Championship Shield (for men) and PL Bains Trophy (for women).Both the trophies were awarded by Dr DP Singh, an Indian naturalist and academic administrator. He has served as Vice-Chancellor of three different universities, namely Dr Hari Singh Gour University, Banaras Hindu University, and Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya. He is the former director of National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) and the chairman of the University Grants Commission.Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, claimed second position in the men’s category, while Guru Gobind Singh College for Women, Sector 26, claimed runners-up position in the women’s category. Due to lockdown, the said function was not organised in the session 2019-20.Panjab University Vice Chancellor Prof Raj Kumar applauded achievements of sportspersons. In the boys’ section, DAV College had won 12 championships, 10 runners-up positions and two third positions in different individual and team events. In the girls’ category, the college won seven championships, seven runners-up positions and three third positions in various sports disciplines. Overall, the college won 19 championships, 17 runners-up and five third positions in the Panjab University Inter-College tournaments.Prof Prashant Kumar Gautam, Director, Physical Education and Sports, and Dr Rakesh Malik, Deputy Director, also attended the function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dav-win-panjab-varsity-2019-20-overall-trophy-357169
02-01-2022||---||Panjab University yet to send notification of Jan 8 meeting to all members: Senators||Chandigarh, January 1Ahead of the Panjab University (PU) Senate meeting, scheduled for January 8 after a gap of two years, some Senators have alleged that they have yet to receive its notification and agenda.Sources claimed that 77 members, including 36 nominated by the Chancellor and six elected from the constituency of faculties, have been notified about the meeting.However, eight members, elected from the constituency of teachers of affiliated arts colleges, are yet to be notified following some legal glitch.Last month, PU registrar Vikram Nayyar had issued a notification regarding the meeting, to be held at the Senate hall of the university on January 8. Highly placed sources said 77 members had already received the meeting’s agenda and notification.“We have confirmation of the members’ about receiving meeting’s agenda and notification. We still have a few days left and will personally call everyone from Monday onwards,” said an official.“The House should be called to full capacity at the meeting. Never had happened that the House has been called without any of the elected members,” said a Senate member.“Meeting notices are delivered to all members via email. Even agenda papers have been dispatched at designated addresses of all members personally through officials of the university. Besides this, a telephonic confirmation will be obtained from respective members regarding receipt of the agenda papers,” said an official, seeking anonymity.Fellows write to Chancellor to defer meetingSome elected fellows of Panjab University have written to the Vice-President, who is PU Chancellor, for deferring the upcoming Panjab University Senate meeting, scheduled for January 8.The letter states: “The meeting has been scheduled without the entire Senate being notified as per the Panjab University Act. It is also to bring into your consideration that those elected members, who were not notified, had been elected after thoroughly scrutinising their candidatures as per the given procedure for conducting the Panjab University Senate elections. The electoral process was completed by the university under the directions of the Punjab & Haryana High Court (CWP No. 22229 of 2020). It is for the first time in the history of the PU that the notification of the Senate was done in two parts. First, nominated members were notified on September 21, 2021, and subsequently second incomplete list of elected members was notified on December 20, 2021, without including 14 elected members of the Senate. We appeal to get the notification of 14 elected members issued immediately so as to uphold the democratic principles enshrined in the Panjab University Act and also direct the Vice-Chancellor to defer meeting of the incomplete Senate till it is fully constituted.”The letter has been signed by fellows Rajat Sandhir, Jatinder Grover, Parveen Goyal, Naresh Gaur, Suresh Kumar, Savita Kansal, Kirandeep Kaur, Sandeep Kataria and Dyal Partap Singh Randhawa. The election to the PU Senate was held from August last year.About SenateThe Senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the university. While 36 members are nominated by the Vice-President of India, who is Chancellor of Panjab University, two are nominated from the Punjab Assembly, six are ex-officio members and 47 are elected from eight constituencies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-yet-to-send-notification-of-jan-8-meeting-to-all-members-senators-357166
02-01-2022||Sanjay Bumbroo||Rs 90-cr Surajpur-Sukhomajri bypass work hits roadblock||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 1The Surajpur-Sukhomajri bypass has hit a road block as the two railway underpasses on the 7.70 km long route are yet to be constructed even as the 90 per cent work has been completed by the construction company.The construction work of both railway underpasses on the bypass could not be undertaken due to the movement of trains. As a result, people are not able to use the bypass built at a cost of Rs90 crore. Vijay Bansal, President, Shivalik Vikas ManchAfter taking technical opinion the construction company had written to the Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) of the Northern Railway, demanding to stop trains coming towards Kalka station for a week. The company authorities have said, “Trains coming towards Kalka should be stopped at the Chandimandir railway station for a week so that underpasses could be constructed.”President of the Shivalik Vikas Manch Vijay Bansal said the construction work of both railway underpasses on the bypass could not be undertaken due to movement of trains. As a result people were not able use bypass built at a cost of Rs90 crores, he added. There were frequent traffic jams in Pinjore as hundreds of heavy vehicles heading for the Baddi industrial area passed through the town daily, he said.There was restriction on entry of heavy vehicles during three times slots in Pinjore, but the permanent solution was construction of bypass, he added.In 2007, the Haryana Urban Development Authority had acquired 232 acres for the bypass, he said. There was a demanded that the Surajpur- Sukhomajri bypass should be constructed by the NHAI and no toll plaza should be installed here, which was accepted, he added.To expedite construction of the bypass, a public interest litigation number 8226/2014 was filed in the Punjab Haryana High Court on April 30, 2014. Acting on the PIL the court had ordered the government to initiate steps for the construction. However, the Union Ministry of Transport and Highways ordered the Chief Engineer in the ministry to take immediate action in the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rs-90-cr-surajpur-sukhomajri-bypass-work-hits-roadblock-357165
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panjab University Vice-Chancellor releases calendar||“Your One Life-YOL” App launchedChandigarh: The All India Council of Technical Education (AICTE) launched an app ‘Happiness’ titled “Your One Life-YOL” at Aryan Group of Colleges. The app has been developed by founding team of Yogesh Kochhar and Anoop Bansal and their company Royster Resources. It was inaugurated by Manoj Sinha, Lt Governor, Jammu and Kashmir, along with Prof (Dr) Anil D Sahasrabudhe, Chairman, AICTE, and Dr Anshu Kataria, President, Federation of Self Financing Technical Institutions (FSFTI). TNSAI mobile app launchedChandigarh: To detect the problem of diseases in crops, Chandigarh University’s Department of Research and Development has developed an artificial intelligence (AI) based mobile application, which will detect crop diseases at an early stage of farming cycle. This will help farmers make arrangements before the spread of disease in healthy crops. Scientist F of SEED, NCSTC Division, Department of Science and Technology, New Delhi, Dr Rashmi Singh, launched the mobile app, along with Dean (Research), Chandigarh University, Prof Sanjeet Singh. TNSSeven-day NSS Camp concludesChandigarh: Dev Samaj College of Education, Sector 36, organised a seven-day NSS camp, which concluded here on Friday. Various activities were conducted at the camp. TNSWorkshop on communication skillsChandigarh: Aryan Group of Colleges conducted a workshop focusing on importance of communication skills, runway modelling and personality development. The workshop was conducted by Varsha Dangi, a fashion model, actor, APA Miss India Finalist, Miss Talented, Best Fitness Blogger 2021 and Anurag, Mr UP (First runner up), choreographer, founder, art in motion dance studio. TNSElectric, Solar Vehicle ChampionshipChandigarh: Nirma University, Gujarat, claimed top position in the e-car Electric Solar Vehicle Championships, organised by Chandigarh Group of Colleges. The winning team was awarded cash prize of Rs 60,000. NIIT, Jalandhar claimed second position to win Rs30,000. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-vice-chancellor-releases-calendar-357162
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||One held for drinking in open||Mobile phone snatchedChandigarh: A Sector 20 resident, Parmod Kumar, told the the police that a scooterist snatched his mobile phone near the Sector 32-33 rotary on December 31 at about 3:10 pm. A case under Section 379A of the IPC has been registered. TNSOne arrested in arms caseChandigarh: The police arrested a Hallo Majra resident, Rohan Kumar, 21, near Power House Road, Ram Darbar, after recovering a country-made pistol and a live round from his possession on December 31. A case under the Arms Act has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. TNSTeenaged boy goes missingChandigarh: A Sector 29 resident reported that her 17-year-old son was missing from their house since December 31. A case under Section 363 of the IPC has been registered at the Industrial Area police station. TNSP’kula resident honouredChandigarh: The Haryana Urdu Akademi has announced literary awards for the years 2019 and 2020. SD Sharma of Panchkula has been awarded the "Urdu Ghazal Singing Award" carrying a reward of Rs1 lakh. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-held-for-drinking-in-open-357161
02-01-2022||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh to become slum-free by March||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 1The UT Administration has set a target to make the city slum-free by March this year.After a delay of several years, the Administration is all set to get the dwellers evicted from the last slum of the city, Colony No. 4, after the winter season.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said all slum dwellers who were found eligible after the biometric survey conducted in the city some time ago, would be rehabilitated under the Affordable Rental Housing Scheme of the Central Government. However, all those who did not meet the eligibility criteria would be asked to go after the winter chill subsides, he said. Other smaller slum areas in the city would also be cleared by March, he added.A large number of slum dwellers have been staying in Colony No. 4. The Administration had already allotted flats at Maloya to a majority of the slum dwellers of the colony.The colony is the second biggest slum after Colony No. 5, which was razed in 2013. There were over 7,000 dwelling units in Colony No. 5 while Colony No. 4 has around 5,000 units. In the past 10 years, the Administration has constructed around 25,000 flats in different sectors of the city for rehabilitating slum dwellers. The rehabilitation scheme was launched to make the city slum-free.Sources said eligible residents of the colony had been allotted flats under the Chandigarh Small Flats Scheme-2006 in the Rehabilitation Colony, Maloya. In a survey conducted in 2006, only 2,400 families from the colony were found eligible for rehabilitation.Later, the Administration had decided to conduct a fresh biometric survey of slum dwellers who were found ineligible or were left out during the 2006 survey.In keeping with the Administration's plan of making Chandigarh free of slums, the CHB had last year rehabilitated slum dwellers from tin-shed colonies in Sector 52 and Sector 56. The Estate Office has managed to get around 200 acres from encroachers after razing Colony No. 5, Mazdoor Colony, Kuldeep Colony, Pandit Colony, Nehru Colony, Ambedkar Colony, Kajheri Colony and Madrasi Colony.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-become-slum-free-by-march-357160
02-01-2022||---||2 youths killed as bike, recovery van collide||Panchkula, January 1Two youths were killed and another seriously injured when their bike was hit by a rashly driven recovery van at the Sector 6-7 light point near the Command Hospital here late last night.The deceased have been identified as Durga Prasad (22), a native of Gonda district in Uttar Pradesh who lived at Haripur village in Sector 4; and Chandi Charan (34), a native of West Bengal who resided at Sector 26, Panchkula. The injured has been identified as Jitender (30), a native of UP and at present residing at Haripur village in Sector 4. According to information, the incident occurred at 11.30 pm when the three youths were coming from the the MDC area and were going towards Sector 6 on their motorcycle. While they were crossing the light point, a rashly driven recovery van hit their bike. Durga Prasad and Chandi Charan died on the spot.A passerby informed the police and a team immediately reached the spot. They took the injured youth to the Sector 6 Civil Hospital where the doctors referred him to the PGI, Chandigarh.The police said the youths were triple-riding the bike and were not wearing helmets at the time of the accident. The bodies of the deceased have been handed over to their families after post-mortem. The three youths worked at a clothes showroom in Sector 11, Panchkula, the police added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-youths-killed-as-bike-recovery-van-collide-357159
02-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Rainless December in over 10 years||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 1No rain was recorded in the city in December, which has happened after over 10 years. No December had gone rainless at least since 2011.The Chandigarh Meteorological Department has data available only up to 2011. In the past decade, December 2014 saw the highest rainfall of 95.2mm, while the month saw the lowest rainfall of 2.0mm in 2015.With no rain in December, the day temperature had remained higher than the normal, while the nights were colder.The department attributed a rainless December to no strong western disturbances. “Western disturbances were not there. Even if they came, those were not strong enough to cause rainfall. Punjab and Haryana, however, had seen some rainfall. Plains did not see significant rains while hills had,” said Met Director Manmohan Singh.Rain likely from Jan 5-7The tricity is likely to experience rain between January 5 and 7. According to the Met Department, “A fresh active western disturbance and its associated cyclonic circulation are likely to affect the region from January 3. Under its influence, scattered to fairly widespread light/moderate rainfall is likely over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh during January 5-7.”However, no significant change in minimum temperatures is expected in the next 24 hours, but a gradual rise by 3°-5°C during the subsequent three days has been predicted. Hence, the minimum temperatures will be above normal to considerably above normal from January 4, said the weathermen.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rainless-decenber-in-over-10-years-357157
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Vaccine for children: Over 50% Day 1 slots booked||Online registration for children’s vaccination started today with more than 650 beneficiaries making registrations against the 1,200 (online) slots for January 3.The registration on the Co-WIN portal was made available from January 1 and vaccination is scheduled to start from January 3, for the children in the age group of 15-18 years. According to eligible population projected by the Central Government, there are around 72,000 eligible children in this age band.The Covaxin vaccine will be used and to avoid any confusion with the ongoing vaccination, separate vaccination centers have been set up for children’s vaccination.Centres for the drivePreference is being given to slots booked online and subject to availability of vacant slots, walk-in registrations will also be allowed at the centres set up at the PGI, Sector 12; GMCH, Sector 32; GMSH, Sector 16; Civil Hospital, Mani Majra; Civil Hospital, Sector 22; and Civil Hospital, Sector 45.Special vaccination centres are also being set up where walk-in registrations will be allowed to the eligible children, whether enrolled or not in any particular school. These centres include Government Senior Secondary School, Dhanas; Government Model High School, RC-Il, Maloya; Government Model Senior Secondary School, MHC, Mani Majra. One vaccination centre exclusively for eligible girls has been set up at Girls Senior Secondary School, Sector 20-B.The prescribed protocol of 30-minute observation after vaccination will be followed for the vaccination of children also. As a precautionary step, ambulances will be provided to each centre and two beds reserved in the Paediatric Care Ward of GMCH-32 to take care of any post-vaccination issues. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vaccine-for-children-over-50-day-1-slots-booked-357154
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Spike in tricity Covid cases||With 70 new cases of Covid-19 reported on Saturday, Chandigarh saw its biggest single-day spike since June.At present, the cumulative number of cases in the UT stand at 65,965. The last seven days saw an average daily spike of 29 cases. The positivity rate has also shot up to 4.75 per cent from 0.5 to 1 per cent earlier. As many as 1,474 samples were tested in the past 24 hours.The active cases have climbed to 236 in the city, even as a majority of these infected cases are asymptomatic and under home isolation. As of now, only 24 Covid beds are occupied in the government hospitals in the UT and there are 369 vacant beds.So far, the city has recorded three cases of Omicron, all of whom are stable and on the recovery path. — TNSFresh 26 cases reported in P’kulaPanchkula: Fresh 26 cases of Covid surfaced in the district in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 31,026. No death was reported on Saturday, while five patients recovered from the disease. The cases were reported from Sector 1, 4, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12A, 16, 20, 21, 23, 27, 7 and 8; Amravati Enclave, MDC-5. The number of active cases is 107. — TNS29 test +ve in MohaliMohali: The district on Saturday reported 29 new cases. Twentyone cases surfaced in the Mohali (urban) area, three in the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur, two each in Dera Bassi and Kharar and one in Kurali. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/spike-in-tricity-covid-cases-357152
02-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Trouble deepens in Chandigarh Congress||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 1Infighting in the city Congress came into the open today when local party president Subhash Chawla and former leader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla nearly came to blows in the visitors’ gallery of the Municipal Corporation building during the oath-taking ceremony of the new councillors.Ex-councillor Babla, whose wife is the councillor from a ward reserved for women this time, told Chandigarh Tribune that either Chawla would remain in the party or him and his supporters.The incident happened when Congress leaders were sitting in the visitors’ gallery. They had heated arguments when Babla questioned the party chief for not “responding to his calls and not meeting him.” Amid commotion, they came out walking from the gallery.“Babla shouldered me and also abused me as I was walking. He must have some old grudge,” alleged Chawla.Some said Babla was not invited to a “meeting” held before the oath-taking ceremony today. “It was not a meeting. The councillors and I met our leader Pawan Bansal as a courtesy call,” claimed Chawla.Denying having abused or pushed Chawla, Babla, alleged, “He has not been in touch with us after the names for ticket were announced. He does not meet us or pick our calls. He only campaigned for his son. He is dividing the party. Now, either we remain in the party or him. We cannot work under him.”On talks of him joining the BJP, Babla said, “Both the BJP and AAP are contacting me for support. It’s but natural as no party has got a majority to have its Mayor. Even I am asking them to support our party. We cannot sit idle like him (Chawla), we have to strategise and seek support of the others.”Chawla denied the allegations levelled by the former leader of the Opposition.Long list of Cong defectorsThe city Congress is already facing troubles — its performance is declining and it has failed to keep its flock together. In fact, the top two city AAP leaders are former Congress men. Pradeep Chhabra, former city Congress president, is now the AAP co-in-charge.Many among 14 elected AAP councillors are the congress men, who are Chhabra loyalists.Former Congress councillor Chandermukhi Sharma was made the chairman of the AAP election campaign committee. During the MC poll, the Congress had suffered another setback when its sitting councillor Sheela Devi joined the BJP after she was denied ticket. Earlier, Congress general secretary Sandeep Bharadwaj had also joined AAP.After the party stood third in the MC poll, winning only eight seats out of a total of 35 seats, infighting has grown in the party. Many leaders in the party feel the seats which the Congress should have won had gone to AAP due to the party "leadership's failure". While AAP got a major of 14 seats, the BJP won on 12 seats.35 councillors take oathChandigarh: All 35 newly-elected councillors were administered the oath by DC Vinay Pratap Singh at the MC office on Saturday. Of them, 14 are from AAP, 12 from the BJP, eight are from the Congress and one is from SAD. Eighteen councillors read the oath in Hindi, while 12 preferred Punjabi and five opted for English. A few of them fumbled while reading the oath. The DC had to stop them and asked them to read again as per the oath. He also had to read alongwith some of them. Many councillors, who were not wearing masks, were requested to wear one by the DC in view of increasing Covid cases. tns||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trouble-deepens-in-chandigarh-congress-357149
02-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court suggests 'shared parenting' for estranged couples||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 1In a significant order liable to change the way children of separated parents are brought up, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has advocated “shared parenting”. A Division Bench has made it clear that the concept of shared parenting could be suggested to the “parties” when they approach the police for lodging complaints alleging cruelty and other offences.The direction came after the Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma observed that the court was seized of a number of cases in which a child’s emotional and psychological requirements were not being properly taken into account while deciding the divorce petitions filed by the parents under the Hindu Marriage Act.“The concept of shared parenting can be extended at the initial stage, when parties approach the police station,” the Bench asserted.In its order, the Bench also asked the amicus curiae, Divya Sharma, to assist the court on the “kind of infrastructure required for solving the problems of children where parents are seeking separation”.The Bench said the parents would not have to travel for years to the courts, if the concept of shared parenting was advised at the initial stages. Referring to the Law Commission’s report of May 2015, the Bench asserted it had been observed that a child had the birthright to meet his parents and grandparents.It was further observed in the report that several disputes could be resolved through mediation. But professional assistance might be required in the case of mediation as neither the court, nor the mediators, were qualified to understand child psychology. “A time-bound resolution is a key factor to achieve the objective of ensuring that the welfare of the child is met,” the Bench said.Quoting an example, the Bench asserted that a child came to the HC on December 10, 2021, along with her mother. Crying, the child stated she did not want to lose the company of both the parents. “As the parties were from Sonepat, a direction was given that both the parents will take the child to a counsellor at Sonepat,” the Bench saidPointing at the facts of the case, the Bench added the appellant had approached the court against order dated October 3, 2018, passed by the Gurdaspur Civil Judge (Senior Division), whereby he was given visitation rights to meet the minor child every third working Friday.Apply Concept at initial stageThe Bench said that the parents would not have to travel for years to the courts, if the concept of “shared parenting” was advised to them at the initial stages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-suggests-shared-parenting-for-estranged-couples-357141
02-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 70 new Covid cases, highest single-day spike since June||Chandigarh on Saturday recorded its highest single-day spike since June as 70 fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded, taking the total number of active cases in the City to 236.The City had reported 49 new cases and no new death on Friday. Eight patients were cured of the disease in the past 24 hours.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-70-new-covid-cases-highest-single-day-spike-since-june-356945
