03-01-2022||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||In view of rising Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh Administration orders closure of Rock Garden and Bird Park||In the wake of steep rise in Covid-19 cases, the Chandigarh Administration has decided to close down Rock Garden and Bird Park till further orders.The UT Administration had yesterday decided to close all activities, including boating, at Sukhna Lake from Monday to Saturday.The administration, however, had given a few hours relaxation for morning and evening walkers for six days. The lake will remain completely shut every Sunday.As per the orders, people will be allowed to have a morning walk from 5 am to 9 am and evening walk between 6 pm and 8 pm.A UT official said visitors would be allowed during the hours of relaxation only if they followed the Covid protocol.Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit gave his New Year greetings to all the administrative officers.He shared that this war room will work in full effectiveness from now on. He has asked the officials to ensure proper oxygen supply and availability of beds in the hospitals, intensify testing and enhance vaccinations to combat the situation.Professor GD Puri, PGIMER, informed that they have 250 Covid beds, of which 48 have been activated.Dr Suman Singh, DHS Chandigarh shared that 606 isolation beds for asymptomatic and mild cases are available at GMSH-16 and 50 have been made functional.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director Principal, stated that 250 oxygen beds and 80 ventilator beds are available in GMCH-32. All the institutions have adequate oxygen supply for Covid patients.Secretary Health, Yashpal Garg, shared that they have already procured the buffer stock for essential medicines of Covid.Chandigarh has 53.8 metric tonnes of oxygen available in city’s health institutes, whereas the requirement is of 49.5 metric tonnes. He further informed that there is sufficient Covid vaccination stock for both adult and children.Deputy Commissioner, Mohali, stated that they have 164 active cases. Deputy Commissioner, Panchkula, stated that they have 129 active cases and Deputy Commissioner, UT, Chandigarh, stated that they have 321 active cases.The administrator asked the neighbouring districts to support each other and control the Covid situation by joint efforts. He has asked to ensure strict enforcement of Covid protocol in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/in-view-of-rising-covid-19-cases-chandigarh-administration-orders-closure-of-rock-garden-and-bird-park-357827
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mani Majra: Batteries of 4 cars stolen||PU pugilists win silver medalChandigarh: Panjab University pugilists claimed second position in the All-India Inter-University Boxing Championship (Men), concluded at Lovely Professional University, Phagwara. Punjab University’s Sawan Gill claimed +92kg gold medal and was also adjudged the best boxer of the tournament. Akshay claimed 75-kg gold medal, while Ravi Kumar bagged 67-kg silver medal in the championship. Rahul (71 kg) and Kuldeep (48 kg) claimed bronze medal each. Kurukshetra University claimed the gold medal, while hosts Lovely Professional University won third position in the championship. TNSSoftball trials begin todayChandigarh: The Chandigarh Softball Association will organise trials to select local (boys and girls) teams to participate in the 39th Junior National Softball Championship to be held at Visakhapatnam from January 11 to 15. The trials will be held at Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 35, on January 3 at 12 noon. Players born on or after January 1, 2004, will be eligible to participate in the trials. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/batteries-of-4-cars-stolen-in-mani-majra-357538
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||T20 cricket: Livewire Coaching Centre log victory||Livewire Coaching Centre (LWCC) defeated Namaste Chandigarh Complex by 7 runs in a T20 Cricket Tournament, “My Daughter - My Pride”.Batting first, LWCC scored 123/5 in 20 overs with the help of Saurabh (37), Divyank (35) and Pankaj (27). Pardeep Singh and Naresh claimed two wickets each, while Gulshan claimed one wicket for the bowling side.In reply, Namaste Chandigarh Complex could score only 116/9 in 20 overs. Sanjay Singh (55) and Rishi Arora (21) were the main contributors to the chase. Saurabh, Harvinder Nain, Pankaj and Kamal claimed two wickets each for the bowling side, while Shubham took one. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/t20-cricket-livewire-coaching-centre-log-victory-357537
03-01-2022||---||Hoshiarpur lad bags wushu gold||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2Sumit of SD College, Hoshiarpur, claimed first position in the men’s changquan category during the Panjab University Inter-College Wushu (Sanshu) Championship.Subhash of GGDSD College, Sector 32, claimed silver medal and Aman of GHG Khalsa College, Gurusar Sadhar, Ludhiana, claimed third position.In the men’s nanquan event, Ravi of GN College, Narangwal, defeated Ashish of GHG Khalsa College to claim the gold medal. Dhandeep of Panjab University Campus claimed bronze medal.Sanam of SD College claimed gold medal in the men’s taijiqvan event. Aman Yadav of GHG Khalsa College claimed silver medal and Hrithika of Panjab University Campus won bronze medal.In the women’s jianshu category, Divya of MCM DAV College, Sector 36, defeated Krishna of GGDSD College to win the gold medal. Anjali of Guru Gobind Singh College for Women, Sector 26, claimed the bronze medal. Divya won second gold medal in the women’s changquan event by defeating Krishna. Muskan of Panjab University Campus claimed third position.Divya won her third gold medal by defeating Divya of Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 11, in the women’s qianshu final. Priyanka of Panjab University Campus claimed third position.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hoshiarpur-lad-bags-wushu-gold-357536
03-01-2022||---||Hursh moves to second round in badminton||Chandigarh, January 2Hursh Singh Thokchom defeated Aryan Epte (15-11, 16-14) to qualify for the second round in the boys’ U-17 category on the opening day of the 1st Ashwani Gupta Memorial All-India Sub-Junior Ranking Badminton Tournament at the Sector 38 Sports Complex here today.Suryanshu Tripathi also march ahead by defeating Krishna Sharma (15-12, 15-8), whereas Pranav Krishnamurthi Vamsi ousted Krishna Jarugumilli (15-5, 15-6).In other games, Harshit Dahiya defeated Aaryan (15-1, 15-1), Sugi Sai Bala Singha G defeated Soham Shilimkar (15-8, 15-6), Sparsh Seth outplayed Kanishk Kiran Bengre (15-3, 15-7), Rounak Chouhan defeated Sai Rishwanth Lade (16-14, 15-6), Shivam Verma beat Agastya Raghav (15-7, 15-6) and Ishaan Sihag defeated Dakshvir Singh (15-3, 15-4).Aditya Sharma faced a tough resistance from Avadh Billore before logging (15-12, 8-15, 15-5) victory. Arjun Baiju was given walkover against Sarthak Som, while Nagesh Chamle defeated Sumith AR (15-4, 15-7). Malhar Ghadi also marched ahead by defeating Rudraksh Kashnia (15-12, 15-11), Vedant Natu Hari defeated Sai Ganesh S (15-6, 15-6) and Divyansh Dewali outplayed Medhansh Sharma (15-10, 15-12) in other matches.Ayushi marches aheadAyushi Chakraborty defeated Varsha Kumari (15-2, 15-5) to move ahead in the second round of the girls’ U-15 category. Aseespreet Kaur was given walkover against Bhoomika, while Aikya Shetty defeated Yashika L (15-7, 15-9). Rishita Pandey had a tough day against Nitya Jitendra Kotai before registering a (15-12, 5-15, 15-11) win. Riya Vinherkar defeated Gursimrat Kaur Chahal (15-7, 15-2), while Devashree R registered a comeback (13-15, 21-20, 15-10) victory over Srenakshi Mandal. Divyanshi Gautam ousted Leonie Tayenjam (15-7, 15-6), whereas Supraja S outplayed Vidhi Saini (15-3, 15-2). Akshita Manral defeated Nishika Gokhe (15-9, 15-5), Ishika Poddar outplayed Adriana Chhibbar (15-7, 15-7) and Anu Priya ousted Hiranyadha Thakur (15-6, 15-4). Hithaishree L Rajaiah defeated Yashodhara Prasad (15-9, 13-15, 15-5), while Sai Hasini Kandrakota registered a comeback (8-15, 15-9, 15-12) win over Nitisha Negi and Liyana Dutta outplayed Drishti (14-16, 15-12, 15-9). Ananya Singh registered an easy (15-11, 15-5) win over Tanishka Sharma, while Aishani Singh defeated Anusha Pandey (15-10, 15-6). Sameeksha Reddy returned from a game down to defeat Dakshayni Patil (13-15, 21-19, 15-10) and Siyona Kolla defeated Darshita Rajguru (15-3, 15-7).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hursh-moves-to-second-round-in-badminton-357535
03-01-2022||---||Chandigarh fencers shine in national meet||Chandigarh, January 2Local fencers bagged a rich haul of medals in the recently concluded Junior National Fencing Championship at Sonepat. Inderpartap Singh Hayer bagged a silver medal in the epee event and Kusum won a bronze medal in the foil event. The team of Kaashvi Garg, Sangeeta, Siya Monga and Sanchi claimed bronze medal in the team’s epee event.Hayer and Kusum were also selected to represent India in the upcoming junior championship. Sandeep Passi, president of the Chandigarh Fencing Association, congratulated the winners.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-fencers-shine-in-national-meet-357534
03-01-2022||---||Tennis tourney: Top seed Niyati enters main draw||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2Top seed Indian player Niyati Kukreti outclassed Sreenidhi Reddy Amireddy in straight sets (6-4, 6-3) to confirm her berth in the girls’ U-16 main draw on the second day of the ITF World Tour Tennis Juniors Tournament at the CLTA Complex in Sector 10 here today.Fifth seed Janani Ramesh registered a comeback win over Hitakamya Singh Narwal, while Suryanshi India easily defeated Harleen Kaur Dhanda.In the boys’ final qualifying round, top seed Deep Munim had to struggle hard before defeating Krish Tyagi. Sixth seed Akarsh Gaonkar outplayed Aryan Arora, while fifth seed Kabir Chhabria stunned third seed Arunava Majumder. Fourth seed Senthil Kumar R had a tough time against eighth seed Hitesh Chauhan before logging a win.Earlier, in the second round (qualifiers), Munim defeated Tharakesh Ashokar. Krish Tyagi ousted seventh seed Chandan Shivaraj, Aryan Arora defeated Arnav Yadav, sixth seed Akarsh Gaonkar outplayed Rakshit Dhankar R and Arunava Majumder outplayed Yashvardhan Gaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tennis-tourney-top-seed-niyati-enters-main-draw-357533
03-01-2022||It is really appreciable that the Chandigarh Administration is coming up with an EV policy. This is the need of the hour. The Administration should take steps to replace the entire fleet of the local buses with electric vehicles. People should be granted some incentives for using battery-operated vehicles. There should be a subsidy of at least Rs50||Open house: What are your expectations from the draft electric vehicle policy?||NPS Sohal, ChandigarhSpecial attractions for buyersTo encourage the use of electric vehicles, there should be special attractions such as subsidy, free and designated parking and felicitation of electric vehicle buyers by publishing their photographs in leading newspapers. This way people can be made aware of the benefits of electric vehicles.Sapna Sharda, ChandigarhQUESTIONEven after seeing a surge in Covid cases, residents are found throwing all caution to the winds by not wearing masks and violating the social distancing norm. What steps should the UT Administration take to ensure strict enforcement of Covid- compliant behaviour other than allowing only vaccinated individuals to visit public places?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.comEffective and sustainable toolThe EV policy must be welcomed as an effective and sustainable tool to overcome the problems of climate change and pollution. Before its implementation, it should be ensured that there is a clear and effective support system such as setting up a maximum of charging stations, giving subsidies to consumers buying electric vehicles and also encouraging behavioural change among masses by holding various awareness drives highlighting the benefits of this policy.Shakha, ChandigarhEVs the need of the hourElectric vehicles are the need of the hour. The Administration should wave registration fee, give free parking and set up charging stations at various locations to encourage the use of electric vehicles. Subsidies in the cost as well as in insurance will encourage people to buy such vehicles. The Administration should buy electric vehicles for official use.Prof H S Dhanoa, ChandigarhGive priority to public transportAll public transport vehicles be replaced with EVs in the first phase. The UT Administration should ban the entry of old diesel vehicles into the city. Many ill-maintained trucks, three-wheelers and rickshaws fitted with old engines ply on the city roads with impunity. These vehicles cause excessive pollution which can defeat the purpose of the EV policy. There is a need to fix the responsibility of traffic police with regard to challaning unfit and overloaded vehicles on a regular basis so that air pollution is kept within the permissible limits.KC Rana, ChandigarhEarmark charging stationsThe policy on electric vehicles should not be a mode to fleece people by issuing hefty challans. Certain areas should be earmarked for electric vehicles where their batteries can be charged by paying a nominal fee.Dr Sunaina, ChandigarhPolicy needs to be pro-peopleTo get a relief from the rising pollution levels, bringing electric vehicles on the city roads by the UT Administration with mandatory provisions in its policy will be welcome by one and all. It will be desirable if the draft policy takes into consideration the cost effectiveness involved in such a switch over. Since the existing vehicles cannot be discarded overnight, a reasonable time frame will be allowed to vehicle owners to go for the new versions, as well as to facilitate the availability of a conversion mechanism in the market. Since power consumption will go up considerably, generation should be augmented to meet the additional demand.SC Luthra, ChandigarhEnsure proper infrastructureIt is good news for the residents that the UT Administration is thinking of unveiling its EV policy. The residents expect that the policy be notified only after ensuring proper infrastructure for EVs such as sufficient charging stations and parking space. There should be incentives in the form of road tax exemption and cheap electricity for the owners of electric vehicles. These vehicles have no gear and clutch, thus are easy to drive. Their maintenance will be cheap. As a matter of fact, it will lead to a healthy environment of Chandigarh.MR Bhateja, NayagaonNot a feasible ideaTo introduce electric vehicles is a good move as it will reduce noise and air pollution. Before launching the policy, the Administration must ensure that there are sufficient charging stations in the city to meet the demand of such vehicle users. Giving free parking space to e-vehicle owners will be an injustice with the owners of fuel-based vehicles. The Administration must do its home work well before implementing the policy.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliPolicy should be valid for 30-40 yearsThe Government of India has committed that it will reduce carbon emissions by 45% till 2030 and there will be 0% emissions by 2070. Many experts believe that these are very ambitious targets for a country like India, which is dependent mostly on fossil fuel for its energy needs. The Electric Vehicle (EV) project is also a step to reduce carbon emissions. As the Chandigarh Administration is going to launch its draft policy shortly, we expect the following: The draft and approved policy should be valid for a period of 30-40 years. There should be concessions in the cost of e-vehicles as well as road tax and buyers be given loans at low interest rates. A sufficient number of charging stations should be set up. There should be a clear policy for the scrapping of old vehicles as well as EV vehicles after a fixed period of time. The prices of spare parts and replacement batteries should be reasonable.Suresh Verma, ChandigarhKeep public losses in mindResidents have a lot of expectations from the draft electric vehicle policy being unveiled by the Administration. It may hugely benefit the Administration, vehicle users, businessmen and the environment. However, it should be ensured that the policy doesn’t cause losses to the general public. Sufficient time must be given to the users of diesel vehicles.Wg Cdr (Dr) JS Minhas (retd), MohaliMake e-vehicles affordableThe aim of the policy is to reduce pollution in the city. There is a need to provide e-vehicle users with a short and convenient solution to their charging needs. There should be no registration, fine, road tax and parking charges for these vehicles. These vehicles must be made affordable by temporarily reducing the GST rate.Anita K tandon, KhararIncentivise usersThe policy must incentivise buyers of electric vehicles by waving registration fee, road tax and 50% MC parking charges. There should be no limit on e-autorickshaw permits, though these can be allowed to ply on a limited number of routes in the city. There must be a subsidy on the purchase of these vehicles and there should be no purchase limit.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhSubsidy target should be practicalA three-member committee set up to finalise the draft of the electric vehicle (EV) policy of Chandigarh has picked loopholes in the draft policy. The committee members, at a recent meeting, questioned several proposed features such as the quantum of subsidy to be given, subsidy targets, a ban on petrol two-wheelers from the next financial year and the methodology on which the policy is being prepared. It was suggested that rather than the arbitrary fixing of subsidy, it should be calculated by incorporating actual market costs and resale value of vehicles. The draft advocates subsidies to vehicle buyers, which is expected to act as a major incentive to people to move from fossil fuel-based vehicles to electric vehicles. The subsidy target should be practical and based on the actual new vehicles being registered. Adequate charging points across the city should be set up.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliReduce GST on electric vehiclesThe City Beautiful needs more electric vehicles to reduce pollution. The cost of running electric vehicles is almost 40% less than that of petrol-diesel vehicles. Another advantage of electric vehicles is these reduce dependence on crude oil. The UT authorities must provide subsidy as well as reduce GST to encourage the sale of electric vehicles. It is also pertinent to mention that electric vehicles are safe to drive, have low maintenance cost and are emission-free.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliPollution-free environmentEvery citizen of a city likes to live in pollution-free environment. There should be subsidy on converting fuel-based vehicles into electric ones. People will feel comfortable driving e-vehicles as these produce less noise and no emissions. The city will become more beautiful without pollution. Citizens can enjoy living in a pollution-free environment.Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliProvide sufficient charging pointsThe introduction of 60 electric vehicles is a welcome step before the unveiling of the e-vehicle policy. The next most important step should be to set up an adequate number of charging stations. Persons opting for these vehicles should be provided subsidies. A special drive should be held to give incentives for replacing fuel-based vehicles with e-vehicles. More funds should be provided for R&D to improve the present designs of e-vehicles to ensure safety, reliability, reduction in cost and ease of handling.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhKeep teething problems in mindIt is heartening to note that the UT Administration is rolling out a draft electric vehicle (EV) policy. A recent study says electric cars generate half or less than half the emissions caused by fuel-based cars. And with the rising fuel prices, both the private and public transport become expensive. So, buying electric cars makes a lot of sense. But the policy should take care of the teething problems which are expected to plague the EVs. There should be sufficient charging infrastructure in the city. Dedicated parking lots for electric vehicles must be earmarked across the city. There has to be standardisation of equipment to be used in the infrastructure to meet the global norms of the EV ecosystem. A sufficient number of service centres should be set up by the administration.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhPeople have a lot of expectationsThe Chandigarh Administration is soon going to unveil the draft electric vehicle policy. We expect from this policy that electric vehicles should be affordable, comfortable, eco-friendly, of good quality and easily available. Incentives and subsidies should be provided to buyers. There should be a good charging infrastructure. This policy should be beneficial for us.Adish Sood, AmlohGreen zones for electric vehiclesApart from financial incentives, free-of-cost dedicated charging stations and green zones for electric vehicles should be provided. The people of the city expect incentives in the form of subsidies and reduced road tax for electric vehicles. The Administration should give a chance to local start-ups to provide spare parts. We request the Administration to be liberal with infrastructure spending and make installation of charging stations mandatory in all official and residential areas.Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhMobile charging stationsThere are some issues with e-vehicles such as limited charging stations in the city, limited capacity to run on a full charge and high cost. The government should give heavy subsidies on the purchase of electric vehicles. Mobile charging stations should also be arranged.Avinash goyal, ChandigarhSubsidy, charging stations key issuesElectric vehicles are a good option for the country as these will help check the pollution levels. The city has a few service stations for e-vehicles and charging stations. Even the cost of electric cars is high. The Administration should promote both solar as well as e-vehicles in the city, especially in the commercial sector, by giving good subsidies.Aarti Verma, PanchkulaTake feedback from stakeholdersThe electric vehicle policy should be formulated after taking feedback from all stakeholders. Suggestions, comments, clarifications and inputs should be considered by the authorities to make the policy widely acceptable in the public. Moreover, the policy should be a long-term step and free of ambiguities. We expect the EV policy to give a maximum of subsidy on the purchase of e-vehicles. The subsidy should be transferred to the beneficiary digitally. The need for setting up more charging stations should be taken care of.Dr Rajeev Kumar, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-what-are-your-expectations-from-the-draft-electric-vehicle-policy-357532
03-01-2022||Mohali||Mohali civic body to give roundabouts to private builders for maintenance||The Mohali Municipal Corporation has decided to give roundabouts and triangles on slip roads in the city to private builders for maintenance and beautification.The MC has framed guidelines for allotting roundabouts and triangles on roads for proper maintenance and beautification. The contract will be awarded for two years. If the builders concerned fail to maintain these, the contract will be cancelled.The companies that take over the triangles and roundabouts in new sectors will not have to deposit bank guarantees as these are yet to be developed by GMADA or the MC. However, in other areas, the companies will have to deposit bank guarantees.Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi said earlier the companies used to take these for maintenance to advertise their company. He said now guidelines had been framed and roundabouts and triangles would be given for maintenance after getting bank guarantees from builders. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-civic-body-to-give-roundabouts-to-private-builders-for-maintenance-357531
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||Naraingarh couple duped of Rs 9.13 lakh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/naraingarh-couple-duped-of-9-13-lakh-357521
03-01-2022||Mohali||Road mishaps leave 2 scooterists dead||Meanwhile, a scooterist (57 ) was killed after being hit by a car near the Dappar toll plaza on January 1. The deceased has been identified as Digambar Prasad, a resident of Zirakpur, who was coming from Ambala to Baltana. Prasad suffered head injuries and was rushed to the GMCH-32, but died on the way. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/road-mishaps-leave-2-scooterists-dead-357508
03-01-2022||---||3 booked for firing into the air in Gharuan||Mohali, January 2Two groups of youths staying as paying guests in Kumbhra clashed with each other on the night of December 31. In the fight, shots were also fired into the air.The police said the clash took place in the building lift after both groups were going for dinner after consuming liquor at night.A minor altercation ensued in the lift, following which one of the suspects fired shots into the air after they came out. After the incident, the suspects fled from the spot in a car.After getting information, the police reached there and seized an empty shell from the spot.On a complaint of Jashandeep Singh, a native of Dabwali and a BA-I student of DAV College, Sector 10, the police registered a case against Ravinder Singh, Jagtar Singh and one of their accomplices under Sections 336, 341, 506 and 34 of the IPC and the Arms Act at the Phase 8 police station today.DSP (City-2) Sukhjeet Singh said the suspects were yet to be arrested and their paying guest accommodation at Golden Square Society is locked since the incident. The police were yet to find out whether the shorts were fired from the licensed weapon or not.Minor altercation the triggerA minor altercation ensued in the lift, following which one of the suspects fired shots into the air after they came out. After the incident, the suspects fled from the spot in a car. After getting information, the police reached there and seized an empty shell from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-booked-for-firing-into-the-air-in-gharuan-357507
03-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh to appoint District Sports Officer soon||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2In the first week of 2022, the UT Sports Department will be up on an important task of appointing a new District Sports Officer (DSO). The former DSO, judo coach Krishan Lal, retired on December 31, 2021.He was appointed to the post on an additional charge and the new DSO is also likely to get the charge on ‘additional basis’, thanks to the policy of the department.Sources claimed that the next DSO will be appointed on a seniority basis. However, nothing has been finalised so far. Notably, after the retirement of Ravinder Singh Laddi on November 30, 2020, the department appointed Lal as the DSO.“Let’s see, who is appointed to the post. There have been no clear instructions from the authorities. Going by the trend, the seniormost coach should be appointed to the post,” said a senior official.The UT Sports Department follows Rule 8 (i) of the Punjab State Sports Rules, 1993, which allows only those having experience of seven years as coach/senior coach to get promoted as the DSO. The sources also claimed that no coach in the department fulfils these criteria amid no-promotion policy.“No senior coach has the experience of seven years of regular service in Chandigarh. In this case, the most experienced coach may get the additional charge of the DSO,” said a coach.“Since, the department has appointed a full-time Joint Director, Sports, the problem of appointing a regular DSO should also be solved. The department is already lagging behind on several projects. Appointment of a regular DSO is also important for the betterment of local sports ahead,” said a coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-appoint-district-sports-officer-soon-357506
03-01-2022||---||Mohali to give libraries to social organisations||Mohali, January 2The Mohali Municipal Corporation has decided to hand over all libraries in the city to social organisations for their maintenance within a week.Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu announced this while handing over a library in Silvi Park, Phase 10, to Shaheed Azam Bhagat Singh Resident Welfare Society. Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and area councillor Narpinder Singh Rangi were also present on the occasion.The Mayor said the corporation had opened libraries in various parks to increase the interest of people in reading. The MC would hand over the libraries to welfare organisations of the area who wanted to run these. The electricity bill of these libraries and the cost of newspapers would be paid by the corporation. A financial assistance of Rs10,000 per month would be provided to the organisations.Sidhu said more than Rs100-crore development works were underway in Mohali at present and further tenders were being passed and work orders were also being issued. He said Local Government Minister Punjab Brahm Mahindra and Medical Education Minister of Punjab Dr Raj Kumar Verka recently inaugurated and laid foundation stones for several projects.He said the file of city bus service had been cleared by Local Government Minister Brahm Mahindra. Now, tenders would be issued for the procurement of buses. These buses would be made available to people of Mohali soon. He said with the implementation of our own transport system in Mohali, people of Mohali would be able to avail of this facility and its ticket would be fixed at Rs10 only. He said these CNG buses would not reduce pollution in the city.Ph 10 library handed over to societyMayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu handed over a library in Silvi Park, Phase 10, to Shaheed Azam Bhagat Singh Resident Welfare Society. Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi and area councillor Narpinder Singh Rangi were also present on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-to-give-libraries-to-social-organisations-357505
03-01-2022||---||As cases head north, Chandigarh shuts activities at Sukhna Lake||Chandigarh, January 2In view of rising Covid cases, the UT Administration has decided to close all activities, including boating, at Sukhna Lake from Monday to Saturday. The Administration, however, has given a few hours relaxation for morning and evening walkers for six days. The lake will remain completely shut every Sunday.The orders were issued today by UT Adviser Dharam Pal, which will come into force from January 3 and continue till further orders.As per the orders, people will be allowed to have a morning walk from 5 am to 9 am and evening walk between 6 pm and 8 pm.Lake to be closed on SundaysThe lake will remain completely shut every Sunday. The orders were issued on Sunday by UT Adviser Dharam Pal, which will come into force from January 3 and continue till further orders.A UT official said visitors would be allowed during the hours of relaxation only if they followed the Covid protocol. The police have been directed to ensure that Covid norms are followed by the visitors and issue challans to violators. Any breach of the orders will invite action under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 of the IPC, along with other applicable laws.Eateries to function at 50% capacityIn addition to banquet halls and hotels, restaurants, cafes, coffee shops and eating places will be allowed to function with 50 per cent capacity. They will have to ensure that only fully vaccinated people are allowed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/as-cases-head-north-chandigarh-shuts-activities-at-sukhna-357501
03-01-2022||---||Covid curbs back in Panchkula; Sector 7 traders create scene||Panchkula, January 2High drama was witnessed at the Sector 7 market here as shopkeepers refused to shut their shops when the police went there asking them to close their shops in view of the directions issued by the district administration today.The traders kept their shops open till 6.30 pm. Later, however, they brought down the shutters after being persuaded by the police.Sanjeev Goyal, general secretary, Panchkula District Chemists Association, said not a single chemist was allowed to open after 5 pm while bars and restaurants were allowed to operate till 9 pm.Rakesh Aggarwal, a resident of Sector 12, said he visited a number of markets in the city to get a medicine as a member of his family had fever. He said he was surprised to see all chemists in the city closed. Later, he was able to get the medicine from a medical store of a private hospital in Sector 21. He said the district administration should have allowed medical shops to remain open to enable residents to purchase medicines in case of an emergency. Meanwhile, in exercise of powers conferred under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, District Collector Mahavir Kaushik has extended the period of “Epidemic Alert-Safe Haryana” till 5 am on January 12.As per the orders, all cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes in the district will remain closed. Along with this, all sports complexes, stadia, swimming pools (except for the purpose of training of players participating in national and international competitions and for organising national and international competitions) will remain closed. All entertainment parks and B2B exhibitions have also been banned. In government and private offices (except for emergency/essential services), only 50 per cent staff will work. Malls and markets will also be able to open till 5 pm. Bars and restaurants will be allowed to operate at 50 per cent seating capacity. Only those who have received both doses of the Covid vaccine will be allowed to enter public places such as vegetable markets, grain markets, bus stands, railway stations, parks, religious places, bars, restaurants, hotels, department stores, ration depots, liquor shops, malls, shopping complexes, petrol pumps, CNG stations, yoga centres, gyms, fitness centres, government and private offices and banks.The orders further state that truck and auto-rickshaw unions should only allow those persons to operate their vehicles who have received both doses.Those who have received the first dose of the vaccine and have time to take the second dose will be exempted.The orders state that those violating the Covid protocol such as not wearing masks and not following social distancing will be fined Rs500. Any institute found violating these rules will be fined Rs5,000. According to the orders, there will be a ban on movement from 11 pm to 5 am.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-curbs-back-in-panchkula-sec-7-traders-create-scene-357492
03-01-2022||---||Chandigarh set to jab children from today||Chandigarh, January 2Six health facilities in the city will double as vaccination centres for 72,000 eligible children in the 15-18 age group from tomorrow. The centres, including the PGI and the GMCH, Sector 32, will attempt to vaccinate at least 200 children each daily.All slots have been booked for the first day in all major six health facilities, while 100 slots each were vacant at Government Senior Secondary School, Dhanas, and Government Model Senior Secondary School, Modern Housing Complex, Mani Majra.As per the eligible population projected by the Central Government, there are about 72,000 eligible children in the age band of 15 to 18. Dr VK Nagpal, Joint Director, Health Services, said, “We are fully geared up for the vaccination beginning tomorrow and many children have registered for the first dose. We are hopeful of achieving the target of inoculating 72,000-odd children within a month.”The prescribed protocol of 30-minute observation after vaccination will be followed for children also. As a precaution, ambulances will be attached with each vaccination centre and two beds have been reserved in the paediatric care ward of the GMCH to take care in case of any post-vaccination issues.Teams involved in the doorstep vaccination will not carry out Covid vaccination of children. The eligible children are required either to visit the dedicated vaccination center in the specified health facilities or in camps at schools.Vaccination centres||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-set-to-jab-children-from-today-357487
03-01-2022||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh jabs over 68K in week, its 2nd best||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2The city has achieved its second-biggest weekly vaccination rate by administering 68,294 doses in the week ending December 31. This is the highest ever since the Covid-19 vaccination started in January 2021.With this pace of vaccination, 90 per cent eligible population of the city is now fully immunised against Covid-19. The vaccination increased in the wake of curbs imposed by the UT Administration as per which no entry to public places, hotels, public transport, banks and offices was allowed to unvaccinated individuals. From August 14 to August 20, as many as 72,741 doses were administered in Chandigarh, the highest number of weekly doses so far.Consequently, more than 10,000 doses are being administered daily in Chandigarh and many among the takers are those who had their second dose due. Even now, Chandigarh has 1,56,142 beneficiaries who have missed their second dose.The Director, Health Services, Dr Suman Singh, said, “The vaccination rate is satisfactory these days as many people who had their second dose due have turned up. This is our only guard against Covid-19 and the imminent surge. Vaccination is going to protect us from the severity of the disease and hospitalisation even after getting infected with Covid. For those who have missed their second dose, they must get it as soon as possible.”The Health Department has added 20 teams for vaccination.17,000 doses in private facilities lying unusedAbout 17,000 doses of Covishield are available with private health facilities in the city. It is unlikely that these can be utilised by the private health facilities before its expiry date in the next three-four months. To avoid any wastage of the vaccine, the UT will consider replacing these doses with a fresh stock available with the UT Administration and thereafter the doses nearer to expiry dates will be utilised on priority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-jabs-over-68k-in-week-its-2nd-best-357485
03-01-2022||---||Chandigarh Tricity logs new high of 181 Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh, January 2The tricity witnessed a new high as it logged 181 cases during the past 24 hours, witnessing its highest single-day spike since mid-June 2021.Covid cases continue to climb in Chandigarh with the UT reporting 96 cases on Sunday. The active infections have reached 321 in the city. However, hospitalisation is relatively on the lower side as only 26 of them are currently in hospital. A total of 11 patients recovered from the virus. The positivity rate mounted to 5.5 per cent.Mohali sees 53 fresh cases, one deathMohali district reported 53 new cases and one Covid death. As many as 51 cases surfaced in Mohali (urban) and two in rural areas. The case tally has now reached 69,244 in the district, while there are 164 active cases. In Mohali, only five patients are admitted and the remaining are in home isolation.32 cases surface in PanchkulaAs many as 32 fresh cases of Covid surfaced in Panchkula district in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 31,058. No death was reported on Sunday, while 10 patients recovered from the disease. The number of active cases is 129, of which only 15 are hospitalised and the remaining are in home isolation. The tricity is witnessing a surge in coronavirus infections over the last week following the emergence of the Omicron variant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tricity-logs-new-high-of-181-covid-19-cases-357484
03-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Mayoral poll: Will Devinder Singh Bablas' switchover benefit AAP?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2The exit of senior Congress leader Devinder Singh Babla and his councillor wife Harpreet Kaur from the party may benefit AAP if Babla’s wife is fielded as the Mayor candidate by the BJP.The Mayor’s post is reserved for a woman in the first year. There are speculations that Harpreet may be the BJP choice for the post.Sources said the decision might benefit AAP that needs five votes to prove its majority and elect its Mayor since the possibility of Congress councillors voting for the AAP candidate to ensure Harpreet’s defeat could not be ruled out.City Congress chief Subhash Chawla told Chandigarh Tribune that his party would decide the strategy based on the BJP’s mayoral candidate. “We will not tolerate that our party defector (Harpreet Kaur) becomes the Mayor. If she is fielded, we will change our strategy and see what we can do,” said Chawla.Moga friends togetherArun Sood and Babla both belong to Moga in Punjab and have family relations as well, but remained in opposite parties all these years.There were often talks on a lighter note in MC House meetings about “Moge wale bhra.” On Sunday, some leaders smiled, “Moge wale bhra” are together now.”There are speculations that the Congress may play the kingmaker. The party may support AAP as voting by councillors is held through the secret ballot. It will also explore other political options to keep Babla out of the game.Meanwhile, Chandigarh BJP chief Arun Sood said, “There are already two able women councillors in the Bharatiya Janata Party and Harpreet ji is also there. However, the decision to choose one for the Mayor’s post will be taken by the party after considering all aspects.”The polling date for the mayoral elections is yet to be announced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayoral-poll-will-devinder-singh-bablas-switchover-benefit-aap-357483
03-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Devinder Singh Babla, wife join BJP ahead of Chandigarh mayoral poll||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 2In a major political development and boost to the local BJP, senior Congress leader Devinder Singh Babla, along with his councillor wife Harpreet Kaur, today joined the saffron party ahead of the mayoral poll.Now, the BJP has 14 votes, including that of ex officio member of the House and local MP Kirron Kher, equal to those of AAP, ahead of the secret ballot for electing the Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and the Deputy Mayor. The polling date is yet to be announced. The Congress tally has got reduced to seven. There are indications that more Congress men may join the BJP in the coming days.After joining the BJP at its Sector 33 office this afternoon, Babla alleged, “Parivarvaad has increased in the Congress. The city party president has made no contribution. During the poll campaign, his phones used to remain switched off. Giving the ticket is not enough. There was a vacuum in the party and everyone felt that someone should raise a voice. While Bansal ji remained involved as treasurer in Delhi, there was no one to take care of the party.”“AAP had also approached me with the offer of mayorship and a post of a chairman of a board/committee if it came to power in Punjab. It is offering money to councillors. However, I cannot be with a party which makes false promises such as providing water free of cost. I have got so much love in the BJP from all,” said the former Leader of the Opposition in the MC House. His wife Harpreet Kaur had won from ward number 10, a seat reserved for women, by the highest margin of 3,103 votes. “The vote was not for the Congress, but for the work done by Babla ji. It was a vote for the Babla ‘brand’. In fact, many from the BJP supported us during the poll,” she said.City Congress president Subhash Chawla said, “The party had expelled Babla after various complaints of indecent behaviour and anti-party activities yesterday evening. I opened that email today. It seems the scene created by him at the oath ceremony was part of his plan to please his new bosses.” “Everything was okay for him till now. Now that he is out of the party, he sees ‘parivarvaad’ here. His wife is a councillor. It that not ‘parivarvaad’. I was in touch with all candidates during the election campaign,” he said.Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, MP Kirron Kher, city Bharatiya Janata Party president Arun Sood and former city unit president Sanjay Tandon were present when the Bablas joined the saffron party.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/devinder-singh-babla-wife-join-bjp-ahead-of-chandigarh-mayoral-poll-357482
03-01-2022||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Covid surge: Chandigarh imposes stricter curbs; restaurants, marriage palaces to operate with 50 per cent capacity||The Chandigarh Administration on Sunday ordered that restaurants, including restaurants in hotels, cafes, coffee shops, marriage palaces and banquets can remain open with fifty per cent capacity and allow only those people who are fully vaccinated with the two doses against Covid-19 in view of the increasing number of coronavirus cases.Those people who are not due for a second dose of the vaccine are also allowed.This order shall come into force with immediate effect.In another order, the administration said Sukhna Lake will remain closed on Sundays.Boating will remain closed at Sukhna Lake except from 5 am to 9 am and from 6 pm to 8 pm from Monday to Saturday during which morning/evening walkers/visitors will be allowed with proper protocol.The order shall come into effect from January 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-imposes-strict-curbs-restaurants-marriage-palaces-to-operate-with-50-per-cent-capacity-357351
03-01-2022||Chandigarh||After being expelled from Congress, Devinder Babla, along with councillor wife, joins BJP||The Congress on Sunday expelled its senior leader Devinder Singh Babla from the primary membership of the party. He yesterday had heated arguments with Congress president Subhash Chawla.Babla along with his wife Harpreet Kaur Babla, councillor, joined the BJP today.Infighting in the city Congress came into the open yesterday when local party president Subhash Chawla and former leader of Opposition Devinder Singh Babla nearly came to blows in the visitors’ gallery of the Municipal Corporation building during the oath-taking ceremony of the new councillors.Ex-councillor Babla, whose wife is the councillor from a ward reserved for women this time, told Chandigarh Tribune that either Chawla would remain in the party or him and his supporters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/devinder-singh-babla-joins-bjp-along-with-councillor-wife-after-being-expelled-from-congress-357304
