04-01-2022||Vijay Mohan||IAF developing real-time health monitoring system for pilots that will enhance flight safety||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 4The Indian Air Force is developing a real-time health monitoring system for aircrew that will continuously assess the fitness levels of pilots during flight and relay a warning in case of any abnormality.According to sources, the Air Force has already drawn up the conceptual requirements for the system and is taking the project forward in collaboration with the industry as well as the medical establishment.“What we are looking at,” an IAF officer said, ”is a wearable sensor like a wrist band or a stick-on patch that records the pilot’s parameters like blood pressure, temperature, heart rate and oxygen saturation level continuously or at periodic intervals and is integrated with the aircraft’s communication system so that the information is transmitted to ground control.”In case of any deviation in parameters, the sensors can sound an alarm and air traffic controllers and medical specialists can take preventive or corrective steps by advising the aircrew on how to handle the situation, he added. This is a step further in enhancing flight safety as a large proportion of aircraft accidents are attributed to human factors.Fitness and sound health of aircrew is imperative as flying, particularly in the fighter aircraft stream, involves physical, physiological and psychological stress. Fighter pilots are exposed to high g-levels, noise, lower oxygen levels and high cognitive workload.“With in-flight refuelling, the duration of fighter flying has increased, which also enhances associated risks like fatigue and physical discomfort. Remaining confined to restricted cockpit space for a long time with little physical movements also has adverse effects on the body and mind,” an officer said.Recently, the IAF’s newly inducted Rafale fighter jets had flown non-stop to India from France, a journey covering about 7,000 km in more than eight hours. It was an unprecedented cockpit experience for the IAF.Even though it was a level flight at sub-sonic speed with much reduced exposure to g-levels, the pilots had to remain alert and carry out all in-flight procedures, besides sitting in the same position in a cramped space for an extremely long time.A study published by the IAF’s Institute of Aerospace Medicine, Bengaluru, in 2021 revealed that the pain and discomfort following a six-hour prolonged restraint sitting were highly noticeable along with a significant change in the calf circumference and other physiological parameters due to effects of venous pooling. “The effects so observed could have potential flight safety implications and affect mission effectiveness,” the study observed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/iaf-developing-real-time-health-monitoring-system-for-pilots-that-will-enhance-flight-safety-358117
04-01-2022||Arun Sharma||Chamkaur Sahib villagers to dump Congress in Punjab election, say unhappy over Channi 'not acceding to their demands'||Tribune News ServiceMorinda, January 4Announcement of development projects worth Rs 1,000 crore and grant to village panchayats by CM Charanjit Singh Channi does not seem to have made the electorate in his assembly constituency of Chamkaur Sahib happy as they want more.As Channi “failed” in meeting their demands, a large number of people in nearby Sarhana village announced not to support Congress in the upcoming assembly elections.While an aggrieved family wanted that their son in police get promoted from assistant sub inspector to sub inspector, the other had demanded transfer of a woman police official from Morinda to Chamkaur Sahib near her village. A 'staunch' supporter of Channi in the village decided not to support him henceforth as his son and daughter were not given suitable jobs.Another family is annoyed with the chief minister as he didn't issue directions to the deputy commissioner to issue an arms licence to their son-in-law.This is not the only section of people in the chief minister's assembly constituency who are disappointed with him for not acceding to their demands.Local mediapersons are also up in arms against him as their complaint is that Channi has stopped attending their phone calls since taking over as chief minister. One of the scribes believed to be his confidant is reportedly annoyed with Channi as his brother didn't get job as excise and taxation officer. Another wanted her daughter to be inducted in Staff Service Selection Board.Sources said hundreds of similar requests reach the chief minister from Chamkaur Sahib and Morinda every day.Announcing the decision to quit Congress along with a large number of locals, Sarhana village sarpanch Simarjit Singh said the village had more than 700 voters and majority of them had supported Channi wholeheartedly during the last three elections. “Besides many development works, including repair of roads, construction of a dharamshala and cremation ground and cleaning of water pond, the chief minister issued a grant of Rs 22 lakh to the village panchayat. But he did nothing to solve the problems of individuals,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/chamkaur-sahib-villagers-ready-to-dump-congress-in-assembly-elections-say-unhappy-over-channi-not-meeting-their-demands-358073
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mohali resident nabbed with stolen Activa||Boy, girl borrow phone, fleeChandigarh: Activa-borne miscreants, including a girl, sped away after borrowing a mobile phone from a person. According to the police, Yash, a resident of Sector 24, alleged that a boy and a girl riding an Activa borrowed his mobile phone to make a call near the Sector 23/24 light point. The suspects, however, didn’t return the phone and sped away from the spot. The police have registered a case at the Sector 11 police station. TNSImmigration firm's licence revokedMohali: The administration on Monday revoked the licence of Sunny Enclave- based LMP Immigration and Study Consultant Pvt Ltd for not operating since February 2019 without intimation. Additional District Magistrate Komal Mittal had sought details about the fees charged from the clients and the service rendered from director Rajesh Kumar by sending letters to the official address of the licensee. On November 9, 2021, Rajesh, a Chaulta Kalan resident, replied that he had closed the office in February 2019 and all operations of the firm had been stopped. The firm was issued a licence for consultancy and coaching for IELTS up to January 31, 2024, officials said. TNSCleanliness drive by ITBPChandigarh: Indo-Tibetan Border Police’s Basic Training Centre at Bhanu near Chandigarh began the New Year by undertaking a cleanliness drive in and around its campus. Apart from sprucing up the premises of the centre, the adjoining stretch of the National Highway was also cleared of waste and wild growth. Inspector-General Ishwar Singh Duhan addressed the personnel undertaking the drive and stressed upon the importance of maintaining clean surroundings. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-nabbed-with-stolen-activa-357983
04-01-2022||Panchkula||Rising theft incidents: Increase patrolling, association urges Panchkula DCP||A meeting of the core committee of the House Owners’ Welfare Association (HOWA), Sector 10, Panchkula, was held today to discuss rising theft cases in broad daylight.Association members urged Deputy Commissioner of Police Mohit Handa to increase police patrolling in the city to ensure the safety of residents and their property.Association president BM Kaushik said miscreants stole a battery from a car parked outside a house in Sector 10 recently.HOWA chairman Bharat Hiteshi said on January 2, miscreants again stole a battery from an Alto car parked outside house number 107 in Sector 10 around 5 pm. He said the incident was captured in a CCTV camera. Several costly bicycles had been stolen from the sector.Hiteshi urged Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta to give strict instructions to higher police officials to take action against the miscreants and nab them at the earliest. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rising-theft-incidents-increase-patrolling-association-urges-panchkula-dcp-357982
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Muni beats top seed Denim in tennis||Muni Ananth Mani recorded a comeback win to topple top seed Denim Yadav in the boys’ U-16 main draw match during the ongoing ITF World Tour Tennis Juniors Tournament at the CLTA Complex in Sector 10.Mani recorded (4-6, 6-3, 6-1) win to march ahead in the championship. Thailand’s T Boosarawongse overpowered Indian contender Daksh Prasad (6-1, 6-3), while Daksh Ashok Agarwal ousted Arunava Majumder (6-1, 6-1).Indian contender Monil Lotlikar outplayed sixth seed Russian player Ilya Mukhin (6-4, 6-1). Fourth seed Rushil Khosla defeated Japanese Reiya Hattori (6-4, 7-5). Krish Tyagi outplayed Nepal’s Aarav Samrat Had (6-4, 6-2) and Anish Kundu overpowered Anirudh Sangra (6-3, 7-6(3)). Fifth seed Aayush P Bhat of the USA recorded a (4-6, 6-2, 6-3) win over Ronin Lotlikar. Bushan Haobam defeated Vineeth Mutyala (7-6(6), 6-3) in a closely contested match, while Japan’s Shingo Masuda defeated Sarthak Arora (6-3, 6-2). Thailand’s Poonthong Komopisut also moved ahead by defeating Udit Gogoi (6-0, 6-3) and second seed Indian player Yuvan Nandal ousted Manas Dhamne (6-4, 6-4) in straight sets.Suhitha logs winTop seed Suhitha Maruri recorded a straight set (6-3, 6-2) win over Sukhmani Bhandari to march ahead in the girls’ category. Anya Murthy of the USA defeated Indian contender H Narwal (6-2, 6-0), whereas Madhurima Sawant faced a tough resistance from R Mahajan before recording a (4-6, 6-0, 6-1) win. Indian contender Tamanna Takoria defeated Suhani Gaur (6-2, 2-6, 6-2) and fourth seed S Sirimalla outplayed Nepal’s Saloni Tamang (6-3, 6-1). Chahana Budhbhatti ousted Riya Kaushik (6-1, 6-1) and Sonal Patil defeated Diva Bhatia (7-5, 6-3). Indian contender Tejasvi Dabas recorded a (4-6, 6-1, 6-4) win over Saina Deshpande of the USA. Rutuja Chaphalkar of the USA defeated Lakshmi Gowda (6-1, 6-2), whereas third seed Vaishnavi Adkar outplayed Nandini Dixit (7-5(6), 6-1). R Gaikaiwari also earned a hard-fought win against Hannah Nagpal (6-4, 0-6, 6-1) and Renne Singla defeated Nepal’s Sharvani Shrestha (6-0, 6-2). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/muni-beats-top-seed-denim-in-tennis-357981
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Aneri clears qualifying round||Aneri Kotak of Gujarat managed to overpower Maharashtra’s Aarti Chougale (10-15, 15-10, 15-11) to clear the girls’ U-17 qualifying round in the ongoing 1st Ashwani Gupta Memorial All-India Sub-Junior Ranking Badminton Tournament, today.Srimeenakshi K of Tamil Nadu defeated Andhra Pradesh’s Padmini Revilla Reddy (15-13, 15-13), while Gargi Gargi of Uttar Pradesh defeated Anusanjana Murali (15-13, 15-9) and Prakriti Bharath of Tamil Nadu outplayed Shagunpreet Kaur (7-15, 15-9, 15-8). Delhi’s Drishti Waldia struggled hard to defeat Ketaki Thite of Maharashtra (15-7, 14-16, 15-8).Muskaan Khan defeated Neha Toku (15-2, 15-4), Samridhi ousted Alisha Bhandari (15-6, 15-9), Pravallika Mani Amarti thrashed Shireen Sadique (15-1, 15-7), Angelina Valsan outplayed Taabia Khan (15-10, 15-7) and Krithya Siva Sankar defeated Rachana Rao (15-7, 15-13).In the boys’ doubles U-17 event, Chiraga and Choudhary Param defeated Dolesh Dansena and Pravararchith RM to move into main draw. Dakshesh and Karan Sharma defeated Varun Kolte and Aryan Talwar, while Eshaan Sharma and Naksh Verma defeated Rehaan Phutela and Krishna Sharma and A Khwairakpam and J Wahengbam beat Chaitanya Agarwal and Chinmay Agarwal.Daksh records winDaksh Kharb defeated Prathamnoor Singh Dhami (15-7, 15-4) to move ahead in the boys’ U-15 category. Gujarat’s Urv Patel defeated Mohamed Nafeez RS (15-7, 10-15, 15-12), while Dharshan M was awarded walk over against Shivam Hada. Mahendra Kalahasthi also marched ahead by logging a (15-8, 11-15, 15-7) win over Divyansh Divyansh. Parth Bhatt defeated Danish Bhanot (15-10, 5-15, 15-9), Dev Ruparelia defeated Tanmay Mehta (15-5, 15-8) and Aahan beat Manvik Reddy Survi (15-6, 15-10). Ishaan Negi defeated Yuvraj Siwach (15-7, 15-8), Smarth Bhardwaj beat Shourya Partap Singh (15-3, 15-6) and Bapun Rout thrashed Navdeep Panghal (15-11, 15-6) in some other matches. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aneri-clears-qualifying-round-357980
04-01-2022||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Truckers stage protest, traffic hit for two hours||Commuters were inconvenienced as the Punjab Truck Union today staged a protest against the state government at the Chhat traffic lights and caused a jam-like situation for close to two hours.Serpentine queues of vehicles were seen on both sides of the road. Visitors to the airport got late for flights and bus passengers, too, got stuck in the traffic jam. Eyewitnesses said ambulances were also stuck in the traffic jam.The protesting truckers are demanding the restoration of unions that were dissolved by the Congress government in 2017. The union members, who have been on protest since the start of December last year, said they were in dire straits as there were no official rates and the annual hike of 5-6 per cent was also not being implemented. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/truckers-stage-protest-traffic-hit-for-two-hours-357979
04-01-2022||---||Implement pay panel recommendations, Punjab Government urged||Chandigarh, January 3An informal meeting of the newly elected/nominated Panjab University senators was held today under the chairmanship of Satya Pal Jain, former MP and fellow of the university. As many as 41 members of the Senate attended the meeting and 21 others conveyed their inability to attend the meeting because of prior engagements.The meeting passed a resolution urging the Punjab Government to immediately implement the recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission for the university and college teachers in the state. They said the issue had been delayed unnecessarily and the Punjab Government should implement the recommendations without any further delay.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/implement-pay-panel-recommendations-357978
04-01-2022||---||Panjab University Senate meet: Main agenda items listed||Chandigarh, January 3Panjab University Senate will unanimously approve the completion of all formalities, at the earliest, in order to pursue the Punjab Government for the implementation of the 7th UGC pay scales and the withdrawal of decision to delink UGC scales, said sources.The Senate is scheduled to meet on January 8, after a gap of two years. Besides, a total of 38 agenda items are expected to be taken up for the ratification. One of the main agenda items for consideration will be recommendation of the Board of Finance (minutes of the meeting held on January, 2020), followed by other items, including the transfer of pension benefits, writing off vehicles (completed 15 years), recommendation of a committee with regard to the roaster of teaching positions (assistant professor of PU constituent colleges), recommendation with regard to the promotion policy for faculty (Dental Institute), fee structure and charges for NRI students of MSc (Forensic Science and Criminology) and others.The Senate will also ratify the grant of temporary extension of affiliation to various courses in 204 colleges for the 2020-21 session.Meanwhile, some elected fellows had also written to the Vice-President, who is PU Chancellor, for deferring this meeting as it has been scheduled without the entire Senate and not notified as per the Panjab University Act. Sources added a rise in the number of Covid cases in Chandigarh may also delay the meeting.“A rise in the number of Covid cases is a major concern for all members. Amid the current scenario, and counting on past experiences, there’s a possibility that the meeting may get postponed. The meeting has now been listed and can be only postponed on the discretion of higher authorities,” said a member.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/senate-meet-main-agenda-items-listed-357977
04-01-2022||---||Will fight poll on Congress ticket only, says Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu||Mohali, January 3Setting aside rumours, former Cabinet Minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu said today that he was a Congress man and would contest the Mohali Assembly election on Congress ticket only.Sidhu also put an end to speculation that he could go with the Captain faction or join the BJP. He said some people, including former mayor Kulwant Singh, were spreading misleading propaganda against him. A post had gone viral on the social media saying that he had met with Amit Shah and asked for two MLA ticket and an MP ticket, which was a completely misleading and fake post, he addedHe said he was a loyal soldier of the Congress and would stay with the party.The MLA said in 2007, he had been approached by Parkash Singh Badal to join the Akali Dal and contest the elections, but he still contested on Congress ticket. He won the election when the wave was in favour of the Akalis but he did not leave the Congress. He said again in 2012 and 2017, he contested on Congress ticket and won.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-fight-poll-on-cong-ticket-only-says-mohali-mla-357976
04-01-2022||---||Panchkula man gets 10-yr RI in NDPS case||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3A court has sentenced Lal Singh, a resident of Indira Colony, Panchkula, to undergo 10-year rigorous imprisonment (RI) after convicting him under Section 22 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The court also imposed a fine of Rs1 lakh on the convict.The police had arrested Lal Singh on September 9, 2019, near Mauli Jagran with a carry bag. After checking the carry bag, the police recovered 30 strips of simplex (c+) tramadol hydrochloride, dicyclomine hydrochloride and chlorpheniramine meleate capsules and 80 strips of spasmo-proxyvon plus dicyclomine hydrochloride, tramadol hydrochloride and acetaminaphen capsules.The police claimed that the accused failed to produce any valid permit or licence for the capsules, which fall under the commercial quantity.After investigation, the police presented a chargesheet against the accused in the court. Charges were framed against the accused, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.The counsel for the accused claimed that he was falsely implicated in the case. The prosecution examined 10 witnesses.The public prosecutor argued that since commercial quantity of the banned drugs was recovered from the accused, he deserved no leniency. He demanded that deterrent punishment be awarded to the convict.After hearing the arguments, Jaibir Singh, Judge, Special Court, Chandigarh, convicted the accused under Section 22 of the NDPS Act and sentenced him to undergo 10-years RI and also imposed a fine of Rs1 lakh on him.The court said the period of custody undergone by the convict during investigation and the trial of the case would be set off against the substantive sentence awarded to him.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-man-gets-10-yr-ri-in-ndps-case-357975
04-01-2022||---||Mohali Mayor launches works in Sector 77-80||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 3Mohali Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu inaugurated development works worth Rs3 crore in Sector 77 to 80 here today.The Mayor said apart from this, work of a dharamshala at Sohana village was in progress at a cost of Rs20 lakh. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were present on the occasion.The Mayor said besides development works worth crores, the MC had set up gyms in parks, constructed slip roads and used modern methods of cleanliness to make Mohali No.1 city in the country.Amarjit Singh Jeeti said the civic body also took over the responsibility of internal works of housing societies for the first time in the history of Mohali. He said development work would continue and there would be no shortage of funds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-mayor-launches-works-in-sector-77-80-357974
04-01-2022||---||Ambala cops nab man in multi-crore cheating case||Ambala, January 3The Ambala police have arrested a man in connection with a multi-crore cheating case.The accused, identified as Rahul Anand, was produced before a court, which sent him to eight-day police remand.The General Manager of Ambala Central Co-Operative Bank Limited had sought legal action against the managing director, directors and other persons of Naraingarh Sugar Mill Limited.The complainant stated that Rahul Anand was controlling day-to-day affairs of the mill through the directors. A loan amount of Rs34.10 crore was disbursed for crushing season 2014-15, Rs11.11 crore for 2015-16 and Rs60 crore for 2018-19 to Naraingarh Sugar Mill Limited for timely clearance of cane dues of farmers concerned through Ambala Central Co-Operative Bank Limited.The principle amount of Rs98.65 crore and interest amount of Rs25.16 crore (as on September 30, 2021) are pending against the sugar mill. The payment was to be made by the mill as per the terms of the agreement, but Rahul in connivance with directors and other officials of the mill misappropriated the money and did not pay the same and committed the offence of breach of trust by not repaying the amount.It came to notice from audit that Rahul sold the molasses without creating any bill. It further came to the notice that he also created fake debtors without supplying the sugar and got money.The complainant further stated that Rahul also diverted the funds in other accounts from the revenue of energy. The accused also prepared false accounts for siphoning off money of mill/loan amount to various firms without valid reason/business, purchased raw material by paying highly inflated rates and misused funds of mill/government by making advances and taking advances from various parties.A case was registered against the managing director under Sections 120-B, 406, 409, 420, 468 and 471 of the IPC at the Shahzadpur police station on December 21 last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-cops-nab-man-in-multi-crore-cheating-case-357973
04-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh coaches oppose new coaching centre timings||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3Decision of the UT Sports Department on changing the timings of all coaching centres has not gone down well with many coaches.As per the new schedule (issued last month December 22), the complexes will now open from 7am to 9 am in the morning session and from 2.30 pm to 5.30 pm in the evening sessions. Many coaches claimed the new timings were clashing with the school timings. “The coaches have been asked to perform duty from 7 am to 9 am and from 2.30 pm to 5.30 pm. These timings are clashing with the school hours and trainees are having a tough time coping with it. Since schools have been opened, it will be difficult for players to come and practise under these allotted slots. The administration should rethink on the timings and adjust accordingly,” said a senior coach, seeking anonymity.These timings have been implemented till February. The duty timings for managers have been kept 10 am to 2 pm and from 3 pm to 6 pm. “In winter, the school timings get changed and the coaching centres should be opened accordingly. Both sports and education departments work under the UT Administration,” said another coach.“It’s a normal routine to change timings of the functioning of coaches and other staff members of coaching centres in winter. If coaches have some objections, they can give feedback to the authorities so that the problem, if any, can be solved amicably,” said a senior official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-coaches-oppose-new-coaching-centre-timings-357972
04-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Punjab Sports Dept transfers Rs 3,000 kit money into players’ accounts; asks them to purchase kits from designated vendors||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3The Punjab Sports Department has asked players, who were recently given Rs3,000 (each) of kit money, to purchase kits from three designated vendors immediately. The kit includes one track-suit and two pairs of shoes.The players alleged that they were being forced to purchase kits in anticipation of attending Punjab Chief Minister’s rally. However, officials maintained, the department was ensuring a smooth process to help eligible players to get kits.The players, who have been approached through coaches, have been asked to submit cheques for Rs3,000 in favour of either of three vendors, namely Ess Kay Sports Industries, Ess Kay Sports and Santosh Sports Industries.“There’s nothing like that (players to attend the CM’s rally). The players were awarded money through the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme for purchasing kits. If the money is designated to purchase kits, it should be used for that purpose only. We are just ensuring a smooth process,” said Parminder Pal Singh Sandhu, Director, Sports Department (Punjab).“The process to buy kits through headquarters and distribute it to players is very tedious and time consuming. There are more than 8,000 beneficiaries covered under this scheme and we have been ensuring a smooth process to give them the kits. Why would we ask them to attend any rally?” he asked.The players, meanwhile, alleged that the department was covering up for the blunder and benefitting the vendors directly. “How is it possible to get a good quality track-suit and two pairs of shoes for just Rs3,000? If the department had made DBT to players, they should let them use the amount as per their wish. The process clearly indicates a prior planning between the vendors and the authorities, while the players were kept in the dark,” said a player, seeking anonymity. “The department has done an appreciable job by sending money directly to all beneficiaries. However, they should not interfere in its usage. Different disciplines have different requirements and players can use the amount accordingly. This is turning out to be a problem for coaches, parents and the department itself,” said a parent.No orders in writingNotably, there are no orders in writing asking players to submit cheques and the coaches are pursuing players verbally. “We have been asking players to submit cheques. Some parents understand, while the others ask for official orders. Since we don’t have any orders in writing, we end up facing the parents’ fury. If the department had these plans, it should be put under official orders. An undertaking should have been taken from parents or players, so that they buy the kits directly from the vendors. Our views were nowhere in the policy making, but we are ones facing problems,” said a senior coach.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/controversy-over-players-kits-357971
04-01-2022||---||Jawaharlal Nehru saw India's future in eyes of youth: Rajnath Singh||Mohali, January 3Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had a word of praise for former Prime Minister late Jawaharlal Nehru by saying that Nehru had a vision to see the future of India through the eyes of the youth of the country.Rajnath Singh stated this while inaugurating the Kalpana Chawla Centre for Research in Space Science and Technology at Chandigarh University, Gharuan, in Mohali on Monday. He also launched a Rs10-crore scholarship scheme for the wards of Defence personnel.The minister said Nehru had said, “When I want to know the future of India I don’t look at the stars and planets but into the eyes of the little children”. He said, “In the 21st century, the future of India can be secured only when you have a gleam in your eyes to reach the stars and planets. More Indians like Aryabhatta, Vikram Sarabhai, Satish Dhawan and Kalpana Chawla will emerge from amongst you all if you eye different planets and constellations”.Underlining the importance of the space sector in today’s times, Rajnath Singh said it was deeply connected with mapping, imaging and connectivity facilities, speedy transportation, weather forecast, disaster management as well as border security, adding that it played a crucial role in keeping the world connected during the Covid-19 pandemic.He said the government understands the potential of the space sector and called for an active and long-term public-private partnership to take the education and science sectors to a global level and make India a knowledge economy. “Today, the private sector is exposed to a large number of opportunities in the space sector. Whether it is Defence or space, we are fully welcoming the private sector,” he said, reiterating the government’s commitment of strengthening the private sector for the holistic development of the nation.The CUSat, built by students of Chandigarh University, will be among the 75 student-built satellites to be launched into space on the eve of the 75th Independence Day in 2022. The Chandigarh University has joined the list of 13 institutes like the IIT-Kanpur, IIT-Bombay and became the first university in North India to design and develop its own satellite. For the project, 75 students of the university have been working on Chandigarh University Student Satellite Project under the guidance of eminent Indian scientists. With the launch of CUSat, Punjab will become the first border state in India to have its own satellite in space.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nehru-saw-indias-future-in-eyes-of-youth-rajnath-singh-357970
04-01-2022||Amarjot Kaur||Passport applications at Chandigarh RPO dip by 39.07% in 2 years||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3From 7.1 lakh in 2019 to 4.8 lakh in 2021 (till December 20), the number of passport applications at the Regional Passport Office (RPO) in Sector 34 has dipped by nearly 39.07 per cent in the past two years.A comparative analysis of the number of applications received during the pandemic in the past two years, which is 2020 and 2021, shows the signs of amelioration even though the travel industry still continues to battle the blows of the Covid-induced restrictions.In 2017, the regional office recorded a total of 6.3 lakh applications, which grew by almost a lakh in 2018 at 7.3 lakh. The RPO received 7.1 lakh applications in 2019. Such was the effect of the pandemic on travel that the number of passport applications dropped to nearly half in 2020. Owing to lockdowns and travel ban, the RPO received only 3.5 lakh passport applications in 2020. According to the data provided by the office, in April 2018, 59,983 people applied for passport, which increased to 60,159 in April 2019. However, the RPO did not receive even a single application in April 2020 because of the lockdown.This year, the number pointed at an upward trend, showing a rise of 1.2 lakh applications. The figure stood at 4.8 lakh this year, till December 20. The number of passports issued this year (till Dec 20) is 4.3 lakh, which is about 1 lakh short of passports issued in 2017. The RPO received a maximum number of applications in 2018, which is also the year when it issued the maximum number of passports.Regional Passport Officer Sibash Kabiraj said, “In fact, in 2020, we issued the largest number of passports in the country. That year, the passport offices were closed for a larger period of time and applicants were also hesitant to travel to passport offices because of the Covid restrictions.“The demand for passports for international travel also declined because of the international travel restrictions. This year the passport offices were operational for a larger period and demand for passports was high because of relaxation in international travel.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/passport-applications-dip-by-39-07-in-2-yrs-357947
04-01-2022||---||No inspection of new vehicles for registration in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3In a relief to buyers, the UT has done away with the inspection of new vehicles for registration.The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has made a rule in the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, vide which the requirement of production of new fully built motor vehicles before the registering authority for the purpose of registration for the first time has been abolished.In a statement, the UT stated that “a motor vehicle sold by an authorised dealer shall not be required to be produced before the registering authority for the purpose of registration for the first time if it is a fully built motor vehicle”. However, in other cases, the vehicles will continue to be produced before the authority.The order will benefit buyers who want to take part in the auction of fancy/special registration numbers for their new vehicles or who want to apply directly to the RLA for the registration number.The Administration has already allowed automobile dealers to issue the registration number on the day of the purchase of the new vehicle.Earlier, the owner of the new vehicle had to produce the vehicle before the Motor Vehicle Inspector for inspection of the chassis and engine numbers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-inspection-of-new-vehicles-for-registration-in-chandigarh-357937
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Mayoral poll on January 8 at 11 am||The poll for electing the Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor will be held on January 8 at 11 am at the assembly hall of the Municipal Corporation.This time, the MC poll has thrown up a hung verdict with AAP winning 14 seats, the BJP 12, the Congress eight and the SAD one. However, after Congress councillor Harpreet Kaur Babla joined the BJP, the tally of the saffron party has risen to 14, including that of ex officio member, while the Congress tally has been reduced to seven. There are a total of 36 seats — 35 of councillors and one of ex officio member i.e. local MP Kirron Kher.The time to file nominations is till 5 pm on January 4. Councillor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu will be the presiding authority. The elections will be conducted under the supervision of Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh.There is uncertainty about the Congress whether it will support AAP or abstain from polling or strongly fight the poll.Those on tour will have to rush backThe announcement of the mayoral poll must have spoiled the party time of Congress and AAP councillors. They will have to hurriedly rush back to the city as Tuesday is the last date to file nominations for three posts. The proposer and seconder will also be required from amongst them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayoral-poll-on-january-8-at-11-am-357936
04-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Congress takes Chandigarh councillors to Jaipur, AAP to Delhi||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3For fear of councillors switching sides before the mayoral poll, the Congress has taken its councillors to a resort in Jaipur, while AAP has taken its councillors to Delhi.The Congress claimed that it had taken its councillors for a “religious tour”, while AAP said it had taken its elected leaders for a “training programme”. The Congress leaders were taken in Innova cars, while AAP leaders went by a private bus.They have gone along with their family members and respective party presidents.City Congress president Subhash Chawla told Chandigarh Tribune, “There was a lot of tension as councillors were being approached for switching sides. We are on a religious trip. We are staying in a resort in Jaipur and tomorrow we will go to Ajmer Sharif Dargah.”On the other hand, AAP city chief Prem Garg said, “Our councillors will have a training session as they are not experienced. They will be shown the Vidhan Sabha session work and will be taught about tabling of agenda items and functioning of the House. They will also meet ministers. Day after tomorrow, they may have a meeting with Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.” They are putting up at a hotel.City BJP president Arun Sood said, “We don’t need to move our councillors anywhere as they are ideologically strong with the party. The two parties have fear as their councillors are impressed by our appeal of development. Their leaders want a stable and strong administration in the MC, which only the BJP can provide.” The mayoral poll is heading for an interesting contest as none of the parties has got a majority. With Congress councillor Harpreet Kaur Babla joining the BJP, both the BJP and AAP have 14 votes, while the Congress is left with only seven. The SAD cannot contest as its only councillor is male, while the Mayor’s seat in the first year is reserved for a woman.There were talks that two councillors from the Congress and two to three from AAP may join the BJP.Cong terms it religious tour, AAP trainingThe Congress claimed that it had taken its councillors for a “religious tour”, while AAP said it had taken its elected leaders for a “training programme”. The Congress leaders were taken in Innova cars, while AAP leaders went by a private bus.We don’t need to move our councillors anywhere as they are ideologically strong with the party. — Arun Sood, city BJP president||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-takes-councillors-to-jaipur-aap-to-delhi-357933
04-01-2022||---||Rock Garden, Bird Park shut in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, January 3In order to prevent large gatherings, the UT Administration has decided to close the world-famous Rock Garden and the recently opened Bird Park amid a sharp rise in the Covid-19 cases in the city.The decision was taken at a review meeting presided over by UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit.According to an order issued by UT Adviser Dharam Pal, both Rock Garden and Bird Park, which attract a large number of people, not only from the region but also from other states, will remained closed from January 4 until further orders.Any breach of the order will invite action under Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act and Section 188 of the IPC along with other applicable laws.During the meeting, the Administrator said the Covid-19 situation would be reviewed regularly. He asked officials to ensure proper oxygen supply and availability of beds in hospitals, intensify testing and enhance vaccination to combat the situation.Prof GD Puri, PGI, said they had 250 Covid beds, of which 48 had been activated. Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health, said 606 isolation beds for asymptomatic and mild cases were available at the GMSH, Sector 16, and 50 had been made functional. Dr Jasbinder Kaur, Director-Principal, said 250 oxygen beds and 80 ventilator beds were available at the GMCH, Sector 32. All institutions have adequate oxygen supply for Covid patients.Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Health, said they had already procured buffer stock of essential medicines for Covid. Chandigarh has 53.8 metric tonnes of oxygen available in health institutes in the city, whereas the requirement is of 49.5 metric tonne. He said there was sufficient Covid vaccination stock for both adults and children.The UT yesterday decided to close all activities at Sukhna Lake from Monday to Saturday. However, a few hours relaxation for morning and evening walkers was given from 5 am to 9 am and 6 pm to 8 pm for six days. The lake will completely remained closed on Sundays.UT sees 75 fresh casesChandigarh: The city on Monday reported 75 fresh cases of Covid-19 and no death due to the virus. As many as 13 patients were cured of the disease. TNS35 found infected in Panchkula districtPanchkula: Thirty-five Covid cases surfaced in the district in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 31,093. No new death was reported, while five patients recovered from the disease. Of the 31,093 cases reported from the district so far, 30,550 patients have been cured. There are now 162 active cases. The death toll stands at 381. — TNS30 cases in Mohali district, no deathMohali: Thirty Covid cases surfaced in the district in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 69,274. No new death was reported, while four patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, 12 surfaced in Mohali (urban), three in Kharar, four each in Boothgarh and Dera Bassi, and seven in Dhakoli. There are now 190 active cases. The death toll stands at 1,075. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-shuts-rock-garden-bird-park-357932
04-01-2022||Panchkula||Haryana Speaker launches vax drive for children in Panchkula||Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta launched the Covid-19 vaccination for children in the age group of 15 to 18 years in the district from the Urban Health Centre in Sector 16 here today.Health staff administered the vaccine to the eligible children at the centre. There are a total of 2,189 children in the age group of 15 to 18 years in this sector.Gupta also inaugurated a labour room at the Urban Health Centre. Ambala MP Rattan Lal Kataria was also present on the occasion.Addressing a gathering, Gupta said: “The Covid vaccination campaign for children in the age group of 15 to 18 years began today. A large number of children are coming forward to get themselves jabbed”. He appealed to people to follow the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the government and keep themselves and their family members safe from the virus.Gupta said: “As the new variant, Omicron, spreads rapidly, people need to be more cautious. The way countrymen conquered the first and the second wave of the virus, together we will fight against Omicron”.After inaugurating the labour room at the centre, he said the demand of the people of this area had been fulfilled. Till now, no facility was available nearby to deal with delivery cases in this area, especially from Rajiv and Indira colonies. Doctors and other paramedical staff had been deputed in the labour room to provide 24x7 facilities. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-speaker-launches-vax-drive-for-children-in-panchkula-357931
04-01-2022||Mohali||Covid: Mohali's target — Shielding 67K teens||The Covid vaccination drive for children in the age group of 15 to 18 years began at various government health facilities across the district today.Launching the campaign from the District Hospital here this morning, the Civil Surgeon, Dr Adarshpal Kaur, said Mehar Kapoor (17), Reetinderdeep Kaur (16) and Devvir Singh (16) were the first three beneficiaries to be vaccinated here. She also visited a government school in Phase 3B1 to take stock of the vaccination drive for eligible schoolchildren.Dr Adarshpal Kaur said they had set a target to vaccinate around 67,000 beneficiaries in this age group in the district. Separate vaccination centres had been set up for this age group. She said any youngster in the age group of 15 to 18 years could go to a government vaccination centre and get himself/herself inoculated. They must have an Aadhaar card or some other valid document as proof of age.The Principal of the medical college, Dr Bhavneet Bharti, the Assistant Civil Surgeon, Dr Renu Singh, the District Immunisation Officer, Dr Girish Dogra, the SMO, Dr Vijay Bhagat, Dr HS Cheema, Dr Alakjot Kaur, Dr Parminder Singh, Dr Sandeep Singh, Dr Taranjot Kaur, Dr Babandeep Kaur and health officials were present on the occasion. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohalis-target-%E2%80%94-shielding-67k-teens-357930
04-01-2022||---||Day 1: 1,836 teens jabbed against Covid in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, January 3The first day of the Covid-19 vaccination for children saw 1,836 jabs, which translates into a turnout of 91.8 per cent. There were 2,000 slots open today for inoculation at 10 vaccination centres.Milind (17), who was the first to get Covaxin at the PGI, said, “I was waiting for my turn as everyone at home had got the vaccine. Now, I am safe from Covid-19. I feel relieved.”“I had been anxious till the time I received the jab. I thought it would pain and would have side effects. I am glad it was nothing like that. We had been receiving messages from our teachers to get vaccinated. I came alone for the vaccination. It was a good experience,” said Varun (15).Yashpal Garg, UT Health Secretary, said, “There is an encouraging response from youngsters and we may administer the first dose to all eligible children this month itself.” Dharam Pal, Adviser to the UT Administrator, today reviewed the arrangements for the Covid-19 vaccination for children and decided to open six more vaccination camps from tomorrow instead of waiting for reopening of schools after the winter vacation.As per the eligible population projected by the Central Government, there are about 72,000 eligible children within the particular age band. Covaxin is being used and to avoid any confusion with the ongoing vaccination, separate vaccination centers have been provided for children.Garg said, “During last week, record vaccination has been carried out at all centres in Chandigarh. Still about 10 per cent of the adult population is yet to get the second dose and there may be some individuals who have not got the first dose as well. All such persons are requested to get the first and second dose within four days because from next week, we may convert some adult vaccination centres into child vaccination centres. The vaccination will give them better immunity to fight Covid.”New Vax centres‘I feel relieved’Milind (17), who was the first to get Covaxin at the PGI, said, “I was waiting for my turn as everyone at home had got the vaccine. Now, I am safe from Covid-19. I feel relieved.”‘Encouraging response’There is an encouraging response from youngsters and we may administer the first dose to all eligible children this month itself. — Yashpal Garg, UT Health Secy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-1-1-836-teens-jabbed-in-chandigarh-357929
04-01-2022||Naina Mishra||Third Covid wave: Rapid spread, hospitalisation low||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3The Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh now are increasing more rapidly than during the second wave, which pushed the city’s health infrastructure to the brink in April-May last year. Despite more infections being reported, the hospitalisation rate is low this time.The daily cases in the city have nearly touched the 100-mark while only 26 hospital beds are occupied in Chandigarh by the patients who require oxygen and ventilators. The number of active cases is 320.On March 6 last year, when Chandigarh for the first time reported a new high of 122 single-day cases after a gap three months, as many as 77 seriously ill patients were admitted to the PGIMER’s Covid block. In the entire city, over 100 patients were admitted in hospitals and there were 675 active cases.The city had exhausted its 30-40 per cent bed capacity in March, which marked the beginning of the second surge, whereas only 6 per cent of the beds are occupied now.Yashpal Garg, UT Health Secretary, said: “Most of the patients in Chandigarh are asymptomatic and undergoing home isolation. There is no panic situation, as we witnessed in the last surge.”The Chandigarh Health Bulletin for Covid shows that between December 29 and January 2 this year, the daily cases shot up from 33 to 96. This period is taken for comparison vis-à-vis the previous wave beginning since February 25. It then took at least 10 days for the city to touch the 100-mark. The number of infections rose steadily in the last wave and persisted for a longer period.In the last surge, the health care system in Chandigarh was on the edge with hospitals unable to handle the relentless inflow of patients and ran out of intensive care unit (ICU) beds.The current rise in cases comes with the spread of the new Omicron variant, with Chandigarh reporting three Omicron cases till now. Health experts say that this variant is more transmissible than the Delta variant, which had triggered the second wave. Even as the cases are rising, the Chandigarh health authorities have not been able to send enough samples for genome sequencing to keep a check on the Omicron variant.With the genome sequencing laboratory at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) unable to take samples due to logistical problems, Chandigarh will send its samples to IMTECH, Mohali.So far, Chandigarh has sent only samples of those patients who have returned from high-risk countries. Now, random samples will be sent to IMTECH to know the variant behind the spread.Tests in Mohali labWith the genome sequencing laboratory at PGIMER unable to take samples due to logistical problems, Chandigarh will send its samples to IMTECH, Mohali.Cases in Chandigarh over 10 days Second surge: 197%Feb 25,2021: 41 daily casesMar 6: 122 daily cases (675 active)Third surge: 708%Dec 24, 2021: 12 daily casesJan 2: 96 daily cases (320 active)Hospital admission 85% less this timePatients admitted 17420 on ventilator (between Feb 25 -Mar 6, 2021Patients admitted 264 on ventilator (between Dec 24 -jan 2, 2022)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/third-surge-rapid-spread-hospitalisation-low-357854
04-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh sees rapid rise in Covid-19 cases as 75 new infections reported||Chandigarh on Monday reported 75 new cases of Covid-19 taking the total number of infections to 66,136.A positivity rate of 6.91 per cent was recorded today as 1,085 samples were tested.The number of active cases has risen to 383 as 13 patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.The death toll remains 1,079 while 64,674 people have recovered till date.A positivity rate of 3.66 per cent was recorded in the last seven days with an average number of 51 cases.In the wake of steep rise in Covid-19 cases, the Chandigarh Administration has decided to close down Rock Garden and Bird Park till further orders.The UT Administration had yesterday decided to close all activities, including boating, at Sukhna Lake from Monday to Saturday.The administration, however, had given a few hours relaxation for morning and evening walkers for six days. The lake will remain completely shut every Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-rapid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-as-75-new-infections-reported-357839
04-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||With rise in Omicron cases, Punjab and Haryana High Court to conduct hearings virtually||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 3Amidst apprehensions of a Covid third wave propelled by the Omicron variant, a special committee constituted by the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday recommended virtual mode of hearing cases. The High Court is currently hearing cases both physically and virtually.A note issued by the Punjab and Haryana High Court Bar Association’s Honorary Secretary Vishal Aggarwal said: “Seeing the current situation, it has been decided that all courts shall function in virtual mode till January 14, without any reduction in the number of courts functioning earlier, when the situation will be reviewed again. However, the listing, mentioning etc of cases shall continue to remain the same as earlier”.He added the “emergent meeting” of the special committee, held to discuss the functioning of the courts from January 5, was attended by Bar president Santokhwinder Singh Grewal Nabha. Aggarwal added he, along with the Punjab and Haryana Advocates-General, Additional Solicitor-General of India and UT senior standing counsel, were also present, along with senior advocates.The High Court had shifted to virtual mode of hearing in March 2020. Limited physical hearing was ordered to be resumed from February 8, 2021, but it had to be suspended as the second wave took in its grip High Court Judges, judicial officers in the subordinate judiciary, advocates, and the staff. The High Court was forced to go back to restrictive functioning from April 19, last year. But all Benches kept on functioning through the virtual mode.Following a “massive surge” in cases, the functioning had to be restricted further from April 28, last year. But all Benches resumed functioning through the virtual mode from July 28 last year, with the reduction in the severity of the Covid second wave. The High Court decided to partially resume physical hearing of cases from September 6, last year. The number of Benches hearing cases physically increased gradually.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-decide-on-mode-of-hearing-cases-today-following-apprehensions-of-omicron-outbreak-357766
