05-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Amid Covid surge, district courts across Punjab and Chandigarh shift to virtual hearings||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 5Amid an uptick in Covid-19 infections, the District Courts across Punjab and Chandigarh have largely shifted to virtual mode of hearing cases while imposing other restrictions.The office of Patiala district and sessions judge Rajinder Aggarwal has emphasised hearing cases through video-conferencing. Physical hearing was allowed only in a limited category of cases while following Covid-19 protocol.Only fully vaccinated people would be allowed to enter the court complex. Action would be initiated against those roaming around without masks. Individuals carrying certificates issued by their counsels regarding their “required presence” would be allowed to enter.  “The court should not insist upon the personal appearance of the complainants in routine cases rather the personal appearance of the complainant should be insisted upon if he is supposed to make statement before the court”, it said.The readers have also been directed to furnish list of witnesses supposed to appear in the court before the date.Amritsar district and sessions judge Harpreet Kaur also came out with a new roster for all the judicial officers in the District Courts and Sub-Divisional Courts at Ajnala and Baba Bakala. Only 50 per cent of the Judges would be available for physical hearing, while the remaining would work from home. Most of the cases would be adjourned to suitable dates. Urgent matters, to be heard by judicial officer working from home, would be taken up the very next day. The judicial officers have also been asked to depute 50 per cent of the staff to ensure smooth working.Issuing directions to ensure safety of judicial officials, lawyers, staff and litigants, Jalandhar District and Sessions Judge Rupinderjit Chahal specified 18 types of case to be taken during restrictive functioning. These include bail applications, protection petitions, custody cases, excise, gambling, stay matters, time bound civil and criminal cases. The filing of fresh cases would be permitted from 9:30 am to 12:30 pm. To prevent overcrowding, videoconferencing mode would be preferred wherever possible, especially for the under-trials.The courts have also been advised to summon limited number of witnesses. It has also been suggested that just one lawyer should appear for a particular case. The staff has been directed to accept the bail bonds and sapurdi papers till 3 pm only. Everyone else has been asked to ensure wearing of masks and maintaining social distance.Ludhiana District and Sessions Judge Munish Singal has ordered the hearing of all pending cases through video-conferencing till January 15. Litigants would be allowed to enter the complex only with downloaded copy of court order requiring their personal appearance. In case of urgency, the lawyer could move application at official website for physical hearing.The courts in Muktsar district would function through both physical and virtual modes. Advocate Muktsar, District Bar Association, president, Bhupinder Singh Charewan, said: “If the Covid cases rise in the coming days, decision would be taken accordingly. As of now, we are told not to call the clients to the chambers in the court complexes. Only advocate would appear before the Judges from tomorrow and that too after following the Covid protocols.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/amid-covid-surge-district-courts-across-punjab-and-chandigarh-shift-to-virtual-hearings-358459
05-01-2022||Zirakpur||Man hangs himself to death||Three held for attacking manChandigarh: Three persons have been arrested for attacking a man and vandalising his car. Complainant Ravinder, a resident of Hallo Majra, alleged that he was attacked near a shop at Daria village on January 2. Shivam Dubey (25) of Makkan Majra and Fakrudeen (19) and Shivam (21) of Daria village, have been arrested. TNSP’kula badminton meet postponedChandigarh: The Yonex Sunrise 29th Smt Krishna Khaitan Memorial All-India Junior Ranking Badminton Tournament, which was scheduled to be held from January 11 to 17, has been postponed. “Due to a rise in Covid-19 cases in Haryana, the state government has advised not to conduct the championship scheduled to be held in Panchkula. A copy of the letter from the Deputy Commissioner, Panchkula, was received on January 3. New dates for the tournament will be announced soon,” said an organiser. TNS9-wkt win for city academyMohali: A five-wicket haul by Ankan Latka helped Chandigarh Cricket Academy defeat Vivek High Cricket Academy by nine wickets in the Little Champ Boys U-14 Cricket Tournament. Batting first, Vivek High School scored 139 runs in 33.4 overs. Lavya Aggarwal scored 34 runs, while Shilok Rana added 20 runs to the total. Latka claimed 5/12 and Daksh claimed 2/24. In reply, Chandigarh Cricket Academy scored 140/1 in 17.5 overs with the help of Shivraj (56) and Daksh (54). Abhisaar claimed wicket for the bowling side. TNSTararudee moves aheadChandigarh: Second seed Thailand’s L Tararudee defeated Indian contender Suryanshi India in straight sets (6-1, 6-3) to qualify for the girls’ second round matches during the ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-3) Tournament. Pushti Laddha overpowered S Amireddy (6-2, 6-1) and Janani Ramesh defeated Vanya Arora (6-1, 6-1) in other matches. In the boys’ U-16 category, Aryan Shah defeated Deep Munim (6-0, 6-2. Due to the rain, other remaining singles and doubles matches were not played on Tuesday. The matches have been re-scheduled for Wednesday. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-hangs-himself-to-death-358288
05-01-2022||---||PU swimmers bag 26 medals||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 4Panjab University swimmers bagged a rich haul of 26 medals in the All-India Inter-University Swimming Championship, which concluded at the Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT), Bhubaneswar.Swimmer Anurag Dagar won a gold medal in the 200m freestyle and 4x100m medley relay, silver medal in 4x200m freestyle medley relay and bronze medals in 4x100m freestyle medley relay and 50m freestyle events. Siddhant Sejwal bagged gold medal in 4x100m medley relay; silver medals in 400m individual medley relay, 100m backstroke, 200m backstroke and 4x100m medley relay; and bronze medals in 50m backstroke and 4x100m medley relay.Ansh Arora won gold medal in the 4x100m medley relay and silver medals in 100m and 200m breaststroke events. Sameer Sejwal bagged gold medal in 4x100m medley relay; silver medal in 4x200m freestyle medley relay; and bronze medals in 4x100m medley relay, 50m and 100m butterfly events. Anmol Jindal won silver medal in 4x200m medley relay, while Param Raj Singh claimed bronze medal in the 4x100m medley relay event.In the women’s category, Leeza Phogat, Riya Verma, Jasmeet Kaur and Bhavjot Kaur won bronze medal in the 4x100m medley relay event. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-swimmers-bag-26-medals-358284
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Delhi's Anwesha enters next round||Delhi’s Anwesha Gowda defeated Chatana Chytra Nammi of Andhra Pradesh (15-9, 15-10) to move ahead in the girls’ U-17 category during the ongoing 1st Ashwani Gupta Memorial All-India Sub-Junior Ranking Badminton Tournament at the Sector 38 Sports Complex here today.Seeza ousted Delhi’s Manasvi Verma (15-11, 15-5), Tanvi Reddy Andluri defeated Snowy Goswami (15-7, 15-8) and Prasitha P of Tamil Nadu outplayed Megha Sree GS (15-10, 16-14).Rajasthan’s Parul Choudhary outplayed Rashi Mall (15-8, 17-15), while Assam’s Monikornika Gogoi defeated Easha Matte (17-15, 15-8) and Flora Engineer ousted Aarya Korgaonkar (15-10, 15-12). Kajal Panwar of Uttar Pradesh defeated Aushka Shahapurkar of Madhya Pradesh (15-11, 15-11) and Isobel Kuriyan ousted Anika Joshi (15-10, 15-7).Poojitha Gadiraju defeated Architha Ramachandran (17-15, 15-13) and Anwesha Gowda outplayed Chatana Chytra Nammi (15-9, 15-10). Seeza managed to defeat Manasvi Verma (15-11, 15-5), whereas Tanvi Reddy Andluri defeated Snowy Goswami (15-7, 15-8) and Prasitha P ousted Megha Sree GS (15-10, 16-14). Rajasthan’s Parul Choudhary defeated Rashi Mall (15-8, 17-15), Monikornika Gogoi defeated Easha Matte (17-15, 15-8), Flora ousted Aarya Korgaonkar (15-10, 15-12), Kajal Panwar defeated Aushka Shahapurkar (15-11, 15-11), Isobel Kuriyan outplayed Anika Joshi (15-10, 15-7) and Poojitha Gadiraju of Andhra Pradesh defeated Architha Ramachandran of Tamil Nadu (17-15, 15-13).In the girls’ U-15 qualifiers, Disha Santosh improved from one game down to defeat Vaishnavi Katam Reddy (11-15, 15-8, 15-9). Maya Balamurugan of Tamil Nadu defeated Aastha Sharma of Madhya Pradesh (15-11, 15-10), Ishika Poddar defeated Vagisha Manish Srivastava (15-10, 15-11), Hithaishree L Rajaiah ousted Mysha Omer Khan (15-6, 15-7) and Sai Hasini Kandrakota recorded a (15-9, 15-7) win over Siyona Kolla. Liyana Dutta defeated Anu Priya (15-11, 12-15, 15-8), Haryana’s Medhavi Nagar defeated Ruthvika Edala (15-7, 15-7) and Ananya A overpowered a tough challenge by Shantipria Hazarika (9-15, 15-9, 15-7). Sphoorty Ramagouni defeated Laya Ajithkumar (9-15, 15-10, 15-8) and Tanvi Reddy Andluri ousted Bhavishya Changmai (15-8, 15-11).Chebrolu-Devineni log winThe pair of V Chebrolu and L Devineni defeated Irfan Ahmed and Manonta Kalita in the mixed doubles U-17 qualifiers. Yash Kumar and Megha Nasir defeated SJ and K Balakrishnan, Kaushal Chaudhary and Rao R Preethi ousted Pranav Shinde and Simran Dhingra and Atishya Saxena and Nimar Kaur Virk ousted Nitigya and Neetee Chaudhary. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/delhis-anwesha-enters-next-round-358282
05-01-2022||---||Graft case: CBI court frames charges against Chandigarh woman cop||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 4Jagjit Singh, Special Judge, CBI Court, has framed charges against Sarabjit Kaur, woman sub-inspector of the Chandigarh Police, who was arrested while allegedly taking bribe.The CBI court has framed the charges a month after getting sanction to prosecute her. The charges have been framed for the offences punishable under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act.The CBI had arrested the woman sub-inspector on September 17, 2021 while allegedly taking bribe from the complainant.The CBI had registered the FIR against the accused on the complaint of a person who alleged that the woman cop had demanded bribe from him for not putting his name in a case registered at the Sector 36 police station, Chandigarh. The sub-inspector was probing a case registered under the POCSO Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/graft-case-cbi-court-frames-charges-against-chandigarh-woman-cop-358281
05-01-2022||---||Firing near Chandigarh club: Seven-year RI for accused||Chandigarh, January 4A local court has sentenced Kanwaljeet, alias Kamal, to seven-year rigorous imprisonment in the case of firing outside the Score discotheque in Sector 8, Chandigarh, in 2015. The court acquitted the other three accused.Three persons were injured when the accused opened indiscriminate fire at club-goers. According to the prosecution, the accused opened fire after a tiff with bouncers who asked them to leave the premises.The bouncer, Surjit, told the police as they were closing the club, the accused demanded liquor. They got infuriated when the staff asked them to leave as the club was closed. One of the accused pulled out a gun from his car and began firing indiscriminately. Three persons were injured in the firing.They fled the spot leaving their vehicle behind as they had misplaced the keys. The keys were later found inside the nightclub. The accused also took their car’s registration plates with them.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firing-near-club-seven-year-ri-for-accused-358276
05-01-2022||Ropar||Faculty development programme at IIT-Ropar||A faculty development programme (FDP) titled “Topics in hardware security”, sponsored by the All-India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), was organised at IIT-Ropar under the AICTE Training And Learning (ATAL) scheme. It focused on the importance of addressing different security threats on modern hardware design touching upon aspects that span across various layers of a computer system. Academics from seven IITs addressed the participants. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/faculty-development-programme-at-iit-ropar-358274
05-01-2022||---||2 Punjab Engineering College teachers among most cited scientists||Chandigarh, January 4Two Punjab Engineering College (PEC) faculty members, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, Professor, Applied Science Department; and Dr Kamal Kumar, Assistant Professor, Mechanical Engineering, have figured on a list that represents the top 2 per cent most cited scientists in the world.The analysis, which was conducted using research publications up to 2020-end, was published in PLOS Biology, a peer-reviewed scientific journal. The data includes all scientists who are among the top 1,00,000 scientists across all fields, according to the composite citation index.Stanford University has recently released a list that represents the top 2 per cent of the most-cited scientists in various disciplines. Dr Sanjeev Kumar is actively engaged in the research field of nanowires, ferroelectrics and advanced functional materials. His name has been included in a list of career-long data and single year impact (2020). He has also been awarded INDIA Top Cited Paper Award 2020 by IOP Publishing, UK.Dr Kamal Kumar is doing his research in the area of advanced manufacturing processes, material processing and biodegradable orthopaedic implants. His name is included in a list of single year impact (2020).The Director of PEC, Prof Baldev Setia, congratulated both faculty members.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-pec-teachers-among-most-cited-scientists-358273
05-01-2022||---||20 Tricity students score 99 percentile in CAT||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 4Around 20 students of the tricity have scored more than 99 percentile in the Common Admission Test (CAT) the results of which were announced yesterday.A Chandigarh boy has topped the tricity by scoring 99.94 percentile. Bir Anmol Singh (21) is a final year student of BE (Computer Science), BITS Pilani, Rajasthan, and has studied from St Anne’s Convent School, Sector 32, Chandigarh.Bir Anmol, who did not take any coaching for the test, shares, “BITS allowed me to pursue a minor degree in finance alongside a major in computer science. This piqued my interest towards finance and I opted for CAT as the next step in education. I also did my internship in JP Morgan&Chase, Mumbai, as a quantitative research intern. It was a fintech role which was a good blend of both computers and finance knowledge.” He aspires to get admission in IIM-Ahmedabad.Himanshu Bansal (99.65 percentile), pursuing engineering from PEC, suggested that his focus was always on learning concepts and formulas to increase accuracy and reduce time spent on each question.Pranav Khurana, pursuing engineering from PEC, has scored 99.16 percentile. He credited his success to building a personalised test strategy built on experimentation with multiple mocks.According to Shreya Singla, who is studying at IIT-Ropar and is one of the tricity CAT toppers among girls with 99.17 percentile, said, “The total number of questions were reduced from 76 last year to 66, but I went in with an open mind given the surprise element last year as well.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/20-tricity-students-score-99-percentile-in-cat-358272
05-01-2022||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali civic body proposes to hire 733 sanitation employees at DC rate||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 4The Mohali Municipal Corporation passed an agenda to recruit 733 sanitation workers out of a total of 765 who had applied for the job, during a meeting held at the Municipal Bhawan here today.In another resolution, it was decided to write a letter to the Central Government to start direct international flights from Mohali. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi, Commissioner Kamal Garg were among those present in the meeting.Divulging details about the resolutions passed by the corporation unanimously, Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said the most important resolution in the meeting was to recruit sanitation employees at DC rate. He said the recruitment process of these sanitation employees was already underway and about 733 sanitation workers would now be hired on a contractual basis by the Municipal Corporation at DC rate.On writing to the Central Government to start direct international flights from the Mohali airport, Jeeti Sidhu said Punjabis going abroad had to go to Delhi, which was a waste of time as well as money. Punjabis were the biggest crowd at the Delhi international airport. He alleged that the Union government was deliberately ignoring the Mohali international airport regarding international flights. A letter would be written to the Central Government requesting it to meet this demand immediately.The Mayor said through another resolution, a letter had been written to the Railways Department requesting it to make permanent halt for all trains going to religious places “Gurudhams” at the Mohali railway station. He said similarly a large number of youth from Mohali go to Gurgaon for jobs. So, a resolution was passed to request the government to start direct bus service from Mohali to Gurgaon.The Mayor said apart from this, resolutions were also passed to carry out development works in some of the housing societies under the Mohali Municipal Corporation, promote some of the employees as drivers, carry out work of paver blocks and other development activities in different blocks, construct water booster plants for water supply in Industrial Areas, Phase 8A and 8B, and maintain the ponds of Sohana village. Resolutions were also passed to install energy saving projects on boosting pump stations and tube wells and develop a park in Phase 7.Some Opposition councillors raised their voice in the House alleging that no development activities started in their respective wards. Mayor Jeeti Sidhu retorted by saying that they should name a single ward where development work was not being carried out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-civic-body-proposes-to-hire-733-sanitation-employees-at-dc-rate-358271
05-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Sports lovers, fitness freaks a worried lot as Covid cases spike||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 4A sudden spike in Covid-19 cases is haunting fitness freaks and sports lovers as they fear closure of sports complexes and fitness centres.Though the UT Administration is yet to take a final call, sources maintained that the authorities may follow Punjab’s new guidelines issued earlier today. The neighbouring state ordered restrictions on the usage of sports complexes. As per the new restrictions, imposed till January 15, sports complexes in Punjab, including swimming pools, will be only opened for professional players preparing for competitions.In Chandigarh, local sports complexes are one-stop place for fitness freaks and sports lovers as these offer good facilities. The UT had recently ordered opening of sports complexes and swimming pools for general public.The final call is expected to be taken in the next war-room meeting, headed by the UT Administrator, scheduled for Thursday.“The sudden rise in cases is a cause of concern. Minimising gatherings won’t harm anyone, but it should not be extended for a longer period like last year. Sports complexes attract several people and all of them are fit to survive. The Administration should consider all aspect, if they plan any closure,” said Amit, a badminton freak.“Instead of closing the complexes, the Administration should extend usage hours of the complexes. This will help them in breaking the regular flow of users. The complexes can be opened on alternative days for regular users,” said Anupama, a swimming enthusiast.Meanwhile, sources claimed nothing had been finalised as of now. “There has been no communication on the issue by the authorities. We will follow the UT Administration’s instructions. Till then, the facilities will remain operational,” said a senior official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sports-lovers-fitness-freaks-a-worried-lot-358270
05-01-2022||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Physical hearing of cases to continue at Chandigarh District Courts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 4Physical hearing of cases will continue at the District Courts, Chandigarh, for now and only fully vaccinated people will be allowed to enter the court complex. Strict measures will be put in place to restrict the footfall in the court complex.This was decided at a meeting held between representatives of the District Bar Association, Chandigarh, and the District and Sessions Judge. Police officers were also present in the meeting.Sunil Toni, president of the District Bar Association, Chandigarh, said the meeting was held to discuss the steps to be taken in the District Courts Complex to prevent the spread of Covid-19. It had been decided to continue with physical hearings of cases for now with strict measures.He said advocates and litigants would be allowed to enter the complex through two entry points only. All other entry points would be closed. Only fully vaccinated people would be allowed in the court complex.Toni said the official order giving details of the functioning of the court would be issued by the competent authority soon. The Bar Association had assured the District and Sessions Judge that advocates would cooperate in following appropriate measures to prevent further spread of coronavirus cases.He said the police had also been asked to make necessary security arrangements at the entry points for restrictive access. A large number of people visit the District Courts daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/physical-hearing-of-cases-to-continue-at-district-courts-358269
05-01-2022||---||Covid cases surge, curbs back in Mohali||Mohali, January 4Only 50 per cent of the earlier 1,800 visitors will be allowed to enter Mahendra Chaudhary Zoological Park, popularly known as Chhatbir zoo, after the fresh restrictions imposed in the district in view of a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases.At present, the authorities had capped the number of visitors to 1,800 per two hours, thrice a day. As per the new orders, now only 900 visitors will be allowed inside the zoo.As per the fresh orders, all educational institutions, including schools, colleges, universities and coaching institutions, will remain closed. However, online classes will continue. Medical and nursing colleges may continue to function normally. These orders will remain in force till January 15.The orders issued by District Magistrate Isha Kalia read, “Wearing of mask by all persons in public places, including workplaces, etc., will be mandatory and must be strictly observed and enforced. Social distancing i.e. minimum 6 feet distance (do gaz ki duri) for all activities should always be maintained. Movement of individuals for all non-essential activities will remain prohibited between 10 pm and 5 am within limits of the district. However, essential activities, including operation of multiple shifts in industry, offices (both government and private), movement of persons and goods on national and state highways and unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and aeroplanes will be permitted”.Regarding prohibited/ restricted activities, the orders says: “All bars, cinemas halls, multiplexes, malls, restaurants, spas and museums will be allowed to operate at 50 per cent of their capacity subject to all staff present being fully vaccinated. All sports complexes, stadia, swimming pools and gyms will remain closed (except being used for training of sports persons for participation in national/international sports events as well as for organising national/international sports events). No spectator or visitor will be allowed. AC buses will run at 50 per cent of the capacity”.As per the orders, only fully vaccinated staff will be allowed to attend government as well as private offices, working spaces, factories and industries. Principle of “no mask - no service” will be strictly adhered to. No service will be provided in government or private offices to persons not wearing proper mask.Any violations will invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code, 1860.Orders to remain in force till Jan 15As per the fresh orders, all educational institutions, including schools, colleges, universities and coaching institutions, will remain closed. However, online classes will continue. Medical and nursing colleges may continue to function normally. These orders will remain in force till January 15.The restrictions||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-cases-surge-curbs-back-in-mohali-358268
05-01-2022||---||Punjab Deputy CM inaugurates 30-bed hospital in Mohali||Mohali, January 4Deputy Chief Minister of Punjab OP Soni today inaugurated a 30-bed hospital which has been constructed by upgrading the dispensary in Phase 3B1 here.Addressing the gathering, Soni said the Mohali constituency owed a great debt of gratitude to former Health Minister and MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu as the number of hospitals and dispensaries here were more than in any other city of Punjab. He said doctors had been appointed to provide better health care facilities to the people of Mohali through this state-of-the-art hospital which would become functional from tomorrow.During his tenure as Health Minister, the Mohali MLA had laid the foundation stone for upgrading this dispensary to a hospital in 2020 and the construction has been completed in a record time. Mohali DC Isha Kalia, SSP Navjot Singh Mahal, Civil Surgeon Adarshpal Kaur, Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu, Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal, Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were among those present on the occasion.Soni said a laboratory would be set up in Mohali for which a piece of land had been arranged by the MLA. Tests for which samples had to be sent to Pune would be tested at Mohali after the laboratory becomes functional, he added.“We had successfully fought the second wave and with the cooperation of people, the third movement will also be tackled,” he said.Sidhu said the construction of this hospital would reduce the burden of patients on the Civil Hospital. The OPD of the new hospital would start from tomorrow and a diagnostic centre had also been set up there besides a state-of-the-art OT. The hospital would be benefit residents, especially senior citizens who had to go to the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, for treatment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deputy-cm-inaugurates-30-bed-hospital-in-mohali-358267
05-01-2022||Gaurav Kanthwal||Only 42 turn up for Covid vax in 2 days at Dera Bassi||Tribune News ServiceDera Bassi, January 4With only two and 40 targetted beneficiaries (age group 15-18 years) showing up for Covid-19 vaccination yesterday and today, respectively, here, the youth is yet to warm up in the fight against Covid. Officials attributed the lack of enthusiasm among the youth for vaccination to vaccine hesitancy.“This response in the first two days was not expected. Probably, it will take a week or so before the pace of vaccination picks up. It may be due to vaccine hesitancy, but there is nothing to worry,” said Dera Bassi SMO Sangeeta Jain. “Once vaccination starts in schools, the numbers will rise fast,” she added.The officials said the prevailing cold weather conditions might also be the reason for youngsters not turning up for vaccination.Meanwhile, the rush for second dose among adults in Dera Bassi has been unprecedented. Close to 1,000 persons were vaccinated daily in the past two days. Long queues of people are seen outside the vaccination centres.According to the officials, one team vaccinates around 300 persons daily. There are four teams deputed for the purpose in Dera Bassi and all have their hands full.A total of 1,000 inoculations were carried out in the age group 15-18 years today in Mohali district. There are around 67,000 targeted beneficiaries in this age group in the district.Both options, on-site registration and pre-registered vaccination, are available for this age group. Regarding the second-dose vaccination of adults, 72.8% population has been covered till now, said the officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/only-42-turn-up-for-vax-in-2-days-at-dera-bassi-358266
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Without mask, 2 misbehave, held in Chandigarh||Two persons, who were found roaming without a mask and misbehaving with officials on duty, have been arrested by the local police.According to the police, complainant Vivek Narola, an SDE, and his team were on duty in Sector 37 to ensure implementation of the Covid protocol when they saw a few persons without masks.The officials stopped them to issue a challan. However, they started misbehaving with the officials and deterred them from discharging their duty. The suspects, identified as Davinder Balhara (42), a resident of Karnal, and Karam Vir Arya (38), a resident of Kaithal, also allegedly spread misleading information among the public, the complainant alleged.The police were informed following which a case under Sections 186, 188 and 353 of the IPC was registered at the Sector 39 police station. Both suspects were arrested in the case. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/without-mask-2-misbehave-held-in-chandigarh-358265
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||The silver lining — No death in Chandigarh in 10 days||There has been no death due to Covid-19 in the past 10 days in the city when cases started heading north.The cases started increasing from December 29 when the city recorded 33 cases, the highest since mid-June. On January 1, 70 cases were seen and 97 cases the next day. Only 26 patients are admitted to hospitals, while 320 patients are still infected with Covid-19 in the city. During the last surge when cases started gaining momentum, the city had already seen four deaths from February 25 to  March 6. On March 6, the city had seen 112 cases and there were over 600 active cases.“Last year, a lot of patients had reported late to hospitals and waited to recover by self-medication. Most patients had reported only when the oxygen levels had fallen to an extent that reviving the patient was difficult. The delta variant had caused a rapid fall in the oxygen levels as well. This time, patients who are reporting at hospitals have taken their vaccine, which is why there is no mortality,” said a senior doctor of the PGI.Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said, “The vaccine is effective in saving patients from severe illness. Around 90 per cent of those who are fully immunised do not require hospitalisation even if they are infected with Covid.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/the-silver-lining-%E2%80%94-no-death-in-chandigarh-in-10-days-358264
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to have another mini-Covid centre||One more mini-Covid care centre will be set up in the city. The Chandigarh Administration has given permission to Kandhari Beverages Pvt Ltd to set up the facility at the Sports Complex, Sector 34.During May/June 2021, Kandhari Beverages had successfully operated a mini-Covid care centre. “Partnership of good Samaritans from civil society with the Administration is the need of the hour,” said Yashpal Garg, Secretary, Health.He said one such centre at Bal Bhawan, Sector 23-B, and another at Indira Holiday Home, Sector 24, were already on the standby mode. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-to-have-another-mini-covid-centre-358263
05-01-2022||---||Chandigarh Tricity logs 361 cases, 100% spike from Jan 1||Chandigarh, January 4The tricity recorded a single-day spike of 361 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, an increase of 100 per cent from two days ago.On January 1, the tricity had witnessed a new high as it logged 181 cases, witnessing its highest single-day spike since mid-June 2021.Chandigarh recorded a whopping increase in the single-day count as it logged 128 cases today, the highest since March 6 last year when the city had recorded 122 cases. Among the samples tested in Chandigarh on Tuesday, 9 per cent came back positive, the highest single-day positivity rate.The active cases in the city have also hit 500 now, of which 50 are currently hospitalised and five patients are on ventilator. The remaining patients are on Covid beds with oxygen support.139 cases in Mohali distMohali district reported 139 new cases, the highest since June 3 last year.The district tally has now crossed 69,413 cases, while the active infections are 312. Among the Covid patients in Mohali, only three are admitted and 309 patients are in home isolation.94 infected in Panchkula distAs many as 94 cases of Covid surfaced in Panchkula district in the past 24 hours, taking the total cases to 31,187. One death was reported from the district, while one patient recovered from the disease. The number of active cases is 254, of whom only 20 are hospitalised and the remaining are in home isolation.25 doctors found infectedChandigarh: Thirty healthcare workers tested positive for Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Tuesday. Those infected include 20 doctors, two nursing officers and two lab technicians from the PGI, one doctor from the GMCH, Sector 32, two doctors from the Civil Hospital, Sector 22, and two doctors and a clerk from the GMSH, Sector 16.UT call on more curbs tomorrowOver the steep rise in Covid-19 cases in the tricity, the UT Administration will take a decision on imposing additional restrictions, including nigh curfew and extending the winter vacation in schools, at a meeting on Thursday. The meeting will be presided over by UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tricity-logs-361-cases-100-spike-from-jan-1-358262
05-01-2022||---||Another high for Chandigarh, 14,627 doses in a day||Chandigarh, January 4Since the start of the Covid vaccination last year, Chandigarh today witnessed the highest single-day dose count by administering 14,627 doses.Earlier, the highest vaccination was recorded at 14,618 on August 14. UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said, “The response to the Covid vaccination from children in the age group of 15 to 18 is highly encouraging. Apart from six permanent vaccination centres at health facilities, 10 special vaccination camps have been arranged in schools in co-ordination with the Education Department. Some existing Covid vaccination centres for adults may be converted as vaccination centres for children next week to accelerate the pace of vaccination. All efforts are being made to provide the first dose to targeted children in the age group of 15 to 18 this month itself.”Garg said, “With the current pace of vaccination, it is expected that 100 per cent vaccination with the second dose for the target adult population may be achieved within a week. All eligible adult persons are requested to immediately get themselves vaccinated.”Target population for vaccination in UTAdults (18 years and above) 8,43,000Target achieved 92% fully immunisedChildren in the age group of 15 to 18: 72,000Target achieved: 8% (single dose)Tuesday’s figuresCovishield for adults: 10,312Covaxin for children: 4,315||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/another-high-for-chandigarh-14-627-doses-in-a-day-358260
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 75 constables inducted into ITBP ranks||As many as 75 constables were inducted into the ranks of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police during an impressive passing-out parade held at the Basic Training Centre, Bhanu, near Chandigarh, today.Inspector General Ishwar Singh Duhan reviewed the parade and took the salute. Congratulating the newly passed-out constables, Duhan expressed the confidence that the training imparted here had laid a strong foundation for their future in the force. He exhorted them to follow the ideals of honesty and discipline and strive for excellence in all spheres of life.The constables, including eight women, belonged to the 166th batch of the non-general duty cadre. They underwent a tough training regimen of 24 weeks that included drill, weapon, map reading and field craft.The parade was commanded by Constable Gurdeep, while Constable Preeti Goderaj was adjudged the best trainee. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/75-constables-inducted-into-itbp-ranks-358259
05-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh AAP councillors jittery as Kejriwal tests positive||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 4Fear of the virus has gripped several councillors in the city as AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal, who held a roadshow in Sector 22 on December 30 and met many leaders, has tested positive for Covid now.The Delhi CM, who had imposed Covid curbs in Delhi, was without a mask and did not adhere to social distancing, along with 14 councillors and the local party leadership, during the roadshow in a truck. All other leaders, huddled together, were also without masks.With voting scheduled for January 8 at the MC House, councillors of other parties are now worried as they will be sitting in the same premises.“There is a risk to all those who will be present in the House on the voting day. Those who came in his touch will touch the same ballot and table. Tomorrow, we will raise the issue,” said Arun Sood, city BJP chief.Councillor Mahehinder Singh Sidhu, the presiding authority for the poll, said, “It is indeed a serious issue. AAP councillors should follow the protocol as only five days ago they were in touch with the Delhi Chief Minister. They should go for a Covid test. We will see what we can do.”Chandigarh AAP president Prem Garg said, “There is no need to worry. They met him five days ago. The virus does not stay that long. I think it is for eight hours.”He, along with former MP Harmohan Dhawan, AAP leaders Pradeep Chhabra, Chandermukhi Sharma and Sangrur MP Bhawant Mann, was there with Kejriwal without a mask.An official of the UT contact-tracing team said, “All those who come in contact with a positive person in a week are put in the risk zone and some of them are quarantined as per the protocol. Information is sent to the Health Department to test all of them. In this particular case since the positive person is from Delhi, the Covid/health authorities there will contact their counterparts here.”Risk on voting day: BJPThere is a risk to all those who will be present in the House on the voting day. Those who came in his touch will touch the same ballot and table. On Wednesday, we will raise the issue. — Arun Sood, city BJP chief||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/councillors-jittery-as-kejriwal-tests-positive-358258
05-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Mayoral poll: Who will have its way, BJP or AAP?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 4With the Congress deciding not to fight the mayoral poll and abstain from voting on January 8, it will be a two-cornered contest between the BJP and AAP.Councillors of both parties filed their nominations for the posts of Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor. Baring one, all other five candidates, including two for the post of Mayor, are first-time councillors. The seat of Mayor is reserved for a woman this year.Both sides have 14 votes in their kitty, while the Congress, with seven votes, has opted out and the SAD, with one councillor, will take a call on voting on January 6.In case of a tie, a toss will be held to decide the winner.There were earlier rumours that councillor Harpreet Kaur Babla may be the BJP candidate for the post of Mayor. She said, “At the very start of our party meeting today, I said I am not here for any post and will not contest this time.”Councillor and city SAD president Hardeep Singh said, “We will decide on voting on January 6 at a meeting with Sukhbir Badal.” SAD’s vote could be the game changer as the two contesting sides have equal votes.However, the equations may be different due to invalid votes or cross-voting. For the next three days before the poll, parties may try to woo each other’s councillors. It is the first time in the 25-year history of the MC that no party has got a majority. Either the Congress or the BJP were in majority earlier.‘Had it fought, Cong wouldn’t have got own votes’Councillor Harpreet Kaur Babla said, “The Congress has run away from the mayoral poll. Not fielding a candidate for the Mayor’s post shows its nervousness and fear that it would not have been able to get its own seven votes.”However, city Congress president Subhash Chawla, who is in Rajasthan with seven councillors and their families, claimed, “We got information about the nominations very late and we were around 600 km away from Chandigarh. We are going to abstain from voting as the two parties did not show interest in our support.”Jan 8 mayoral poll: How parties are placedBJP: 14* | AAP: 14 | Cong: 7 (Not to contest & vote) | SAD: 1 (Yet to decide on voting) | In case of tie: Toss will be held*13 councillors and vote of ex officio member i.e. local MP Kirron KherKnow your Mayor candidatesSarabjit Kaur Dhillon, councillor (ward 6)Anju Katyal, councillor (ward 22)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayoral-poll-who-will-have-its-way-bjp-or-aap-358257
05-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||16 judges retiring in 2 yrs, Punjab and Haryana High Court stares at crisis||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 4The Punjab and Haryana High Court is staring at a crisis as 16 of its judges are retiring in the next two years. The High Court collegium had last met almost three years back for recommending the names of sessions judges for elevation and nearly one-and-a-half years back for advocates. The HC will reopen on Wednesday after a short winter break with a shortage of 36 judges and a pendency of over 4,47,890 cases.Collegium suggested elevation of judicial officers in ’19Available information suggests that the last time the collegium recommended the names of judicial officers for elevation as High Court judges was on March 14, 2019. As many as seven judicial officers were recommended for elevation by the then Chief Justice in consultation with his two senior colleagues.The Supreme Court collegium finally recommended the elevation of six judicial officers in September 2019 and they were administered the oath in November 2019. It is believed that at least six senior District and Sessions Judges in Haryana have retired since the collegium last finalised and forwarded the names for elevation. The number is believed to be almost the same in Punjab.Even if the names are finalised now for elevation, it will take a long time for the completion of process. A testimony to this effect is provided by the fact that five advocates recommended for elevation in August 2020 were administered oath as the High Court judges only in October last year.The process of appointing judges is, in fact, lengthy and time consuming. Once cleared by the states and the Governors after recommendations of the High Court collegium, the file containing the names with intelligence bureau reports is placed before the SC collegium when it meets. The names cleared for elevation are then sent to the Union Law Ministry before their warrants of appointment are signed by the President. The entire exercise can take several months, if not taken up on priority basis.Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Sant Parkash are retiring in April this year, followed by Justice Fateh Deep Singh in July and Justice Amol Rattan Singh in August. Justice Rajan Gupta of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, posted as a judge of the Patna High Court, too, retires in September 22.The Judges retiring next year are Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa, Justice Harinder Singh Sidhu, Justice BS Walia, Justice Jaishree Thakur, Justice Harminder Singh Madaan, Justice Sudhir Mittal, Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma.Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sabina, Judges of the Punjab and Haryana High Court but transferred out, also retire next year. The tenure of the Chief Justice of the Allahabad High Court, Justice Rajesh Bindal, whose parent High Court is the Punjab and Haryana, will end in April 2023, if not elevated to the Supreme Court.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/16-judges-retiring-in-2-yrs-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-stares-at-crisis-358218
05-01-2022||Chandigarh||Tricity logs 361 new Covid-19 cases, highest since June||Tricity recorded 361 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday—the highest rise in its cases since mid-June.Of this number, Chandigarh recorded 128 new cases, hitting three-digit figures for the first time since May-June last year. Active cases in the union territory touched 500, a health bulletin from the administration showed.Fifty of the new Covid-19 patients are in hospitals and five are on ventilators, the bulletin said.Chandigarh also recorded one fatality---a 77-year-old fully vaccinated man. This takes the UT's fatality count since the pandemic began to stand at 1,079.The daily positivity rate in Chandigarh shot up to 9.07 per cent on Tuesday from 1.09 per cent on December 28. The bulletin said Chandigarh also recorded 11 recoveries.Mohali recorded the highest number of cases in the Tricity at 139. Panchkula reported 94 new cases and one death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tricity-logs-361-new-covid-19-cases-highest-since-june-358144
