06-01-2022||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh records 331 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh on Thursday reported 331 new cases of Covid-19 as the cumulative number of infections reached 66,824.The number of active cases has risen to 979 up from 665 a day before.As many as 229 cases of Covid were reported on Thursday.No new death was reported today as the toll remained 1,080.A positivity rate of 14.40 per cent was recorded today as 2,298 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.A total of 17 patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed seven days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.As many as 64,765 people have been cured till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-331-new-covid-19-cases-358834
06-01-2022||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh imposes night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am due to rising Covid-19 cases||The Chandigarh Administration on Thursday decided to impose night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am in view of the rising Covid-19 cases due to the Omicron variant.Movement of individuals for all the non-essential activities shall remain prohibited between 10 pm to 5 am.However, essential activities including emergency services, medical health, transport of essential goods, operation of multiple shifts in industries, offices etc, (both government and private), movement of persons and goods on National and State Highways and unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and airplanes will be permitted.Detailed prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC would be issued by the DM Chandigarh.All educational institutions, including schools, colleges, universities, coaching institutions etc. shall remain closed.However, these institutions will maintain the academic schedule through online teaching. However, medical and nursing colleges may continue to function normally in offline mode.All government offices in Chandigarh except essential services/departments will function with physical attendance of 50 per cent capacity of actual strength with regard to Group C & D staff.The rest of the 50% staff would be required to work from home. All the concerned head of offices would devise roster to implement the same.All private offices to also function with 50 per cent staff and rest would be required to work from home.All bars, cinema halls, multiplexes, malls, restaurants, spas, museums etc. shall be allowed to operate at 50% of their capacity subject to all staff present being fully vaccinated.All sports complexes (except for contact-less sports) swimming pools, gyms shall remain closed except being used for training of sports persons for participation in national/international sports events as well as for organising national/international sports events. No spectators or visitors are to be allowed in these sports complexes.Gathering for any purpose should be restricted to 50 persons for indoor and 100 persons for outdoor. However, the total number of persons shall not exceed 50% of the capacity in both indoor and outdoor gatherings.In Sabzi Mandi of Sector 26 only rehdiwalas/vendors to be allowed with the condition that all are fully vaccinated and no entry for retail customer/general public shall be allowed from 10.01.2022.Palika Bazar, Sadar Bazar of Sector 19, Patel Market in Sector 15, Shastri Market and mobile market in Sector 22, Krishna Market in Sector 41 and all Apni Mandis to close by 5 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-imposes-night-curfew-from-10-pm-to-5-am-due-to-rising-covid-19-cases-358832
06-01-2022||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh logs 229 Covid cases, sees 367% spike in five days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 5In the fastest surge, the city recorded a new high as it logged 229 cases today, the highest since May 24 last year when 245 cases were reported. On December 31, the city had recorded 49 cases and it has seen a rise of 367 per cent in the cases in five days. In the last surge, it took 24 days for the city to cross the 200 mark.The city recorded 95 average cases in the past week, while the positivity rate stood at 6 per cent in the past seven days. There are 675 active cases in the city, of which 52 are in hospital. Seven patients are on ventilator beds. The union territory still has 87 per cent Covid beds vacant. A 72-year-old woman, a resident of Behlana, a case of coronary artery disease, diabetes, hypertension and hyperthyroidism, died at the PGI due to Covid-19. She was fully vaccinated against Covid.88 doctors test positive for the virus at PGI in 15 daysAs many as 197 healthcare workers (HCWs) of the PGI have tested positive for Covid-19 between December 20 and January 4. Among them, 88 are doctors and all of them were vaccinated against Covid-19. Only two healthcare workers were not vaccinated and one was partially vaccinated.Dr Surjit Singh, PGI Director, said, “There were some celebratory functions like the annual function held in the last week of December at the PGI. This could be a reason why some doctors tested positive. Besides, some doctors have also acquired the infection while dealing with patient care. Covid-19 is again spreading in the region and doctors are the first line of defence.”PGI to take call on OPDsIn view of Covid cases surging rapidly in the city, the PGI has called a meeting on Thursday to decide on limiting the OPD footfall.Dr Surjit Singh, PGI Director, said, “We have already reactivated tele-consulation and a call on OPDs will be taken at the next meeting. We will try to accommodate the maximum possible patients for OPDs and the scenario of previous waves will be taken into consideration while deciding on OPDs. A lot of patients suffered due to not been able to avail of the treatment as health services were shut.”Ray of hope, hospitalisation lowThe city recorded 95 average cases in the past week, while the positivity rate stood at 6 per cent in the past seven days. There are 675 active cases in the city, of which 52 are in hospital. Seven patients are on ventilator. The UT has 87% Covid beds vacant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-229-cases-sees-367-spike-in-five-days-358580
06-01-2022||Naina Mishra||Covid: Is it community transmission?||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 5The positivity rate of the city has jumped from 0.95 per cent to 12 per cent since December 23 even as the number of samples collected for Covid-19 remains the same over the past two weeks.Chandigarh is now among 10 states that have a positivity rate of more than 10 per cent. Experts have suggested the high positivity rate as an indicator of community transmission. Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, said, “Over 50 per cent of our samples are from patients coming to OPDs for non-Covid ailments. The positivity rate among those samples has also gone high, which means there is high transmission in the community. Another subset of samples is from those who are high-risk contacts of positive patients. The Omicron variant is reported to be 40 times more transmissible than the Delta variant. We have sent samples of random people for genome sequencing to find out the variant causing the spread this time.”“We have also noticed that mostly patients who are turning positive are asymptomatic and do not require hospitalisation. Many are in home isolation,” she said. The total positivity rate (TPR) is the percentage of all coronavirus tests performed that turn out to be positive, and detect the presence of the virus. According to the criteria published by the WHO in May 2020, a TPR of less than 5 per cent is one indicator that the infection is under control in a locality.It may also be mentioned that around 28 per cent of the samples collected by Chandigarh are from the Rapid Antigen (RAT) technique, while 72 per cent are taken with the RT-PCR method.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/is-it-community-transmission-358581
06-01-2022||Mohali||292 more found infected in Mohali district||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/292-more-found-infected-in-mohali-district-358622
06-01-2022||Panchkula||Panchkula dist logs 171 cases||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-dist-logs-171-cases-358623
06-01-2022||Amit Bathla||Positivity rate in Panchkula district 8.45%||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 5At a worrying positivity rate of 8.45 per cent, the district reported 171 fresh Covid-19 cases today.As many as 358 cases and one death have been reported this month so far. The only relief for health officials in the district is low hospitalisation. From 16 hospitalised patients of the total 86 active cases on December 31, the number has only gone up to 26 despite the active caseload shooting up to 372.Dr Rajeev Narwal, district Covid nodal officer, said, “We are well-prepared to deal with the rising Covid numbers. Not only is hospitalisation relatively low this time, we have better health infrastructure to deal with the pandemic. We have enough Covid beds, including those with ventilator support, and medical oxygen to meet the requirement.”During the second wave, the Civil Hospital and private hospitals grappled with a lack of liquid oxygen supply due to a sharp rise in the demand.The Civil Hospital in Sector 6 had, earlier this year, increased its liquid medical oxygen storage capacity to 16 kl to strengthen its preparedness for a possible third wave of Covid and reserve the supply of life-saving gas for indoor patients. An oxygen plant with a capacity of 300 litres per minute was also made functional at the Civil Hospital after the infirmary faced medical emergency due to a delay in the arrival of an oxygen tanker from Roorkee during the second wave in May last year.The unit, installed by Absstem Technologies, can ensure supply of uninterrupted oxygen to 30 beds 24x7.As eight health workers tested positive for the coronavirus on Wednesday, the district Health Department has decided to begin a special challaning drive for those not wearing masks and violating Covid guidelines in the Civil Hospital in Sector 6.“A majority of the visitors to the Civil Hospital do not wear masks and follow the Covid guidelines. We have decided to deploy police teams to tackle the Covid menace,” Dr Narwal said.Covid care centre yet to be made operationalMeanwhile, the only notified Covid care centre in the district — “Jatayu Yatrika”, a tourist resort near Mata Mansa Devi Complex – is yet to be made operational.According to senior officials, the facility will be started soon after the remaining arrangements are completed. More such centres would come up, if required, they added. Covid care centres across the district were shut earlier this year after the number of cases started declining.Testing up, but not impressiveThough testing numbers have gone up in the district, the average daily sampling rate for this month so far is still below 1,500. The Deputy Commissioner had recently asked the local Health Department to increase testing in view of the rise in the number of Covid cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/positivity-rate-in-panchkula-district-8-45-358624
06-01-2022||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Now, Chandigarh BJP moves its councillors to Shimla||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 5In a bid to keep its flock together amid fear of poaching by rival parties ahead of the mayoral poll on Saturday, the BJP today shifted its newly elected councillors to Shimla.Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood alleged that senior functionaries of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had, in an internal meeting, told its councillors that they had bought three BJP councillors for Rs2 crore each to shift loyalties in the mayoral poll, scheduled for January 8.To give a strong message to AAP that they were united, all 12 BJP councillors, along with their families, had reached Shimla yesterday and would be returning soon, he added. The councillors are staying at the state guest house, Willy’s Park, in Shimla. Reacting to the allegations, Chandigarh AAP convener Prem Garg said instead of making allegations, the BJP should name the councillors who had taken money from them to switch sides.After the announcement of the mayoral elections, the Congress took its councillors to Jaipur and AAP to Delhi over fear of being ‘lured’ by the opposition.The Congress claimed that it had taken its councillors for a “religious tour”, while AAP said it had taken its elected leaders for a “training programme”. The Congress councillors today went to Ajmer Sharif Dargah.Meanwhile, Garg said their councillors had returned from Delhi and were in Chandigarh. He, however, said instead of abstaining, the Congress should support AAP which could ensure overall development of the city.On the decision of the Congress not to field any candidate for the mayoral poll and to abstain from voting on January 8, Garg said, “It is illegal and immoral on the part of the Congress to abstain from the election on January 8 because voting is a fundamental right of every citizen.”Elections to the post of Mayor, Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor are scheduled for January 8 and this time, the contest is between the BJP and AAP.In the 35-member House of the Municipal Corporation, AAP has 14 seats, the Congress has seven seats. The BJP has 14 seats, including one vote of the MP and another of Harpreet Kaur Babla, wife of former Congress leader Devinder Singh Babla. Nineteen votes are needed to secure a majority in the House.Saffron party’s allegationChandigarh BJP president Arun Sood alleged that senior functionaries of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had, in an internal meeting, told their councillors that they had bought three BJP councillors for Rs2 crore each to shift loyalties in the mayoral poll, scheduled for January 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-bjp-moves-its-councillors-to-shimla-358625
06-01-2022||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh fast-tracks work to set up cyber security centre||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 5The UT Administration has fast-tracked the process of establishing a cyber security centre in the city to deal with the ever-growing cases of cybercrime.All aspects of the proposed centre were discussed in detail during a meeting with senior officials of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Chandigarh Police here yesterday, said UT Adviser Dharam Pal. It was decided to prepare a proposal for setting up the centre and send it to the MHA for approval at the earliest, he added.As cyber criminals are on the prowl, the city has witnessed a steep increase in such cases in the past few years. In 2017, the police had received 2,242 complaints and the number swelled to 3,167 in 2018 and further rose to 4,793 in 2019. Nearly 6,300 complaints of cybercrime were received in 2020, while 3,306 complaints had been filed till July 18 last year.“Cyber security will be one of the main challenges in the coming years and we want to lead the way in the region in meeting the new-age challenges,” said the Adviser. Apart from research and analysis work, strategies would also be a device in anticipation of future challenges, he said, adding that the centre was most likely to be established within this year under the supervision of the police.Earlier, officials of the DRDO gave a presentation on the prospects of drone attacks and how to deal with these even though the city has no specific threat from drones. The UT Adviser said anti-drone technology would also be part of the proposed centre. Over security threats and the possibility of misuse of drones by anti-social elements, the UT Administration had recently banned flying of drones and low-flying objects in the city.On naming of the centre, UT Director General of Police Praveer Ranjan said it was most likely to be named as Centre for Cyber Security Operation.Recently, the Chandigarh Police had set up cyber desks at all police stations to lessen the burden on the Cyber Crime Investigation Cell, which is unable to focus on special cases. Several categories of cybercrime have been defined, which will be dealt by the police stations.Cyber criminals on the prowlAs cyber criminals are on the prowl, the city has witnessed an increase in cases. In 2017, 2,242 complaints were received and the number swelled to 3,167 in 2018 and rose to 4,793 in 2019. Nearly 6,300 complaints were received in 2020 and 3,306 till July 18 last year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ut-fast-tracks-work-to-set-up-cyber-security-centre-358627
06-01-2022||---||2 cops fined for delay in renewal of arms licence in Panchkula||Chandigarh, January 5The Haryana Right to Service Commission has expressed its displeasure over the working of the Panchkula police and imposed a penalty of Rs 5,000 each on Mansa Devi Complex (MDC) SHO Wahida Hamid and Sunil Kumar, the then SHO, in a case of delayed renewal of arms licence of an applicant.Secretary to the Commission Meenaxee Raj said the applicant had been approaching the Panchkula police for the renewal of his licence since 2019 which was a notified service under the Haryana Right to Service Act, 2014 with a timeline of 15 days.The applicant’s repeated requests were not accepted on the basis of wrong reports and it was only when he met with the DCP in May 2021 that his case was marked to the SHO concerned again.Despite that the case was formally approved in October 2021. Stating that the Panchkula DCP being a designated officer to provide the said service have squarely failed to supervise the delivery of notified services as per said timelines, the Commission has issued an advisory to him to supervise the cases in accordance with the timelines.She informed that Sushil Kumar and Wahida Hamid had delayed their reports leading to delay in the case and were held responsible by the Commission. A penalty of Rs5,000 each was imposed on them.The penalty is to be deposited in treasury within a period of 30 days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-cops-fined-for-delay-in-renewal-of-arms-licence-358630
06-01-2022||---||Tribunal quashes appointment of PGI Head of Department||Chandigarh, January 5The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Chandigarh Bench, has quashed the order of the PGI to appoint Prof Anish Bhattacharya as Head of the Department (HOD), Nuclear Medicine, PGI, Chandigarh.The tribunal pronounced the order on an application of Dr Baljinder Singh, a professor of the department of nuclear medicine. Dr Baljinder Singh challenged the order of the PGI through senior advocate Gurminder Singh alleging that the appointment of Professor Bhattacharya was made ignoring his seniority.Amit Jhanji, senior advocate, with AK Premi, advocate, appearing on behalf of the PGI, argued that the appointment of Prof Bhattacharya as HOD was made on the basis of the decision of the governing body of the institute and the order of the PGI Director issued in 2007 which recommended that the departments running postgraduate degrees like MD/MS/DM/MCh should be headed only by a person holding a basic medical degree, i.e. MBBS degree. The PGI issued the order for the appointment of Dr Bhattacharya as HOD on January 18, 2021.The PGI claimed that Dr Baljinder Singh did not possess an MBBS degree and the senior most professor who possessed the degree had been appointed.Dr Baljinder Singh, in the plea before the CAT, said he had qualifications of MSc (Biophysics) and PhD (Biophysics) and was appointed Assistant Professor (Medical Physics) in the Department of Nuclear Medicine at the PGI on July 30, 1997. He was promoted professor in 2010. He is the senior-most professor in the department.Gurminder argued that the classification drawn by the PGI between the medical and non-medical qualifications for appointment as Head, Department of Nuclear Medicine, is bereft of any logic or reason and is without any basis as there is no such requirement in the statutory recruitment rules and any decision taken contrary to the rules cannot be sustained in the eye of law.He further argued that there is no logic or reason for arriving at the decision as HOD is not a post but only a designation conferred upon a senior-most faculty member in the department. When a number of other departments have head of department with non-medical qualification, there is no reason to deny such benefit to the applicant.After hearing of the arguments, the Bench, comprising members Rakesh Kumar Gupta and Suresh Kumar Monga, said, “In our opinion, there is no power vested with the Standing Academic Committee to evolve a policy decision to make an appointment as HOD to supervise the day to day administrative work of a department. Neither the Governing Body of the Institute has such power to ratify such a policy decision.”The Bench said as per the rule 7 (1) of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, Act, 1966, no post above the level of associate professor can be created except with the prior approval of the Centre. The Bench has directed the institute to either amend the regulations while deriving its powers from Regulation 32 of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, Act, 1966 or it should initiate the matter with the Centre and seek requisite directions to make appointment to the office of HOD in Nuclear Medicine and in all other departments, wherever the selection committee suspects a similar kind of controversies in future, so that an efficient administration of the Act is ensured and the objects of the institute as set up in Section 12 of the Act are achieved at its maximum.The Bench further directed that the necessary exercise be initiated forthwith and the whole exercise be completed within a period of eight weeks from the date of receipt of a certified copy of this order. Thereafter, if the applicant is found eligible for appointment to the office of HOD in Nuclear Medicine, then he be appointed forthwith as such.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tribunal-quashes-appointment-of-pgi-head-of-department-358632
06-01-2022||---||Max temp drops by 5 degrees in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, January 5With the first rainfall of the year, the maximum temperature in the city today dropped by 5 degrees. According to officials of the Meteorological Department, the city had received 11-mm rainfall till 8.30 pm today.The officials said the rain was likely to continue till late at night or tomorrow early morning.They said in the past decade, the highest 65-mm rainfall in the month of January was recorded in 2017.The department has predicted another spell of rain from the night of January 6 to January 9 due to the approaching Western disturbances.The maximum temperature in the city was recorded at 15.2° Celsius which was 5 degrees below normal and the minimum temperature settled at 12.3° Celsius, 7 degrees above normal.The minimum temperature on Thursday is likely to hover around 11° Celsius and the maximum is likely to be at 18° Celsius, the Met forecast said. Over the next six days, the minimum temperature is likely to range from 8 to 12° Celsius. The maximum temperature at the same time could range from 18 to 21° Celsius.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/max-temp-drops-by-5-degrees-in-city-beautiful-358634
06-01-2022||---||Teachers block NH for 2 hrs in Kharar||Mohali, January 5Kharar, the hometown of Punjab CM Charanjit Channi, continues to witness protests by agitators from all over the state. Today, it was the turn of computer teachers who staged a protest in the city, blocking the Chandigarh-Kurali highway for more than two hours.The protesting teachers are demanding regularisation of their services and enhancement in their salary. Owing to the blockade, long queues of vehicles were seen on both sides of the road. Although traffic diversions were made by the police, residents said they were facing harassment for no fault of theirs. “The government should take stern action against those who obstruct traffic,” said Bhisham Sharma, a local resident.Addressing the computer teachers, union leader Gurwinder Singh said they would continue the dharna till the government met their demands.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/teachers-block-nh-for-2-hrs-in-kharar-358635
06-01-2022||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Restrictive working at Chandigarh Districts Courts||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 5Only urgent and selective matters will be taken up for hearings from Thursday as the Chandigarh Districts Courts have decided to restrict the functioning of the court in view of a surge in the Covid-19 cases.The District and Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, issued the orders in this regard today. Apart from stay and bail matters, the selective cases shall only be taken up by the sessions courts and courts of the civil judges.The cases to be taken up by the courts include those of the Fast Track Special Court for expeditious disposal of rape and POCSO cases, protection petition, cases pertaining to MACT, all cases which can be disposed of in terms of compromise between the parties or by way of withdrawal, matters under Section 13(B) of HMA, criminal cases in which defence evidence has been closed and criminal cases which are fixed for arguments or in which accused are in custody, old inquiries pending before the Juvenile Justice Board, untrace and cancellation reports and time-bound cases or cases in which the directions have been received from the apex court or the High Court.The order has been issued a day after a meeting was held between the representatives of the District Bar Association, Chandigarh, and the District and Sessions Judge. The order says that the proceeding of the cases will be conducted through the hybrid mode. Physical hearing will be held with strict precautionary measures.The undertrial prisoners from the Model Jail, Chandigarh, shall be produced before the courts through videoconferencing. However, if the court concerned deems the physical presence of an undertrial is necessary, then the jail authority will be informed well in time for the production of undetrial/prisoner for his/her appearance in the court.Only fully vaccinated people (those having two doses of vaccine) will be allowed in the District Courts complex. The order says that every entrant on the court premises shall enter after thermal screening. Only advocates shall be allowed to enter the Judicial Block of this Sessions Division. However, the access of litigants/witnesses to the courts shall only be allowed when their physical presence is absolutely necessary in courts and have been directed by the court to put their appearance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/restrictive-working-at-dist-courts-358637
06-01-2022||Panchkula||Trans-Ghaggar sectors revamped in 7 yrs: Haryana Speaker Gupta||Haryana Assembly Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta said today that trans-Ghaggar sectors, which were earlier deprived of development, had been revamped in the past seven years after his election as legislator from the Panchkula Assembly seat.Gupta said development works worth about Rs400 crore had been undertaken in the area during that period.“Those living in sectors across the Ghaggar were deprived of basic amenities prior to 2014,” said Gupta while addressing a gathering after the inauguration of Working Women’s Hostel in Sector 27.Referring to some projects in the area, he said the construction of NIFT in Sector 23 was almost complete and it would be opened next month. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/trans-ghaggar-sectors-revamped-in-7-yrs-gupta-358638
06-01-2022||Mohali||Covid: Hospitals of L-2 to reserve 15 per cent beds||The district administration today asked all private hospitals with Level-2 facilities to immediately reserve 15% of their total beds for the Covid patients in view of the recent spurt in cases. The Level-3 hospitals have also been directed to increase the number of beds.Mohali Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia today held a meeting with the nodal officers of the private hospitals to review the situation.“At the moment, the new variant of Covid does not seem to be dangerous, but our preparations should be complete,” she said.The DC also directed all hospitals to upload the information of Covid patients visiting their hospitals on the Cova app so that the Administration gets accurate information about the situation. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-hospitals-of-l-2-to-reserve-15-per-cent-beds-358640
06-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh on the right (synthetic) track||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 5The UT Administration is in the final phase of completing the formalities for getting the city’s first synthetic athletics track, confirmed officials.The eight-lane synthetic track will replace the existing cinder track at the Sector 7 Sports Complex and will have the facilities for training of field events. Sources confirmed that various companies were pooled in to complete the measurement process and the final detailed draft has been prepared.“We are in the final phase of completing all formalities. Experts’ views have been considered and we will start the process of purchasing the track soon,” said Dr Sunil Rayat, Joint Director Sports, UT Administration.Asked about project details, he said: “It will be a world-class infrastructure.”At present, there are three athletics tracks in the city - at the Sector 7 Sports Complex (cinder track), Sector 46 Sports Complex (grass track) and Panjab University campus (grass track). Having no other option, local athletes usually opt for training at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Sector 3, Panchkula. Several athletes also prefer moving to other states amid no availability of a professional track here.Dream of Milkha SinghIt was a dream of former Indian sprinter Milkha Singh to see a synthetic track in Chandigarh.Waiting since late 90s, the announcement to build a synthetic track was finally made in 2012. In 2013, after the release of Milkha Singh’s biopic, the UT Administration again promised to introduce the city’s first synthetic track. It was decided to build a 10-lane track at the Sector 46 Sports Complex. However, the planning committee sought to acquire some portion of the adjoining Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, which delayed the process. After two years, the planning again started and the Sector 7 complex was shortlisted for it. In 2022, the Administration initiated ground work to complete the project.In 2019, former Indian sprinter PT Usha had also expressed her concern and spoke about the importance of a synthetic track during her visit to Chandigarh. Even Panjab University’s plan to have an independent synthetic track has been in the pipeline for the past several years and is yet to see any development. It’s worth mentioning that Panjab University has won the prestigious Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Trophy (MAKA) 16 times, since 1956-57, and still lacks behind from other universities of the region in having a synthetic track. City’s firstThe eight-lane synthetic track will replace the existing cinder track at the Sector 7 Sports Complex and will have the facilities for the training of field events. Sources confirmed that various companies were pooled in to complete the measurement process and the final detailed draft has been prepared.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-on-the-right-synthetic-track-358642
06-01-2022||---||Chandigarh commission holds bank guilty of deficiency in service||Chandigarh, January 5In a first-of-its-kind case, the State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT, held a bank guilty of deficiency in service for not checking the signatures of customers properly and directed it to refund over Rs60 lakh to customers. The said money was “fraudulently” withdrawn from the savings bank accounts of customers.While the consumers claimed that they had not issued the cheques, the bank refused to believe their claims and said the amount was released after following due process. The bank claimed that the signatures of consumers on the cheques were similar to those available in the bank records. So, there was no deficiency on its part.The commission heard the complaints of five consumers through counsels JC Batra and Arshdeep Singh on the direction of the Supreme Court, which directed the commission to compare the signatures itself and decide the matter on merit.After comparing the signatures, the commission, comprising of its president Justice Raj Shekhar Attri and members Padma Pandey and Rajesh K Arya, reached the conclusion that “the signatures on the alleged cheques apparently vary and differ from that on the account opening forms and do not appear to be a genuine one. In other words, the signatures apparently appear to be forged one. On closer scrutiny, even an ordinary person could detect the same. Thus, we hold that the bank failed to discharge proper care and passed the cheques without observing due diligence.”The commission said the officials concerned failed to compare the complainants’ signatures on the cheques with that of the specimen signatures available with the bank. It directed the bank to refund the respective amount of the customers with 6 per cent interest per annum. The commission also directed the bank to pay a compensation of Rs1 lakh each to all five customers for causing mental agony.Bharpur Singh, Harinder Pal Singh, Pal Singh, Jasvir Singh and Prem Singh got justice after a legal battle of over 13 years.The consumers said they opened accounts with Axis Bank in Chandigarh in 2008. When they went to the bank to withdraw money, the bank told them that their money had already been withdrawn through cheques issued in favour of a person, Gurwinder Singh, by them.The complainants said they never issued cheques to anyone. They alleged that the payment was made by the bank without properly verifying the signatures on the cheques. When the bank failed to respond, they approached the consumer commission, but failed to get any relief. Even the National Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission rejected their appeal.The consumers then approached the Supreme Court, which directed the commission to compare the signatures on these alleged cheques through which the amounts were fraudulently debited.Bharpur Singh lost Rs11,83,000, Harinder Pal Singh Rs14,90,000, Pal Singh Rs17,70,000, Jasvir Singh Rs11,00,000 and Prem Singh Rs13,50,0000 through the alleged fraud.“Bank officials failed to discharge their duties with proper care, caution and diligence, which led to a huge loss to the complainants, who deposited their hard-earned money in good faith in the savings account with the bank. Therefore, the bank is liable to make good the loss suffered by the complainants on account of its deficient service by paying the respective amount along with interest thereon,” says the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-commission-holds-bank-guilty-of-deficiency-in-service-358644
06-01-2022||---||2 Chandigarh boxers selected for U-22 Asian Championship||Chandigarh, January 5Chandigarh boxers Monika and Nandani, who now plays for the Indian Railways, have been selected for the U-22 Asian Boxing Championship. The trials for the championship were conducted by the Boxing Federation of India on January 3 and 4 at the NIS, Patiala.The Asian Championship is scheduled to be held at Tashkent from January 20. Monika (51kg) is a student of GGDSD College, Sector 32, and has won gold medals in the All-India Inter-University and inter-college championships. She won a bronze medal in the Women’s Elite Senior National Championship, a gold medal in the 20th Chandigarh (Senior) Elite Women’s State Championship and a gold medal in Khelo India University Games, besides winning other major tournaments.Monika, who comes from a humble background, will represent the nation for the first time. She is a trainee of Virinder Dangi, who is posted at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Sector 3, Panchkula.“My family is happy with my selection and I will try to bring home a gold medal,” said Monika, whose father is a small-time farmer and mother is a housewife. “My journey is full of struggle and it has taught me to survive in the toughest conditions,” said Monika.Chandigarh Boxer Nandani (21), who lives in Mohali and had represented Chandigarh before joining the Indian Railways, has been also selected for the Asian meet. She is a gold medal winner in the Women’s Elite Senior National Championship, participated in the Elite Women World Championship, won gold medals in the All-India Inter-University and 7th Nations Cup. She had also won a silver medal in the Youth National Championship and a bronze medal in the Youth National Championship.“I am happy with my selection. This will be my first tournament of the year and I am confident of winning the top honour for the country,” said Nandini.“I am currently training in Delhi. I am in high spirits and prepared well in the off-season,” said Nandini, who trained under UT Sports Department coach Bhagwant Singh.Ajay Sharma, Principal, GGDSD College, congratulated the boxers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-city-boxers-selected-for-u-22-asian-cship-358649
06-01-2022||---||Pranay defeats Vansh, marches ahead||Panchkula, January 5Maharashtra’s Pranay Shettigar defeated Delhi’s Vansh Dev (15-8, 15-12) to march ahead in the boys’ U-17 category during the ongoing 1st Ashwani Gupta Memorial All-India Sub-Junior Ranking Badminton Tournament at the Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 3 here.Akshat Arora of Rajasthan also logged an easy (20-18, 15-13) win over Sarvesh Mahesh Yadav (20-18, 15-13). Assam’s Yashdeep Gogoi defeated Niraj Keshri (15-8, 15-9) and Ishmeet Singh of Uttar Pradesh ousted Shashwat Bisht (15-12, 15-8). In the boys’ doubles U-17, Ansh Gaur and Kaif Mohammad defeated Dakshesh and Karan Sharma (15-12, 15-11). R Anandas Raj Kumar and U Gopireddy outplayed Shuhaibu Malik Arakuth and Gauthamkrishna P (15-10, 12-15, 15-11). M Hemam and B Longjam thrashed down Ribhinesh S and Kruthik SB (15-11, 15-12), while A Khwairakpam and J Wahengbam outplayed Piyush Chauhan and Abhiroop Sarkar (15-10, 15-10). N Chauhan and A Sharma also march ahead by defeating Mithileish PK and Harish Ragavendiran V (15-12, 15-12) and Lalthazuala H and Ashrith Valishetty ousted Ashish Garg and Mayank (15-12, 11-15, 15-10).In other matches, Mohit Duhan and Vansh Sindhu of Haryana ousted Irfan Ahmed and Pratik Borah Sri (15-9, 17-15). A Kanapala and J Kandrapu defeated Ginpaul S and Abhigyan Sharma (15-8, 15-11), while Dhruv Negi and Manish Phogat registered a (15-10, 15-5) win over Rishit Khanna and Royal Tongar.Bjorn moves to next roundIn the boys’ category, Bjorn Jaison of Kerala defeated Urv Patel (15-6, 15-12). Mahendra Kalahasthi of Andhra Pradesh outplayed Parth Bhatt of Madhya Pradesh (15-7, 15-10). Ishaan Negi of Uttarakhand defeated Dev Ruparelia (15-12, 15-8), Maharashtra’s Tanay Ajay Mehendale recorded a comeback (9-15, 15-5, 15-5) win over Bapun Rout. Sandeep Kumar R defeated Suryansh Raghav (15-6, 10-15, 15-13) and Ritom Howbora of Assam defeated Akshar Athurv (15-7, 15-10). In mixed doubles U-15 category, M Vanukuri Shanmukha and J Dangati defeated Atharv Saxena and Mahi Gupta (15-3, 15-10), whereas Sanskaar Yadav and Dhara Gupta defeated Aryan Dangi and Adriana Chhibbar (11-15, 15-11, 15-9). H Thokchom and L Tayenjam outplayed Sameer Hooda and Devanshi Dalal (15-0, 15-10), Rajdeep Bora and Liyana Dutta defeated Ruturaj Chipat and Ketaki Thite (15-13, 15-9), whereas Aayushman Bhowmick and Saanvi Aneja of Haryana defeated Shaurya Pratham and Snowy Goswami (15-12, 15-8).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pranay-defeats-vansh-marches-ahead-358651
06-01-2022||---||Chandigarh furniture neither antiquity, nor art treasure: ASI||Chandigarh, January 5Responding to a letter to the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and the Ministry of Culture about auctioning of Chandigarh’s heritage furniture in France on December 12, the ASI stated: “The objects in question do not come under the definition of ‘Antiquity’ or ‘Art Treasure’ as described in the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act, 1972.”On December 8, Ajay Jagga, member of the UT’s Heritage Items Protection Cell, sent a representation to the Indian authorities, requesting them to stop the auction of UT’s heritage furniture, which was to be held in France on December 12, 2021.The ASI responded on December 25, stating that UT’s heritage furniture does not come under the definition of antiquity or art treasure as described in the Antiquities and Art Treasures Act, 1972. Hence, the Archaeological Survey of India may not be able to take any action.An additional submission was filed by Jagga in Rajya Sabha today regarding the ASI’s response. He wrote: “The Archaeological Survey of India’s response proves that there has to be clear legal position in such scenario like some guidelines/procedures or the commerce ministry issues a notification prohibiting the sale/ disposal/removal /export of Chandigarh heritage objects, on the lines of the MHA letter of 2011.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-furniture-neither-antiquity-nor-art-treasure-asi-358653
06-01-2022||Chandigarh||Kharar resident held with heroin||Thief makes off with jewelleryChandigarh: A theft was reported from a house at Raipur Kalan village. Complainant Gurmeet Singh reported that gold and silver jewellery and Rs28,000 were stolen from his house on January 4. A case has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station. TNSBSNL cables stolen in cityChandigarh: BSNL cables were stolen from the duct near the road separating Sector 33 and 34. Complainant Sushil Kumar, SDOP, BSNL, reported that four cables were stolen on January 3. A case has been registered. TNSMan booked for axing treesChandigarh: The UT police have booked a person for axing three trees illegally. Harjeet Singh reported that Anil Kumar of Dhanas illegally cut trees in Sector 54. TNSFour booked for defying curfewZirakpur: The police booked four persons for violating the night curfew in Zirakpur on Wednesday. Cases have been registered against the owner of Hotel Green View, Om Nath Sharma of Katani Restaurant, Daljit Singh of Savitry Greens, VIP Road; and Sahil Tandon of Panchkula. Zirakpur SHO Omkar Singh Brar said, “Violaters would be strictly dealt with.” TNSWorkshop starts at UIETChandigarh: An Indo-UK partnership development workshop started at the University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), PU, on Wednesday. The workshop is being jointly organised by the UIET and Birmingham City University, UK, along with India Education and Research Initiative, in the hybrid (physical/online) mode. The main topic of the workshop is "Solar pump-based village microgrids - potential for tackling the energy/water/food nexus in Punjab". It was inaugurated by Prof JK Goswamy, Director, UIET. TNSRealtors meet Mohali ex-mayorMohali: A delegation of the Mohali Property Consultants Association on Wednesday called on AAP candidate from the Mohali Assembly constituency Kulwant Singh in Sector 79. President of the association Surinder Singh Gulati said they demanded a piece of land in Mohali for setting up an office of the association. Kulwant said he was aware of the needs of the members of the association. TNSPU declares resultsChandigarh: Panjab University has announced the results of various golden chance examinations held in July, September and October, 2021. A PU spokesperson said the results of BSc (Medical Technology X-Ray, Part-II) golden chance examination held in September 2021; Bachelor of Laws 3rd semester (three year degree course) special chance examination held in October 2021; Post Graduate Diploma in Yoga Therapy (2nd semester) examination conducted in July 2021; and BSc (Honours) in Mathematics, 2nd semester examination held in July 2021 had been announced. TNSMan held with illicit liquorMohali: The police arrested a person with 70 boxes of illicit liquor near Kharar on Wednesday. The police said the illicit liquor was meant for ‘Sale in Chandigarh only’. A case under the Excise Act has been registered at the Kharar City police station. The police also arrested a suspect with 10 boxes of illicit liquor in Dera Bassi on Tuesday. TNSThieves strike at Zirakpur houseZirakpur: Miscreants stole cash and jewellery from a house in the Pabhat area, Zirakpur. The incident came to light when the house owner, Naveen, and his family members returned after attending a marriage function in Khanna. The police have registered a case under Sections 380 and 457 of the IPC at the Zirakpur police station. TNS3 booked for rioting, theftZirakpur: The police booked three youths for rioting, vandalism and theft at a restaurant in Dhakoli over the payment of biryani on Tuesday evening. The trio, identified as Deepak, Sunny and Shiv Kumar, later fled from the restaurant with the packed food (biryani) without making any payment. Complainant Jalaludin, owner of the restaurant, stated that the trio came to his restaurant around 5 pm on Tuesday and ordered biryani. Later, they had a dispute with him over the mode of payment and one of them slapped him and misbehaved with the staff. On seeing the crowd, the trio fled from the spot on a scooty along with the packed food. A few hours later, the suspects reached there with some persons and vandalised his restaurant. They also took away Rs8,000 the cash box and threatened him of dire consequences before fleeing, he said. A case under Sections 323, 379, 427, 452, 506, 148 and 149 of the IPC has been registered against the suspects at the Dhakoli police station. The police said the suspects were absconding. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kharar-resident-held-with-heroin-358656
06-01-2022||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh sees almost double number of cases; 229 new infections on Wednesday||Chandigarh on Wednesday reported 229 new cases of Covid-19, a massive jump from 128 cases recorded on Tuesday, with a positivity rate of 12.7 per cent.The cumulative number of cases has reached 66,493.As many as 1,898 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.The number of active cases has reached 665 as 63 patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed 10 days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.A 72-year-old woman of Behlana, a case of coronary artery disease, diabetes, hypertension and hyperthyroidism, who was Covid-19 positive, died at PGI. She was fully vaccinated for Covid-19.With this the death toll in the city has reached 1,080.The number of people cured till date is 64,748.292 Covid-19 cases in MohaliThe Mohali district today witnessed a steep hike in Covid-19 cases with 292 positive cases, shooting the active cases tally up to 603. One patient has recovered in the last 24 hours.Overall, there are 69,705 positive cases in the district, of which 68,027 have recovered. The death toll in the district stands at 1,075.Among the new cases today, 133 were from Mohali urban, 62 from Dhakoli, Kharar 44, Boothgarh 18, Dera Bassi 14, Gharuan 11, and five each from Kurali and Lalru.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-sees-almost-double-number-of-cases-229-new-infections-on-wednesday-358456
