07-01-2022||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 390 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh on Friday reported 390 Covid-19 cases and recorded a positivity rate of 10.77 per cent.As many as 3,620 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.Chandigarh had recorded 331 new cases on Thursday.The active caseload increased to 1,323 on Friday from 979 a day before.No new death was reported today as the toll remained 1,080.The cumulative number of Covid cases has reached 67,214.A total of 46 patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed seven days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.The number of people who have been cured till date is 64,811.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-390-new-covid-19-cases-359127
07-01-2022||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Covid-19: Night curfew in Chandigarh from today||Chandigarh district magistrate imposed a night curfew in Chandigarh from 10 pm to 5 pm with immediate effect.The new order, which notifies decisions taken in a War Room meeting on Thursday, says only essential services can function between 10 pm and 5 am. People travelling interstate and those going to or from the airport, the railway station and the ISBT bus stand will be exempted, as will pregnant women and patients going to get medical care.Restaurants and bars can function at 50 per cent seating capacity and must close by 10 pm. Malls and food courts must also close by then. Delivery executives will be allowed to travel on the production of a valid identity card.The new order comes into effect immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-night-curfew-in-chandigarh-from-today-359087
07-01-2022||---||Haryana CM Khattar holds yagna for Modi's long life, demands dismissal of Channi govt||Panchkula, January 7Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday demanded the dismissal of the Charanjit Singh Channi government and imposition of President’s rule in Punjab.Khattar and Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta performed a yagna at the Mansa Devi temple for the long life of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.He alleged that the Congress dispensation was unable to ensure law and order in the state citing Wednesday Prime Minister “security breach” as evidence. Khattar along with State Home Minister Anil Vij and State BJP chief OP Dhankar submitted a memorandum to Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya at the Raj Bhavan here regarding the Ferozepur incident.“We submitted a memorandum to the Governor requesting President to take strict action against Punjab government,” Khattar later told reporters.“I have made an appeal to the President that Punjab government should be dismissed and President’s rule should be imposed under which forthcoming assembly polls in the state should be held.“In the upcoming polls, political leaders of various parties will campaign and Prime Minister will also visit the state again, and it appears that the incumbent regime in Punjab will be unable to ensure law and order,” he said.Earlier on Friday morning, Khattar, State Assembly Speaker and BJP MLA Gian Chand Gupta, former Union Minister R L Kataria, and other senior party leaders performed a ‘yagna’ and ‘Mahamrityunjay’ religious ritual at Mata Mansa Devi temple in Panchkula for “long life of Prime Minister Narendra Modi”.The memorandum mentioned how Prime Minister’s convoy was blocked for several minutes in Ferozepur by some “Congress goons” who were holding protest there.“We are world’s biggest democracy. The way obstacles were created in Prime Minister’s programme in the state is totally unacceptable,” Khattar said.“Why arrangement for an alternative route was not made? The state government gave clearance, but road was also blocked by protesters, to say that administration did not know about this is hard to believe,” he said, adding the incident smacks of conspiracy.Khattar said he heard police also egged the protesters on .   In what the MHA defined as a “major security lapse”, the prime minister’s convoy was stranded on a flyover due to a blockade by protesters in Ferozepur on Wednesday after which he returned from poll-bound Punjab without attending any event or rally.Khattar said law and order responsibility lies with state government and the Channi dispensation had utterly failed in this.“If Punjab government says there was no lapse, then why did they form a probe committee?” he asked.Khattar alleged that Punjab government knew that weather was inclement for the last couple of days and road route may have to be used for Prime Minister’s travel.He said Channi looked “uneasy” during the inauguration of projects in Ferozepur which was done via video conference and attended by both CMs.Khattar said even Congress leaders are in a “cath-22 situation” whether to condemn the security lapse or not.“Still some Congress leaders have condemned the incident,” he said.He also termed Modi the most popular prime minister of the country till date. He said Modi took bold decisions which his predecessors feared to touch.“No one was ready to touch Article 370 in J&K and he took a big decision to scrap it. The way for construction of Ram Temple was cleared during his regime,” Khattar said.He also said decisions like the Citizenship Amendment Act were taken in the nation’s interest. — With PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-khattar-holds-yagna-for-modis-long-life-demands-dismissal-of-channi-govt-359034
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||29 immigration firms booked in Chandigarh||The police said all consultants had to provide their details to them following which the names of their companies, along with the address and phone number, were uploaded on the Chandigarh Police website.Also read: Mohali: Licences of 4 immigration firms cancelled A police official said a physical verification was done and 29 consultants were found operating without providing information to the police, following which a case under Section 188 of the IPC has been registered. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/29-immigration-firms-booked-in-chandigarh-359030
07-01-2022||Mona||As theatre person Chakresh Kumar takes charge of Tagore Theatre Society as director, he shares his vision for this cultural hub of tricity||In the New Year, Tagore Theatre, Chandigarh gets its new director in Chakresh Kumar. The 37-year-old actor/director has been living in the city since 2003. Being associated with performing arts, in 2005 he founded the theatre group, Alankar. Recipient of Ustad Bismillah Khan Yuva Puraskar (2014), he holds the distinction of performing for continuous 144 hours at Tagore Theatre. Happy to take on the new role, the director shares his vision for Tagore Theatre.Creating the right environThough I have had my share of challenges, this city has welcomed me with open arms. Now, as the director of Tagore Theatre Society, I would like to ensure that artistes and the cultural organisations get the right kind of creative environment and creative opportunities. I realise, times are tough, but as our Prime Minster says ‘Aapda ko avasar mein badalane ka samaya hai (it’s time to turn challenges into opportunities).’From UP to ChandigarhI belong to village Bakhtiyarpur, Etawah, UP. Since my father joined the Army, I grew up in different towns across the country. I joined a college in Chandigarh and later pursued masters from The Department of Indian Theatre, Panjab University. It was only after 2008 that I got recognition as a director.Art is a celebrationI want to bring artistes from different fields and have them as a family here at Tagore Theatre. I have seen this family divided into various groups. I want Tagore Theatre to be the place where we all come together to help each other out. Art is a celebration, we must celebrate ourselves and others, which we can do by valuing and working with one another. Right now there are two challenges – first is to ensure that artistes continue with their work and are supported through this pandemic period. Second is to devise new ways of art to be connected to the masses. I have just joined; I am working on a plan, and also looking forward to have my senior artistes in varied fields to join forces for a better cultural scene.I have an eclectic work experience. I have worked with slum children, special children; I have performed in festivals and in small towns and villages, workshops with teachers as well as people from MNCs. I want to bring these different sections of society together. Many people in Chandigarh want to be associated with Tagore Theatre, get better facilities. My effort would be to bring them all together.For budding artistesI was a very passionate and hard working theatre artiste to begin with. What I lacked was proper guidance. I would like Tagore Theatre to be the right platform so that budding artistes don’t go directionless but come on track right in time.To make it buzzingYes, I have performed for continuous 144 hours here. I have seen and experienced both the old and new Tagore Theatre; the place is vibrant with energy of our amazing artistes – Neelam Mansingh, Kamal Tiwari, Dolly Ahluwalia, Atamjit and others from the National School of Drama.My dream is that city artistes come here with open heart and I am willing to put their vision into reality.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/lifestyle/on-a-creative-pursuit-359011
07-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Consider minor's preference in child custody cases: HC||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that the court in child custody matters was required to take into consideration the minor’s preference to stay with either of the parents or the grandparents. The ruling came in a case where a minor wanted to stay with her grandparents. The mother’s claim, on the other hand, was that a minor’s custody could not be claimed by anyone, once the natural guardian, the mother, was alive.Well-being most importantA mother or father’s right to a minor’s custody was not absolute. The child’s well-being, and not the legal right of a particular party, was of utmost importance in such matters. Punjab & Haryana High CourtJustice Sant Parkash asserted that the most important consideration, which must always weigh with the court in making orders on the appointment of guardians, was the minor’s welfare. It was true that a mother, being the minor child’s natural guardian, had a preferential right to claim her daughter’s custody, but the utmost consideration before the court was the minor’s well-being and not the legal right of a particular party.Justice Sant Parkash added that the term guardian was required to be taken in its widest possible sense. It was required to be seen not only in terms of money and physical comfort, but was also required to include the child’s moral and ethical welfare. The term custody, too, was required not to be interpreted in its strict physical sense. It meant sense of supervision and control over a child. The mother or father’s right to the custody was circumscribed by the consideration of the minor’s welfare, which was decisive for custody claim.“In the case of the custody of a minor child, the court is expected to strike a just and proper balance between the requirements of the welfare of the minor child and the rights of the parents over the minor child. The court should also take into consideration the preference of the minor child to stay with either parent or grandparent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/consider-minors-preference-in-child-custody-cases-hc-358965
07-01-2022||---||Night curfew in Chandigarh from 10 pm to 5 am||Chandigarh, January 6With a sharp rise in fresh cases of Covid-19, pandemic restrictions are back in the city. To prevent further spread of the virus, the UT Administration has taken a slew of measures, including reimposition of night curfew after almost five months and closing of all educational institutions, sports complexes and gyms, while booth markets in four sectors and apni mandis will close by 5 pm. The restrictions will come into force from tomorrow.Education institutions to remain closedDuring a review meeting, chaired by UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit, it was decided that movement of individuals for all non-essential activities will remain prohibited between 10 pm and 5 am. However, essential activities, including emergency services, medical health, transport of essential goods, operation of multiple shifts in industries, offices (both government and private), movement of persons and goods on national and state highways and unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and airplanes will be permitted. It was also decided that all educational institutions, including schools, colleges, universities and coaching institutions, will remain closed. However, medical and nursing colleges may continue to function normally in the offline mode.Also, all government offices, except those dealing in essential services, will function with physical attendance of 50 per cent of the actual strength with regard to Group C and D staff. The rest of the 50 per cent staff will be required to work from home. Essential departments such as Health, Revenue, Municipal Corporation and Police can utilise the services of any staff of the UT Administration.Similarly, all private offices will function with 50 per cent staff and the remaining will be required to work from home.To control rush, all bars, cinema halls, multiplexes, malls, restaurants, spas and museums will be allowed to operate at 50 per cent of their capacity.Also, all sports complexes (except for contact-less sports), swimming pools and gyms will remain closed except for the purposes of training of sportspersons for participation in national/international sports events as well as for organising national/international sports events. No spectators or visitors will be allowed in these sports complexes.In another restriction, gathering for any purpose has been restricted at 50 persons for indoor and 100 persons for outdoor events. However, the total number of persons shall not exceed 50 per cent of the capacity in both indoor and outdoor venues.In another decision, in the Sector 26 sabzi mandi, only rehriwalas/vendors will be allowed and there will be no entry for retail customer/general public from January 10.The UT has also taken a decision to close Palika Bazar and Sadar Bazar in Sector 19, Patel Market in Sector 15, Shastri Market and the mobile market in Sector 22, Krishna Market in Sector 41 and all apni mandis by 5pm.331 new cases in city, positivity rate 14.40%Chandigarh: In a big rise, the city logged 331 fresh Covid cases on Thursday, taking the active caseload to 979. The positivity rate was recorded at 14.40 per cent. It’s the highest single-day jump since May 23 last year when the city recorded 360 cases. The death toll remained at 1,080. TNS364 cases surface in Mohali, one fatalityMohali: One person succumbed to Covid in the district in the past 24 hours, taking the death toll to 1,076. After over seven months, a whopping 364 cases of the virus surfaced in the district, taking the tally to 70,069, while six patients were cured of the disease. The maximum number of 454 cases were reported on May 23 last year. Of the 69,705 cases reported so far, 68,033 patients have been cured. There are now 960 active cases. TNS162 more +ve, Panchkula active caseload 500Panchkula: With 162 fresh Covid cases, the active caseload in the district touched the 500 mark on Thursday. Of the total active cases, just 30 are hospitalised. The overall tally reached 31,520. The death toll remained at 382. The number of recovered patients is 30,638. TNS67 more HCWs positiveChandigarh: Sixty-seven more healthcare workers (HCWs), including 35 PGI doctors, tested positive on Jan 5. Since Dec 20, 264 HCWs, including 123 doctors, have tested positive. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cases-zoom-curbs-back-358914
07-01-2022||---||AAP's focus is on work, doesn't believe in horse-trading: Pradeep Chhabra||Chandigarh, January 6Lashing out at the BJP, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Chandigarh co-in-charge Pradeep Chhabra said “AAP does not believe in horse-trading politics, but development and positive politics. Who is doing the politics of horse-trading is not hidden from anyone.”Chhabra said after registering a massive victory with 14 seats in the MC poll, AAP had turned out to be the largest party in the city, which BJP leaders were not liking; therefore, they were indulging in rhetoric.In a statement issued from the party headquarters on Wednesday, questioning city BJP president Arun Sood’s statement that “our councillors are together,” Chhabra asked that if all his councillors were together, why did he send the councillors to Shimla overnight. He warned that BJP leaders should stop playing political tricks to defame AAP.Chhabra termed the decision of the Congress councillors to keep themselves out of the nomination process of the mayoral election a betrayal of the public. He said the councillors, irrespective of the party, were elected by the public. He said the leaders who appealed to people to vote during the poll were themselves away from the democratic process today. This is why the public had ignored the Congress and it was limited to eight seats in the MC poll.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aaps-focus-is-on-work-doesnt-believe-in-horse-trading-pradeep-chhabra-358916
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Harpreet Kaur Babla should resign on moral grounds: Congress||“Harpreet Kaur Babla’s act of defecting from the Congress after winning the Municipal Corporation (MC) elections as a Congress candidate is clearly an act of betrayal, not only with the party but with the people of the ward who voted for her as the Congress candidate.”Also read: Devinder Singh Babla, wife Harpreet Kaur join BJP ahead of Chandigarh mayoral pollIn a statement issued here today, Rajesh Sharma, spokesperson for the city unit of the Congress, said Davinder Singh Babla, who had been vocal against the BJP, was now all praise for the saffron party.After joining the BJP, Babla claimed that nobody from the Congress came to support them in their ward. However, Pawan Kumar Bansal, former union minister and AICC treasurer, had joined them even in the door-to-door campaigning. Randeep Singh Surjewala, national spokesperson for the AICC, Rajinder Rana, Sujanpur MLA, Amarjeet Singh Jeeti, Mohali Mayor, and others also held rallies in their support in the ward, said Sharma.Harpreet should resign from the post of councillor on moral grounds and thereafter she may contest independently or on the BJP ticket, maintained Sharma.In the MC elections, though the Congress got only eight seats, it had got the maximum vote share, which shows that the mandate of people is in favour of the Congress and people voted against the BJP due to its misrule, alleged Sharma, adding that though AAP had won 14 seats, it got only 27 per cent vote share. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harpreet-should-resign-on-moral-grounds-congress-358918
07-01-2022||chandigarh||3 held for selling illegal weapons||Three youths, who were allegedly involved in the smuggling and sale of illegal weapons, have been arrested by the district crime cell of the UT police. Their arrest has led to the recovery of five weapons and eight live cartridges. A “desi kata” was sold in the city for Rs8,000 and revolver for Rs15,000.The police said they had information about a few persons involved in the sale of illegal weapons. Acting on the information, a naka was laid at Ram Darbar and 21-year-old suspect Rohan Kumar, a resident of Hallo Majra, was nabbed with a “desi katta” and a live cartridge. A case under the Arms Act was registered against him at the Sector 31 police station.The police said Rohan worked as a peon at a private bank in the Industrial Area, Phase I. During the investigation, a country-made revolver was recovered from Rohan’s house.During his interrogation, the suspect revealed the names of two of his accomplices, Abhishek Kumar (18) and Sakhsham Verma (19), both natives of Saharanpur district in Uttar Pradesh.The police said Abhishek was nabbed from near the Hallo Majra light point with a “desi kata”, a country-made pistol and a live cartridge.Meanwhile, Saksham was arrested from Mani Majra with a country-made pistol and six live cartridges.The police said the possibility of using these illegal weapons in the Punjab Assembly poll could not be ruled out.Modus operandiThe police said the suspects procured 1the weapons from Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar in Uttar Pradesh. They used to take orders and get the weapons as per the demand. A revolver was sold for around Rs15,000 and a “desi katta” for Rs8,000.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-held-for-selling-illegal-weapons-358919
07-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh schools to hold online classes||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6Hours before the UT Administration ordered the closure of local schools amid a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, private schools had decided to conduct online classes.This morning, a majority of school managements informed their students about the decision to conduct online classes till January 15. Further decision (whether to continue with the online mode or not) will be taken after considering the status of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh.According to the UT Administration orders, all educational institutions, including schools, colleges, universities and coaching institutions, will remain closed till further orders. These institutions will maintain the academic schedule through online teaching.Though the Independent Schools Association (ISA), Chandigarh, has not taken any decision officially, it has been conveyed to schools to start online classes to prevent loss of studies.“The ISA has not taken any decision officially. However, we have conveyed to schools to conduct online classes amid a surge in the number of cases. Closing schools will definitely cost studies and we don’t want it. The UT Administration had earlier ordered both offline and online classes, and in such scenarios, online classes are a better option than the closure of schools,” said HS Mamik, president, ISA. Meanwhile, many schools have informed their students to prepare their set-up for attending online classes. “The students have been informed about the online classes. Owing to a sudden rise in the number of cases, we had decided to start online classes after winter vacation (January 4). We are equally worried about our teachers and students’ health. Most parents have also raised concerns,” said a schoolteacher.Uncertainty over PU Senate meetingWith the Administration issuing fresh Covid guidelines, there is uncertainty over the Panjab University Senate meeting scheduled for January 8. According to the guidelines, gathering for any purpose should be restricted to 50 persons for indoor and 100 persons for outdoor events. However, the number of persons shall not exceed 50 per cent of the capacity in both indoor and outdoor gatherings. The Senate meeting, which is scheduled to be held after two years owing to the pandemic, is expected to be attended by more than 85 members and other officials. It is scheduled to be held at Panjab University Senate Hall. The current weather conditions will also be a challenge to overcome if the authorities plan to conduct the meeting outdoors. However, sources claimed that no decision had been taken on postponing the meeting, till the filing of this report.Sports complexes closed for general publicAs reported on January 4 in these columns, the Administration has ordered the closure of sports complexes, including swimming pools, for the general public. All sports complexes (except for non-body contact games), swimming pools and gyms will remain closed, except for being used for training of sports persons for participation in national/international events as well as for organising national/international games. No spectator or visitor is allowed in these sports complexes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/schools-to-hold-online-classes-358920
07-01-2022||Amit Bathla||Panchkula to become fully vaccinated district by Jan 15||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 6As cases go up, the Health Department has fixed a target to become a fully vaccinated district by January 15. Though the district had achieved 100 per cent first dose coverage in the first week of September last year, the second dose coverage for targeted adults is still 95.7 per cent.Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta today presided over a meeting on Covid preparations and asked officials concerned by when they could administer both doses to eligible population of adults. In response, the officials said they could achieve the target by January 15.Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer, said they would give their 100 per cent to achieve the target.“As cases rise at an exponential pace, our vaccination staff are already on target to vaccine every adult with both doses of the vaccine. We will further strengthen the vaccine drive in the district,” she said.She added they would also extend the timings of vaccination at selected centres beyond 2 pm.The vaccine pace picked up pace after the Haryana Government decided to allow only fully vaccinated people in public areas from January 1. Over 7,000 teens jabbed in 4 daysOf 40,000 teenagers to be vaccinated in the district, more than 7,000 have received their first jab. The first dose coverage of population aged 15-17 years stands at 18.1 per cent. The vaccine drive for teenagers had begun in the district on January 3.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-to-become-fully-vaccinated-dist-by-jan-15-358921
07-01-2022||Naina Mishra||Third wave raises oxygen bed requirement overnight in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 6The requirement of oxygen (O2) beds by Covid-19 patients has jumped 108 per cent overnight as active cases touched 900 in Chandigarh.Till yesterday, only 45 patients requiring oxygen support were admitted to government hospitals. Around 23 per cent of the presently available Covid oxygen beds have been occupied in city government hospitals.As per the contingency plan of the UT Administration, plans are afoot to increase the capacity of Covid beds as the cases increase in the city. However, the requirement predicted for Covid-19 beds in the third wave is lesser than the beds required in the second wave, which crippled the healthcare system across the region.Against the 3,740 Covid beds used during the second wave, Chandigarh has predicted the requirement of 1,702 Covid beds in the third wave and 133 more beds can be converted for Covid patients on a short notice. At a time when a rapid rise in cases has increased hospitalisation, underplaying the bed requirement for the third wave can prove to be challenging for the city.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said: “The estimated requirement is based on the mathematical modelling done by the Government of India. We have sufficient number of beds and less number of people need hospitalisation this time.”Scientific Advisor Dr Rajeev Jayadevan said: “From South Africa’s recent Omicron wave, we saw that patients requiring oxygen was only 17 per cent as compared to the Delta wave when it was 74 per cent there. ICU admission rate was half and the patients were about two decades younger. Though the rise was steep, the wave did not last long and settled quickly. South Africa’s vaccination rate is far behind India, but its natural infection prevalence, although not correctly known, is likely to be high. India has high seroprevalence, well over 90 per cent in some areas, which will mean milder Omicron disease.”Dr Jayadevan said, “Therefore, the percentage of patients requiring oxygen will definitely be lower than the Delta wave. Since the variant is spreading faster, incubation period is shorter by 1 day and the R value is 2.69, which means 100 people can with infect 269 people. It is, therefore, better to be over-prepared, than to underestimate the requirements.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/third-wave-raises-oxygen-bed-requirement-overnight-in-city-358922
07-01-2022||Panchkula||Panchkula to have Covid care centres||Panchkula has decided to open more Covid care centres in view of a sudden rise in coronavirus cases. These isolation facilities will be made operational in a phased manner as the active caseload goes up.A day after the district logged 171 cases with a positivity rate of 8.45 per cent, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta today chaired a meeting over preparations to tackle the Covid.Gupta said he instructed health officials to open seven more Covid care centres in the district as the cases were multiplying rapidly.As many as 386 beds were made available in Covid care centres across the district during the second wave.Gupta also took stock of the availability of Covid care medicines and medical oxygen arrangements.Senior health officials assured the MLA of adequate arrangements to tackle the third wave and informed him that the Civil Hospital had earlier this year increased its liquid medical oxygen storage capacity to 16 kl.CMO Dr Mukta Kumar confirmed that they had been given instructions to open more Covid care centres in the district. She said they would engage NGOs to run and support these isolation facilities.Health officials have also been told to ensure vaccination of those left with second dose.He also stressed upon involvement of incident commanders appointed by the district administration to ensure strict adherence to Covid norms in markets, public and private places.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-to-have-covid-care-centres-358923
07-01-2022||---||Chandigarh Administrator Banwarilal Purohit for maximum thrust on vaccination||Chandigarh, January 6In the wake of a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases, UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit today directed the authorities to put maximum thrust on vaccination, while reviewing the measures in place to control the contagion.Hundred per cent population in the age group of 15 to 18 years should be administered the first dose of the vaccine within a month. Simultaneously, in the same period eligible beneficiaries in the 18 plus category should be jabbed for the second dose, said the Administrator, adding that the vaccination might be carried out on a war footing.“It has been brought to my notice that most of the testing burden as of now is on the PGI, which needs to be rationally divided among various health facilities,” said Purohit. He directed the Heath Department that facility for RT-PCR tests should be made functional at the GMSH-16 by the end of the month.Creating testing infrastructure in Sector 22, 45 and Mani Majra hospitals could also be explored, Purohit directed the Secretary Health.Updating incomplete Covid testing data on the requisite portal resulting in projection of high-positivity rate was taken up seriously by the Administrator. “Incorrect data can cause undue panic in public. It obstructs research of scientists working on different aspects of the third wave of the pandemic and will mandate imposition of uncalled for restrictions,” said Purohit. He directed the health authorities to rope in more data entry operators for immediate uploading of data on the portal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/purohit-for-maximum-thrust-on-vaccination-358924
07-01-2022||---||Strictly follow Covid directions: Mohali DC||Mohali, January 6In view of a sudden spurt in Covid cases, the district administration today urged people to strictly follow the directions issued by the health authorities in the district.Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia stated this after attending a meeting of the virtual tricity war room with Governor Banwarilal Purohit. Additional Deputy Commissioner Komal Mittal, Additional Deputy Commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal and Civil Surgeon Adarshpal Kaur also attended the meetingDr Adarshpal Kaur said the Omicron variant was very infectious and spread faster than the Delta variant; therefore, all people must follow the guidelines and all beneficiaries, including those aged between 15 and 18 years, needed to be fully vaccinated.In case of persistent cough, cold, fever, etc, one should visit a government health facility and seek the advice of a doctor, and get a Covid test done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/strictly-follow-covid-directions-mohali-dc-358925
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Recarpeted road dug up for laying pipes in Chandigarh's Sector 9-B, residents fume||A lack of coordination among various departments of the Municipal Corporation (MC) has not only caused inconvenience to the public but also led to a waste of public money.According to residents of Sector 9-B, a potholed road was recarpeted in their area in August last year after a gap of nearly four years, after repeated demands by the residents.Now, the authorities concerned have started digging it up for laying storm water pipes, they said, adding that the authorities should have laid the pipes before the re-carpeting work was started.Similar complaints have been received from other parts of the city. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/recarpeted-road-dug-up-for-laying-pipes-residents-fume-358926
07-01-2022||---||Mohali: Pizza Hut overcharges for soft drink, fined Rs 2 lakh||Mohali, January 6The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has imposed a fine of Rs 2 lakh on Pizza Hut, Devyani International Ltd, Mohali (opposite party), for overcharging a resident of Mohali Rs 25 over and above the market price of Rs 35 for a Pepsi pet bottle.The commission’s president, Sanjiv Dutt Sharma, in his order also directed the opposite party (OP) to pay a compensation of Rs10,000 to the consumer. Heavy punitive damages of Rs 2 lakh are imposed on the OP to prevent it from indulging in such types of malpractices, the order said.Raghubir Singh, a resident of Sector 71, Mohali, in his complainant had stated that on October 3, 2017, he, along with his friend, visited the OP and purchased a Pepsi pet bottle along with a double cheese Pan-Med Pizza. The OP issued an invoice of Rs290. He alleged that he was shocked to see that the OP had charged Rs60 for one bottle of Pepsi pet which was available for an MRP of Rs35 in the market.Alleging deficiency in service, he sought the refund of Rs25 charged extra on the Pepsi bottle and Rs70,000 for unfair trade practice, also Rs25,000 towards litigation charges.The counsel for the OP averred that his client was procuring bottles directly from the manufacturer with an MRP, which is different from the MRP printed on the same product available in the open market. He further averred that the one labelled as “for sale at select channels” is meant for customers visiting specific restaurants with all amenities and facilities being available to them. The consumer is very well aware of the MRP of the product before buying it.It was further averred that in the absence of any law prohibiting the differential pricing, a trader/manufacturer was free to fix different MRPs even for the same product.The commission observed, “There cannot be two MRPs for the same product. Though we cannot pass any order against the company who manufactured the product and put two different MRPs to give benefit to the OP, at least we can stop this practice in the market.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pizza-hut-overcharges-for-soft-drink-fined-2l-358927
07-01-2022||---||Haryana Deputy CM lays stone of 'gobardhan' project in Ambala village||Ambala, January 6Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala today laid the foundation stone of the Rs 85-lakh “gobardhan” project under which a biogas plant will be set up at Sullar village, Ambala.Dushyant said last year a biogas plant was set up at Nayagaon village of the Uklana Assembly constituency. Different schemes of the Panchayati Raj Department were correlated under this project. Biogas was provided to households through pipelines.At Sullar village, villagers will get cooking gas generated from cow dung. While it is environment friendly, it will also generate revenue for the panchayat. The organic manure from the plant would be used in the fields. Around 200 households will get biogas through this plant, he said.The project will be completed under the joint aegis of the Swachh Bharat Mission and the Zilla Parishad through Panchayati Raj Department in about six months.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deputy-cm-lays-stone-of-gobardhan-project-358928
07-01-2022||---||Appointment letters given to 733 sanitation employees in Mohali||Mohali, January 6Former Health Minister and Mohali MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu today handed over appointment letters to 733 sanitation employees and sewermen (DC rates) at the Municipal Corporation’s office here.The MLA said the MC had taken a historic decision by passing a resolution to recruit the sanitation employees directly in the corporation which was sent to the Local Government Department. With the recruitment of these employees, the sanitation services in the city would be further strengthened, he added.Sidhu said they should do their utmost to make Mohali the number one city in the country in terms of cleanliness.Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu said a total of 1,180 applications were received from janitors and sewer men, of which 733 were found to be correct. He said 697 sanitation workers and 36 sewermen were given appointment letters today.Pawan Godyal, president, Sweepers Union, said the Congress governments had always embraced the Valmiki community.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/appointment-letters-given-to-733-sanitation-employees-358929
07-01-2022||---||Bhavya-Pragya seal berth in badminton pre-quarterfinals||Panchkula, January 6Bhavya Chhabra and Pragya Katara defeated Atishya Saxena and Nimar Kaur Virk (21-15, 21-11) to enter the mixed doubles U-17 pre-quarterfinals in the ongoing 1st Ashwani Gupta Memorial All-India Sub-Junior Ranking Badminton Tournament at the Tau Devi Lal Complex in Sector 3 here.B Arigela and P Parida outplayed Bhavishay Ahlawat and Nancy (21-7, 21-13), while Naksh Verma and Manya Ralhan registered a comeback (17-21, 21-19, 21-17) win over Kelvin Pheiroijam and Jiya Rawat. Archit Sinha and Sanvie Anand also moved ahead by defeating S Bomakanti and S Anumula (21-18, 21-14), Harshit and Komal Saroha defeated Harshit Dahiya and Saanvi Chugh (21-19, 21-13) and the pair of Aryaman Dhull and Kanishka Kalia thrashed Yashdeep Gogoi and Anushree Mahanta (21-18, 19-21, 21-13).In the girls’ U-15 category, Rajasthan’s Suhasi Verma defeated Seeza (21-16, 19-21, 21-19) and Naishaa Kaur Bhatoye ousted Skiedeep Kour (21-7, 21-10). In the girls’ U-17 matches, Aalisha Naik defeated Poojitha Gadiraju (21-12, 21-11), Prashansa Bonam outplayed Aneri Kotak (21-14, 16-21, 21-15), Rujula Ramu outplayed Fariha Shireen (13-21, 22-20, 21-14), Sadhana Fenelon defeated Shravani Walekar (19-21, 21-7, 22-20), Andrea Sarah Kurien thrashed Angelina Valsan (21-16, 20-22, 21-11) and Parth Deore defeated Ishaan Negi (21-13, 21-14).Jayanth CB marched ahead by defeating Bhanu Pratap Singh Chouhan (15-21, 21-16, 21-10). Shaurya Agarwal logged a (21-14, 21-14) win over Manku Taku and Suryaksh Rawat beat Tanay Ajay Mehendale (21-12, 21-12). Avadh Billore moved ahead in the boys’ U-15 category by defeating Divyansh Agarwal (21-15, 21-19). Parth Lohakare defeated Udipta Mishra (21-15, 21-16), Nidhish More thrashed Vedant Pahwa (21-17, 16-21, 21-5), Abhinav Garg defeated Reyansh Verma (21-15, 21-17), Showrya Kiran J defeated Vamsi Krishna Jarugumilli (21-9, 21-13), Prateek Koundilya defeated Yuva Surya Jagarlamudi (21-15, 21-13), Gnana Dattu TT defeated Sai Sahil Kota (21-17, 12-21, 21-18) and Vansh Dev thrashed Harsh Mane (21-11, 21-7).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bhavya-pragya-seal-berth-in-badminton-pre-quarterfinals-358930
07-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh girl Taniya makes it to ICC World Cup, again||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, january 6City’s Taniya Bhatia, Indian women’s cricket team wicketkeeper, is all set to play her second world cup. Taniya, captain of the Punjab women’s cricket team, has been selected by the BCCI for the ICC Women’s World Cup - 2022.The Indian team is scheduled to play their first World Cup fixture against Pakistan on March 6, at Bay Oval, Tauranga, New Zealand. After this match, India will square off against New Zealand (March 10), West Indies (March 12), England (March 16), Australia (March 19), Bangladesh (March 22) and South Africa (March 27) in the group stage.The squad will also feature in the 5-match ODI series against New Zealand starting from February 11.In her last World Cup (2020), held in Australia, she had suffered concussion following a hit on her neck in the final of the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup against hosts Australia at the MCG in Melbourne. Defending champions Australia had defeated India by 85 runs in the final.“She is off to Bangalore to join the squad. She had a brilliant domestic season with Punjab. I hope she will give her best while playing for the nation in this important tournament,” said Sanjay Bhatia, Taniya’s father.He said: “She had also worked hard during the Covid pandemic. We had set up a gym and nets at our home only. Before playing the domestic season, she was well prepared and even she is excited and confident for this World Cup.”FeatsTaniya was the first woman player, residing in Chandigarh, to play in the Women’s World Cup in 2020. She has now become the only woman from the city to play two consecutive World Cups.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-girl-taniya-makes-it-to-icc-world-cup-again-358931
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Anya Murthy defeats top seed, enters tennis quarters||Anya Murthy from the USA recorded a comeback win to stun top seed Indian player Suhitha Maruri before confirming her quarterfinals berth in the ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-3) Tournament.In a girls’ U-16 pre-quarterfinal match, Anya toppled the top seed (2-4, 4-2, 10-1). Tamanna Takoria defeated Madhurima Sawant (5-3, 4-2) and fourth seed S Sirimalla outplayed Chahana Budhbhatti (4-1, 4-1). Another Indian contender Tejasvi Dabas defeated sixth seed A Prabha Lakshmi (5-4, 5-4(1)), whereas Pushti Laddha ousted eighth seed Sonal Patil (5-3, 2-4, 10-7). Third seed Vaishnavi Adkar also moved ahead by defeating Rutuja Chaphalkar of the USA (4-0, 4-2) and Renne Singla defeated R Gaikaiwari (3-5, 4-1, 14-12). Second seed Thailand’s L Tararudee ousted Janani Ramesh (4-1, 4-0).Yuvan in quarterfinalsSecond seed Indian player Yuvan Nandal faced a tough resistance from Thailand’s Poonthong Komopisut before recording a (1-4, 5-3, 10-8) win in the boys’ category. Muni Ananth Mani defeated T Boosarawongse (4-5(9), 5-4(3), 10-6), Daksh Ashok Agarwal ousted Monil Lotlikar (5-3, 4-1) and Rushil Khosla defeated Krish Tyagi (4-2, 5-4(5)). Fifth seed Aayush P Bhat also march ahead without conceding any single game against Anish Kundu (4-0, 4-0). Bushan Haobam defeated Akarsh Gaonkar (4-1, 4-0) and Saheb Sodhi thrashed Japan’s Shingo Masuda (4-1, 4-1). Fadi Bidan won the last mach by defeating Aryan Shah (3-5, 5-4(6), 11-9). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/anya-defeats-top-seed-enters-tennis-quarters-358932
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||Play on cleanliness awareness||The Chandigarh Municipal Corporation (MC) organised a street play to create awareness about the Swachh Chandigarh Mission at Elante Mall here today. Paigaam Dramatic Club from Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26, performed the play on segregation of waste at source level.Earlier, Kajal Mangalmukhi, Swachh Bharat Mission brand ambassador for Chandigarh, encouraged citizens to participate in home composting of waste produced in their respective households through a play along with other artistes.In addition to this, the artistes and the audience took a ‘swachhata pledge’ for not mixing their household waste and separate dry, wet, hazardous and sanitary waste so that it can be disposed of scientifically. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/play-on-cleanliness-awareness-358933
07-01-2022||Chandigarh||More rain likely in Chandigarh from today||Mobile phone snatcher heldChandigarh: A miscreant who was escaping after snatching a mobile phone from a person was nabbed by the traffic cops near the Sector 45/46/49/50 light point. Complainant Kallu, a resident of Faidan village, reported that a person snatched his mobile phone near the light point on January 5, following which he raised the alarm. Traffic cops, who were present at the spot, chased the suspect and nabbed him. The suspect has been identified as Sarvesh (20), a resident of Burail village. A case has been registered. TNSLaptop, purse stolen from carChandigarh: An unknown person stole a laptop and a purse after breaking the windowpane of a car parked in Sector 8. The complainant, a resident of Sector 21, reported that the laptop and her purse containing a mobile phone and documents were stolen. A case has been registered. TNSHP man held with charasChandigarh: The Crime Branch of the UT police has arrested a drug peddler with 1.55-kg charas. A team, led by Inspector Rajeev Kumar, in-charge, Crime Branch, nabbed the suspect, identified as Vinod Kumar (36), a native of Mandi district in Himachal Pradesh. The police said the suspect was nabbed with charas near the CFSL in Sector 36. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered. TNSCity rowing team bag gold medalChandigarh: The Chandigarh rowing team, including Gulshan, Sahil Moudgil, Aditya and Sukhdeep, won gold medal in the coxless four (4-) event during the ongoing Senior Rowing National at Army Rowing Node, Pune. The team claimed the top honours (7.01:01) (2 km) defeating Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. TNSPU eves emerge TT championsChandigarh: Panjab University women’s table tennis team won the North Zone Inter-University Championship, which concluded at Chitkara University. In quarterfinal matches, Panjab University defeated Lucknow University (3-2). Gayatri lost to Gungun Sahu (2-3). Anjali defeated Saloni Banal (3-0), Anjali defeated Saloni Bansal (3-0) and Gayatri ousted Gungun (3-0). Paavan faced a (2-3) defeat to Aleena. Meanwhile, in the league matches, Panjab University defeated University of Allahabad (3-1). Gayatri faced a (1-3) defeat to Shrishti. Anjali defeated Kavya (3-0), Pareen outplayed Vaishnavi (3-1) and Anjali defeated Shrishti (3-0). Panjab University, thereafter, defeated Chandigarh University (3-1). Gayatri lost the first match to Kritika (0-3). However, Anjali beat Jitakhee (3-0), Paavan defeated Pooja (3-1) and Anjali thrashed down Kritika (3-0). Panjab University also won their third league match by defeating LPU, Phagwara, (3-0). Anjali defeated Bindiya (3-0), Gayatri ousted Khushi (3-1) and Pareen defeated Tamanna (3-0). TNSAdmission scheduleChandigarh: The Centre for IAS and Other Competitive Examinations, Panjab University, has announced the admission schedule for preparation of IAS (Preliminary) examination. The admission forms are available at www.iasc.puchd.ac.in and applicants can submit their application forms till January 21. The final-year students for the graduates from any recognised university are eligible for admission. TNSBook donation at PGGC-46Chandigarh: Students and staff of Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, donated old books to an NGO, "Open Eyes Foundation" under an initiative of the Department of Economics under the theme, "Economics of Compassion". TNSRefresher CourseChandigarh: A two-week online refresher course started on Wednesday on the theme, "Advances in Pedagogy", at Panjab University (PU). An eminent educationist and physicist, Prof BS Rajput, delivered the inaugural address at the refresher course being hosted by the UGC (HRDC). TNSLaw Festival 'URJAA-2021'Chandigarh: Law Fest - 2021 was organised by the Aryans College of Law under the theme, "URJAA-Unlock Your Creative Potential". A series of competitions, including a speech competition, essay-writing contest, were held. The winners were honoured with medals by Dr Anshu Kataria, Chairman, Aryans Group. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/more-rain-likely-in-city-from-today-358936
