08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Sector 45 Man held with heroin||Youth arrested on theft chargeChandigarh: A Ram Darbar resident was caught while committing a theft at a house in Mani Majra. According to the police, complainant Mintu Kumar alleged that the suspect, Gaurav (26), was caught while stealing jewellery from his house. A case has been registered at the Mani Majra police station. TNSGolden chance results outChandigarh: The PU has announced the results of various golden chance examinations held in August and September. A PU spokesperson said the results of MA (Geography) first year, Advance Diploma in Fine Arts for Divyang fourth semester, Diploma in Fine Arts for Divyang sixth semester and Master of Science (Industrial Chemistry) fourth semester had been announced. The results are available on the PU portal. TNSArt teachers form assnChandigarh: The faculty of the Government College of Art, Sector 10, has formed the College of Art Teachers Association. Karamjit Singh Sahi was elected the president of the body and Rajesh Kumar Sharma vice-president. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-45-man-held-with-heroin-359335
08-01-2022||---||Chandigarh Golf Club elections postponed||Chandigarh, January 7Chandigarh Golf Club (CGC) has decided to postpone the annual elections, scheduled for January 30. The decision has been taken following the restrictions imposed by the UT Administration after a surge in Covid cases.“The elections have been postponed till further notice. We have to adhere to the rules and restrictions laid down by the UT Administration. The elections are part of our annual general meeting (AGM) process. With the latest restrictions on gathering due to a surge in Covid cases and in the interest of the safety of our members, the AGM has been postponed till the Administration issues instructions on enhanced gatherings,” said Ravibir Singh Grewal, president of Chandigarh Golf Club.“The House met today and decided to delay the process. It has been decided that the present office-bearers will continue their term till the time the elections are conducted,” said Kanwarvir Sibia, honorary secretary, CGC.“We have 1,800 voters and the club’s elections quorum completes with over 180 members. The Administration has allowed gathering of not more than 100 people for outdoor events. In no case, we can restrict the process (elections) under this given number. So, the House decided to postpone the elections,” said Dr GS Kochhar, vice-president and chairman (media and publicity), CGC.As per the previous schedule, the process for filing nominations was to be held from January 4 to January 8 till 5 pm. Nomination papers were to be scrutinised on January 9, while withdrawals were allowed till January 11, 5 pm. The final list was scheduled to be displayed on the same day. The voting was to be done on January 30 from 11.30 am to 4.30 pm and the counting of votes was scheduled to be held on January 31 from 9 am.Chandigarh Golf Club has not witnessed elections since 2018 as its presidents were chosen unanimously owing to the Covid pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-golf-club-elections-postponed-359333
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Booklet on seniority list of CHB employees released||The seniority list of all employees of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB), in a booklet form, was released by UT Adviser Dharam Pal.While releasing the booklet, he said: “Fairness and transparency in establishment matters are important in the functioning of any organisation. Effective management of human resources is one of our main objectives”.Yashpal Garg, CEO, CHB; Rakesh Kumar Popli, Secretary, CHB; Rajeev Singla, Chief Engineer, CHB; and Rajeev Tewari, Director (PR), UT, were also present.The booklet will be given to each of the employee of the board to bring more transparency in promotions and other service matters. A copy of the seniority booklet is also being uploaded on the CHB website. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/booklet-on-seniority-list-of-chb-employees-released-359332
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Minor reshuffle in Chandigarh departments||After Purva Garg, IAS officer, joined the Chandigarh Administration, UT Adviser Dharam Pal reshuffled departments among IAS officers.Garg has been assigned the charges of Additional Managing Director, CITCO, Special Chief Executive Officer, Chandigarh Smart City Limited, Labour Commissioner, Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Director, Food and Supplies, and Director, Information Technology.Earlier, Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh was holding the charges of Labour Commissioner and Registrar, Cooperative Societies. Nitika Pawar was holding the charges of Director, Food and Supplies, and Director, Information Technology. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/minor-reshuffle-in-chandigarh-departments-359330
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Accused walks free in POCSO Act case||A local court has acquitted a 40-year-old person of the charges of harassing a minor boy.The police arrested the accused near the forest area of Hallo Majra in 2019. As per the prosecution, people saw the accused taking the 14-year-old boy to the forest area. They caught the accused and handed him over to the police.The police registered a case against him and filed a challan before the court. Anup Saini, counsel for the accused, argued that he was falsely implicated in the case. The witness in the case also turned hostile.After hearing the arguments, the court acquitted the accused of the offence punishable under Section 363 of the IPC and Section 11 of the POCSO Act. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-walks-free-in-pocso-act-case-359329
08-01-2022||---||Man sent to jail for hitting Palsora resident with stick||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 7Additional Sessions Judge Jagdeep Sood has awarded three-year-and-four-month rigorous imprisonment (RI) to Santosh Yadav, a resident of Bihar, for causing grievous injuries to a Palsora resident by attacking with a wooden stick in 2018.The police had registered a case against Santosh Yadav on a complaint of Manish, son of victim Singhashan.Manish told the police that he, along with his father Singhashan, was standing at the Badheri chowk on August 12, 2018. The accused, Santosh Yadav, came there and attacked his father, Singhashan, with a wooden stick on his head repeatedly with an intention to kill him. He fled from the spot after the police reached there. The police took his father to a hospital.The police had registered a case against the accused for the offence punishable under Sections 307 and 325 of the IPC.After investigations, the police presented a challan against the accused and charges were framed to which he pleaded not guilty.While public prosecutor Ashok Rohila argued that the prosecution proved the charges against the accused, the defence counsel claimed that the accused was implicated falsely in the case.After hearing the arguments, Jagdeep Sood convicted the accused of the offence punishable under Section 325 of the IPC and awarded three years and four months rigorous imprisonment to him.The court has also imposed a fine of Rs10,000 on the convict. In case of default of the payment, he will have to undergo additional RI for 25 days. The court said the period of custody already undergone by the convict during investigation and trial of the case be set off against the term awarded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-sent-to-jail-for-hitting-palsora-resident-with-stick-359328
08-01-2022||Panchkula||Impose President's rule in Punjab, demands Khattar||In the wake of a ‘security breach’ during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Punjab visit, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today demanded imposition of President’s rule in the neighbouring state.Khattar said, “In our democratic system, the highest post is held by the Prime Minister and it is the responsibility of the state government to ensure his safety on the movement routes. However, the Punjab Government completely failed to ensure the safety and security of the PM. So, the President’s rule should be imposed in Punjab. A PM’s convoy has never been halted like this in any state before.”The CM also offered prayers and performed ‘Maha Mrityunjya Yajna’ at the historic Mata Mansa Devi temple for the PM’s long. Khattar said the ‘lapse’ in the PM’s security in Punjab was a matter of serious concern. “We pray for the long life and good health of the PM,” he said while speaking to mediapersons. He also sought goddess’ blessings for a Covid-free Haryana.The CM was accompanied by Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta and MP Rattan Lal Kataria. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/impose-presidents-rule-in-punjab-demands-khattar-359327
08-01-2022||Ambala||Haul of liquor at Ambala godown||The anti-narcotics cell of the Ambala police today recovered a stock of liquor of different Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) brands of the 1998 batch from a closed godown at Kuldeep Nagar in Ambala Cantonment today.Cell in-charge Hamir Singh said, “We got information that an old stock of liquor is lying in a godown and some people illegally sell it to people belonging to labour class on low rates. A decoy customer was sent and the information was found to be true. On the direction of the Superintendent of Police, a raid was conducted and the stock recovered from the godown. Excise officials were also informed.”There were bottles of different volumes in the stock. The liquor was distilled, blended and bottled by Gwalior distillers limited. A case has been registered at the Parao police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haul-of-liquor-at-ambala-godown-359325
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||CHB earns Rs 84.73 lakh in online transactions in December||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has received a total of Rs84.73 lakh through the online mode in December last year.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said the online payment system was introduced in October 2019 and during December 2021, a total of Rs84.73.40 lakh had been collected through 890 online transactions.To further encourage online payments, the CHB had introduced a monthly reward of Rs1,000 each to 10 online payment transactions.A computerised draw to decide 10 winners for December was held today. It has been observed that among the winners, two allottees deposited Rs654 and Rs800, respectively, but each of them have got the prize of Rs1,000.The 10 winners include five allottees of small flats, one allottee of affordable rental housing, three allottees of residential units and one allottee of commercial unit.Garg said the CHB had introduced the facility of online payment for all kind of dues and now the allottees were not required to visit office of the CHB and they could pay their dues online by visiting the website of the CHB, www.chbonline.in. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-earns-84-73-lakh-in-online-transactions-in-december-359324
08-01-2022||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Power privatisation in Chandigarh: Centre approves highest bid||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 7The Union Cabinet has given its approval to the highest bid submitted by Kolkata-based Eminent Electricity Distribution Ltd for privatisation of the UT Electricity Department.Under the process, the government will now set up a company, which would later transfer its share to the private firm.2.5 lakh consumers in cityA subsidiary of CESC Limited, a flagship company of RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group, Eminent Electricity Distribution Ltd made the highest bid of Rs871 crore, whereas Adani Transmission Ltd quoted Rs471 crore. Among the seven firms in the fray for power distribution in the city, Sterlite Power submitted the lowest bid of Rs201 crore whereas the second-highest bid of Rs606 crore was made by Torrent Power. The bids were opened on August 4 last year.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said technical and legal formalities were yet to be completed and these would take nearly a month’s time. He stated that Deloitte, the consultant hired to formulate the process for privatisation of the Electricity Department, had been asked to complete the process at the earliest.On November 9, 2020, the UT Engineering Department had invited bids for privatisation of the Electricity Department. Seven companies — Sterlite Power, ReNew Wing Energy, NESCL (NTPC), Adani Transmission Ltd, Tata Power, Torrent Power and Eminent Electricity Power Ltd — had submitted their bids.On a petition filed by the UT Powermen Union, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had, on December 1, 2020, stayed the tendering process regarding privatisation of the department.The petitioner had contended that they were aggrieved by the decision of the government to privatise the Electricity Department by selling 100 per cent stake of the government in the absence of any provision under Section 131 of the Electricity Act, 2003.The High Court was also told that the process of privatisation of the department could not be initiated at all, especially when it was running in profit. The sale of 100 per cent stake was unjust and illegal as the department was revenue surplus for the past three years. It was economically efficient, having transmission and distribution losses less than the target of 15 per cent fixed by the Ministry of Power.However, on January 12 last year, the Supreme Court stayed the High Court order and on January 14, the UT Administration resumed the sale of tender for the privatisation process.After the UT Administration restarted the process, the union again filed a petition in the High Court which again stayed the process on May 28, but the order was stayed by the Supreme Court on June 28, clearing the decks once again for privatisation of the department.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/centre-approves-highest-bid-359323
08-01-2022||Mohali||Mohali: Balbir Singh Sidhu dares opponents on development works||Sitting Congress MLA and former Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today challenged his opponents to counter him anywhere on development works carried out in Mohali during his tenure.Balbir Singh Sidhu stated this on the sidelines of inaugurating his election office with full show of strength in spite of inclement weather in Sector 79 here today. He said development issues would be main agenda during the forthcoming elections.Proclaiming from the podium “kaam kiya hai kaam karenge”, Sidhu said the upcoming medical college, new civil hospital and a nursing college would make Mohali the health capital of Punjab. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/balbir-dares-opponents-on-development-works-359318
08-01-2022||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali sees 488% rise in Covid cases in 6 days||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 7Despite aggressive awareness campaign launched by the Health Department, only 72 per cent of the eligible beneficiaries have been fully vaccinated in Mohali district so far.As per the data provided by the Health Department, out of a total of 7,46,119 eligible beneficiaries, about 2.05 lakh people did not take their second dose of the Covid vaccine.The maximum defaulters, around 1 lakh, are from Mohali (Urban), followed by 58,000 from Dera Bassi and 47,000 from Kharar.The district logged 214 Covid cases and two deaths in December last year. It, however, witnessed 1,226 cases in the first week of January, showing an increase of 488 per cent.People are hesitant to get the second dose of the Covid vaccine despite the fact that the district witnessed a sudden surge in the Covid-19 cases in the past one week. The new Covid variant, Omicron, is spreading fast across the globe.As per the record, there are a total of 7,46,119 eligible beneficiaries in Mohali as per the population growth estimates added by the Health Department to the Census 2011 data. Out of this, 2.05 lakh people have missed their second dose of the vaccine. The maximum defaulters are from Mohali (Urban), around 1 lakh people, followed by 58,000 from Dera Bassi and 47,000 from Kharar. With the vaccination drive beginning in March last year, 100 per cent eligible beneficiaries in the district got their first dose.The department has been carrying out aggressive campaign since October last year to create awareness among the masses through newspapers, radio and announcements from religious places to motivate people to come forward for the second dose of the vaccine. The department has now even extended the timings of the vaccination centre at the Civil Hospital, Phase 6, by four hours, but it failed to convince people.District Immunisation Officer Dr Girish Dogra said after a sudden rise in cases in the past one week, people had now started coming forward for the second dose of the vaccine. Till date, 72 per cent of the eligible people had been fully vaccinated. They had even started ‘har ghar dastak’ campaign in the district.Silver liningThough there are 1,274 active cases in the district, only six patients are admitted to hospitals. Out of these six patients, only one is admitted to the Level-3 ward and the remaining are in Level-2 wards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-488-rise-in-covid-cases-in-6-days-359317
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mechanic steals Rs 7.30 lakh from shop in Mani Majra, arrested||Almost two months after Rs 7.30 lakh and other valuables were stolen from a spare parts shop in Mani Majra, the UT police have arrested a 28-year-old employee for the theft.Complainant Varinder Pal Singh had reported that he owned a spare parts shop at the motor market. On November 23 last year, when he opened the shop, he found cash, CCTV and the DVR box stolen. The police were informed and a case was registered at the Mani Majra police station.During the investigation, a team, led by Inspector Neeraj Sarna, SHO of the Mani Majra police station, arrested the suspect, Puneet Kumar, alias Vicky, a resident of Baltana, who is a mechanic.The police said Rs42,000, a gold locket and the complainant’s cheque book had been recovered from the suspect. He was produced before a court today and remanded in one-day police custody. The police said the suspect had a criminal past. A case of battery theft was registered against him at the same police station in 2019. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mechanic-steals-rs-7-30-lakh-from-shop-arrested-359299
08-01-2022||Mohali||Chhatbir zoo to remain closed on Sundays||In view of the sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases, the district administration today issued orders to the Chhatbir zoo authorities to close the facility for the public on Sundays.Disclosing this, an official of the zoo administration said in view of the increasing cases of Covid-19, orders had been issued to close the zoo for the public on Sundays. He said till further orders, the zoo would be open to the public for only five days a week — Tuesday to Saturday. The zoo will remain closed on Mondays as before, he added.He said those entering in the last slot would have to come out at 4 pm. He said to ensure public safety, only a limited number of tickets would be available in different slots at the zoo till the situation returned to normalcy.Tickets for entry to the zoo can be booked online, for which a link is provided on the zoo website, chhatbirzoo.gov.in. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chhatbir-zoo-to-remain-closed-on-sundays-359297
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Now, 22 services of Animal Husbandry online||In order to reduce regulatory compliance burden and provide seamless services to citizens, an online appointment portal of the Department of Animal Husbandry was launched today by UT Adviser Dharam Pal.Under the initiative, 22 services of the department have been launched, which will go a long way in helping livestock as well as pet owners in securing efficient and easy access to the services of the department. Some of these services are treatment for pet and livestock, artificial insemination for cattle, vaccination and health certificates for animal. The Department of Animal Husbandry has updated these services on the web portal https://chdanimalhusbandry.gov.in. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-22-services-of-animal-husbandry-online-359296
08-01-2022||Naina Mishra||PGI faces manpower crunch as 302 HCWs test +ve for Covid in five days||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 7The Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGI) is reeling under staff shortage amid a raging pandemic as 302 healthcare workers (HCWs) have tested positive for Covid-19 since January 3. Of these, 157 are doctors – junior residents, senior residents and faculty members.Dr Vipin Kaushal, Medical Superintendent, PGI, said, “The sudden outbreak of Covid-19 has resulted in manpower shortage amid the raging third wave. We have chalked out a contingency plan to deal with the situation, as per which doctors who were posted in OPDs will now be redeployed to Covid duties and other areas where workforce is required. The infectivity of Omicron variant is much higher and many of our patients in the hospital are doctors only.”No walk-in OPDs at GMCH from tomorrowAn official statement of the PGI reads, “The increase in cases amongst HCWs is commensurate with an increase in cases amongst the population at large. More than 95 per cent of HCWs who tested positive had received both doses of the Covid vaccine. It is reassuring that almost all of these infections have been mild. HCWs, who are staying in hostels on the institute campus and who do not have provision for home isolation, have been isolated in the Nehru Hospital Extension Ward.”The PGI also stated that it was difficult to be sure whether these cases are of ‘Omicron’ or not. “The administration is keeping a close watch on the situation and taking all steps to control the situation. All departments have been advised to strictly follow the Covid-appropriate behaviour and all employees have been instructed to wear a mask at all times,” added Dr Kaushal.The administration, in association with the Association of Resident Doctors, has decided to convert all mess facilities in the PGI hostels into ‘take-away’ eateries. All sports events stand cancelled. Teaching activities in the institute are being conducted through online mode.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-faces-manpower-crunch-as-302-hcws-test-ve-for-covid-in-five-days-359292
08-01-2022||---||Resume student's online classes, High Court tells Panchkula school||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 7The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed a Panchkula school to resume online classes of a Class IV girl student, whose studies were allegedly disrupted following non-payment of a component of the fee. Coming to the girl’s rescue, Justice Sudhir Mittal also issued a notice of motion to the state of Haryana, the school and other respondents.Appearing before the Bench, counsel Amar Vivek Aggarwal contended that the petitioner was not permitted to attend online classes and take examination as a certain component of the fee had not been paid. The facility of online classes was not resumed, even though the “component” was paid under protest. He added that the official respondents had failed to take any action despite repeated representations.Giving details, Aggarwal added that the classes were arbitrarily and illegally discontinued by the school from November 10, 2021. The student’s legal and fundamental right to education was infringed in the process and studies obstructed. The counsel argued that the levy of “other charges” was illegal once the tuition fee, as demanded, had been paid. When the petitioner’s parents sought details, they were not informed for several weeks. Thereafter, the school disconnected her online classes. He added the school, under the Right to Education Act, 2009, could not deny the regular studies to the student.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/resume-students-online-classes-high-court-tells-panchkula-school-359289
08-01-2022||---||Panchkula relaxes curbs, allows shops, malls to open till 6 pm||Panchkula, January 7Giving a relief to traders, District Magistrate Mahavir Kaushik today announced relaxations in the curbs, allowing malls and markets to open up till 6 pm now. The markets were earlier allowed to open only till 5 pm.Unhappy with the directives of the government, traders and shopkeepers had demanded relaxation in the restrictions, seeking permission to operate for extra hours.Essential shops, including medicine stores and milk shops, will remain functional.The other rules will remain the same.As per the orders, all cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes in the district will remain closed. Along with this, all sports complexes, stadia, swimming pools (except for the purpose of training of players participating in national and international competitions and for organising national and international competitions) will remain closed. All entertainment parks and B2B exhibitions have also been banned. In government and private offices (except for emergency/essential services), only 50 per cent staff will work. Malls and markets will also be able to open till 5 pm. Bars and restaurants will be allowed to operate at 50 per cent of the seating capacity. Only those who have received both doses of the Covid vaccine will be allowed to enter public places such as vegetable markets, grain markets, bus stands, railway stations, parks, religious places, bars, restaurants, hotels, department stores, ration depots, liquor shops, malls, shopping complexes, petrol pumps, CNG stations, yoga centres, gyms, fitness centres, government and private offices and banks.313 new cases in P’kula, positivity rate 11.7%Panchkula: At a positivity rate of 11.7 per cent, Panchkula reported 313 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the active caseload to 775. The overall tally reached 31,833. The death toll remained at 382. The number of recovered persons from the infectious disease is 30,676. TNS3 more Covid centres set upThe district administration has set up three more Covid care centres in the district. These centres are Government Women’s College in Sector 14, Swami Devi Dayal College and Government College in Kalka. The first centre to be notified as a Covid care centre in the district was Jatayu Yatrika – a tourist resort near the Mansa Devi temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-relaxes-curbs-allows-shops-malls-to-open-till-6-pm-359287
08-01-2022||---||Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij pays surprise visit to Panchkula Civil Hospital||Panchkula, January 7As Covid cases continue to rise, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij today conducted a surprise inspection at the Civil Hospital in Sector 6 and took stock of the PSA oxygen plant and other medical arrangements to tackle the third wave of the pandemic.He said the second genome sequencing lab of the state would be set up in Panchkula.“A genome sequencing laboratory is already functional at Rohtak. Another will come up in Panchkula,” he stated.He said the state was “atmanirbhar” with regard to the medical oxygen availability and fully prepared to tackle the third wave.Speaking to mediapersons, Vij said the state would not face an oxygen crisis as it did during the second wave.“At least 84 oxygen plants have been set up at government hospitals and medical colleges across the state, while 54 have been set up at private healthcare facilities,” he said. On December 31, Vij had conducted a suprise inpection at the Faridabad Civil Hospital.Hitting out at Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi over Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s security breach, he said democracy did not mean that the Prime Minister could be stopped anywhere in the midst of the public.He said Channi’s clarification corroboratesdhis involvement in the “well-planned conspiracy” to stop the Prime Minister’s cavalcade.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/vij-pays-surprise-visit-to-civil-hospital-359285
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Now, 22 services of Animal Husbandry online||In order to reduce regulatory compliance burden and provide seamless services to citizens, an online appointment portal of the Department of Animal Husbandry was launched today by UT Adviser Dharam Pal.Under the initiative, 22 services of the department have been launched, which will go a long way in helping livestock as well as pet owners in securing efficient and easy access to the services of the department. Some of these services are treatment for pet and livestock, artificial insemination for cattle, vaccination and health certificates for animal. The Department of Animal Husbandry has updated these services on the web portal https://chdanimalhusbandry.gov.in. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/now-22-services-of-animal-husbandry-online-359296
08-01-2022||Mohali||Chhatbir zoo to remain closed on Sundays||In view of the sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases, the district administration today issued orders to the Chhatbir zoo authorities to close the facility for the public on Sundays.Disclosing this, an official of the zoo administration said in view of the increasing cases of Covid-19, orders had been issued to close the zoo for the public on Sundays. He said till further orders, the zoo would be open to the public for only five days a week — Tuesday to Saturday. The zoo will remain closed on Mondays as before, he added.He said those entering in the last slot would have to come out at 4 pm. He said to ensure public safety, only a limited number of tickets would be available in different slots at the zoo till the situation returned to normalcy.Tickets for entry to the zoo can be booked online, for which a link is provided on the zoo website, chhatbirzoo.gov.in. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chhatbir-zoo-to-remain-closed-on-sundays-359297
08-01-2022||Chandigarh||Mechanic steals Rs 7.30 lakh from shop in Mani Majra, arrested||Almost two months after Rs 7.30 lakh and other valuables were stolen from a spare parts shop in Mani Majra, the UT police have arrested a 28-year-old employee for the theft.Complainant Varinder Pal Singh had reported that he owned a spare parts shop at the motor market. On November 23 last year, when he opened the shop, he found cash, CCTV and the DVR box stolen. The police were informed and a case was registered at the Mani Majra police station.During the investigation, a team, led by Inspector Neeraj Sarna, SHO of the Mani Majra police station, arrested the suspect, Puneet Kumar, alias Vicky, a resident of Baltana, who is a mechanic.The police said Rs42,000, a gold locket and the complainant’s cheque book had been recovered from the suspect. He was produced before a court today and remanded in one-day police custody. The police said the suspect had a criminal past. A case of battery theft was registered against him at the same police station in 2019. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mechanic-steals-rs-7-30-lakh-from-shop-arrested-359299
08-01-2022||---||Physical OPDs at PGI-Chandigarh only through appointment||Chandigarh, January 6With a sharp rise in Covid cases, the PGI has decided to run physical OPDs only through appointment system from January 10. The timing for the registration will be from 8 am to 9:30 am.It will be followed in all OPDs — New OPD, Advanced Eye Centre, Advanced Cardiac Centre, Advanced Paediatrics Centre, Drug De-addiction Treatment Centre (DDTC) and Oral Health Sciences Centre (dental OPD).“Overcrowding carries the risk of outbreak of Covid-19 among patients, attendants and healthcare workers in the OPD areas of the institute. Hence, it has been decided that tele-consultation will be used as the first point of contact between patients and doctors. Patients will be evaluated first through tele-consultation and only those requiring further evaluation and examination will be called to the OPD by appointment from January 10 onwards. The primary objective behind this decision is to prevent the exposure of comorbid patients to Covid-19 infection,” the PGI said.The institute requested people to visit the OPDs with prior appointment only and ensure that only one attendant accompanies a patient to the OPD.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/physical-opds-at-pgimer-only-through-appointment-358938
