09-01-2022||---||US military justice institute invites two Chandigarh lawyers as International Fellows||Chandigarh, January 9The National Institute of Military Justice (NIMJ) based at Washington DC in the United States has invited two law professionals from the City as International Fellows. While Major Navdeep Singh, a lawyer practising in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, has been constituted an International Fellow for his excellence and contribution to constitutional and military law, the fellowship has been conferred upon Prof Shruti Bedi of the University Institute of Legal Studies, Panjab University, for similar excellence and contribution to constitutional and criminal law. The NIMJ is an American non-profit organisation founded in 1991 dedicated to the fair administration of justice in the armed forces and improving public understanding of military justice. Both have remained active in the legal field and research and have authored several books. “March to Justice: Global Military Law Landmarks” and “Arrest and Detention in India: Law, Procedure and Practice” were recent books edited by Navdeep and Shruti, respectively, which were released last month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/us-military-justice-institute-invites-two-chandigarh-lawyers-as-international-fellows-359652
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Foetus found at GMSH-16||Expect more rain todayChandigarh: The city witnessed showers on Saturday evening even as the Sun played hide and seek throughout the day. The weatherman has predicted more rain for the next two days, but its intensity will be lesser. Till 8:30 am on Saturday, the weather department had recorded 27 mm of rainfall in the city. As per the forecast, dense fog in isolated pockets is very likely in night/morning hours over Punjab and Haryana for the next two days. TNSPurse stolen from SUVChandigarh: A purse was stolen from an SUV after breaking its windscreen. The complainant, a resident of Sector 70, Mohali, reported that unknown person stole her purse containing an iPhone from her vehicle parked near a gurdwara on the road separating Sector 8 and 9. A case has been registered at the Sector 3 police station. TNSThefts reported from Ind’l AreaChandigarh: Incidents of theft were reported from three places in the Industrial Area, Phase I. In his complaint to the police, Rajesh Gupta reported that unknown person stole around Rs30,000, a computer and a silver coin from his office on the intervening night of January 6 and 7. He further reported that a theft at Mittal Ispat and Dashmesh Electronics was also reported from where Rs20,000 and copper wires worth Rs40,000 were stolen. A case has been registered. TNSFour booked for job fraudChandigarh: The police have booked four persons for cheating on the pretext of providing government jobs. Complainants Harsh Jasrotia and Arvind Galav, both residents of Panjab University, alleged that Madan, alias Lucky, and Gurpreet, alias Sunny, both residents of Dhanas village, Sunil, a resident of Sector 25, Panchkula, and another person named Varun cheated them of Rs11.72 lakh on the pretext of providing them clerical jobs advertised by the Haryana Staff Selection Commission. TNSTwo bookedfor cheatingChandigarh: Two persons, identified as Umesh Basin and Chetan Basin of Shivalik Enclave, Mani Majra, have been booked on a complaint of Harish Chandra, a resident of New Delhi, who alleged that the duo cheated him of Rs9.43 crore in investment made in a business between 2011 and 2017. A case has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station. TNSFB friend extorts Rs50K, bookedChandigarh: An unknown girl has been booked for extorting money from a Sector 34 resident after befriending him on Facebook. The complainant stated that a girl sent him a friend request on Facebook and became friends with him. The complainant gave his phone number to the suspect, who started calling him up on WhatsApp. Later, the suspect started harassing and threatening the complainant. She managed to extort Rs50,000 from him. TNSaITF world Tennis tour from jan 10Chandigarh: The Chandigarh Lawn Tennis Association (CLTA) will host the AITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-2) U-18 Championship from January 10 to 15. The qualifying matches for this event will be played on January 8 and 9. Top ranked players from 14 countries, including Indian, France, Iran, Japan, Korea, Lebanon, Malaysia, Nepal, Russia, Serbia, Switzerland, Thailand, USA and Uzbekistan, will vie for the top spot. The main draw for each of the two events for boys and girls will feature 32 players, out of which 24 have secured their entry as per their ITF ranking, four from among qualifiers and four will be given wild card entries. TNSTejasvi wins title in tennis tourneyChandigarh: Tejasvi Dabas defeated third seed Vaishnavi Adkar in straight sets to win the girls’ title on the concluding day of the AITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-3) Tournament. Tejasvi recorded a 6-4 6-4 win over Vaishnavi. Second seed Yuvan Nandal also registered an easy 6-0 6-4 win over Daksh Ashok Agarwal to win the boys’ title. In the boys’ doubles title, the pair of Fadi Bidan and T Boosarawongse overpowered a tough challenge by Manas Dhamne and Aryan Shah 7-5 6-7(3) (12 10). In the girls’ doubles final, the top seed team of Anya Murthy and LanlanaTararudee defeated third seed pair of Vaishnavi Adkar and Rutuja Chaphalkar 7-5 7-5. TVSN Prasad, IAS, Additional Chief Secretary, Finance and Planning, Government of Haryana, Sudhir Rajpal, IAS, honorary secretary, CLTA, and other awarded winners. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/foetus-found-at-gmsh-16-359563
09-01-2022||Mohali||CGC students shine in PTU exams||Chandigarh Group of Colleges (CGC), Jhanjeri, dominated merit list of Punjab Technical University (PTU) as its nine students got first positions while 83 others bagged second to tenth positions.Toppers of the PTU, include Jaspreet Kaur, Shreya Papneja and Harsimranjeet Kaur, of CSE, Simranjeet Kaur and Neha of the ECE, Poonam Sharma, Harsimran Kaur and Shubham of the FT, Prabhjot Kaur of BSc Agriculture (Hons). — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cgc-students-shine-in-ptu-exams-359562
09-01-2022||---||Devang sails into final of sub-junior ranking badminton tournament||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 8Top seed Delhi’s Devang Tomar defeated Suryaksh Rawat 21-8 21-14 to move into the boys’ U-16 final on the penultimate day of the First Ashwani Gupta Memorial All India Sub Junior Ranking Badminton Tournament at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Sector 3. Delhi’s Vansh Dev won the second semifinal by defeating Prateek Koundilya 21-10 21-17.In the girls’ U-15 semifinals, Delhi’s Anwesha Gowda registered a comeback 19-21 21-13 21-13 over Aparna Sajeev P of Kerala, while Naishaa Kaur Bhatoye defeated Medhavi Nagar 18-21 21-12 21-16. In the U-15 mixed doubles semis, Ritom Howbora and Bhavishya Changmai defeated Showrya Kiran J and Durga Isha Kandrapu 25-23 15-21 21-16, whereas Suryaksh Rawat and Aanya Bisht overpowered Sainunmawia Sailo and Keerthy Manchala 21-16 21-12.The team of S Chaurasia and K Salouniya registered 21-16 21-17 win over Divyansh Singh Rawat and Yogansh Singh in the boys’ U-17 doubles semifinal. Nicholas Nathan Raj and Tushar Suveer defeated Bhavya Chhabra and Garv Sahni 21-11 21-8 in the second semi.Top seed Sanskar Saraswat confirmed his berth in the boys’ U-17 final by defeating Pranay Shettigar 21-18 23-25 21-16. He will be facing third seed Numair Shaik, who defeated Dhruv Negi 21-16 18-21 21-14, in the final. In the girls’ U-17 semis, Aishani Tiwari defeated Rujula Ramu 21-18 21-15 and Rakshitha Sree S overpowered Unnati Hooda 21-16 21-13. In the U-17 mixed doubles semis, Mayank Rana and Palak Arora defeated Choudhary Param and Tiya Dabas 21-14 21-12, whereas B Arigela and P Parida ousted Rajdev Tomar and Akshita Manral 21-14 22-24 21-14.Palak Arora and Unnati Hooda won the girls’ U-17 doubles semi by defeating Manya Ralhan and Liza Taank 21-15 21-16, while Navya Kanderi and Rakshitha Sree S defeated Pragya Katara and Brinda Shinde 21-11 22-20.Results (Semis)U-15 girls’ doubles: T Andluri and D Kandrapu bt Anushka Golash and Drishti Waldia 21-6 21-16.U-15 boys’ doubles: Bjorn Jaison and Aathish Sreenivas PV bt Showrya Kiran J and Gnana Dattu TT 21-18 21-17.U-17 boys’ doubles: Divyam Arora and Mayank Rana bt Gagan and Ankit Malik 21-9 21-18.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/devang-sails-into-final-of-sub-junior-ranking-badminton-tournament-359561
09-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Senate allows Vice-Chancellor to fix date for Syndicate elections||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 8The first-ever online meeting of Panjab University Senate remained a high pitch affair today. The meeting, which was held after a gap of two years, lasted for over six hours (including two zero hours). All listed items were discussed at the meeting. It was perhaps for the time in the history of Panjab University (PU) that a Senate meeting was called online owing to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. PUTA raises objectionIn a statement The Panjab University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) said, “We strongly protest against holding online Senate meeting as it is illegal in the absence of any such provision in the PU calendar. Secondly, the meeting was anti-democratic as microphones were controlled by the authorities. Our audios were muted multiple times.”The meeting was attended by majority of eligible members. However, contrary to expectations, no heated verbal exchanges were witnessed for not including some members in the meeting. The Senate rectified all actions taken and orders passed by the Vice- Chancellor (VC) during past two years. The Senate also authorised the VC to fix dates for the allotment of faculties, the election of Syndicate members, aided members, dean and others.The VC was also authorised to constitute all statutory and other committees in anticipation of approval from Senate and Syndicate.VC’s decisions to be rectifiedThe proposal to authorise VC to take decision, in anticipation of approval from Senate, was moved by Satya Pal Jain, a former BJP MP. “Since clock cannot be turned back therefore all actions and decisions taken by the VC during this period should be rectified,” said Jain. The proposal was seconded by Davesh Moudgil, Prof Davender, Prof SK Tomar, BC Josen, Prof SS Sanga and others.Appointment of next DUIHoney Thakur, president, Panjab University Staff (Non-teaching) Association (PUSA), raised concerns over appointing new Dean, University Instructions (DUI). Sources claimed that Prof VR Sinha, who was appointed the DUI on February 1, 2021, has been facing ire over delay in recruitment on compensatory grounds. Thakur demanded that the VC should reveal the name of the next DUI at today’s meeting.PU as Central UniversityFellow Gurmeet Singh, assistant professor, Department of Hindi, said PU should be brought under ‘central university’ status to overcome ‘budget’ problems. While discussing delay in getting a grant for repair purposes, Singh said instead of endless wait for Punjab Government approvals, the the process to make PU a Central University should be started.University’s stand on pay scaleAll fellows unanimously demanded that the PU authorities should take a stand on implementing UGC pay scales for faculty members as per the university calendar. Hundreds of teachers are protesting against the decision of the Punjab Government to delink their pay scales from the seventh CPC-UGC pay scales. The Senate also demanded that the authorities promote young faculty members by supporting them in research work.Solving problems of affiliated collegesThe Senate demanded that the authorities should take a call on reducing the burden of admissions in affiliated colleges. Members said the admission process should be streamlined.Financial help for needyThe Senate also raised the need of financing PU students, who were hit financially due to the Covid pandemic. A special grant for such students was demanded. It was also demanded not to hike mess charges.Pictures of meeting leaked on social mediaMeanwhile, many members uploaded screenshots of the meeting in various WhatsApp groups. Screenshots, in which members were objecting for not being allowed to speak, were circulated in various groups.Union minister’s suggestion for VCSom Parkash, Union Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, who is also a member of the PU Senate, got furious over proceedings. Parkash was seen asking the PU VC to follow rules and regulations of the meeting. He asked the Registrar to first introduce the House and then bring the resolution. He also asked the PU VC to bring every stakeholder under one umbrella for the welfare of the university. “I have no objections with tabling authorised resolutions, but the Senate should be run under laid decorum,” said Parkash.UT Adviser attends meetingPerhaps, it was for the first time in the past 12 years that the UT Adviser, Dharam Pal, attended the Senate meeting and promised support from the Chandigarh Administration for the betterment of the university.Major decisionsThe PU Senate approved the new fee structure and charges for NRI students of MSc Forensic Science and Criminology. They will have to pay 2,860 US dollars per annum as tuition fee and development funds.The Senate also approved recommendations of the Board of Finance (BOF) meeting held on January 7, 2020. The Senate authorised the PU Vice-Chancellor to give a hearing to dental faculty members with regard to the promotion policy.The Senate decided to defer amendment in Regulation 3 (ceasing of members) of the PU Calendar Vol. 1 2007. The Senate also ratified the 38 agenda items.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/senate-allows-vice-chancellor-to-fix-date-for-syndicate-elections-359560
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Owners of 30 immigration firms in Chandigarh booked||Two days after the UT police booked owners of 29 immigration consultancy companies for not providing their information to the Police Department, the owners of 30 more such companies operating from Sector 17 and 22 have been booked for the same offence.As per the District Magistrate’s orders, the immigration consultancy companies are supposed to provide information about the company and their antecedents to the police. The list of these companies is then uploaded on the Chandigarh Police website to assist people.A police official said a majority of the companies operating from the city had not provided information to the police following which a check was being conducted and action being taken against erring company owners.“We advise people to choose among the consultants whose names are mentioned in the list as in case the consultant commits a fraud, the police can easily track them,” said an official.Meanwhile, an investigation has been initiated into the cases at the Sector 17 police station. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/owners-of-30-immigration-firms-booked-359559
09-01-2022||Ambala||Day after liquor haul in Ambala, 2 booked||Two persons have been booked in connection with the stock of liquor of different Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) brands of the 1998 batch recovered from a closed godown at Kuldeep Nagar in Ambala Cantonment.The case has been registered against the godown owner/caretaker, Gourav Gupta, and liquor contractor Vicky Saini at the Parao police station under Sections 120-B of the IPC and Section 61 of the Excise Act.Ambala anti-narcotics cell in-charge Hamir Singh said, “The duo has been booked for keeping stock without permission. The contractor claimed that he had handed over the stock to the Excise Department, but couldn’t furnish any document in this context. His claims are being verified and further investigation is on.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-liquor-haul-in-ambala-2-booked-359558
09-01-2022||---||Poll announced, deposit arms, says Mohali DM||Mohali, January 8In view of the Assembly elections announced by the Election Commission of India, the district administration today ordered the depositing of firearms to the police station and ammunition dealers.District Magistrate Isha Kalia, while exercising the powers vested under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, has issued orders that firearms, ammunition, explosives, flammable items and sharp weapons such as spears, tridents etc. would not be allowed in the district.Isha Kalia said as announced by the Election Commission of India, the Assembly elections are scheduled to take place in the state on February 14.For the smooth conduct of the polls, it was important for the gun owners to deposit their weapons, said the District Magistrate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poll-announced-deposit-arms-says-mohali-dm-359557
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||CHB to involve spared staff in Covid work||In the wake of a surge in cases of Covid-19, the CHB has directed that the services of spared employees may be utilised for the Covid-related work.The UT Administration had on Wednesday ordered that all government offices, except for essential services/departments, would function with physical attendance of 50 per cent capacity of the actual strength with regard to Group C and D staff. The rest of the 50 per cent staff would be required to work from home.The essential departments include Health, Revenue, the MC, Police, etc. Services of any staff of the UT Administration can be utilised in these departments.Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said following directions from the UT Administration, the 50 per cent of Group C and D staff, which was to be spared from the office, need to either work from home or be utilised for Covid-related work. Such works had been assigned to Rajeev Singla, Chief Engineer, CHB, and Urvashi Kaul, system analyst, he said. Accordingly, instead of allowing work from home, such staff may be directed to report to them, he added. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-to-involve-spared-staff-in-covid-work-359556
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh administration gives a call for setting  up mini-Covid care centres||With the Covid infection spreading at an alarming speed, the UT Administration has given a clarion call to organisations and associations for setting up mini Covid care centres voluntarily in the city, as it is expected that the number of infected persons may be many times what was witnessed during the second wave peak in April/May last year.Any individual, association, voluntary organisation, NGO, religious organisation, corporate, firm or Trust may come forward for setting up a mini Covid care centre for asymptomatic patients. Stay, food, medicines and every other facility in such centres will be free.Yashpal Garg, nodal officer, mini Covid care centres, said permission was granted to Sri Sathya Sai Gramin Jagriti to set up and operate a centre at Police Hospital, Sector 26, initially for a period of two months. In May/June 2021, the organisation had successfully operated a centre at Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Sector 8-B.Garg said one such centre at Bal Bhawan, Sector 23-B, and another at Indira Holiday Home, Sector 24, were already functioning. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/admn-gives-a-call-for-setting-up-mini-covid-care-centres-359554
09-01-2022||Amit Bathla||O2 plants: Pvt hospitals in Panchkula fix new target||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 8Major private hospitals in the city, which earlier cited space crunch as the reason for their failure to set up oxygen generation plants on their premises in the six-month period fixed by the state government, have now agreed to complete the task in fresh assurances given to the district administration.By whenParas Hospital has promised to set up the plant by the end of this month, while Alchemist Hospital and Ojas (owned by one entity) assured to do so by the first week of February. Even if these hospitals meet the new target, it will still be late, as the district is already witnessing an exponential surge in daily cases.After the devastating second wave, the state government had asked private hospitals with 50-plus beds to set up their own oxygen plants within six months.Deputy Commissioner Mahavir Kaushik said he continued to mount pressure on private hospitals to expedite the work. “After taking over the charge, I took stock of oxygen preparedness in the event of a third wave. I came to know from the Civil Surgeon about the failure of private hospitals to set up oxygen plants as ordered by the state government. On the issue, I took a meeting with representatives of these hospitals last week. As Covid cases continue to multiply in the district, I have told them to accelerate the pace of work.”State Health Minister Anil Vij had yesterday conducted a surprise inspection at the Civil Hospital where he took stock of the PSA oxygen plant and other medical arrangements to tackle the third wave of the pandemic. Vij claimed that the state would not face an oxygen crisis as it did during the second wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/o2-plants-pvt-hospitals-in-pkula-fix-new-target-359550
09-01-2022||Naina Mishra||Single-day Covid cases breach 500 mark in Chandigarh||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 8The Covid-19 numbers showed a massive jump today as the tally of daily cases reached 541 infections. The positivity rate shot up to 13.9 per cent. The tally touched the 500 mark from 100 cases in just four days, while it took 44 days in the previous wave to cross 500 cases.563 cases surface in MohaliMohali: Fresh 563 cases were reported during the past 24 hours, taking the number of positive cases to 70,951 in the district. Two cases were from Banur, three from Lalru, five from Kurali, 11 from Boothgarh, 15 from Gharuan, 24 from Dera Bassi, 82 from Kharar, 159 from Dhakoli and 262 cases from Mohali urban area. — TNSPanchkula reports 415 infectionsPanchkula: The district on Saturday recorded 415 cases. While the positivity rate stood at 16.21 per cent, the active caseload was 1,154. However, of the active cases, only 32 are hospitalised and the remaining are under home isolation. As many as 1,248 cases have been reported this month along with one death. The MC made the community centre in Sector 12 a Covid care centre. The civic body said they would convert the community centres in Sector 12 and Khatauli village into Covid care centres. The administration had earlier notified four Covid care centres. — TNSThe single-day case rise in the UT has breached the 500 mark after eight months. On May 18, 2021, the city had last reported 526 new cases.Chandigarh had crossed the mark of 500 single-day infections for the first time on April 19, 2021, when it had seen 612 new cases during the second wave.At that time, the active caseload of the city was 3,804. At present, the active cases are nearly half the number at 1,794.While the cases on April 19 had been accompanied by four deaths, Chandigarh recorded no death on January 8.As many as 3,865 samples have been tested in the past 24 hours.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said there is a sufficient buffer stock of critical medicines and availability of medical oxygen is also sufficient. “Though the number of Covid positive patients are increasing at an alarming speed, most of the cases do not require hospitalisation. The situation is being closely monitored and there is no need for any panic. However all citizens are required to wear a mask, maintain social distancing and follow the Covid protocol.Pal has advised that all persons with comorbidities, pregnant women and children to stay at home, except for essential and health purposes.99 more healthcare workers test positive at PGIAround 99 more healthcare workers tested positive at the PGI, including 51 doctors, on Friday. The tally of health staff testing positive for Covid has reached 401 in the past six days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/single-day-covid-cases-breach-500-mark-in-city-359549
09-01-2022||---||Chandigarh private hospitals to keep 50% beds for Covid-19 patients||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 8As Covid cases continue to surge, the Administration has asked all private hospitals or nursing homes with a capacity of more than 20 beds to reserve at least 50 per cent of the beds and ICU beds for Covid-19 patients.The UT Health Secretary, Yashpal Garg, said, “The Covid infection is spreading in the city at an alarming speed and it is expected that the number of infected persons may be much higher than the infections witnessed during the second peak in April/May 2021.”The charges will be borne by patients willing to avail of the facilities at these private hospitals and nursing homes on the rates approved by the Chandigarh Administration. The hospitals that are required to reserve seats include Eden Critical Care Hospital, City Hospital, Mukat Hospital, Healing Hospital and Institute of Para Medical Sciences, Landmark Hospital, Santokh Nursing Home, Chandigarh Kare Partners Heart Centre, and Shri Dhanwantry Hospital (run by Shri Dhanwantry Educational Society).The orders also mention that the charges of RT-PCR test and rapid antigen testing (RAT) by the private laboratories in Chandigarh will not exceed the charges notified by the Administration. Besides, charges for CT scan/HRCT chest by the private diagnostic centres in UT will not exceed Rs1,800.Hospitalisation remains lowOf 1,323 active cases in Chandigarh, 3.7 per cent patients (49) are hospitalised and the remaining are under home isolation. However, 134 beds have been occupied in hospitals of the UT and these include patients from other states as well.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pvt-hospitals-to-keep-50-beds-for-covid-19-patients-359548
09-01-2022||---||Chandigarh Mayoral poll: Why Congress, SAD skipped voting||Chandigarh, January 8With much at stake in Punjab and to keep its flock together, both the Congress and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) abstained from voting in the mayoral elections.The Congress had won eight seats, but a few days ago, its councillor Harpreet Kaur Babla joined the BJP. The party was left with seven seats while SAD has a lone councillor.It seems both parties had sensed they had no chance of winning as a party needed 19 votes to prove majority. Secondly, both AAP and the BJP are their rivals in the coming Punjab Assembly polls.Supporting any party or cross-voting might have harmed the Congress and SAD. Thus, playing safe, both parties abstained from voting.City Congress president Subhash Chawla said, “We sought the support of the BJP and AAP for getting our mayoral candidate elected as we had the highest vote share. They did not respond. Both parties are rivals in other parts of the country as well. So, we did not come for voting. We had apprehensions of horse-trading and we saw that in voting today.”Councillor and city SAD president Hardeep Singh said, “We have no alliance with the BJP or AAP. So, we did not come for voting. The public has mandated SAD to sit in Opposition, and we will do that.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/why-congress-sad-skipped-voting-359547
09-01-2022||Making Chandigarh number 1 in cleanliness||Will make city No. 1 in cleanliness: New Chandigarh Mayor||The completion of the pending project of 24X7 water supply and bringing a new waste-processing technology will also be my priority. Did you expect this result in a close fight with AAP?With the love of people, the BJP has won all three mayoral seats.What is your take on AAP’s allegation of favouritism?We have won by proper voting which was witnessed by all. Whenever an opposing party loses, it has to say something like this.You are a first-time councillor as well as Mayor. Will it be a challenge for you?I am not totally new in public life. I have been looking after ward works in the absence of my husband (former councillor Jagtar Singh Jagga).How will you manage a smooth running of the House?For development of the city, I will take along all councillors whether they are of the Congress or AAP.What are your priorities?I will work on taking Chandigarh to the number 1 position. The completion of the pending project of 24/7 water supply and bringing a new waste-processing technology will be my priority. Besides, the development of villages will remain a focus area.What new works do you intend to carry out as Mayor?I will first sit with party leaders, councillors and officers to plan things.Will you impose new taxes?We will not impose new taxes. We will also review the water tariff hike.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/will-make-city-no-1-in-cleanliness-new-mayor-359546
09-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Amid high drama, BJP wins all 3 posts in Chandigarh mayoral poll||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 8Amid high drama and commotion, the city got its new Mayor, Sarabjit Kaur, from the BJP, today. The saffron party won all three top posts in the mayoral elections.‘Will investigate cross-voting’A nominated councillor should have been the presiding officer. The tick mark on the vote declared invalid was done under a conspiracy by the BJP. A torn vote, which went in the BJP’s favour, was not declared invalid. We will investigate cross-voting.  — Prem Garg, City AAP president‘Delhi’s anarchy has come to city’A councillor of AAP stamped and tick-marked the vote. There was no torn ballot paper. It is clear by cross-voting in the Senior Deputy Mayor poll that one AAP councillor did not support the party. Delhi’s anarchy has come to Chandigarh. —  Arun Sood, city BJP presidentSarabjit defeated Anju Katyal of AAP by one vote as the councillors of the Congress and SAD did not come in the House for voting. Both the BJP and AAP had an equal number of 14 votes. Sarabjit polled 14 votes while Katyal secured 13 votes. One vote was declared invalid as there was a tick mark on the back of the ballot paper. The Mayor’s post is reserved for a woman candidate this year.As the results were announced, the AAP councillors created a ruckus. They alleged a voting slip, which was polled in favour of the BJP, was torn. They said it should have been declared invalid too. They also raised doubts over the tick mark on the ballot that was declared invalid.They rushed to the well of the House raising slogans. Alleging favouritism for the BJP, they stopped officials, including the Deputy Commissioner and the Secretary, from leaving the chair. They raised slogans of “BJP murdabad”, while the BJP councillors chanted “Bharat Mata ki jai” and “Jai Shri Ram.”The AAP councillors later tried to remove Mayor Sarabjit Kaur from her seat. One of them took her glass of water and threw it on the floor. The BJP councillors, led by Kanwarjit Singh Rana and Jasmanpreet Singh, surrounded the Mayor’s chair to prevent the rival councillors from reaching her. In the mayhem, a glass shield and mikes kept in front of the DC’s chair got displaced. The councillors of the two parties had heated arguments and they pushed each other.Later, marshals were called to prevent the situation going from bad to worse. They removed councillors of both parties from the well of the House. During commotion, AAP president Prem Garg suddenly turned up in the House. He was caught by the BJP councillors who handed him over to the police who took him out.Later, the DC read out the norms in the House after which polling for the posts of Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor could be held.In polling for the Senior Deputy Mayor’s post, BJP’s Dalip Sharma beat AAP’s Prem Lata by two votes. Sharma polled 15 votes against Lata’s 13. One cross voting by AAP helped the BJP win post. For the post of Deputy Mayor, luck favoured BJP’s Anup Gupta who won through a draw of lots after he and AAP’s Ram Chander Yadav were tied at 14:14.AAP objects to MP’s voteAAP began the day with objections as at the very start of voting, its councillors objected to the MP’s vote in the House. However, they were told by presiding officer Maheshinder Singh Sidhu that it was the rule and a norm for 25 years. Later, the House Secretary read out the notification mentioning the rules. MP Kirron Kher, ex officio member in the House, slammed them saying that they should have read the rule book.Protests by AAPEven as AAP has the highest 14 votes in the MC, its councillors protested inside the House for most of the day. Party president Prem Garg and co-in-charge Pardeep Chhabra staged a protest outside the visitors’ gallery of the MC building alleging they were not allowed to sit inside, while outside the MC building, other leaders and supporters of the party protested against the BJP. Senior MLAs from Delhi were also spotted there. When the vehicle of the new Mayor left the MC building, they raised slogans against her.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/amid-high-drama-bjp-wins-all-3-posts-in-mayoral-poll-359545
09-01-2022||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 541 Covid cases, highest since May||Chandigarh reported a whopping 541 cases on Monday, a health bulletin said on Saturday—the highest cases reported in the city since last summer when the delta variant led to a substantial rise in both cases and deaths.Chandigarh’s active cases have shot up to 1,794—a rise of 169 per cent since Wednesday.  Chandigarh’s added 1,262 cases in the last three days alone.  The city’s positivity rate stood at 13.9 per cent.  Weekly positivity rate has shot up to 12.07 per cent—almost twice the 6.40 per cent reported on Wednesday.Despite the rising cases, however, the fatality count appears to remain low—Chandigarh’s recorded no new deaths on Saturday for the second consecutive day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reported-541-covid-cases-highest-since-may-359440
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||Shivalik clearly visible from Chandigarh after heavy rain||Heavy rain cleared Chandigarh's city air enough for a clear view of the Shivalik ranges on Saturday, delighting citizens.Punjab, Haryana, and Chandigarh witnessed isolated thunderstorms with lightning and even hail on Saturday.The Indian Meteorological Department said dense Fog was likely in isolated pockets of Punaj and Haryana on January 9 and 10. The department also said a slight fall in minimum temperatures was over Punjab and Haryana in the next 24 hours, rapid fall by 4-6°C for 2-3 days subsequently but no significant change thereafter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shivalik-clearly-visible-from-chandigarh-after-heavy-rain-359439
09-01-2022||Chandigarh||BJP's Sarabjit Kaur elected Chandigarh mayor; AAP cries foul||The Bharatiya Janata Party won all three top posts in the mayoral elections held days after Chandigarh's municipal polls. BJP's Sarabjit Kaur was elected the mayor, and Dalip Sharma and Anup Gupta became her deputies on Saturday. In the 36-member Municipal Corporation House, 28 votes were polled as the Congress and SAD abstained from voting.The BJP got 14 votes, AAP 13 and one vote was deemed invalid.BJP's Dalip Sharma beat AAP's Prem lata by two votes to win the senior deputy mayor's position. Sharma polled 15 votes against Lata's 13.BJP's Anup Gupta won through a draw of lots after votes were tied 14:14 between him and AAP's Ram Chander Yadav.   AAP councillors created a ruckus after the counting alleging that the BJP had been favoured in the counting process.AAP councillors tried to stop the new mayor from addressing the House. Then, BJP councillors surrounded her chair. Later, marshals were called and they removed both set of councillors. Meanwhile, AAP president Prem Garg entered the Well of the House and was taken out by the marshals.This comes despite the fact that AAP had emerged as the single largest party in the elections held last month.AAP won 14 seats against BJP's 12, Congress's 8 and SAD's 1.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mayors-election-is-on-direct-fight-between-aap-bjp-359370
