10-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Covid-19: Punjab and Haryana HC adopts odd-even formula for hearing cases||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10Adopting odd-even formula for hearing cases, the Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday scaled down its functioning to almost half following the outbreak of the Covid third wave.An order issued this evening made it clear that three Division Benches would function daily.The Benches headed by Justice Augustine George Masih, Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao would function on “odd” dates such as first, third and fifth.The Benches headed by Justice Ajay Tewari, Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice G.S. Sandhawalia would function on even dates such as second, fourth and sixth.The first Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli would hold Court every Monday, Thursday or any other day.The order also made it clear that five Single Benches would hear civil matters and writ petitions, and 13 Benches would take up criminal matters during the odd dates. On even dates, four Single Benches would hear civil matters and writ petitions, and 13 Benches would take up criminal matters  The order was passed “keeping in view the upsurge of Covid-19 cases in the States of Punjab, Haryana and Union Territory Chandigarh, the government advisories and with a view to ensure the safety of the Judges, advocates, staff and litigants”.It followed recommendations by a special committee in consultation with the Additional Solicitor-General of India, Advocates-General of Punjab and Haryana, UT senior standing counsel and public prosecutor, and the president of the Senior Advocates Bar Association, along with president and secretary of the High Court Bar Association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/covid-19-punjab-and-haryana-hc-adopts-odd-even-formula-for-hearing-cases-360020
10-01-2022||---||Covid surge: Markets in Mohali to close at 8 pm||Mohali, January 10In view of the sudden spurt in Covid positive cases, the district administration has ordered that non-essential shops shall remain opened till 8 pm.District Magistrate Isha Kalia issued these order in exercise of powers conferred under Section 144 of CrPC, 1973 and National Disaster Management Act, 2005, in continuation of earlier orders dated January 4 and 8, 2022.The order further stated that all shops and vehicles/persons dealing in essential commodities such as food, medicines, milk and milk products, poultry, etc., shall be exempted. Further, there shall be no restriction on the movement of raw materials finished goods, personnel, etc related to the manufacturing of pharmaceutical drugs, including vaccines and medical devices, diagnostic testing kits, etc.Whereas, the district is still observing a continuous surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases and as per Covid-19 report of January 10, it has been observed that the positivity rate has increased to 25.15 per cent.The order further stated that all other conditions of earlier orders will remain the same. Any violations shall invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Indian Penal Code, 1860.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-surge-markets-in-mohali-to-close-at-8-pm-360018
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||At 967 new Covid-19 cases, Chandigarh records its highest ever single-day spike||Chandigarh recorded 967 new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a health bulletin showed on Monday—the highest cases the city’s recorded since the pandemic began in 2020.The UT’s been recording higher rates of infection since last week—the UT’s added 2,895 new cases since Thursday. The rise is primarily fuelled by the highly transmissible Omicron variant.The positivity rate shot up to 23 per cent from 14.36 per cent a day ago.Chandigarh now has 3,253 active cases—a 489 per cent rise since Wednesday.  The UT recorded 236 hospitalisations and 25 people are on ventilator beds, the bulletin showed. The UT recorded one more death—a 68-year- man who suffered from hypertension, cardiac problems, and diabetes who was brought dead to GMSH in Sector 16 and tested positive later.Here’s a list of hospitals and beds available in the city||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-967-new-covid-19-cases-chandigarh-records-its-highest-ever-360011
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 8 more owners of immigration firm in the dock||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-more-owners-of-immigration-firm-in-the-dock-359787
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Two hockey players selected for training camp in Bengaluru||In a proud moment for Chandigarh, two local hockey players – Dhapa Devi and Palak – have been selected for the national junior women’s training camp at National Centre of Excellence (NCOE), Bengaluru. The camp will be held from January 17 to January 29.In a letter to Hockey Chandigarh, Hockey India executive director RK Srivastava said, “A selection trial will also be organised on the last day to prune the strength of players and those, who are not selected, will be released from the camp.”“Selected players will continue their training,” he added. Both players have been playing for the UT under the banner of Chandigarh Hockey Academy. “I am confident that they will make it to the final list of players,” said Alpinder Singh, hockey coach, UT Sports Department. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-hockey-players-selected-for-training-camp-in-bengaluru-359784
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Naishaa of Maharashtra emerges winner in sub-junior ranking badminton tourney||Maharashtra’s Naishaa Kaur Bhatoye registered a brilliant comeback win over Delhi’s Anwesha Gowda to bag the girls’ U-15 title, on the concluding day of the First Ashwani Gupta Memorial All India Sub- Junior Ranking Badminton Tournament at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Sector 3, today.Naishaa lost the first game 17-21, but only to register 21-14 21-16 return in the title clash. Delhi’s Vansh Dev stunned top seed Devang Tomar 21-13 21-6 to win the boys’ U-15 final. In the boys’ U-15 doubles final, Bjorn Jaison and Aathish Sreenivas PV defeated Sanrekh Kumar Chaurasia and Kapil Salouniya 21-13 22-20.Medhavi Nagar and Baruni Parshwal won the girls’ U-15 doubles title by defeating Tanvi Reddy Andluri and Durga Isha Kandrapu 21-15 21-19.In the U-17 mixed doubles final, Mayank Rana and Palak Arora registered a 21-8 21-13 win over Bhargav Ram Arigela and Pragati Parida. Rakshitha Sree S won the girls’ U-17 final by defeating Aishani Tiwari 21-18 21-17. The pair of Suryaksh Rawat and Aanya Bisht won the U-15 mixed doubles final by defeating Ritom Howbora and Bhavishya Changmai 18-21 21-19 21-19.In the girls’ U-17 doubles final, Navya Kanderi and Rakshitha faced a tough resistance from Palak Arora and Unnati Hooda before recording a 23-25 21-11 21-19 win.In the boys’ U-17 final, top seed Sanskar Saraswat defeated third seed Numair Shaik 21-9 21-13. Divyam Arora and Mayank Rana won boys’ U-17 doubles title by logging a 21-14 21-17 win over Nicholas Nathan Raj and Tushar Suveer. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/naishaa-of-maharashtra-emerges-winner-in-sub-junior-ranking-badminton-tourney-359781
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||Birth anniversay of Guru Gobind Singh celebrated at ITBP Basic Training Centre, Bhanu||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gurpurb-celebrated-359780
10-01-2022||---||Zirakpur: Residents of face long power cuts||Zirakpur, January 9Residents faced long power outages as the supply played hide and seek for the fourth day today.Parts of Baltana, Gazipur, Dhakoli and other areas are going powerless for hours daily at a time when work from home and online classes are the order of the day. Residents said the outage began around Tuesday and continued till Sunday evening.Himanshu Mishra, a student of Class IX and resident of Govind Vihar, said, “With long power outages, it is difficult to attend online classes. Once laptop and mobile phone batteries are discharged, there is no way to charge them again till power supply is restored.”For employees who are working from home, it is frustrating. “Most of the times you have to sit for long hours. If there is no power, how will we work,” said Ipsita Thakur, a Gazipur resident.At the same time, outages in the peak winter season has left everyone out in the cold. “In summer, officials of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) say outages are due to overloading. In winters, bad weather becomes a ruse. One thing is clear, PSPCL is not delivering despite charging the highest rate per unit in the country,” said Deepinder Mor, a retired government official.PSPCL officials said due to bad weather, supply was disrupted for sometime but “we are promptly attending to the complaints and ensuring uninterrupted supply”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/residents-of-zirakpur-face-long-power-cuts-359779
10-01-2022||---||International fellowship for two Chandigarh lawyers||Chandigarh, January 9The National Institute of Military Justice (NIMJ) based at Washington DC in the United States has invited two law professionals from the city as international fellows.While Major Navdeep Singh, a lawyer practising in the Punjab and Haryana High Court, has been constituted an international fellow for his contribution to constitutional and military law, the fellowship has been conferred upon Shruti Bedi of the University Institute of Legal Studies, Panjab University, for similar contribution to constitutional and criminal law.The NIMJ is an American non-profit organisation founded in 1991 dedicated to the fair administration of justice in the armed forces and improving public understanding of military justice.Both have remained active in the legal field and research and have authored several books. “March to Justice: Global Military Law Landmarks” and “Arrest and Detention in India: Law, Procedure and Practice” were recent books edited by Navdeep and Shruti, respectively, which were released last month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/international-fellowship-for-two-city-lawyers-359778
10-01-2022||---||Central Railway earns highest ticket checking revenue of  Rs144 crore||Chandigarh, January 9The Central Railway, for the first time achieved 7 million tonnes loading in a month, amounting to the best ever monthly loading by surpassing the previous best of 6.96 million tonnes in March 2021.So far, 770 trips of Kisan Rail ran from January to December in 2021. A total of 900 trips have been operated since inception of Kisan Rail.Number one position of Railways is continuing from June 2021 in parcel earnings of Rs229.92 crore from April to December. AchievementsThe Railways earned the highest ever ticket checking revenue of Rs144.23 crore from April to December 2021.Stating its vision for the year 2022, the Central Railway is looking at upgrading the infrastructure on Neral –Matheran Light Railway, more FOBs, lifts, escalators, AC local services, Deccan Queen Express new LHB rake and electrification of sections Jejuri - Shenoli (158 RKM), Kurduwadi – Latur (190 RKM), Mohol – Dudhani (91 RKM) and Lonand – Phaltan (26 RKM) are targeted to be completed in New Year.Highlighting the achievements during the year 2021, the Central Railway stated that it had worked on the extension of 44 Andheri services to/from Goregaon (All Andheri services extended to and from Goregaon), increase in morning peak hour services on fourth corridor and introduced 12 AC EMU services on harbour line.In 2012, the Central Railway attached 166 additional coaches (AC-3 Tier, Sleeper and General second class) to various trains for 1,054 trips, ran 1,742 special trains on various occasions like summer holidays, festival holidays etc. and provided 13 more foot over bridges (FOBs). There are a total of 319 FOBs on Central Railway and 125 escalators and 86 lifts.Now, the Wi-Fi facility covers 379 stations on Central Railway.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/central-railway-earns-highest-ticket-checking-revenue-of-144-crore-359774
10-01-2022||Chandigarh||History-sheeter held for burglary in Chandigarh||A 26-year-old youth, who is already facing 16 criminal cases, has been arrested for committing a theft at a house in Mani Majra.The suspect, identified as Gaurav Saini, alias Gora, a resident of Ram Darbar, has been arrested by a team led by Inspector Neeraj Sarna, Mani Majra SHO.The police said Mintu had reported that on January 6, he had gone to the market. When he returned home, his wife told him that a thief had entered their house and bolted the door from inside.The police were informed following which a team reached the spot and nabbed the suspect. The police said a pair of silver anklets, gold earrings and 15 toe rings were recovered from him.He was produced before the court on January 7 and sent to two-day police custody. The police said Gaurav had 16 cases of burglary, theft, robbery, snatching, rioting, attempt to murder, etc, registered against him in Chandigarh. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/history-sheeter-held-for-burglary-359771
10-01-2022||---||Five killed in accidents in Chandigarh tricity||Chandigarh, January 9A woman pedestrian died after being hit by a truck.According to the police, Amit Kumar reported that his mother, Lakhmina Devi, was hit by a truck while it was reversing at Raipur Khurd. The victim was rushed to the PGI where the doctors declared her dead on arrival.The police said the truck driver, Surender Kumar, a native of Rajasthan, had been booked at the Mauli Jagran police station. He was arrested and later released on bail.Bike rams into stationary truck, rider diespanchkula: A motorcyclist died after his two-wheeler collided with a parked truck on the Majri Chowk flyover on Saturday night.The victim, identified as Joni (35) of Mahadev Colony in Surajpur, failed to spot the truck as its parking lights/indicators were switched off and crashed into the vehicle.The victim, along with his brother Ashok Kumar (47) who was riding a separate bike, was on his way back home from Zirakpur.The victim was taken to the Civil Hospital, Sector 6, where the doctors declared him dead on arrival, says the FIR.A case has been registered against the unidentified truck driver under Sections 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 5 police station.Biker dies in hit-and-runzirakpur: A man was killed in a hit-and-run accident on the Patiala road on Sunday. The police said they received information that a motorcyclist was injured in an accident near the Adda Jhungian bus stop on the Patiala road. He was rushed to the GMCH-32 where he died.The police have kept the body in the mortuary of the GMCH-32 for the next 72 hours. Investigating officer Jaswinder Singh said a case had been registered against the absconding driver.Scooterist, cyclist killedMohali: A scooterist (27) died after being hit by a vehicle near Aerocity H-Block. He has been identified as Sneh Ankur of the Mona Greens housing society, VIP Road. The victim was coming from Mohali to Zirakpur. In another hit-and-run case, a cyclist was crushed to death under the wheels of a speeding truck near Ghanauli. The deceased has been identified as Rupan Mahto, a native of West Bengal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-killed-in-accidents-in-tricity-359770
10-01-2022||---||7.83L people to vote in 3 Assembly constituencies of Mohali, says DC||Mohali, January 9A total of 7,83,228 voters in three Assembly constituencies in Mohali district will exercise their franchise in the elections scheduled to be held in the state on February 14.Divulging details, District Election Officer and Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia said among the total voters, 4,10,318 were male, 3,72,867 female and 43 transgender. She said a total of 902 polling booths would be set up in the district.As per the election schedule, a notification would be issued on January 21 after which nomination papers could be filed till January 28. She said the scrutiny of papers would be held on January 29 and nominations could be withdrawn till January 31.SSP Navjot Singh Mahal and ADC Komal Mittal were among those present on the occasion.Isha Kalia said the model code of conduct was in force in the district and as per the order of the Election Commission of India, there was a complete ban on any kind of roadshow, pilgrimage, bicycle, bike or vehicle rally and procession till January 15.Kalia said static surveillance teams and flying squads had been formed in the district to conduct the election process in a free and fair manner. She said any disturbance during the election could be reported on the cVIGIL mobile application through pictures and action would be taken on the report by the administration within 90 minutes.The District Election Officer said special arrangements had been made in view of the Covid pandemic. She said all political parties had been directed to strictly adhere to the Covid protocol. In addition, sector health regulators had been appointed to ensure compliance by political parties. She said 100 per cent vaccination of the polling staff would be ensured and political parties were also urged to ensure 100 per cent vaccination of their polling agents.She said after the implementation of poll code, orders had been issued for immediate removal of advertisements, hoardings, banners, etc, put up by various political parties.SSP Mahal said 48 inter-state barriers had been set up in the district to check the flow of illicit liquor, cash and anti-social elements from the neighbouring states.Banners, hoardings removed in Dera BassiDera Bassi: With the Election Commission of Indian announcing February 14 as the date of polling in Punjab, Dera Bassi Municipal Council officials today swung into action and removed political hoardings, banners put up at various places in the town.The civic body workers, in a special drive today, removed a large number of political hoardings and banners from the Barwala road, Haibatpur road, bus stand, Issapur road, Gulabarh road, college road and other places.Local leaders of various parties had put up hoardings and banners in different parts of the town, marking their presence.Prior to the code of conduct, the hoardings and banners were put up flouting the civic body rules, but no action was taken against the violators. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/7-83l-people-to-vote-in-3-assembly-constituencies-of-mohali-says-dc-359768
10-01-2022||Prevention is  better than cure||Open house: What steps should Chandigarh take to ensure strict enforcement of Covid-compliant behaviour?||Big gatherings whether religious or political should be banned. Strict action is needed against violators of the Covid norms. Persons in high positions should set an example for others by following protocol like wearing face masks and maintaining distance. Follow the mantra prevention is better than cure.Bharat Bhushan SharmaZero tolerance towards negligenceTricity is witnessing spike in Covid positive cases. To overcome the situation, apart from setting up more care centres in the city, the UT Administration must enhance and streamline vaccination drive as booster dose for many senior citizens and persons with comorbidities is due from the second week of January. There must be zero tolerance towards negligence in enforcing Covid appropriate behaviour. RPS Chopra, ChandigarhHealth, Police depts must check violationsPeople should be alert and cautious about coronavirus. They should follow norms and guidelines. The Administration should educate public regarding harms of virus. No permission should be given for holding any type of rallies and fairs. Social gathering should be avoided. All offices, banks and hospitals should not attend people, who are not vaccinated. Joint teams of health and police departments should check violation of norms and impose fine on defaulters. Patients should visit hospitals only in emergency. Sumesh Kumar Badhwar, MohaliEnsure Covid guard is not compromisedThe unprecedented surge in active cases suggests that we have not learnt any lessons from the first and second Covid wave. Political rallies, road shows, thanks-giving processions and other public functions are being organised sans the scantiest fear of the variant. The Administration is not taking cognizance of those wearing without masks and throwing social distancing and other norms to the winds. People flock to various hill stations caring a cuss for the grave situation. Simply by slapping Covid curbs, shutting schools, colleges and other educational institutions or allowing only vaccinated individuals to visit public places will serve no useful purpose. The UT Administration needs to ensure strictest enforcement of Covid compliant behaviour to save precious lives. Those jumping the fence must be taken to task by imposing heavy fines and awarding strictest punishment, including jail for habitual violators. The dispensation may also rope in sector welfare committees and NGOs to spread the ground message across the city.  Ramesh K Dhiman, ChandigarhStop people from crowding placesCovid cases are on the rise. People are ignoring safety protocol. All must wear masks and follow social distancing norm. People have to be stopped from crowding places. Work from home should be the norm. Government offices with public dealings should switch to virtual mode. People should venture out of homes only when required. We all need to work together to win over the pandemic.Dr Rajeev Kumar, ChandigarhPrevention lies in hands of publicThe government and healthcare authorities can only provide necessary resources to treat infection, but prevention lies in hands of the public. Looking at the present scenario, all must understand their responsibilities and take precautions themselves and other safe.Charu malhotra, MohaliWhy politicians don’t follow safety normsTotal negligence of the Covid norms has catapulted Omicron variant from bottom to top. When big politicians address election rallies without wearing face mask and violate norms then how can media blame people not adhering to Covid protocol? Politicians should be questioned why they don’t adhere to norms first? Capt Amar Jeet (retd), KhararEach can play a role  in preventing spreadThe UT Administration should ban gathering at public places. The police should be accountable for imposing safety norms. Public places should be monitored sharply for violations. Only fully vaccinated people should be allowed to enter public places. Beneficiaries in 15-18 age group must be encouraged to get vaccinated. Though headlines have sometimes sent conflicting messages, health researchers agree that protective measures currently in place, such as stay-at-home orders, as well as the key practices well known to all, will help flatten the curve. Vineet Gandhi, ChandigarhUT administration late in imposing curfew I wonder why the Chandigarh Administration reacts later than Haryana and Punjab Governments in enforcing lockdown. With the UT taking slower or baby steps in enforcing such rules here one can well imagine how people from neighbouring states will eat, party and spread the pandemic in City Beautiful. The lake was a like a circus on the New Year eve where crowds thronged eateries and other attractions with total disregard to following safety norms. The situation is similar near the PGI, General Hospital-16 or other sectors, with no law enforcement officials taking any interest in ensuring that basic rules are complied with. Bhupinder Singh Virdi, ChandigarhStart giving booster doses to beneficiariesCovid cases are rising alarmingly . The Chandigarh Administration should start giving booster doses. Besides stepping up vaccination drive the authorities should start issuing challans for not wearing masks. Random checking at places like Apni Mandis and markets should also be started.Sapna Sharda, ChandigarhAim for 100 per  cent vaccinationAs we know that after New Year, there has been a steep rise in Covid cases. Tricity has been reporting more than 100 positive cases on daily basis. All must adhere to safety protocols and follow CAB (Covid appropriate behaviour). We should maintain cleanliness,  wear face mask and follow social distancing norm. Also, the authorities should aim on achieving 100% vaccination of eligible age groups. Sanidhya Bhaskar, JalandharBooster dose impact after few weeksFor achieving quick results, the UT Administration should ensure that all people at public places wear mask properly and maintain social distancing to control the spread of the deadly disease. The impact of vaccination of 15to 18 years age group and booster doze will be felt after some weeks.  Prevention is always better than cure. Avoiding Covid appropriate behaviour will make vaccinated people victims of the disease.  It seems that the local authorities are not paying any heed to Central advisory.KC Rana, ChandigarhLockdown is not  the solutionNeed of the hour is to be strict on adopting preventive measures rather go in for lockdown. Lockdown has already affected people financially, economically and physically. Public must be educated to wear mask in public places.  Also keeping social distance while standing in queues and frequently sanitising hands should become a habit. Lastly, the authorities must ensure compulsory vaccination, which should be free of cost, for beneficiaries. Help of NGOs and other social organisations must be taken to ensure compliance of safety norms.Col TBS Bedi (retd),  MohaliClose Sukhna Lake for public in eveningsIt is essential  in the wake of increasing coronavirus cases to control and manage places where large crowds are gathering. Restricting crowds in public offices to those with double vaccination is welcome, but it is meaningless if same restrictions are not applied at Sukhna Lake and malls. The lake must be closed to the public in evenings when large crowds surface. Morning walkers, who are fully vaccinated, should be allowed to visit lake. Where is ‘always ready to challan’ Chandigarh Police when people are flouting Covid appropriate behaviour with impunity?Gurnoor Grewal, ChandigarhImpose fine on defaultersTo realise the severity of the present situation, fine must be imposed on defaulters as this will be a lesson for others to follow Covid guidelines. This will also ensure effective implementation of the safety protocol by all stakeholders, including government, non-government organisations.Dr Shakha Sharda, ChandigarhThere is no room  for complacencyIt is highly intriguing to observe that a large number of defaulters continue to flout the Covid appropriate behaviour in the City Beautiful amidst cops on duty. While one presupposes that Chandigath residents are qualified enough to realise the folly of not meticulously following the MHA mandated guidelines, but sadly the situation on ground zero reveals entirely different yet grossly worrisome scenario. It is strongly felt that the UT Administration must first bring its own house in order. Any laxity on the part of cops towards the strictest enforcement of the Covid related guidelines, ought to be dealt with in some exemplary manner. Those residents found violating norms must be dealt with sternly. Mere imposition of a meagre Rs500 fine does not seem to be having any positive impact on defaulters. It must be enhanced to Rs5,000. Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaResident, too, have moral dutyThe third wave of Covid-19 is imminent. Rather it has started showing its signs as daily cases are on the rise. Firstly, all need to realise the fact that we have to learn to live with the pandemic. But this doesn’t mean that Covid appropriate behaviour should go for a toss. A proper roadmap comprising detection of the disease, vaccination and following Covid guidelines is must. Though, it is the primary duty of the government to safeguard lives of citizens, residents too have a moral duty of following all guidelines issued from time to time. Only collective efforts of the government, enforcement agencies and the people can help in tackling this situation. Hope that third wave will abate soon.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, SangrurSituation aggravated due to Lack of will  The reason why the UT Administration failed in enforcing Covid protocol is lack of will. Just announcements and appeals are ineffective especially when ‘netas’ are seen without masks and draw crowds for rallies. Postponement of elections, imposing heavy fines on defaulters and deploying police personnel to check violations at public places might prevent surge in the pandemic. The public complacency compounded with government’s carelessness will otherwise have dire consequences.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhSelf-restraint will make the differenceDespite repeated appeals to residents to strictly follow the Covid-19 protocol, including wearing mask, maintaining social distance at public places and frequently washing hands, there are still many defaulters, who derive some sort of sadistic pleasure in flouting these norms. Since there is hardly adequate manpower with the enforcing agency to apprehend them, these violators go scot free thereby spreading Covid further. Although restrictions imposed by  the  UT Administration in curtailing the number of people at public places and allowing entry of only fully vaccinated might help to some extent, it is the self-restraint and discipline to strictly follow norms  will only make the difference.SC Luthra, ChandigarhKeep Round-the-clock vigil on defaultersThe Chandigarh Administration should enforce safety protocol strictly. The police should keep a round-the-clock vigil on people, who don’t follow Covid appropriate behaviour. The police should penalise violators and put them behind bars for few a few days.MR Bhateja, NayagaonSwitch to online modeHeavy penalty should be imposed on defaulters for violating Covid-19 protocols. Social distancing norm is not being followed in health centres and dispensaries where beneficiaries are vaccinated. Masses must feel the gravity of the situation and adhere to safety protocols. Movement outside homes should be restricted to urgent work only. Educational institutions and offices should switch to online mode.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliRestrict access to public amenities There should be restriction on access to public amenities and government benefits such as ration and pension for those, who don’t get vaccinated. If implemented more people come forward to get vaccinated. But it does not mean people can move freely in public places. All must continue to follow guidelines. Fully vaccinated people should also take precautions to protect themselves and others. Anita Tandon, KhararAggressive testing, tracing needed It’s really a worrisome situation to witness increasing Covid cases in the tricity during the last few days. With opening of almost all economic activities across the country, public has become complacent towards virus. All need to be extra cautious. Wearing mask and maintaining social distance is the need of the hour. While discipline on following Covid-19 guidelines is expected from the public, the UT Administration has to be more aggressive on testing and tracing along with pushing the vaccination drive vigorously.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliCoordination between government, residents Violators of Covid protocol only understand the language of penalty and punishment. They must be dealt with strictly. Imposing restrictions is easy, but implementing these is hard. No vaccination, no mask and no entry should be the norm. Residents have to be self-disciplined when it comes to following safety protocol. Politicians must act responsibly. Lone government cannot check the spread of virus. Coordination among government agencies, residents, NGOs and RWAs can help in such a grim situation.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaRestrictions not good for peopleThe UT Administration must ensure that masks are available free of cost. Imposing restrictions on common people is not a fair decision. Rather violators of safety norms must be challaned. Hospitals should be upgraded. Experts must hold online awareness camps to convince people follow Covid appropriate behaviour. Avinash Goyal, ChandigarhAdopt odd, even formula for shopsThe Administration shouldn’t have allowed any political rallies/gatherings during the Municipal Corporation elections. Just allowing fully vaccinated people to enter public places can’t guarantee that Covid cases won’t surge. Rather, the Administration should encourage people to do their work online from home. Don’t challan people in busy markets for not wearing masks. Punish them openly. Also the fine should be doubled. The Administration must adopt even/odd formula for opening shops and enhance their closing time.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhRemain vigilant, don’t lower guardThe Covid third wave has knocked at our doors. Large number of people turning positive of late in the tricity has forced the Administration to impose night curfew along with other restrictions to control the spread of the virus. New Omicron variant has made us realise that the Covid-19 scare is still a reality. People should act responsibly and get their second vaccine dose at the earliest.  Door-to-door vaccination should be started by the UT Administration. Facilities should be ramped up and also sufficient hospital beds may be identified, in case the need arises. Covid appropriate behaviour should continue to be adhered by all everywhere. Any violation of the same should be penalised. Only fully vaccinated persons should be allowed in all public places. Political leaders should act as role models rather than publicly flouting all existing norms. Election rallies should be banned. No one knows about the future of this virus. So, we have to remain vigilant and should not lower our guard at any cost.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhQUESTIONIn order to check the steady rise of Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh, what further restrictions should be imposed by the UT Administration without impacting people’s livelihood?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-what-steps-should-ut-take-to-ensure-strict-enforcement-of-covid-compliant-behaviour-359765
10-01-2022||---||Inspect dumping site, waste plant, Chandigarh Mayor urges Administrator Banwarilal Purohit||Chandigarh, January 9A day after winning the election to the post of Mayor, Sarabjit Kaur today met Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit to request him to inspect the dumping ground and the waste processing plant.She said it was the main reason that the city slipped to 66th rank in the swachhta ranking. She, along with Senior Deputy Mayor Dalip Sharma, Deputy Mayor Anup Gupta and city BJP leaders, met the Administrator.“He has accepted our request and will inspect the two sites this week,” said city BJP president Arun Sood, who, along with former chief of the party’s city unit Sanjay Tandon, was present at the meeting.Purohit assured them that the Administration would do the needful to provide relief to the city from the garbage dump. The three newly elected leaders also met Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and took his blessings.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/inspect-dumping-site-waste-plant-mayor-urges-purohit-359759
10-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Questions raised over 'chinks' in Chandigarh AAP||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 9Questions are being raised over bickering in the city AAP, which is the single largest party in the MC House, after its defeat in the mayoral poll.According to sources, Anju Katyal, the mayoral candidate of AAP, was a choice of city president Prem Garg who enjoys the support of senior leader Harmohan Dhawan, while Prem Lata, a former Congress leader, was the choice of ex-Congress president and current city AAP co-incharge Pardeep Chhabra, for the post of Senior Deputy Mayor .Ram Chander Yadav, the party’s choice for the post of Deputy Mayor, was a neutral candidate. He tied with Anup Gupta of the BJP 14:14, but lost in a draw of lots.While Garg and Dhawan belong to the same group, Chhabra is from another faction. Earlier, due to alleged infighting, the party’s election committee chairman Chadermukhi Sharma had gone silent during the MC poll, but later came on board.“Owing to one-upmanship and polarisation in AAP, cross-voting happened. After our mayoral candidate lost the poll due to a ballot paper ‘deliberately’ marked with a tick, the other group also ensured the defeat of the party candidate for the post of Senior Deputy Mayor by cross-voting. Since the candidate for the post of Deputy Mayor was a neutral candidate, there was a tie,” alleged a party leader preferring anonymity. “In the coming days, infighting will grow among the councillors and it may come out in the open,” he added.However, some AAP leaders feel otherwise. They feel the one who cross-voted may have been offered something or he or she may have some personal grudge.Denying any infighting as the reason for the party’s defeat, Garg said, “It may be someone’s personal thing, but not due to groupism at all.” Chhabra also denied infighting in the party and said, “We will hold a meeting tomorrow to find out who and why cross-voted.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/questions-raised-over-chinks-in-city-aap-359756
10-01-2022||Mohali||One succumbs to Covid in Mohali||One person succumbed to Covid in the past 24 hours in the district, taking the number of deaths to 1,077. The deceased was a 70-year-old resident of Zirakpur. He was admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh.Meanwhile, the district logged 766 cases of Covid, the highest single-day count after over seven months. A maximum number of 716 cases were reported on May 18 last year. A total of 71,717 cases have been reported in the district, of whom 68,064 have been cured. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-succumbs-to-covid-in-mohali-359754
10-01-2022||---||Covid vaccine booster shots available from today in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, January 9Covid vaccine booster shots will be available in the city from Monday for persons aged 60 years and above with comorbidities, along with healthcare and frontline workers.According to the UT estimates, the targeted population of 60 years plus with comorbidities is 15,600, while the number of healthcare and frontline workers is 26,237 and 22,438 respectively.Before getting the booster shot, the Health Department has asked persons aged 60 years and above with comorbidities to consult their physician. However, there is no need for any doctor’s medical advice in writing to get the booster dose.There must be a gap of nine months (39 weeks) from the date of administration of the second dose for the booster dose. As the vaccine for booster dose will be the same as the first and second dose, the Covishield vaccine will be used in Chandigarh.The beneficiaries can get the dose at the vaccination centre for persons aged 18 years and above. They will be given preference at all such centres over the persons coming for the first or second dose.The Healthcare workers and Frontline workers will get the dose at special counters or centres in the PGI GMCH-32, GMSH-16 and in Civil Hospitals (Sector-22, Sector-45 and at Mani Majra).Besides, police personnel will get the booster dose at the Police Hospital in Sector-26, and the staff of the Municipal Corporation will receive the shot at the camp organised in the MC office, Sector 17.The city has inoculated 25,509 children with the first dose (35.43% of the targeted population). UT Adviser Dharampal has directed the Health Department to vaccinate all eligible children with the first dose before Republic Day. The department has formed 11 more teams to be deputed at 33 places, including seven health facilities and 26 schools. The second dose has been given to 95.61 per cent targeted population of 18 years and above. The deadline for 100 per cent double dose coverage is January 14.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/booster-shots-available-from-today-359753
10-01-2022||Amit Bathla||Every 5th person tested in Panchkula found +ve for Covid||Tribune News ServicePanchkula, January 9Every fifth person who underwent the Covid test in the district was found positive today.At the positivity rate of 19.78 per cent, the district reported 418 cases, increasing worries for the local health administration. On January 1, the Covid-19 positivity rate stood at just 1.63 per cent. It went up to 4.92 per cent on January 3 and 8.45 per cent on January 5. The positivity rate was recorded at 11.7 per cent on January 7.Positivity rate indicates the percentage of people who test positive for the virus compared to those who have been tested for it.As the cases continue to rise, the number of daily samples has also increased in the district.From January 2 to January 8, the district tested as many as 14,360 samples at an average of over 2,000 samples a day. On two occasions, the district crossed the 2,500 mark in daily sample collection.Civil Surgeon Mukta Kumar said the highly contagious Omicron variant was the main reason for the rapid rise in positivity rate. “Despite a high rate of transmission, hospitalisation is low this time,” she said.On sampling capacity, she said they could process a maximum of 2,500 samples a day at the local lab.As active caseload reaches near the 1,500 mark, the district continues to focus on increasing the number of Covid care centres in the district. So far, six centres have been set up. According to the district administration, these centres can accommodate up to 260 patients, but their capacity can be increased if there is a need.These centres are Jatayu Yatrika near Mansa Devi temple (25 beds), Community Centre in Sector 12 (40 beds), Community Centre in Sector 21 (35 beds), Government College in Kalka (60 beds), the Government College for Women in Sector 14 (50 beds) and Swami Devi Dayal Engineering College in Barwala (50 beds).‘Set up Covid care centres away from residential areas’Meanwhile, the Citizens’ Welfare Association, an apex body of local residents, has put up resistance against setting up of isolation centres in residential areas as “it creates a fear of transmission in the minds of those living nearby”.“After the Community Centre in Sector 12 was converted into a Covid care centre, area residents can’t live freely due to the fear of transmission of the virus. I request Health Minister Anil Vij and Vidhan Sabha Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta to instruct local authorities to set up Covid care centres away from residential areas,” said SK Nayyar, president of the association.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/every-5th-person-tested-in-pkula-found-ve-for-covid-359751
10-01-2022||Naina Mishra||87% Covid patients fully vaccinated||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 9More than 85 per cent of the patients, who tested positive since January 6, have been found fully immunised against Covid-19, which is in sync with the growing evidence that the Omicron variant is better at circumventing vaccinated peoples’ immunity than other Covid variants.Of 1,928 Covid patients testing positive since January 6, 87 per cent (1,696) were fully immunised and 92 patients had received the first dose.Prof Mini P Singh from the PGI Virology Department said, “Studies have shown Omicron extensively but incompletely escapes vaccine neutralisation. Antibodies of people double-vaccinated with any of the four most widely used vaccines, Moderna, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson, were significantly less effective at neutralising the Omicron variant compared to the ancestral virus. Antibodies from previously infected individuals were even less likely to neutralise Omicron.”“The breakthrough infection rate by Omicron is more than Delta due to immune evasion capability. However, more data are needed to know if Omicron infections, and especially reinfections and breakthrough infections in people who are fully vaccinated, cause more severe illness or death than infection with other variants,” the Professor added. Prof RK Ratho, Head of Department of Virology, in his latest literature review under “Omicron – new SARS-CoV-2 variant of concern mounting worldwide fear” had also stated, “The spike protein gene is the target of most of the currently available vaccines, therefore this variant may have a greater potential to escape prior immunity than the previous Delta variant. The prime concern over the current vaccines is their decreasing effectiveness against Covid-19 over a period.”Even as the Omicron variant is capable of escaping vaccine-induced immunity, experts have pointed out that the Covid vaccines are not intended to stop the transmission and reduce the severity and hospitalisation.A noted epidemiologist, Dr Chandrakant Lahariya, said, “Although by definition, breakthrough infection means infection with a virus after the person is vaccinated, the Covid-19 vaccine does not work to stop the person from being infected and rather it reduces the disease severity. In the second wave, the majority of our population was unvaccinated against covid-19; as a result, there were fewer breakthrough cases. However, the most population is vaccinated now, and Omicron is highly infectious, which is why there are more number of vaccinated persons testing positive.”Dr Rajeev Jayadevan, Scientific Adviser, said, “Vaccine escape is common for Omicron. There are published data from Western nations that after six months, there is very little protective effectiveness of all conventional vaccines against infection. However, protection against hospitalisation and serious disease did not decline. In a population that is highly vaccinated, a large percentage of people with Omicron will have been vaccinated, but that does not mean that vaccine is not effective.”City logs 666 casesChandigarh: The city on Sunday reported 666 new cases of Covid-19, a 23 per cent up from the cases recorded a day before, taking the cumulative number of infections to 68,421. The positivity rate stood at 14.36 per cent as 4,637 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The number of active cases rose to 2,364, up from 1,794. The death toll remained at 1,080 as no new fatality due to the virus was reported. A total of 96 patients recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours. TNS418 fresh cases in PanchkulaPanchkula: Panchkula logged 418 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday, taking the number of active cases to 1,447 in the district. Only 35 of them are hospitalised. The overall case tally reached 32,666. The death count remained 382. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/87-covid-patients-fully-vaccinated-359750
10-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Record January rainfall in Chandigarh since 2017||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 9Just nine days of this month have witnessed the highest rainfall in January in city since 2017 and the month is likely to break the record of over a decade.According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, a total of 114.1-mm rainfall has been reported in Chandigarh from January 1 to 9. It is a record as before this it was in 2017 that more rain was witnessed in January. In 2017, the month recorded 132-mm rainfall.The all-time record of January rainfall is 166.36mm reported in 1983. Normal rainfall, however, this month is 33 mm. The weathermen cited active western disturbances as reason for the rainfall above normal.“There were two western disturbances this month, one from January 4 to 6 and the other from January 7 to 9. Both were very active. This trend has been seen in the whole north,” stated Manmohan Singh, Director, Chandigarh Meteorological Department.Rain not likely in a weekAfter a few rainy days, it is not likely to rain, at least, in a week. According to the weathermen, it is likely to be a partly cloudy sky on Monday. The next three days are expected to have a clear sky.“There is no forecast of rain, at least, in a week. The weather is expected to remain dry and there will be thick fog. There are chances of cold wave sweeping the area. In the coming days, minimum temperature will drop, but day’s temperature will rise,” added the director.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/record-jan-rainfall-in-city-since-2017-359749
10-01-2022||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh reports 666 new Covid-19 cases||Chandigarh on Sunday reported 666 new Covid-19 cases up from 541 cases recorded a day earlier to take the cumulative number of infections to 68,421.The number of cases saw a 23 per cent increase on Sunday.The number of active cases has risen to 2,364, up from 1,794 a day before.The death toll remains 1,080 as no new death was reported.A total of 96 patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed seven days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.A positivity rate of 14.36 per cent was recorded as 4,637 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.A positivity rate of 12.54 per cent has been recorded in the last seven days an average of 337 cases were recorded.As many as 64,977 people have been cured till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-666-new-covid-19-cases-359709
