11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Retail buyers banned from Chandigarh's Sector 26 grain market||​​Chandigarh administration has restricted entry into the grain market in Sector 26 to fully-vaccinated vendors.A new order issued on Tuesday from the administration bans retail buyers from entering the market. The order says vendors entering the market must be fully vaccinated. The order came after the deputy commissioner of UT, Chandigarh, visited the market.“The other activities of wholesale sale/purchase activities should continue,” a press release issued from the administration said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-retail-buyers-banned-from-chandigarhs-sector-26-grain-market-360375
11-01-2022||Tribune Web DeskChandigarh||Chandigarh records 801 new Covid cases, 2 fatalities||Chandigarh reported 801 new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from the union territory’s administration said on Tuesday.Chandigarh’s active cases now stand at 3,924—a 700% rise from last Tuesday.The UT also recorded two deaths—a fully vaccinated 55-year-old woman who had suffered from a seizure disorder and a 60year-old man who had only one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Its total fatality count now stands at 1,083.Some 3,446 samples were taken for testing. Chandigarh’s positivity rate stood at 23.24 per cent on Tuesday—marginally higher than a day ago.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-801-new-covid-cases-2-fatalities-360368
11-01-2022||---||Cold wave, cold day conditions, dense fog in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh over next couple of days||New Delhi, January 11Cold wave and cold day conditions along with dense to very dense fog during night/morning hours are very likely over Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh over the next couple of days, the IMD has said.According to the weather office, cold wave conditions in isolated pockets is very likely over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh during January 13 to 15 and also over northeast Rajasthan during around the same periodCold day conditions can also be expected in isolated pockets over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, West Uttar Pradesh, north Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat state over the next two days.Dense to very dense fog is also likely over parts during night/morning hours in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi, Uttar Pradesh over the next four to five days; and in north Rajasthan and north Madhya Pradesh during the next two days.Meanwhile, two fresh western disturbances will also affect the Northwest, first on January 16 and second on January 18 which are expected to cause precipitation over Western Himalayan Region and light/scattered rainfall over adjoining plains, the IMD said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cold-wave-cold-day-conditions-dense-fog-in-punjab-haryana-and-chandigarh-over%C2%A0next-couple-of-days-360336
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court adopts odd-even for hearing of cases||Adopting the odd-even formula for hearing cases, the HC today scaled down its functioning to almost half following the fresh outbreak of Covid. An order issued this evening made it clear three Division Benches would function daily.The Benches headed by Justice Augustine George Masih, Justice Tejinder Singh Dhindsa and Justice MS Ramachandra Rao will function on “odd” dates such as first, third and fifth.The Benches headed by Justice Ajay Tewari, Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice GS Sandhawalia will function on even dates such as second, fourth and sixth. The first Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli, will hold court every Monday, Thursday or any other day. Five Single Benches will hear civil matters and writ petitions, and 13 Benches will take up criminal matters during the odd dates. On even dates, four Single Benches will hear civil matters and writ petitions. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-adopts-odd-even-for-hearing-of-cases-360134
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Charmi Gopinath logs easy victory||Charmi Gopinath defeated fourth seed Hannah Nagpal in straight sets 4-1, 4-2 in a girls’ U-18 second round qualifying round match of the ITF World Tour Tennis Juniors (Grade-2) Tournament at the Sector 10 CLTA Complex today.Kotistha Modak also recorded an easy 4-2, 4-0 win over Gauri Mangaonkar.In the boys’ U-18 category, top seed Manas Dhamne defeated Adhirit Awal 4-1, 4-0 and second seed Vineeth Mutyala blanked Tarun Korwar 4-2, 4-2. R Senthil Kumar also registered an easy 4-1, 5-3 win over Shivaraj Chandan, while Jasmeet Duhan ousted seventh seed R Sundararaman 4-0, 0-4 (10-3). Krish Tyagi overpowered Debasis Sahoo 4-0, 4-2 and Monil Lotlikar beat Akarsh Gaonkar 4-1, 5-4 (5). Bhushan defeating Rishivandhan Sadeeshkumar 4-1, 4-2 and Deep Munim thrashed Saharia Choudhary 4-1, 4-1. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/charmi-gopinath-logs-easy-victory-360124
11-01-2022||Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma supports truckers||Local MLA NK Sharma today came in support of the protesting trucker unions. He stated the Shiromani Akali Dal-BSP alliance would solve the problems faced by the transporters after the formation of the SAD-BSP government in the state.Sharma said a Transport Welfare Board would be set up with a fund of Rs25 crore. It would formulate policies for the welfare of transporters. The transporters’ unions would be reinstated.The truckers are demanding the restoration of unions that were dissolved by the Congress government in 2017. The union members, who have been on protest since the start of December 2021, said they were in dire straits as there were no official rates and the annual hike of 5-6 per cent was also not being implemented.Sharma said coordination committees would be set up to safeguard the interests of trade and industry. “A one-time settlement scheme for payment of taxes and arrears will be implemented. All transport policies would be formulated in consultation with the unions,” he said. Accidental, health insurance facility up to Rs10 lakh would also be provided. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dera-bassi-mla-supports-truckers-360123
11-01-2022||---||AAP stands exposed in Punjab, says Congress||Mohali, January 10Sitting MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, while reacting to the allegations levelled by leaders of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) against their party high command for selling the ticket, said this had exposed the party in Punjab.Sidhu said Kulwant Singh, AAP candidate from Mohali, first betrayed the Akali Dal and then the Congress which had made him the Mayor. People responded to his act of shifting sides by defeating his Azad Group in the Municipal Corporation elections last year. He alleged Kulwant joined hands with the AAP to fulfil his personal interests.The MLA said he entered the election fray on the basis of development works carried out in Mohali during the past five years.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-stands-exposed-in-punjab-says-congress-360122
11-01-2022||Sanjay Bumbroo||SAS Nagar: Little action, problems aplenty||A Congress bastion with a unique place due to its history and proximity to Chandigarh, the SAS Nagar Assembly constituency has been grappling with civic issues for past several years. So much so, these now dominate the discourse here.SAS Nagar, popularly known as Mohali, was given the status of a district in 2006. Residents continue to wage a lonely battle against encroachments, sanitation and stray animals. A senior leader Satnam Singh Dhanoa says politicians instead of making tall promises in the run-up to the elections should first try to provide basis amenities to residents.The Baba Banda Singh Interstate Bus Terminal is yet to be made fully operational. In May 2012, the MC had assured the High Court of acquiring 13 acres near Dera Bassi for a waste dumping site, but the promise remains unkept. Authorities have identified 4,000 encroachers, but are yet to issue any notice.Locals’ key demandsPast trendThe district was carved out of areas falling in Ropar and Patiala as 18th district on April 14, 2006. Congress’ Balbir Singh Sidhu won from SAS Nagar constituency in 2012 and and 2017 Assembly elections. In 2007 polls, he had won from the Kharar constituency.Electorate strengthTotal voters: 2,34,113Male: 1,22,146Female: 1,11,958Third gender: 9||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/sas-nagar-little-action-problems-aplenty-360121
11-01-2022||---||Mohali markets to close at 8 pm||Mohali, January 10In view of a spurt in Covid cases, the district administration has ordered that non-essential shops shall remain open till 8 pm only.District Magistrate Isha Kalia issued these orders in exercise of powers conferred on her under Section 144 of the CrPC, 1973, and the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, in continuation of her earlier orders dated January 4 and 8, 2022.All shops and vehicle/persons dealing in essential commodities such as food, medicines, milk and milk products, poultry, etc, shall be exempted. There shall be no restriction on the movement of raw materials finished goods, personnel, etc, related to the manufacturing of pharmaceutical drugs, including vaccines and medical devices, diagnostic testing kits, etc.Any violation shall invite criminal proceedings under the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code, 1860.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-markets-to-close-at-8-pm-360120
11-01-2022||---||Panjab University to issue fresh Covid guidelines||Chandigarh, January 10Panjab University (PU) Covid task force has recommended fresh guidelines for the students and faculty members on the campus amid rising cases in Chandigarh.A meeting of this committee was held today. Sources said the members unanimously decided to issue fresh guidelines. The recommendations have been sent to the office of the Vice-Chancellor for his approval.“Though no major decision was taken by the committee, it has been decided to issue fresh guidelines for all students and faculty members. Discussions on conducting semester examinations and opening of the campus were also held. However, no final decision was made by the authorities. The recommendations of the committee have been sent to the Vice Chancellor’s office for final approval,” said a source.As per the latest orders, the university authorities have decided to function with 50 per cent staff till further orders. The same is also applicable to the teaching departments.“The offices shall function with 50% office staff strength. The remaining non-attending 50% staff shall work from home under the instructions of their controlling officers and they shall remain available through e-modes, including, telephone, e-mail, videoconferencing, etc. Officers of the level of Office Superintendent and above shall attend the office on a daily basis. The head of the offices concerned shall devise a roaster for the same,” read the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-issue-fresh-covid-guidelines-360119
11-01-2022||Mohali||AAP will announce its Punjab CM face soon, says Harpal Singh Cheema||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) received a shot in the arm as many prominent persons joined the party with their hundreds of supporters today.A senior leader of the party, Harpal Singh Cheema, along with Kulwant Singh, AAP candidate from Mohali; Neena Mittal, AAP candidate from Rajpura, welcomed them to the party. Cheema said the party would announce its CM face for the Punjab Assemble elections soon.Among those who joined AAP today were Davinder Pal Singh Walia (former ADC) from Patiala, Harpreet Singh (halqa president of YAD) from Amloh, YS Matta (former Judge), Hardeep Singh Bangal (District Bar Association president) from Muktsar Sahib, Gurdeep Singh (district general secretary of SAD) from Ludhiana, Baljinder Singh Babbi (district general secretary of the Youth Congress) from Bathinda Rural and Sohan Singh Bawa (former district president of the BSP) from Mohali, besides many others.Addressing the media, Cheema slammed the Congress government for wasting taxpayers’ money on false advertisements.Refutes allegations over ticket distributionDenying the allegations of double-dealing in ticket distribution by AAP, Cheema said some people had personal and selfish agenda in politics and when their plans failed, they start a blame-game. Cheema claimed that AAP had given 80 per cent ticket to its core volunteers and it was the only party to do so. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-will-announce-its-cm-face-soon-says-harpal-singh-cheema-360118
11-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||13 years on, watchtower at Sukhna Lake yet to be reconstructed||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10As the UT Administration decided to facelift the island in the Sukhna Lake for attracting tourists, the Chandigarh Rowing Association (CRA) opposed the move. Gutted in a major fire on October 7, 2009, a four-storey watchtower at the island was an iconic structure of Chandigarh. It was set up in the early 1980s at the time of the Junior Asian Rowing Championship.The tower was not only used to keep a watch across the entire lake but had also helped the CRA to become eligible for hosting many national and international championships.It was a boon for rowers as well, since it allowed them to practise on a 2-km stretch of the lake under the supervision of experts. The rowers have been demanding the reconstruction of the watchtower on the island for 13 years.“It was one of the best international rowing courses in India. And it has been destroyed due to the non-caring attitude of the UT Administration. The 2-km rowing course was reduced to 1 km. We have written enormous letters to the UT Administration, but to no avail. The iconic ‘watchtower’ was one of the main components for the rowing fraternity here. It helped us to become eligible for hosting international and national championships,” said Rajiv Sharma, Secretary, CRA.“Since 2019, we have been awaiting the reconstruction of the ‘watchtower’. The Administration has entire premises to come up with activities for attracting tourists. The Administration is not even bothered about purchasing wireless sets for our rowers. Through the watchtower, we were not only able to have a clear view of the patch, but also easily communicated with officials. The Administration, before making the Sukhna Lake a mere ‘tourist spot’, should also think of players.”  Plans for facelift of islandThe Administration has floated tenders to engage consultants for providing consultancy for design, manufacture, supply, erection, testing and commissioning of floating musical fountains, a laser-show system and RGB lighting at the Sukhna island (in synchronisation). Sources claimed the tender value is approximately Rs10 lakh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/13-years-on-watchtower-at-sukhna-lake-yet-to-be-reconstructed-360116
11-01-2022||Sanjay Bumbroo||Project to decongest Airport Road, Mohali and Chandigarh-Zirakpur road hits hurdle||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 10A 32-km alternative greenfield alignment road to decongest the airport road in Mohali and the Chandigarh-Zirakpur road has hit the roadblock as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has put the project on hold due to a protest by farmers over the land compensation issue.The NHAI authorities said the greenfield road would decongest the Chandigarh-Zirakpur road by providing an alternative route to traffic coming from Delhi and going to Jammu and Kashmir, and Himachal Pradesh. The NHAI will acquire about 400 acres in 28 villages. The cost of the project is about Rs700 crore. The NHAI had finalised the company which will carry out the project.According to sources, the project had been put on hold even though the district administration had written to the NHAI for enhanced compensation. The sources said the amount ranged from Rs 24 lakh per acre to Rs 4.12 crore per acre depending on the land, whether outside the MC limits or inside.Last year, the NHAI had released Rs 450 crore to acquire 400 acres for a 32-km road, an alternative greenfield alignment, from the IT Chowk (PR-7) near the Chandigarh International Airport to the Kurali-Chandigarh road, crossing the Devi Nagar and Nagiari villages.Gurdev Singh, District Revenue Officer, said they had written to the NHAI with regard to compensation about three months ago, but they were yet to get a reply.‘Farmers’ demand financially unviable’A senior NHAI official said the enhanced compensation demanded by farmers was not financially viable for the NHAI and the project had been put on hold for now. The NHAI had written to the authorities concerned for scrapping the project and their approval was awaited.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/project-to-decongest-airport-road-hits-hurdle-360114
11-01-2022||---||3 held for attacking family in Mauli Jagran||Chandigarh, January 10The UT police have arrested three persons for allegedly attacking a family at a house in Mauli Jagran.According to the police, complainant Baljit Singh of Mauli Jagran village alleged that Sumit, Akash, Sukhwinder Singh and others attacked him and his family with sticks and stones. The police were informed following which a case was registered at the Mauli Jagran police station.Later, Sumit, a resident of Mauli Jagran village, and Akash Dubey and Sukhdwinder Singh, alias Subhjeet, both residents of Panchkula, were arrested.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-held-for-attacking-family-360112
11-01-2022||---||Chandigarh: Financier booked in another case||Chandigarh, January 10Property dealer-cum-financier Ram Lal Chaudhary, who was arrested by the UT police in November last year for allegedly duping a Gurugram resident of Rs 5 crore, has been booked in another case for allegedly duping a Ludhiana resident to the tune of Rs 85 lakh on the pretext of getting his son acquitted in a murder case.According to the police, complainant Teja Singh reported that in 2012, his son Barinder Singh was arrested in a murder case.In 2014, the complainant, through Jarnail Singh, came in contact with Ram Lal.The complainant alleged that Ram Lal assured him of getting his son acquitted and demanded Rs1.20 crore.The complainant allegedly gave Rs1.10 crore to Ram Lal on January 9, 2014, in the presence of Ram Lal’s daughter, Ranjit Singh, Karamjeet Singh and Jarnail Singh. The complainant made a video while handing over the money.He alleged that even after six years, Ram Lal didn’t get his son acquitted. When the complainant asked for his money, the suspect returned only Rs25 lakh. However, he failed to return the rest of the money.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/financier-booked-in-another-case-360111
11-01-2022||Dera Bassi||Dera Bassi: Close shave for 30 as pickup gets stuck in waterlogged underpass||Around 30 migrant labourers, including children, women and elderly, had a close shave today when the pickup truck they were travelling in got stuck in a waterlogged railway underpass near Janetpur.Panic gripped the passengers as the water level submerged the tyres of the pickup truck completely and they raised the alarm. Residents of a nearby village rescued the passengers and towed the vehicle with a tractor to avert a major incident.Eyewitnesses said the area was not well lit, which compounded the problem. The driver of the pickup truck, which had a UP registration number, did not notice the slush and was trying to take the Chandigarh-Ambala highway at night. The passengers were on their way to different parts of UP.Localites said the underpass used to get waterlogged with slush during rain and accidents were a common sight here, but the railway authorities and the administration officials were unmoved. The underpass got flooded on rainy days due to lack of drainage system, they complained.Former sarpanch Balbir Singh said despite the long standing demand, no arrangement was made for the drainage of water. “There is no provision of light due to which people coming from outside get trapped. The authorities concerned should make permanent arrangement for drainage of rainwater at this underpass,” he said. — TNS‘Officials apathetic’||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/close-shave-for-30-as-pickup-gets-stuck-in-waterlogged-underpass-360110
11-01-2022||Panchkula||Fly Menace: Teams to keep check on poultry units in Barwala, Raipur Rani||To tackle fly menace in the Barwala and Raipur Rani areas, Deputy Commissioner Mahavir Kaushik has constituted six teams, with each having five members.These teams will ensure regular spray of insecticides, conduct surprise checks and challan poultry farm owners violating guidelines.There are around 100 poultry farms in 40 villages of the two blocks.Kaushik issued these orders after presiding over a meeting with representatives of poultry owners.In the meeting, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Deputy Director Anil Banwala apprised the DC of the fly menace in both blocks.He said there had been clear instructions to poultry farm owners to spray insecticides four times a year, but on several occasions, it was done only two times. “The irregularity keeps the problem alive, the brunt of which is faced by village residents,” Banwala added.From now on, the newly constituted teams will prepare a schedule to check documents pertaining to insecticide purchase by poultry farm owners and further conduct raids to ensure its timely spray.Haryana State Pollution Control Board Regional Officer Virender Punia and Raipur Rani Tehsildar Virender Gill were among those present in the meeting.A special task force committee constituted by the then DC Vinay Pratap Singh last year had issued notices to 16 poultry farms for irregularities found in the wake of a complaint by an animal husbandry team. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fly-menace-teams-to-keep-check-on-poultry-units-in-barwala-raipur-rani-360108
11-01-2022||---||Chandigarh Administrator Banwari Lal Purohit to visit dumping ground on January 14||Chandigarh, January 10Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwari Lal Purohit will inspect the garbage dumping ground and the waste processing plant on Friday, said Mayor Sarabjit Kaur.“Today, we got the confirmation that he will come on Friday,” she said.The Mayor had yesterday met him with the request to inspect the site.She said it was the main reason behind the city slipping to the 66th rank in the swachhta rankings.Purohit had assured her that the Administration would do the needful to provide relief to the city from the garbage dump.At present, the Municipal Corporation is in the process of setting up a new technology at the waste processing plant. Bio-mining of the waste at the dumping ground is already on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/banwari-lal-purohit-to-visit-dumping-ground-on-january-14-360106
11-01-2022||---||56 parks set to get a makeover in Panchkula||Panchkula, January 10The local Municipal Corporation has decided to initiate beautification of public parks with over 1-acre area to give them a new look and feel. Of the 276 parks that are under the jurisdiction of the MC, 56 parks will be redeveloped under the new plan. The revamp process will begin with parks in Sector 6 and 20.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said MC officials had already been told make the design ready for the makeover of the parks. “These parks will be redeveloped on the lines of parks in European countries. The newly designed parks will have modern and human friendly facilities, water bodies, hard surface walking tracks, synthetic jogging tracks and badminton courts,” he said.At one corner of the park, a playing area for kids and open-air gym would be developed, Goyal said, adding that residents would have an advantage to indulge themselves in sports and other recreational activities near their homes.Lamp-posts and decoration lights would be installed along the walking track, he added.Of the total parks in the MC area, 241 parks are managed by park development committees that include representatives of the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs).Every year, the civic body pays around Rs3 crore to these committees for the maintenance of public parks.In June last year, the MC, at its General House meeting, had increased the rates for park development societies.While the rates for parks up to one acre were enhanced from Rs3 to Rs5 per square metre, for parks measuring over one acre, it was increased from Rs3 to Rs4 per square metre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/56-parks-set-to-get-a-makeover-in-panchkula-360105
11-01-2022||---||Traders raise pending issues with Chandigarh Adviser Dharam Pal||Chandigarh, January 10Seeking redressal of the issues pending for years, members of the Chandigarh Business Council today called on UT Adviser Dharam Pal.Council president Chander Verma said they apprised the Adviser of various issues, which had not been addressed in spite of the fact that they had given representations for the past 15-20 years.He said the main issue was the conversion of leasehold properties into freehold units. “This is a long-pending demand of the citizens as half of the area of Chandigarh is sold on leasehold basis. We are demanding to get the properties freehold since 1990 onwards. Converting properties into freehold units will enable the owners get loan from banks and other financial institutes. At the same time, the government will earn huge revenue in the shape of conversion charges as well as stamp duty,” he said.The other issue discussed with the Adviser was reduction in collector rates of all properties.They informed the Adviser that the collector rates are very high in Chandigarh, as compared to the adjoining states. The original value of properties in the city is much lesser than their collector rates. A property on Madhya Marg was available for Rs18 crore, but its collector rate was above Rs30 crore, Verma said and requested the Administration to reduce the collector rates by at least 30 per cent so that transactions can take place.The Adviser reportedly assured them that these rates would be reduced at the next annual revision. Traders also demanded one-time settlement of VAT cases on the Punjab pattern and issuance of completion certificate of buildings online.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/traders-raise-pending-issues-with-ut-adviser-360103
11-01-2022||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali Municipal Corporation to rebuild 33 bus queue shelters||Tribune News ServiceMohali, January 10The Municipal Corporation (MC) House today passed a resolution to reconstruct 33 bus queue shelters in the city, which would bring a revenue to the tune of Rs1 crore in the form of advertisement fee.The resolution was passed in a virtual House meeting held under the chairmanship of Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu. Senior Deputy Mayor Amrik Singh Somal and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi were present in the meeting. The councillors attended it online.Divulging details, the Mayor said the present contractor had the right to advertise till March 25, 2022. The contractor had to submit a licence fee of Rs2,516 per month per bus queue shelter in addition to the construction and maintenance of the shelters at his own cost. He said as per the government directions, the work had to be allotted through an e-auction.Jeeti Sidhu said under the resolution passed by the MC House, the reserve price for advertisements on 33 bus queue shelters was Rs25,000 per month per shelter, which amounted to Rs1 crore per annum.The second resolution proposed to send 697 sanitation employees for work in various areas of Mohali and to cancel the contract for manual sweeping.A sanitation branch, in a report, stated that Lion Services, a company, was awarded the contract of sanitation since 2015. The duration of this work was extended from time to time. The contract was extended till February 14 this year, by a House resolution passed on November 7 last year, on a condition that if the process of recruitment of sanitation employees was done before three months and the tender process for mechanical sweeping was completed, the contract would be terminated.After the recruitment of sanitation employees, a resolution has now been passed to terminate the contract for manual sweeping. The MC needs 40 more employees for the work of manual sweeping in Mohali. Hence, it was decided to extend the contract for the work of cleaning of toilets till new recruitment was done.In addition, during the ongoing process of awarding new contracts for the maintenance of parks, approval was given to extend the tenure of the current contractors and also to increase the maintenance cost paid to them by 25 per cent.In another important resolution, the MC Commissioner was given the power to settle the objections raised regarding the extended limits of the civic body. Municipal Commissioner Kamal Garg will address these objections and send a report to the Local Government Department.Move to raise annual revenue by Rs 1 cr||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-municipal-corporation-to-rebuild-33-bus-queue-shelters-360102
11-01-2022||Dera Bassi||35-year-old dies in accident on Chandigarh-Ambala highway||Bags containing brass stolenChandigarh: As many as 67 bags containing brass weighing 4,020 kg and CCTV DVR were stolen from a shop in the Industrial Area, Phase II. On a complaint of Harvinder Singh Khanna, a case has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. TNSUIET Workshop concludesChandigarh: An Indo-UK partnership development workshop on "Solar pump-based village micro grids - potential for tackling the energy/water/food nexus in Punjab" concluded at the UIET, Panjab University. The workshop deliberated on developing methods to promote the uptake of solar irrigation pumps under the constraints of relatively high capital costs and a current regime of free or highly subsidised electricity for grid connected pumps. TNSMaid arrested on theft chargeZirakpur: The police registered a case of theft against a maid who worked at Vasant Vihar colony. The Dhakoli police arrested her with the stolen money. Shivani Patni had stated that she had hired a domestic help, Poonam, who stole Rs40,000 from the house in the past few days. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/35-year-old-dies-in-accident-360100
11-01-2022||Mohali||SUV taken away at knifepoint on Siswan-Baddi road||Five unidentified youths forcibly took away an SUV from a Sector 47 resident at knifepoint on the Siswan-Baddi road on the night of January 8. Complainant Ravi Sharma, a businessman, was coming from Baddi to Chandigarh with his friend when five unidentified car-borne youths waylaid him. One of the youths snatched the keys of the vehicle at knifepoint and pushed him away. The snatchers fled with the vehicles towards Majri.The victim took the help of a passerby to reach the police station. A case under Sections 379-B and 34 of the IPC has been registered at the Mullanpur police station. Mullanpur SHO Simarjeet Singh said, “A case has been registered. The police are working on the case and arrests are likely to be made soon.” The police said the suspects were in the 25-30 age group. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suv-taken-away-at-knifepoint-360098
11-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Auto driver held on rape charge||A 27-year-old auto driver has been arrested by the UT police for allegedly raping a woman passenger on Sunday night. He has been identified as Jagdev, alias Upinder, a resident of Daria village.The police said the victim was abandoned by the suspect near the Haryana Mini-Secretariat. Security personnel noticed her and informed the police. The victim said she had come from Delhi to meet a friend residing at Mauli Jagran. However, her friend was not at home following which she came to the railway station from where she hired an auto for the ISBT, Sector 17.On the way, the auto driver drove the victim towards a secluded place near the Haryana Mini-Secretariat and raped her.The police registered a case at the Sector 17 police station. The auto driver was later arrested. He was produced before a court, which sent him to judicial custody. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auto-driver-held-on-rape-charge-360097
11-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation gets boost, UT sanctions its final grant of Rs 125 crore||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10The final grant-in-aid (GIA) of Rs 125 crore for the cash-starved Municipal Corporation for the current fiscal has been sanctioned by the Finance Department of the UT Administration.With this, the civic body has got its entire approved GIA of Rs500 crore. It has already got a total of Rs375 crore in the first three quarters.In view of the rising Covid cases, there was some doubt that the GIA of the corporation may see some cut, but that has not happened. An additional Rs2 crore under the Swachh Bharat Mission was already received at the start of this financial year.“The Finance Department has sanctioned our fourth quarter grant of Rs125 crore. In two days, we will receive it,” said an MC officer.The amount will mainly be used in paying salaries and other unavoidable expenses in January, February and March. The civic body spends about Rs45 crore per month on salaries and other unavoidable expenses.An official said some amount would be left for development works. With not enough funds in its kitty, new development projects or renovation of the community centre and public toilets may get hit.However, the official said there was no need to worry as for the development of roads and villages, additional funds had already been sanctioned. For implementing the 24X7 water supply project, Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL) had about Rs402 crore loan from French firm Agence Française de Développement (AFD) and Rs96 crore grant from the European Union.The corporation had passed a Rs670-crore deficit Budget for the 2021-22 fiscal in anticipation of getting the GIA as per the Fourth Delhi Finance Commission recommendations. However, it could not get its long-pending demand fulfilled.To be used in paying salariesThe amount will mainly be used in paying salaries and other unavoidable expenses in January, February and March. The civic body spends about Rs45 crore per month on salaries and other unavoidable expenses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-gets-boost-ut-sanctions-its-final-grant-of-rs-125-crore-360096
11-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh Municipal Corporation likely to withdraw water tariff hike||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10City residents are likely to get some relief as the water tariff hike, which is presently on hold till March this year, is likely to be permanently withdrawn.New Mayor Sarabjit Kaur, who took charge today, told Chandigarh Tribune, “In view of the current Covid situation and to provide relief to residents, we will bring an agenda to withdraw the water tariff hike decision at an MC House meeting this month.”MayorspeakIn view of the current Covid situation and to provide relief to residents, we will bring an agenda to withdraw the water tariff hike decision at an MC House meeting this month. Sarabjit Kaur, MayorThe Mayor today met the UT Adviser and the Finance Secretary regarding various MC issues, including the water tariff. “I requested Adviser Dharam Pal ji to reduce the water rates after March as well. He asked us to get an agenda approved in the House. We will do that,” she said. If the MC approves it, the matter will go to the UT Administration for final approval.In September 2020, after House approval, the UT Administration had notified an increase in the water tariff between 50 per cent and 200 per cent, depending upon the category of user and the water consumption level.However, after facing criticism from the public and the Opposition, the MC General House had later passed a resolution in October 2020 with a request to the Administration to withdraw the notification and levy the existing charges till the pandemic was over.Following this, the UT Administration had decided to hold back the hike in the water tariff till March this year, citing the pandemic. However, the sewerage cess, which was raised to 30 per cent of the total bill, was not reduced though the House had approved its reduction.The civic body collects about Rs90 crore per annum as water charges, but spends about Rs225 crore on maintaining water supply to nearly 1.8 lakh consumers. With a hike in the water tariff, the MC was expecting to earn Rs60 crore."We also requested the Adviser to transfer the Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) to the MC so that its revenue can be used to fill the gap in the water expenditure," the Mayor said. She also sought the support of the Administration in improving the swachhta rankings.Hike was notified in Sept ’20In September 2020, after House approval, the UT Administration had notified an increase in the water tariff between 50 per cent and 200 per cent, depending upon the category of user and the water consumption level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-municipal-corporation-likely-to-withdraw-water-tariff-hike-360094
11-01-2022||---||Tepid response on Day 1: 955 get booster shot in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, January 10The response to the booster dose remained low on the first day as only 955 beneficiaries turned up for it. Among them, 82 were frontline workers, while 362 were healthcare workers. Among the elderly, 511 beneficiaries took the precaution dose.According to UT estimates, the target population of 60 years plus with comorbidities is 15,600, while the number of healthcare and frontline workers is 26,237 and 22,438, respectively.There has to be a gap of nine months (39 weeks) from the date of administration of the second dose for the booster dose. As the vaccine for the booster dose is the same as the first and second dose, the Covishield vaccine is being used in Chandigarh.The beneficiaries can get the dose at vaccination centres for persons aged 18 years and above. They will be given preference at all such centres over persons coming for the first or the second dose.Schools warned over vaccine wastage at campsThe UT Health Department has issued a warning to principals of government schools not to waste vaccine doses and ensure that students are informed about vaccination drives at schools.Special vaccination camps are being arranged at schools in close coordination with the Education Department. The department has observed that in some schools, many students were not informed by the school authorities about the vaccination camps and the vaccination was quite low, which resulted in wastage of precious resources of the Health Department. UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg wrote to all heads of government schools stating that, "Though the ongoing Covid vaccination is voluntary, it is our duty to inform each and every eligible child about the available option of vaccination. All principals of schools (government and private) in Chandigarh are directed to inform all students enrolled in their schools (in the age group of 15 to 18) about the available option of vaccination. In case of non-compliance with these directions, appropriate action will be taken against them under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897."127 given precautionary dose in MohaliMohali: A total of 127 booster doses were administered to eligible beneficiaries in the district on Monday. As many as 86 beneficiaries in the 60-plus age category were given the booster dose while 11 frontline workers were also jabbed. In the healthcare category, 30 were jabbed. In Dera Bassi, 21 beneficiaries were administered the booster dose. In the 15 to 18 age group, 1,462 vaccinations were done, taking the overall count to 7,977. As many as 5,523 got the first dose today in the district, while the second dose was administered to 4,216. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tepid-response-on-day-1-955-get-booster-shot-in-chandigarh-360093
11-01-2022||---||Panchkula positivity rate a whopping 42.10%||Panchkula, January 10The positivity rate in the district — the percentage of Covid tests that are positive — reached a record-breaking 42.10 per cent today. The district logged 344 fresh Covid cases – lower than yesterday due to a significant drop in sample collection.The active caseload shot up to 1,622, of which only 41 are hospitalised (2.52 per cent).The number of recovered persons rose to 31,006.Yesterday, the district had recorded 418 cases at a positivity rate of 19.78 per cent.How the positivity rate has progressed in the districtOn January 1, the Covid-19 positivity rate stood at just 1.63 per cent. It went up to 4.92 per cent on January 3 and 8.45 per cent on January 5. The positivity rate was recorded at 11.7 per cent on January 7.‘Not a realistic picture’“The positivity rate doesn’t present a realistic picture because we didn’t have an accurate denominator with lesser number of tests. The positivity rate went up above 42 per cent because we had less testing on Sunday and only those people who were symptomatic turned up for testing. Generally, we conduct around 2,500 tests each day, but on Sunday, we could only conduct less than 900 tests due to bad weather conditions,” said Dr Mankirat Murara, a spokesperson for the Health Department.602 beneficiaries get booster doseAs many as 602 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the precautionary dose in the district as booster doses were rolled out on Monday. Among them, 245 were healthcare workers, three were frontline workers and 354 were above the age of 60 with co-morbid conditions. Overall, the district vaccinated 6,823 people — 3,103 with the first dose, 3,118 with the second dose and 602 with the precautionary dose. The first dose coverage is 108.5 per cent, while the second dose coverage stands at 98.2 per cent.6 Covid care centres set upAs Covid cases continue to head north, the local administration has set up six Covid care centres across the district. However, residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) have put up resistance against setting up of isolation centres in residential areas. Meanwhile, the health administration said things were still under control as hospitalisation was significantly lower this time than the previous waves of the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-positivity-rate-a-whopping-42-10-360092
11-01-2022||Naina Mishra||The silver lining — Only 4.1% patients in hospital||Tribune News ServiceChandigarh, January 10Only 4.1 per cent of the patients currently infected with Covid-19 are hospitalised in Chandigarh, while the remaining 95.9 per cent are in home isolation.Of the 3,253 active cases in the city, 135 patients are hospitalised, while 3,072 are in home isolation and 46 are in Covid care centres.Sufficient manpower to tackle surgeAt present, our hospitalisation rate is very low. We have sufficient manpower and infrastructure for the surge. Dharam Pal, UT AdviserThis is in contrast with the deadly second wave when at least 15 to 20 per cent patients were hospitalised in the city at any point in time. The city had first reported nearly 900 cases on May 10 (last year) when there were 8,653 active cases and 15 per cent of them were hospitalised.Confirming similar hospitalisation trends, the Centre on Monday wrote to states and union territories that “5 to 10 per cent of the active Covid cases this time so far needed hospitalisation but the situation is dynamic and may change rapidly. Therefore, the need for hospitalisation may also change rapidly.”Of the 430 Covid oxygen beds in city hospitals, 209 were occupied by Covid patients and nine more patients were on ventilator beds. However, it is worth mentioning that Chandigarh has not reported a single death due to Covid-19 since January 5 and only one patient succumbed to the disease last month.UT Adviser Dharam Pal said, “At present, our hospitalisation rate is very low. We have sufficient manpower and infrastructure for the surge. However, my only concern is regarding the comorbid and elderly population, which will be at risk of developing serious illness due to Covid.”Meanwhile, in order to prepare for the worse, the UT Health Department has asked private hospitals and private oxygen refilling vendors to keep information related to bed occupancy, oxygen cylinder procurement and consumption.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said, “The number of Covid patients is increasing at an alarming speed and the situation is being closely monitored. At present, there is no need to fix the daily quota of oxygen cylinders for private hospitals in Chandigarh and to regulate refilling charges by private refilling vendors. However, it has been decided that the private hospitals and the private refilling vendors will keep details and produce these as and when required."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/the-silver-lining-%E2%80%94-only-4-1-patients-in-hospital-360091
11-01-2022||---||Chandigarh’s highest single-day spike of pandemic — 967 cases||Chandigarh, January 10The city on Monday recorded its highest single-day spike of the pandemic – 967 cases, 45 per cent up from cases recorded a day earlier to take the cumulative number of infections to 69,388.Also read: The silver lining — Only 4.1% patients in hospitalThe number of active cases has risen to 3,253, up from 2,364 on Sunday. The city also witnessed one Covid death, that of a 68-year-old man from Dadu Majra, who was brought dead to the GMSH, Sector 16. He tested positive for Covid posthumously. He had a history of heart disease, hypertension and diabetes.A total of 77 patients were discharged. A positivity rate of 23.13 per cent was recorded as 4,181 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. TNSMC Commissioner, Chief Engineer quarantinedMunicipal Commissioner Anindita Mitra and Chief Engineer NP Sharma have quarantined themselves. After her husband SK Raju, also an IAS officer, tested positive, she quarantined herself as a precaution. However, she held official meetings digitally on Monday. She also spoke to the new Mayor on the phone. Sharma said he was not feeling well since Friday and had quarantined himself.671 cases surface in Mohali, no fatalityMohali: As many as 671 cases of Covid surfaced in the district in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 72,388. No new death was witnessed, while 26 patients were cured of the disease. Among the new cases, 352 were reported from Mohali (urban), 12 from Banur, 16 from Dera Bassi, 15 from Kurali, 25 from Gharuan, 43 from Boothgarh, 118 from Kharar, eight from Lalru and 82 from Dhakoli. Of the 72,388 cases reported from the district so far, 68,090 have been cured. There are now 3,221 active cases. The death toll stands at 1,077. TNS344 fresh cases surface in P’kulaPanchkula: The district saw 344 fresh Covid cases on Monday, taking the tally to 33,010. The active caseload shot up to 1,622. The death count remained at 382. The number of recovered persons from the disease is 31,006. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-highest-single-day-spike-of-pandemic-%E2%80%94-967-cases-360090
