12-01-2022||Mohali||EC issues notice to AAP for code of conduct violation||The Election Commission of India issued notice to the Aam Admi Party (AAP) on Wednesday for breach of model code of conduct during their door-to-door campaign.A notice from Kharar’s Sub-Divisional Magistrate (SDM) Abhikesh Gupta, who serves as the area’s Returning Officer (RO), asks the party to explain their stance. The party has 24 hours to respond.  The Election Commission of India has limited door-to-door canvassing to five people.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/ec-issues-notice-to-aap-for-code-of-conduct-violation-360710
12-01-2022||---||974 new Covid-19 cases in Mohali||Mohali, January 12As many as 974 new Covid-19 cases were reported from the Mohali district on Wednesday.A total of 399 persons have recovered from the virus in the last 24 hours.Among the new cases, 394 were from Mohali urban, 254 were from Dhakoli, 177 from Kharar, 45 from Banur, 44 from Gharuan, 23 from Boothgarh, 16 each from Lalru and Dera Bassi and five from Kurali.The total positive case cases in the district are 74,065, of which 68,624 have recovered. The active cases are 4,363. The death toll in the district stands at 1,078.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/974-new-covid-19-cases-in-mohali-360692
12-01-2022||Mona||As Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui becomes the most-streamed content on OTT within 24 hours of its release, we look at how the city lives and breathes in the film||Within 24 hours of Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui releasing on OTT platform Netflix on January 7, it became the most-streamed content. As the movie goes around the world, we look at it not just from the angle of gender inclusivity but also through the lens of a Chandigarhian!While the city gets its due share in songs—Ranjit Bawa’s Yaari Chandigarh Waliye, Hardy Sandhu-Badshah’s Dila doon ghar Chandigarh mein to the original Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui sung by Hardeep Singh (remixed for the film) —the Ayushmann Khurrana-starrer brings the city’s name into a film title. While the credit for the title has often been given to Ayushmann, the actor from the city, shares how the title actually came from his other half, Tahira Kashyap, who is also a city resident. So how did this Chandigarh da munda relate to this Punjabi character? Ayushmann, himself a Chandigarh lad, may have been markedly different from Manu Munjal, but as he puts it, “In Chandigarh one often meets guys like him. You bump into such characters, for whom physicality matters the most all the time, especially at the gyms. Even during my college days, while playing cricket, I met many of his kind.”Fitness firstMany iconic landmarks of the city come alive in the cinematography by Manoj Lobo. As for the cultural inflections, the city designed by a French architect is a perfect getaway for many residents of nearby towns. No wonder Vani Kapoor, a trans-woman trying to find a new life in this very city, hails from Ambala.The film, directed by Abhishek Kapoor, justifies its title, feels choreographer Jas K Shan, whose fleeting glimpse one sees through the zumba sequences. “Though shot in Covid times, the film’s got the city feel,” she says.“From boating at Sukhna Lake to the well-maintained gardens and cycling around Leisure Valley, Chandigarh Kare Aashiqui has a feel of the city. While the title justifies the city it is set in, it is a different ashiqui that takes the cake here,” laughs comedian Ssumier S. Pasricha.“Chandigarh Kare Ashiqui has now become a folk song,” says singer Hardeep Singh, who first sang the song in the 90s. “There have been many renditions of the song, but with city actor Ayushmann starring in the film, it creates magic,” he adds.Typical flavourThe theme gets amplified in how different characters take the story forward. Over indulgent sisters taking charge of their brother’s love life to Yograj Singh as the mentor, are characters that one can well relate to if hailing from Chandigarh. “Not only one gets to see Chandigarh locales, but also witness the typical mindset. The film reflects how a typical Punjabi would react to a taboo topic,” says Jas K shan.Off-beat topicWell-known theatre director Neelam Mansingh Chowdhry says, “I felt as if the city never became a character in the film, Since there is Chandigarh in the title, I hoped for more signages. But I do like that the film talks about an off-beat topic.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/entertainment/as-chandigarh-kare-aashiqui-becomes-the-most-streamed-content-on-ott-within-24-hours-of-its-release-we-look-at-how-the-city-lives-and-breathes-in-the-film-360594
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chirag Duhan makes it to tennis pre-quarters||Top seed Chirag Duhan defeated Deep Munim in straight sets (6-4, 6-1) to move into the boys’ U-18 pre-quarterfinals in the ongoing ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-2) Championship. R Senthil Kumar registered a (6-0, 6-3) win over Iran’s Kasra Rahmani, while Japanese contender Singo Masuda defeated Anirudh Sangra (6-3, 6-0). Seventh seed USA’s Aayush P Bhat defeated Thailand’s T Boosarawongse (6-1, 6-1).Another Indian contender Aryan Shah stunned third seed Uzbekistan’s Amir Milushev by logging a (6-3, 3-6, 7-6(2)) win. Korea’s Woohyuk Chang defeated Sarthak Arora (6-2, 6-2) and Yuvan Nandal overpowered Kei Quirijns (6-1, 6-2).Shruti registers easy winTop seed Shruti Ahlawat overpowered Japan’s Honoka Umeda in straight sets. Jo-Leen Saw faced a tough competition from Ruma Gaikaiwari before registering win. Hannah Nagpal defeated Pushti Laddha, Lanlana Tararudee blanked Niyati Kukreti and Charmi Gopinath defeated Suhani Gaur in other matches. M Safi defeated Nandini Dixit. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chirag-duhan-makes-it-to-tennis-pre-quarters-360516
12-01-2022||---||Chitkara University boys emerge table tennis champs||Chandigarh, January 11Chitkara University won the North Zone Inter-University Table Tennis (Men’s) Tournament by winning all league matches.After qualifying for the league stage, Chitkara lads defeated Punjabi University, Patiala, in their first league match. Ronit defeated Naman, Jeet ousted Aranya and Raegan overpowered Ansh. In the second league match, Chitkara University ousted Jamia Millia Islamia University, Delhi. Ronit thrashed Parth, Jeet defeated Utkrist and Raegan registered win over Vaibhav. In their last outing, Chitkara University defeated Panjab University, Chandigarh. Ronit continued his performance and defeated Pawan Singh. Nikhil won the next match by defeating Shaurya and Raegan faced some resistance from Sahil Sharma before recording a victory. Punjabi University, Patiala, claimed second position, followed by Panjab University and Jamia Millia Islamia, Delhi, at third and fourth positions, respectively. A total of 44 teams from different universities participated in the event.In women’s event, Panjab University bagged the first position, while Chandigarh University and University of Allahabad claimed second and third positions, respectively. As many as 24 teams participated in this event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chitkara-university-boys-emerge-table-tennis-champs-360512
12-01-2022||Dera Bassi||Man booked for murder bid||The police have booked Prashant Gupta, a resident of Jharmari, in an attempt-to-murder case after he allegedly poured an inflammable material on his pregnant wife and set her on fire. Later, he tried to immolate himself and suffered burn injuries. The police said the woman (37) and her husband were admitted to a private hospital in Panchkula.Dera Bassi DSP Gurbakshish Singh said: “On the victim’s statement, the suspect has been booked in an attempt-to-murder case.”The police said the couple had heated arguments at their home following which the suspect poured an inflammable material on the woman and set her on fire. Raising an alarm, the victim rushed outside where neighbours came to her help.Later, they took her to a hospital. According to information, the woman has suffered 35 per cent burn injuries. The suspect also suffered similar injuries.The police said the incident took place on Saturday evening. A case under Section 307 of the IPC was registered at the Lalru police station on Sunday. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-for-murder-bid-360510
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Remove squatters from Sector 26 mandi, says Chandigarh DC||Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, along with the SDM (Central)-cum-Administrator, Market Committee, visited the sabzi mandi in Sector 26 here today.During the visit, he inspected entry/exit gates. The DC said the entry of retail customers/general public should be strictly prohibited in the mandi. Other wholesale/purchase activities should continue. The entry/exit gates will be regulated by the police and the Market Committee staff. It was further directed that squatters/ phariwalas should be removed from the mandi to discourage retail sales.The Deputy Commissioner also directed the authorities concerned to chalk out a proposal for the segregation of garbage of mandi for its appropriate disposal.CREST officials have been directed to prepare a plan/proposal in consultation with the Market Committee for garbage disposal as per the Swachhata guidelines. The site near a petrol pump in Sector 26 for installation of decomposition pits was also seen. Further action for installation of decomposition pits will be taken in the next few days.The UT recently stated that “Only fully vaccinated rehriwalas /vendors will be allowed to enter the sabzi mandi in Sector 26 and there will no entry for retail customer/general public from January 10”. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/remove-squatters-from-sector-26-mandi-says-dc-360508
12-01-2022||---||Punjab poll: Mohali cops take out flag march||Mohali, January 11The police took out a flag march in various parts of Mohali in view of the upcoming elections in the state. The flag march, which began from Phase 1, passed through various markets of the Phases and culminated at Phase 11. It also passed through Phase 3B2 to Phase 7.The flag march was led by SP (Headquarters) Ravinderpal Singh Sandhu and DSP (Special Crime) Mahesh Inder Singh. CISF officers and jawans were also part of the flag march.The police said the flag march was taken out to convey the message to the common man to maintain law and order situation in the city and report any untoward incident to the police immediately.Guidelines were issued to follow the instructions issued by the Election Commission and the District Magistrate in the Assembly elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-poll-mohali-cops-take-out-flag-march-360503
12-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Big push for pending Chandigarh Municipal Corporation works||Chandigarh, January 11In a major push to the city’s pending development works, the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs has allocated over Rs 43 crore under the toilet construction and SWM (solid waste management) components to the Municipal Corporation (MC).It has allocated Rs3.3 crore for toilet construction, Rs28.5 crore for solid waste management, Rs8.9 crore for information, education and communication (IEC) activities, and Rs4.5 crore for capacity building. The funds have been allocated for a period of five years.The MC is preparing proposals for these works to be sent to the ministry. Proposals for the solid waste management have been sent to the ministry.“The funds have been allocated and we are preparing proposals to be sent to the ministry,” confirmed MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra.It will come as a big relief to the MC which has various works pending such as renovation of toilets and removing the mountain of waste from the dumping ground.Earlier, the corporation had put on hold its project of renovating public toilets for want of funds. Besides, Rs33 crore bio-mining project at half of the dumping ground is underway. To clear the remaining half of the ground, more funds are required. With provision of funds under solid waste management, money will not be a problem with the MC now for removing the waste mountain.“For toilet construction and SWM components, the allocation of funds has been done on the basis of weighted average of urban population of states/UTs to total urban population of statutory towns, and area of state to total area of country,” read the ministry order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/big-push-for-pending-chandigarh-municipal-corporation-works-360502
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Quarantine leave only if employee tests positive: Chandigarh Housing Board||The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has decided to allow quarantine leave to its employees only if they themselves test positive or if the residence of an employee comes under the containment zone.If any Covid-infected family member is in home isolation, it cannot be the reason behind quarantine leave. In such a situation, the employee should immediately get himself or herself tested for Covid. Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHBYashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB, said it had been observed that some of the employees had quarantined themselves on the ground that one of their family members had been tested Covid positive and advised home isolation.In such a scenario, an employee would be allowed quarantine leave only if he/she had tested positive for Covid-19 or if the residence of an employee had been declared as a containment zone, said Yashpal.“If any Covid-infected family member is in home isolation, it cannot be the reason behind quarantine leave. In such a situation, the employee should immediately get himself or herself tested for Covid,” he said, adding that in case the employee was found negative, then he or she would have to attend the duty. If any employee wanted to look after the Covid positive family member, then he/she would have to submit a leave application, he said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/quarantine-leave-only-if-employee-tests-ve-chandigarh-housing-board-360500
12-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Khelo India Games postponed amid surge in coronavirus cases||Chandigarh, January 11A sudden rise in Covid-19 cases has affected the 4th edition of the Khelo India Games, scheduled to be held at Tau Devi Lal Stadium, Sector 3, in Panchkula from February 5 to 14.The event, which was earlier scheduled in November-December (2021), has been postponed till further orders. It has been postponed for the second time.Given the present circumstances, it was not possible to conduct these games. Hosting 10,000 athletes and officials from different states won’t be easy under the current circumstances. Official, Haryana Sports DepartmentAround 10,000 athletes were expected to participate in these games, scheduled to be conducted in 25 sporting disciplines. The opening ceremony was to be held on February 5. Five regional games - Gatka of Punjab, Thang-Ta of Manipur, Kalaripayattu of Kerala, Malkhamb of Maharashtra and Yogasan - were also added to the organising list.“Given present circumstances, it was not possible to conduct these games. Hosting 10,000 athletes and officials from different states won’t be easy under current circumstances,” said an official of the Haryana Sports Department, seeking anonymity.Sibananda Mishra, member secretary, Khelo India Games, said the fresh dates to organise these games would be announced soon.Even if the government had planned to create a bio-bubble for young athletes, it acquires 15-day prior notice for the teams. “We were left with only 24 days. It wouldn’t be possible for teams to reach here within the next 10 days and spend the rest of the 15 days under a bio-bubble. Creating a safe bio-bubble for 10,000 athletes and other staff members is surely not an easy task. No government can manage it in this given frame of time,” he said.Athletics meet postponedThe Chandigarh Athletics Association has postponed the State Junior & Senior State Athletics Championship due to a surge in Covid cases. The championship was scheduled to be held from January 12 to 13.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/khelo-india-games-postponed-amid-surge-in-coronavirus-cases-360499
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Immigration firm owner booked in Mani Majra||Man nabbed with opiumChandigarh: The UT police have nabbed a man with 500 gm of opium. The suspect, Ramandeep Singh, a resident of Karnal, was nabbed by cops on a patrol in Sector 29. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered. TNSMobile phone snatchedChandigarh: An unknown person snatched a mobile phone from Radhey Shyam, a Nayagaon resident. The incident took place near Piccadilly Chowk. TNSCar set on fire in Sector 20Chandigarh: A car parked in Sector 20 was set on fire by an unknown person. Complainant Vinod Kumar stated that his car, that was parked near his house, was set on fire on January 10. The police have registered a case. TNSImmigration firm owner dupes manChandigarh: An immigration company owner has been booked for allegedly duping a city resident of Rs23 lakh. The complainant, Saksham Garcha of Sector 40, alleged that he had paid the money to Gurpreet Singh Randhawa, owner of Blue Sapphire Consultants, Sector 34, in 2020 for providing a visa and work permit of Canada. He alleged that the suspect neither provided the visa nor returned the money. TNSRose Fest call at war room meet Chandigarh: There is uncertainty over holding of the Rose Festival, which is organised every year in February at Rose Garden, Sector 16. The festival is likely to be held on a symbolic note like last year in view of Covid. MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said the issue would be taken up at a war room meeting. 2 held with pistol, stolen scootyMohali: The police have arrested two suspects and recovered a stolen scooty, one country-made pistol and two live rounds from them near the Padiala bypass on the Kharar-Kurali road. The suspects have been identified as Pardeep Kumar, alias Vicky, a resident of Ambala Cantonment, and Nishant, alias Golu, a resident of Una. A case under Sections 379-B and 411 of the IPC and the Arms Act has been registered against the duo at the Kurali City police station. The suspects were produced in a court, which sent them to police custody. TNS‘Release Rs10L for X-ray machine’Chandigarh: MP Kirron Kher has asked Deputy Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh to release Rs10 lakh to Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, Chandigarh, from the MPLADS fund for purchasing a portable X-ray machine. In a letter addressed to the Deputy Commissioner, the MP stated that as third wave of Covid 19 had gripped the country, she requests to divert her MPLADS funds to purchase a portable X-ray machine for the GMSH-16. TNS2 nabbed for liquor haulAmbala: The Ambala police have arrested two persons who were booked in connection with the stock of liquor of Indian-made foreign liquor brands of the 1998 batch recovered from a closed godown at Kuldeep Nagar in Ambala Cantonment. The suspects were identified as godown owner/caretaker Gourav Gupta and liquor contractor Vicky Saini. Ambala Anti-Narcotics Cell in-charge Hamir Singh said, “They were booked for keeping stock without permission. They were produced in a court, which sent them to judicial custody.” TNSPU fencers win eight medalsChandigarh: Panjab University fencers bagged eight medals in the All-India Inter-University Fencing Championship held at Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar. The team bagged four individual and four team medals. Amit and Kajal claimed a bronze medal each in foil event, while Yashkirat Kaur Hayer bagged a bronze medal in epee event and Anya won a bronze medal in sabre event. Panjab University’s foil team — Amit, Deepak, Divesh and Harsh — claimed a bronze medal. The team of Ajay, Tarasveer, Druv Walia and Divij Khanna won a bronze medal in sabre event, whereas the team of Yashkirat, Chavvi Kohli, Ashiana and Mumtaz claimed a bronze in epee event. The team of Sanya, Shubhjot Dayal, Akashdeep and Babita claimed a bronze in sabre event.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/immigration-firm-owner-booked-360498
12-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||No anticipatory bail for accused with criminal past: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, January 11The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that an accused with criminal antecedents and tendency to commit repeated crimes does not deserve the concession of anticipatory bail. The ruling by Justice Harnaresh Singh Gill of the High Court came in a drugs case after the Bench was told that the accused was allegedly involved in three other cases under the provisions of the NDPS Act.The petitioner has a tendency of committing repeated crimes. He does not deserve concession of the anticipatory bail. In view of this, the petition is dismissed. Justice GillThe matter was brought to the notice of the High Court after the drugs case accused filed a petition against the state of Punjab and other respondents. He was seeking anticipatory bail in a case registered on November 2, 2021, under the NDPS Act.Appearing before Justice Gill’s Bench, the counsel for the petitioner submitted before the court that the accused had been falsely indicted in the present case. Giving details, the counsel added that the petitioner was proceeded against on the basis of a disclosure statement made by a co-accused. The Bench was also told that a bag containing 1 kg of heroin was allegedly recovered from the co-accused. Opposing the prayer for bail, the state counsel, on the other hand, submitted that the petitioner was a habitual offender, involved in three other cases under the NDPS Act.After hearing the parties and going through the record of the case, Justice Gill took note of the state counsel’s submission that the petitioner was involved in three other drugs cases. In his detailed order, Justice Gill added that the trial court, while dismissing his bail application, noticed that the petitioner had misused the concession of the bail granted to him. This was when he was on bail in the earlier cases. “Keeping in view the fact that the petitioner is a habitual offender, he does not deserve concession of the anticipatory bail,” Justice Gill concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-anticipatory-bail-for-accused-with-criminal-past-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-360497
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh logs 2 deaths, 801 fresh cases||P’kula sees 441 fresh casesPanchkula: As many as 441 fresh Covid cases surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 33,451. No new death was reported, while 160 patients recovered from the disease. Of the 33,451 cases reported from the district so far, 31,166 patients have been cured. There are now 1,903 active cases. The death toll stands at 382. — TNS703 cases, one fatality in Mohali Mohali: One person succumbed to Covid in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 1,078. As many as 703 fresh cases surfaced, taking the tally to 73,091, while 135 patients were cured of the virus. Among the new cases, one case came from Kurali, four from Lalru, seven from Banur, 25 from Boothgarh, 43 from Dera Bassi, 50 from Gharuan, 91 from Dhakoli, 140 from Kharar and 342 from Mohali (urban). —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-19-chandigarh-logs-2-deaths-801-fresh-cases-360496
12-01-2022||Naina Mishra||After Centre's rap, Chandigarh installs 20 ventilators handed over last year||Chandigarh, January 11After being pulled up by the Centre recently for not installing 20 ventilators sanctioned by it, the UT Administration has taken back the life-saving appliances from the PGI and installed these in its own hospitals.Earlier, the PGI had refused to install these ‘Make in India’ ventilators citing “technical glitches” in a report that assessed the quality of the ventilators. The Centre had provided 109 ‘Make in India’ ventilators to the UT during the second wave.On January 7, the Centre asked all states/UTs to install the remaining ventilators. “There is a huge gap between the number of ventilators delivered to and installed in the states/UTs. We have repeatedly requested to expedite their installation. In the wake of the recent upsurge in Covid cases, it is imperative that there is no further delay in getting the ventilators given to the states/UTs installed,” wrote Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said, “Since the 20 ventilators were lying unused at the PGI, we have taken these back. These all have been tested and successfully installed at the health facilities of the UT Administration.”At present, there are 228 ventilators in government and private hospitals in the city. Of these ventilator beds, the PGI has 65, GMCH 80, GMSH 47 and private hospitals 36. In the second wave, there were 182 ventilator beds in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/after-centres-rap-chandigarh-installs-20-ventilators-handed-over-last-year-360495
12-01-2022||---||Afghan Ambassador calls upon Chandigarh Administrator Banwarilal Purohit||Chandigarh, January 11Farid Mamundzay, Ambassador of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan to India, today called upon Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit at the Punjab Raj Bhawan.The discussion between them centered around “invigorating relationship” with Afghanistan and views were exchanged on issues of mutual interest.Stating that India enjoys mature bilateral relations and strong socio-cultural linkages with Afghanistan, the Governor agreed upon the need for further strengthening economic and trade ties through vibrant partnership and joint ventures in different fields of activity. “There is immense scope for both to learn and grow through mutual exchange of each others ‘experience and expertise’,” said Purohit. Mamundzay extended his warm greetings and affirmed his commitment to further strengthen bilateral relations. He said there was a huge potential of trade with the state that needed to be tapped and accelerated. He said he saw huge potential for education for the youth of his country in Punjab.Visits vax campA special Covid vaccination drive for Afghan students was organised at Sukhna Lake. Mamundzay also attended the event. Over 100 Afghan students were administrated the jab. “I thank the camp organisers for the support provided to Afghan students. They have provided them free Covid vaccine, rations and other assistance,” said Mamundzay. The drive was held by the United Sikhs and Karan Gilhotra Foundation in association with the UT Health Department along with ASR Foundation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/afghan-ambassador-calls-upon-banwarilal-purohit-360494
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||PGI chief’s post: Interviews from January 17||The PGI will start the selection process for the post of Director. The meeting of the Search-cum-Selection Committee for finding a suitable candidate for the post of Director will be held from January 17 to January 19.At present, Dr Surjit Singh is the officiating Director of the PGI and is also one of the candidates for the post. There are 32 aspirants for the post and 20 of them are from the PGI.The interview shall be chaired by Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and will be held at the committee room of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. In view of Covid-19, the candidates have been given the option to appear physically or virtually before the committee. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-chiefs-post-interviews-from-january-17-360490
12-01-2022||Naina Mishra||Covid patients with ‘underlying disease’ needing hospital care||Chandigarh, January 11New admissions have started to swell in city hospitals, but patients requiring oxygen supplementation or ventilator support as observed in the second wave of Covid-19 has been bare minimum. A majority of the Covid patients admitted to the hospitals are those with underlying medical conditions and required oxygen supplementation or ventilator support due to their pre-existing illness.Dr Sanjeev Palta from Internal Medicine, GMCH-32, said, “Ever since the start of the third wave, we have not experienced a single patient who was admitted to the ICU with Covid being the primarily illness. These patients were already comorbid and because of diseases, they were suffering beforehand.”However, hospitals are also exercising caution with comorbid patients who have mild Covid symptoms. They are being monitored closely for any deterioration.Dr Ashutosh N Aggarwal from Pulmonary Medicine, PGI, said, “Some patients, who otherwise have mild Covid symptoms, are also hospitalised in non-ICU areas because their underlying disease requires evaluation or treatment that cannot be offered at home. We are continuously advising all other patients to isolate themselves at home.”Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, UT, and GMSH in-charge, said, “A majority of patients have mild symptoms like fever, body ache and sore throat. We have admitted patients because of their underlying medical condition to monitor them for further evaluation. These are patients with renal failure, heart failure, diabetes, etc.”Less incidence of oxygen desaturationThe last Covid wave saw patients reporting to hospitals with rapid fall in oxygen levels and succumbing to the disease in a brief spell. However, such trend has not been observed now.Dr Palta said, “We are not experiencing patients desaturating or deteriorating rapidly as compared to the second wave. Out of 10 patients, only 3-4 patients are required 4-6 litres of oxygen per day. The reason maybe that Omicron mutation affects upper respiratory tract, throat, and the pathogen does not affect lungs. However, it is advised not to consider each case to be of Omicron variant, as we are not seeing genetic sequencing of every patient.”“A small number of patients in the PGI is also requiring oxygen support after developing Covid symptoms, which is being provided on oxygen beds located outside the ICUs. The number of patients needing ICU admission or oxygen supplementation is likely to further rise as the number of active cases increases. When required, we will operationalise additional ICU beds to handle the increasing numbers,” said Dr Aggarwal.ICU load not highOf the 144 Covid patients currently admitted in the PGI, 10 are being ventilated and another 10 are on oxygen supplementation. Dr Aggarwal PGI said, “We have admitted patients to the ICU either because of severe Covid pneumonia, or because their underlying medical condition itself merits the ICU care.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-patients-with-underlying-disease-needing-hospital-care-360488
12-01-2022||Amit SharmaChandigarh||Chandigarh: Auto driver tried to rape victim again, but she raised alarm||The 35-year-old rape victim was allegedly violated by the auto driver at an isolated place on the way to the ISBT, Sector 17, and he tried to rape her for a second time when she raised the alarm following which vigilant Home Guards volunteers rushed to her rescue.The victim had come from Delhi to meet a friend residing at Mauli Jagran. However, her friend was not at home following which she came to the railway station from where she hired an auto for the ISBT, Sector 17, on Sunday night.DSP (Central) Charanjit Singh Virk said the victim was raped at an isolated place on the way to Sector 17. “The suspect, before dropping the victim at the bus stand, decided to assault her again following which he drove the auto towards a secluded place near the Haryana Mini-Secretariat and while he was again trying to rape the victim, she raised the alarm,” the DSP said.The police said hearing the victim’s cries, the Home Guards volunteers, who were on duty at the Mini-Secretariat, rushed to her rescue. They helped the police in apprehending the suspect.The DSP said the victim did not know the place where she was raped first.UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said the verification drive of auto drivers was conducted from time to time. However, in the wake of the fresh incident, the police had been directed to intensify the drive.The Home Guards volunteers, Vijay Rana, Kuldeep Verma and Ashwani, were honoured today with a cash reward by the SSP.This incident of rape by an auto driver is a grim reminder of two similar incidents of rape reported in the city in 2016 and 2017.In 2016, a call centre employee, who had boarded an auto for Hallo Majra, was raped by the auto driver and his two accomplices in a forest area in Sector 29. A year later, a 22-year-old girl, a Dehradhun resident, was raped by three men, including an auto driver, in a forest area in Sector 53.Within a few days, the police nabbed the suspects and found that same auto driver and his accomplice were involved in the 2016 rape case. The local court had, in 2018, granted life imprisonment until death to the three men.Not a history-sheeterThe police said the suspect’s antecedents were verified and he was not found to be involved in any case earlier.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auto-driver-tried-to-rape-victim-again-but-she-raised-alarm-360487
12-01-2022||Panchkula||Challan people sans mask, says Panchkula DC||In view of the spurt in Covid cases, the district administration has directed incident commanders to strictly ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour and challan people without mask.Deputy Commissioner Mahavir Kaushik, while presiding over a meeting of the incident commanders, directed them to visit public places, especially crowded places like markets, bus stands, hospitals and government offices and ensure that masks are being used and social distancing followed. He said a person found without a mask should be challaned and also motivated to wear a mask.Kaushik directed all incident commanders to submit a daily report of the challans issued by them.While taking stock of Covid care centers in the district, he ordered setting up of such centers at Government College, Kalka, and Government Girls College, Sector 14, at the earliest. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/challan-people-sans-mask-says-panchkula-dc-360492
12-01-2022||New Delhi||Expect dense fog, more chill over next few days||Cold wave conditions, along with dense to very dense fog during night/morning hours, are likely to continue in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and UP over the next couple of days, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has said.According to the IMD, cold wave conditions were likely in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh and parts of Rajasthan from January 13 to 15. It further said, "Dense fog is also likely in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh over the next four to five days."Two fresh western disturbances will also affect the north-west, first on January 16 and second on January 18. These are expected to cause precipitation over the western Himalayan region and rainfall over the adjoining plains, the IMD said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/expect-dense-fog-more-chill-over-next-few-days-360474
12-01-2022||Chandigarh||Bikram Majithia visits gurdwara after anticipatory bail||SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia on Tuesday made a public appearance for the first time since registration of the case against him in December as he paid obeisance at a gurdwara in Panchkula.The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Monday had granted him an anticipatory bail in the NDPS case filed against him.He was also directed to join the investigation with the police on Wednesday.The former Punjab minister has been asked not to leave the country till the next date of hearing.He is also required to share with the investigating agency his live location through WhatsApp.Majithia was spotted wearing a yellow turban and jeans when he paid obeisance at the Nada Sahib gurdwara, about 20 km from here.The 46-year-old Akali leader was booked on December 20 last year under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. PTI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/bikram-majithia-visits-gurdwara-after-anticipatory-bail-360324
