13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Restaurants in Chandigarh allowed to function up to 10 pm, no home delivery after 12 midnight||In order to provide the public a handy access to all the meaningful information on Covid, the Punjab Governor and Administrator, UT, Chandigarh, Shri Banwarilal Purohit on Thursday launched COVA Chd App. Stressing upon the need for active surveillance, Shri Purohit said that maximum people should install this App on their cell phones.Appreciating UT Administration’s effort to arrest the spread of Covid by increasing the testing three-fold, taking the testing figures to 5000 a day as against 1200 to 1500 hundred a day, Purohit hoped that the early detection followed by quick isolation would be helpful in checking the spread of the virus.As of now vaccination is being carried out at 89 different sites of the city and first dose has been administered to 124.70% and second dose to 97.23% targeted population in above 18 years category, whereas 50.38% population (15-18 years) has been jabbed.Updating the current Covid scenario, the officers of the Tricity informed that Mohali has 4363 active cases, Panchkula has 2343 active cases while UT, Chandigarh has 4808 active cases.In the meanwhile, the consensus was evolved in the meeting that the Hotels/Restaurants/café/coffee shops/eating places would be allowed to function up to 10.00 p.m. However, kitchens of these premises will be allowed to remain open up to 11.00 p.m. and no home delivery is allowed after 12.00 midnight.Moreover, persons with disabilities and pregnant women employees in government offices in Chandigarh shall be exempted from attending office but are required to work from home.Public Transport including Bus, Taxi, Auto Rickshaw etc. will run only with their permitted seating capacity. In case of violations, strict action under appropriate law will be taken.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/administrator-launches-cova-chd-app-360971
13-01-2022||Zirakpur||Congress leader Jaspal Sarpanch joins Shiromani Akali Dal||Congress leader Jaspal Sarpanch on Thursday joined the Shiromani Akali Dal.He joined the SAD at Zirakpur in the presence of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal.Local MLA NK Sharma said that with Jaspal Singh joing the SAD the days of Congress in the state were numbered.Jaspal said he was impressed with the development work undertaken by Sharma in the Dear Bassi constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-leader-jaspal-sarpanch-joins-shiromani-akali-dal-360936
13-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||1,080 Division Bench appeals pending since 2013||Chandigarh, January 12In Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, it is a long way to justice for the accused in drug cases with the high pendency and low disposal of appeals. On an average, just over an appeal a month has been decided by the Division Benches since 2013. On the other hand, almost 214 appeals were decided by the Single Benches on an average every year for the same period.Information provided to a Division Bench of the High Court by its Registry reveals that 1,080 appeals in cases registered under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act have been pending before the Division Bench since 2013. Besides, 14,827 appeals are pending before the Single Benches for the same period.From 2013 to date, just 129 Division Bench appeals under the NDPS Act — where the sentence was 10 years or more — were decided. Of the total appeals, 65 were dismissed, 33 allowed and 31 disposed of. In case of Single Bench appeals under the NDPS Act — where the sentence was up to 10 years — 1,925 appeals were decided — 671 were dismissed, 594 allowed and 660 disposed of.The Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain, vide order dated October 5, 2021, had directed the Registry to provide year-wise details of the pending appeals under the NDPS Act. The Bench was hearing a bunch of applications in criminal appeals filed against the Narcotic Control Bureau by Bhupender Singh and other appellant-convicts through counsel Navkiran Singh, Shaveta Sanghi, Aditya Sanghi and other advocates.The direction to the Registry to collate year-wise information on the pending appeals came after the Bench was told that appellants before it in drug cases had undergone a substantial part of the sentence. But their appeals were yet to be heard. The Bench had observed that the convicts were seeking suspension of sentence on the ground that they had undergone a substantial part of the sentence, but the appeals had not been heard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/1-080-division-bench-appeals-pending-since-2013-360796
13-01-2022||---||National Youth Festival: 250 from Chandigarh team take part in virtual opening ceremony||Chandigarh, January 12UT Adviser Dharam Pal, Home Secretary, Director Sports, Joint Director Sports and the contingent in-charge of the Chandigarh team attended the virtual inauguration ceremony of the 25th National Youth Festival by Prime Minister Narendra Modi today. Around 250 members of the Chandigarh team participated in the event through virtual mode.The 25th National Youth Festival was to be organised by the Ministry of Youth Affairs & Sports and the Director Education, Puducherry, from January 12 to 16 in Puducherry. However, due to a surge in Covid cases, the festival was being held virtually on January 12 and 13.In the morning session, three lectures were delivered on tech entrepreneurs and innovation, indigenous and ancient wisdom and national character, national building and home grown.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/national-youth-festival-250-from-chandigarh-team-take-part-in-virtual-opening-ceremony-360776
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh cagers bag silver in national championship||Chandigarh junior men’s team claimed a silver medal in the 71st Junior National Basketball Championship, which concluded in Indore.In the final match, city lads faced a (60-82) defeat against Rajasthan. Chandigarh skipper and international player Amarendra Nayak (17 points) scored maximum points for the side.Earlier, in the league matches, Chandigarh defeated Goa (77-35). Udit Ravish (18 points), Nayak (17 points) and Abhishek (11 points) performed for the side. The side, thereafter, defeated Jharkhand with the help of Nayak (18 points) and Harmanpreet Singh (14 points) and registered (79-64) win over Mizoram as Ravish (22 points), Abhishek (20 points) and Rohan Roy (11 points) shined for the side.In a closely contested tie, Chandigarh lads defeated Telangana (77-73). Abhishek (19 points), Nayak (16 points) and Roy (15 points) were the main scorers for the side. Chandigarh then overpowered Haryana (67-27) in the last league match. Nayak (19 points), Abhishek (15 points) and Ravish (13 points) shined in the team’s win.In the quarterfinals, Chandigarh defeated Tamil Nadu (84-88) with the help of Nayak (40 points) and Rohan (12 points). In semis, Chandigarh registered (88-81) win over Uttar Pradesh. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cagers-bag-silver-in-national-championship-360775
13-01-2022||---||Unknown persons issue fake promotion orders, booked in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, January 12The Chandigarh police have booked unknown persons for purportedly issuing fake promotion orders of some Punjab Police cops.Sources said before the code of conduct was announced in Punjab, promotion orders of police personnel were issued, which were later found to be not genuine.While police officials refused to divulge the details, sources said the matter came to light when the department discovered that the signatures of a senior officer on the order were forged.Since the Punjab Police Headquarters is in Sector 9, Chandigarh, the matter was reported to the UT police.UT SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said a complaint was received on January 11, following which an investigation had been initiated. “We will scrutinise the relevant record to find the truth,” the SSP said.Meanwhile, a case under Sections 419, 420, 464, 465, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code was registered at the Sector 3 police station today.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/unknown-persons-issue-fake-promotion-orders-booked-360773
13-01-2022||---||Chandigarh and Tricity Gym Association protests closure of gyms||Chandigarh, January 12Members of the Chandigarh and Tricity Gym Association today protested against the closure of gyms.The UT Administration issued a notification on January 6 to close all gyms, stadium and swimming pools.The association members said this time various other services such as spas, massage parlours, restaurants, bars, multiplexes, cinema halls, malls and all other markets are allowed to open with 50 per cent capacity, but only gyms were told to shut down.They demanded to open gyms also with 50 per cent capacity while maintaining Covid protocols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/association-protests-closure-of-gyms-360772
13-01-2022||---||Panjab University, Chandigarh, to hold exams online||Chandigarh, January 12Panjab University authorities have announced that both theory and practical (odd) semester examinations will be conducted online. The examinations will start from January 24.“This is for information of students that the Panjab University authorities have allowed the commencement of undergraduate and postgraduate odd semester theory examinations from January 24. Meanwhile, the practical examinations will start from January 17. Both theory and practical examinations will be held in the online mode,” read the circular.The examinations were scheduled to be held last month. However, following teachers’ protest against the Punjab Government over non-implementation of UGC scales, these were postponed.Fresh Covid guidelinesMeanwhile, the university authorities issued fresh guidelines this evening. According to a circular, students will not be allowed in the departments on January 13 and 14. First and third floor of AC Joshi Library will remain closed from January 13 to 16. All classes will be held online and the students, who have been allowed to do research work at laboratories, will work with 50 per cent capacity. The offices will work with 50 per cent capacity. Meanwhile, sources claimed that the DUI, PU, had issued an advisory appealing to hostellers to leave for their respective hometowns in view of a surge in Covid cases, as a safety measure.Stu-C shops closed for 4 daysIn view of a rise in the number of Covid cases, the authorities have decided to close all shops in the vicinity of Student Centre, Panjab University. The shops will remain closed from January 13 to 16.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panjab-university-to-hold-exams-online-360770
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Registering and Licensing Authority to e-auction fancy numbers from January 22||The Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA) will hold an e-auction of special registration numbers of the new series, CH01CH, along with re-auction of leftover fancy numbers of the previous series, from January 22 to 24.The registration for the e-auction of numbers of the CH01-CH series, along with the re-auction of the leftover fancy/special registration numbers of previous series CH01CG, CH01CF, CH01CE, CH01CD, CH01CC, CH01CB, CH01CA, CH01BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS, will start on January 14 at 10 am and continue till January 21 at 5 pm. The e-auction/bidding will start on January 22 at 10 am and will continue till January 24 at 5 pm.Those who have purchased the vehicles at the Chandigarh address will only be allowed to participate in the e-auction. Vehicle owners can register themselves on the national transport website: https://vahan.parivahan.gov.in/fancy. The link is available on the Chandigarh Administration, Transport Department website: www.chdtransport.gov.in.Details of registration fee for participating in the e-auction, list of the reserve price for each special number, details of leftover registration numbers of the previous series and terms and conditions for the e-auction are available on the Transport Department website: www.chdtransport.gov.in. — TNSRegistration from Jan 14The registration for the e-auction of numbers of the CH01-CH series, along with the re-auction of the leftover fancy/special registration numbers of previous series CH01CG, CH01CF, CH01CE, CH01CD, CH01CC, CH01CB, CH01CA, CH01BZ, CH01-BY, CH01-BX, CH01-BW, CH01-BV, CH01-BU, CH01-BT and CH01-BS, will start on January 14 at 10 am and continue till January 21 at 5 pm.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/registering-and-licensing-authority-to-e-auction-fancy-numbers-from-january-22-360769
13-01-2022||---||Poor show in Chandigarh MC poll: Questions raised over BJP leadership||Chandigarh, January 12In the last Municipal Corporation poll, the city BJP had won 20 seats out of 21 seats it contested. Its performance in the 2021 poll, after the change of the guard, has fallen in a big way as it could win only 12 seats out of 35 seats the party fought on.Anti-incumbency and various other poll factors, including matters at the party level such as wrong ticket distribution, mismanagement and degrading organisation structure, are being blamed by some BJP leaders for the poor performance of the party.“During campaigning, micro-management by the local leadership was not there. Local party teams were not there to support the candidates, while the BJP teams from Delhi put in a lot of efforts. The city president did not campaign in wards other than those of his favourites,” said a party leader.“We could have won a minimum of 6-7 more seats. Sitting councillors, including Gurpreet Singh Dhillon and Raj Bala Malik, who were strong players in their respective wards, were made to sit. In their place, lightweight candidates from outside were given ticket. They did not have mass connect and liking. This even broke the morale of our workers, who then worked half-heartedly,” said another leader.It is also being said by some leaders that all were not taken along and only three or four core team members were mostly involved in the day-to-day affairs of the party.Some feel during the tenure of previous president Sanjay Tandon, the party management was comparatively better than now. However, some party leaders felt otherwise. “Tandon was fortunate that at that time in 2016 there was a massive wave in favour of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the elections were fought in the background of demonetisation. Secondly, AAP was not in the contest. Even in this election, Tandon was involved in all meetings and developments.”A leader from the Sood camp said, “In 2016, Sood was the Mayor and the BJP won the elections based on his 10-month works. Works such as getting funds for the additional water supply project and introducing mechanised cleaning of roads were appreciated by people.”“The party structure is stronger today than before. Besides, as far as ticket distribution is concerned, it is not decided by one person, but by the party,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poor-show-in-mc-poll-questions-raised-over-bjp-leadership-360766
13-01-2022||---||Chandigarh orders closure of anganwadi centres with immediate effect||Chandigarh, January 12In order to check further spread of coronavirus, the UT Administration today ordered the closure of all anganwadi centres functioning in the city with immediate effect till further orders.However, all anganwadi workers and helpers will visit the centres to carry out their field activities as usual.Rate of hospitalisation lowThe rate of hospitalisation is quite low at present and there is no extra burden on the health infrastructure in the city. As of now, imposing additional restrictions can affect the livelihood of the people. — A senior UT officialIn the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration will hold a review meeting, which will be presided over by UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit, tomorrow to take a call on imposing additional restrictions such as opening of shops on congested markets on an odd-even basis, weekend curfew, etc.A senior UT official said the rate of hospitalisation was quite low at present and there was no such extra burden on the health infrastructure in the city. As of now, imposing additional restrictions could affect the livelihood of the people.The UT Administration had imposed night curfew from 10 pm to 5 am and closed down all educational institutions, sports complexes and gyms. The Administration also ordered that all bars, cinema halls, multiplexes, malls, restaurants, spas and museums will operate with 50 per cent capacity with fully vaccinated staff. Gatherings for any purpose have been restricted to 50 persons for indoor and 100 persons for outdoor events. Besides, the total number of persons should not exceed 50 per cent of the venue’s capacity.Review meeting todayIn the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases, the UT Administration will hold a review meeting, which will be presided over by UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit, on Thursday to take a call on imposing additional restrictions such as opening of shops on congested markets on an odd-even basis and weekend curfew.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-orders-closure-of-anganwadi-centres-with-immediate-effect-360765
13-01-2022||Naina Mishra||Sewage samples from Chandigarh found positive for Covid-19||Chandigarh, January 12In a first, sewage samples in the city tested positive for Covid-19. The samples were tested by the Department of Virology, PGI, as a mandate of the WHO-ICMR Centre for “environment surveillance for Covid-19”.The PGI had started testing samples from wastewater treatment plants from Chandigarh and Punjab’s Amritsar in the month of December. The samples were collected from Diggian sewage treatment plant and BRD plant in the city.“Samples tested in the month of December were found to be negative for Covid-19. After a surge in the Covid cases at present, virus has also been detected in the sewage samples. The samples are tested once per week from each site to monitor the trend,” said Prof Mini P Singh, virologist at the PGI.The processing of sewage samples is different from the processing of samples collected from humans and is an important component of surveillance. In the past, similar technique has been used for the surveillance of polio. Polio virus is also excreted in the human faeces. Similarly, Covid-19 surveillance in sewage samples can be used as an epidemiological tool as a marker of virus transmission and appropriate preventive measures can be initiated in a particular catchment area.Training was imparted to the faculty and the staff by the NIV, Mumbai, and a WHO team as this involves a specialised procedure to concentrate the virus in sewage samples.Generally, one litre of sewage sample is concentrated for two to three days to 2-3 ml so as to improve the detection of SARS-CoV-2 RNA. Concentration is more important for untreated wastewater samples than primary sludge samples. After this, nucleic acid is extracted and purified so as to isolate SARS-CoV-2 RNA from the sewage mixture.The sample is then tested on the RT-PCR machine to detect the presence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus via fragments of genetic material (RNA) in wastewater. According to the WHO, finding this RNA in wastewater means that one or more person in the community had likely excreted virus through faeces.Dr Singh said seven to eight sewage sites of Delhi will soon start sending samples to the PGI, Chandigarh, for the detection of Covid-19.Samples collected from two placesThe PGI had started testing samples from wastewater treatment plants from Chandigarh and Amritsar in December. The samples were collected from the Diggian sewage treatment plant and the BRD plant in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sewage-samples-from-chandigarh-found-positive-for-covid-19-360763
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Jewellery stolen from house in Chandigarh||IPR workshop held at RBUMohali: A workshop on intellectual property rights (IPR) was organised by the Intellectual Property office of the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry in collaboration with Rayat Bahra University (RBU). Keynote speaker Ashish Prabhat, Examiner of Patents and Designs IPR, said awareness about intellectual property rights was the first and the foremost objective of the national IPR policy. There is a need to create awareness among all sections of society as IP is a creation of the mind. Vice-Chancellor Parvinder Singh said the main objective behind intellectual property is to encourage innovation and provide incentives for innovation by granting temporary protection to inventors. TNSProtest over PM security issueChandigarh: A human chain was formed at Transport Chowk, Sector 26, today and a #BharatStandsWithModiJi signature campaign launched in Sector 51, as part of a nationwide demonstration against the “wilful negligence” by the Congress-ruled Punjab Government in protecting Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The state coordinator of the programme, Shakti Prakash Devshali, said Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi-led Punjab Government had deliberately neglected the security of the Prime Minister. He said many prominent citizens of the city had expressed their anger by writing a letter to Congress National President Sonia Gandhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/jewellery-stolen-from-house-360759
13-01-2022||---||A new high — 2,822 fresh Covid cases in Chandigarh, Mohali, Panchkula||Chandigarh, January 12The city and Mohali and Panchkula districts recorded a new high with 2,822 Covid cases on Wednesday.Chandigarh recorded 1,114 fresh cases, the highest single-day surge witnessed since the start of the pandemic in March 2020. The daily positivity rate, too, shot up to 21.38 per cent.As the spread continues, the active Covid-19 cases have surged from 170 cases on December 31, 2021, to 4,808. The UT also reported one death, that of an 87-year-old fully vaccinated woman who suffered from diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease and hyperthyroidism. The fatality count of the city stands at 1,084. According to the UT Health Department, 357 patients are in hospital, 25 of them on ventilator.974 more found infected in Mohali districtAs many as 974 new Covid-19 cases were reported from Mohali district on Wednesday, while 399 recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. The total positive cases in the district are 74,065, of which 68,624 have recovered. The active cases are 4,363. The death toll in the district stands at 1,078.P’kula records 734 casesPanchkula recorded 734 Covid cases on Wednesday, breaking the all-time single-day spike record since the inception of the pandemic. The positivity rate stood at 30.02 per cent.The previous highest daily figure was 654. It was recorded on May 5 last year during the second wave. With fresh cases, the active caseload has crossed the 2,000 mark and has settled at 2,343.However, only 43 are hospitalised, which is just 1.83 per cent. While the overall tally has reached 34,185, the death count remains at 382.With no signs of slowing down, the positivity rate continues to go up in the district — from 1.63 per cent on January 1, 11.7 per cent on January 7 to a record-breaking 42.10 per cent on January 10.However, the health administration downplayed the unprecedented high positivity rate, saying the denominator was not accurate as lesser number of tests were conducted on that day.As the infection is spreading at an alarming rate, the district administration continued its efforts to add new Covid care centres.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/a-new-high-%E2%80%94-2-822-fresh-covid-cases-in-chandigarh-mohali-panchkula-360757
13-01-2022||---||Chandigarh: Missing woman's body found, rape suspected||Chandigarh, January 12The naked body of a 40-year-old woman, who had gone missing from Maloya last evening, was found today in a forest area hardly 50 metres away from her house. Socks were found stuffed in her mouth.The police said it was suspected that the victim was raped before being murdered. However, sexual assault would be confirmed only after the postmortem, which would be conducted tomorrow.Husband had dropped her near bus stopI dropped my wife near the bus stop at Maloya around 8 pm on Tuesday and went to meet my nephew. I was supposed to meet her at the same spot. However, on returning, I didn’t find her there. Inder, husband The victim’s husband, an auto driver, said he, along with his wife, had come to the market last evening.“I dropped my wife near the bus stop around 8 pm and went to meet my nephew. I was supposed to meet her at the same spot. However, on returning, I didn’t find her there,” he said.Inder, along with his nephew, started searching for the victim. However, they could not find her following which they went to the Maloya police station.Around 10 pm, I reported the matter to the police following which they asked me to search for her again and return if she was untraceable. “I went back to the police station around 11 pm and gave a missing complaint,” the victim’s husband said.Today, the victim’s husband again launched a search and found his wife’s naked body in the forest area near their house. The police also reached the spot and initiated an investigation. A police official said the victim was naked. However, there were no injury marks on her body.“Socks were stuffed in her mouth, which probably led to her death,” the police official said. A team of the CFSL visited the spot and launched an investigation. The police said the footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area was being scrutinised.The police have questioned the victim’s husband and his nephew. Meanwhile, a case of murder has been registered.There were no clothes on body On Wednesday, the victim’s husband again launched a search and found his wife’s naked body in the forest area near their house. A police official said there were no injury marks on her body. “Socks were stuffed in her mouth, which probably led to her death,” the police official said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/missing-womans-body-found-rape-suspected-360756
13-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh's Covid infections cross 1,000-mark—highest so far||Chandigarh reported 1,114 new Covid-19 cases over the last 24 hours, the administration’s health bulletin showed on Wednesday—crossing into four-figure infection numbers for the first time since the pandemic began in 2020.Active cases in the city rose to 4,808. The union territory’s positivity rate stands at 21 per cent at the moment.The bulletin said 357 people were in the hospital, 25 of that number on ventilators.The UT also reported one death—an 87-year-old fully vaccinated woman who suffered from diabetes, hypertension, chronic kidney disease, and hyperthyroidism.The city’s fatality count stands at 1,084.Here's a list of Covid beds available in the UT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-covid-infections-cross-1-000-mark-the-highest-so-far-360688
