14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Cold weather conditions prevail in Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions prevailed in many parts of Punjab and Haryana on Friday.Hisar in Haryana reeled under intense cold, recording a minimum temperature of 4.3 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said.Sirsa also experienced a cold night, recording a low of 5.4 degrees Celsius, while Gurgaon's minimum temperature settled at 7.5 degrees Celsius.However, Ambala registered an above normal temperature at 10.3 degrees Celsius.In Punjab, Bathinda reeled under intense cold and recorded a low of 4.2 degrees, while Amritsar recorded a minimum temperature of 7.8 degrees Celsius. Gurdaspur, too, experienced a cold night, recording a low of 5.2 degrees Celsius.Jalandhar recorded a low of 8.6 degrees, while Moga registered a low of 5.9 degrees. Ludhiana's minimum settled at 8.8 degrees Celsius.Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 11 degrees Celsius.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cold-weather-conditions-prevail-in-punjab-haryana-361193
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Two held under NDPS Act in Chandigarh||Rs17 lakh stolen from bed boxChandigarh: Two theft incidents have been reported from the city. Complainant Hukam Chand, a resident of Pipliwala Town, Mani Majra, said Rs17 lakh kept in a bed box was stolen. A case has been registered at the Mani Majra police station. In the other incident, Manpreet Singh, a resident of Sector 35, alleged that a youth, Mahesh Negi, alias Lala, who was residing in his neighborhood, stole one “gold kitty set” and a pair of earrings from an almirah at his house. A case has been registered at the Sector 36 police station. tnsGirl’s mobile phone snatchedChandigarh: An unidentified pedestrian allegedly snatched a mobile phone from a girl near the Centra Mall light point. The police have registered a case at the Industrial Area police station. TNSHimachal man robbed by fourChandigarh: A resident of Mandi in HP was robbed by four auto-borne miscreants. Complainant Deshraj reported that he was robbed of his purse containing Rs10,000 and an ATM card, and a bag containing a mobile and clothes from near the Transport light point. A case has been registered. TNSTheft at shopChandigarh: An amount of Rs8,500, 10 boxes of perfume and a box of nail polish were stolen from a cosmetics shop in Sector 29. A case has been registered in this regard. TNSMC celebrates ‘Kudiyan di Lohri’Chandigarh: The Municipal Corporation on Thursday celebrated 'Kudiya Di Lohri' to mark women empowerment at its office. Officials said since MP Kirron Kher, Mayor Sarabjit Kaur and Commissioner Anindita Mitra were all women. Families having a single girl child and celebrating their first Lohri were given gifts by the Mayor and the Commissioner. A total of 30 families were called on the occasion. The families had brought their little ones along. Mayor Sarabjit Kaur also took part in Lohri celebrations at different places in the city. TNSHouse burgled in zirakpurZirakpur: Miscreants stole around Rs11 lakh and jewellery worth Rs15 lakh from a house in Saini Vihar-1. The incident took place when the house owner was away for some work. Complainant Krishan Kumar said he, along with his family, left for Charkhi Dadri in Haryana to attend a function. When he returned home on January 12, he found the lock of the door broken and house ransacked. Miscreants took away cash and jewellery from the house. The police are scanning the CCTV footage of the area to get some lead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-held-under-ndps-act-in-chandigarh-361114
14-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh golfer Mannat Brar tops Indian Golf Union merit list||Chandigarh, January 13Chandigarh golfer Mannat Brar has once again bagged the honour of topping the Indian Golf Union (IGU) merit list (Category B) issued recently.Despite the Covid-hit season, 15-year-old Mannat topped the chart with a total score of 188 in Junior Girls’ Category B. In 2019, she had topped Category C (11 to 12 years) in the IGU Order of Merit with a total of 314 points. Last year, she claimed fourth position in the IGU Western Indian ladies and Junior Girls Golf Championship (Ahmedabad), claimed tied 2nd position in the IGU East Indian ladies and Junior Girls Golf Championship (Shillong), bagged title of the IGU Eastern Indian ladies and Junior Girls Golf Championship (Tollygunge) and finished tied 2nd in the IGU All-India Golf Championship (Ahmedabad).“My aim is to play the LPGA tour and be the number 1 ladies golfer in the world. I also want to represent my country in the Asian Games and the Olympics,” said Mannat.She said: “I aim to learn better golf through hard work. I focus on high-tech training and maintaining top physical fitness.”Mannat was initially coached by Praveen Pathare in year 2018, a Category ‘C’ coach at Poona Golf Club. Thereafter, she started coaching with Jesse Grewal, Director, National Golf Academy of India.Her father, Col JS Brar, a serving Colonel in the Indian Army and avid sports lover, is an inspiration behind her success. “Since childhood, my father has been interested in watching me playing any sport. I started with tennis, tae kwon do and other sports, but ended up building interest in golf. I used to practice (hitting straight drive) with him at the Pune Army Golf Course. It was in 2017, I improved my swing and started playing some serious golf,” said Mannat.Revealing her future plans, she said: “Besides playing scheduled championships in India, I am looking forward to get some foreign exposure. Considering my aim to represent the nation, I need to scale up the level of training and preparations with a long-term plan for the next three years. The long-term plan is to prepare for playing professional tournaments with India’s top golfers at the age of 18 or 19 years.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-golfer-mannat-brar-tops-indian-golf-union-merit-list-361113
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Aayush defeats top seed Chirag, makes it to semis||Seventh seed USA’s Aayush P Bhat won a neck-and-neck fight against top Indian contender Chirag Duhan to march ahead in the boys’ U-18 semi-finals during the ongoing ITF World Tennis Tour Juniors (Grade-2) Tournament at the CLTA Complex in Sector 10 here.Bhat registered a (7-6(3), 7-6(6)) win over his top seed rival. Qualifier Bushan Haobam also recorded a stunning (6-4, 6-4) victory over Korean Woohyuk Chang, while French contender Lucas Phanthala logged a comeback (3-6, 7-6(5), 7-5) win over Daksh Ashok Agarwal. Manas Dhamne defeated Fadi Bidan of Lebanon (6-3, 7-5).In girls’ U-18 quarterfinal, Thailand’s Lanlana Tararudee stunned top seed Shruti Ahlawat in straight sets (6-2, 6-1). Seventh seed Vaishnavi Adkar defeated Lakshmi Gowda (6-2, 6-1), Russia’s Vlada Mincheva ousted fourth seed Suhihta Maruri (6-1, 6-2) and second seed Iran’s Safi outplayed eighth seed S Sirimalla (6-4, 6-2).Dmitry-Ruslan in doubles semisThe Russian pair of Dmitry Dolzhenliv and Ruslan Tiukaev defeated Aman Dahiya and Chirag Duhan to confirm their boys’ U-18 doubles semis berth. Bidan and Thanaphat Boosarawongse defeated Manas Dhamne and Aryan Shah, Reiya Hattori and Phanthala defeated Daksh Ashok Agarwal and Yuvan Nandal and the team of Bhat and Rushil Khosla ousted Deep Munim and Rethin Pranav Senthil Kumar.In the girls’ doubles event, Shruti Ahlawat and Suhitha Maruri defeated Ramesh Janani and Sharvani Shrestha. Darja Suvirjonkova and Lanlana Tararudee also moved into semis by defeating Vlada Mincheva and Anya Murthy, while Victoria Milovanova and Darja Shadchneva ousted Saina Deshpande and Ruma Gaikaiwari. Vaishnavi Adkar and Rutuja Chaphalkar defeated Meshkatolzahra Safi and Sanjana Sirimalla in the last quarterfinal match. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aayush-defeats-top-seed-chirag-makes-it-to-semis-361112
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Faculty development programme at Aryans College of Pharmacy||Eco-Health Calendar outChandigarh: The chairperson of the Department of Environment Studies, Panjab University, released a digital and hardbound Eco-Health Calendar for 2022. This calendar highlights all national and international days having importance concerning the environment or health, including the restricted and gazetted holidays as per the Department of Personnel and Training. TNSNational Youth Day observedChandigarh: The NSS wing of Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, celebrated National Youth Day for its faculty and students through online mode. A lecture on Swami Vivekananda and his teachings was delivered by Alka Gauri from Vivekananda Aashram, Panchkula. TNSLohri celebrated with fervourChandigarh: Lohri was celebrated with enthusiasm and fervour on the premises of Pandit Mohan Lal SD Public School, Sector 32. TNSAwareness programmeChandigarh: NSS units of Mehr Chand Mahajan DAV College for Women, Sector 36, in collaboration with the college’s Health Committee, organised an online awareness programme titled “Eat Right During Covid: A Comprehensive Approach”. The programme aimed at mobilising sustained community participation for health and nutrition issues across the country and to conduct Swastha Balak-Balika Spardha as part of the Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav celebrations. TNSPanjab varsity declares resultsChandigarh: Panjab University declared results of Master of Technology (Nanoscience and Nanotechnology), 2nd semester, Master of Engineering (Computer Science and Engineering) 7th spell (Modular Programme), Master of Engineering (Computer Science and Engineering) 4th semester, MA (History) 3rd semester (golden chance), MSc (Mathematics) 3rd semester (golden chance), MA (History) 1st semester (golden chance) and MA (History) 4th semester (golden chance) examinations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/faculty-development-programme-361111
14-01-2022||---||Mohali AAP vice-president Davinder Singh Baidwan joins Congress||Mohali, January 13Davinder Singh Baidwan, vice-president of Mohali AAP, along with his supporters joined the Congress in the presence of former Cabinet Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu today.Balbir Singh said opposition leaders were joining the Congress due to its people-friendly policies and agendas.Lashing out at the opposition, he said: “AAP is a party of opportunists, money and power mongers. All are eager to know how a ‘khas aadmi’ became ‘Aam Aadmi’. Without taking names, Sidhu said backstabbing is in his nature and he does it every time with perfection whenever elections approach. He left us and the SAD too. Now, he is seeking votes posing as ‘Aam Aadmi’. Mohali people will never allow him to win the elections this time too,” Sidhu said.Congress leader joins AAPDera Bassi: Dera Bassi Congress leader Prem Singh, along with his supporters, joined AAP in the presence of Dera Bassi constituency candidate Kuljit Singh Randhawa.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-aap-vice-president-joins-congress-361108
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Two arrested in Chandigarh for theft||Two youths have been arrested for committing a theft at the Industrial Area, Phase II.The police said one of the suspects was identified as Sonu (19), a resident of Sanjay Colony, Phase I. Around 50 kg of brass material, which was stolen by him, has been recovered from him from near his shanty.During interrogation, Sonu disclosed the name of his accomplice, identified as Jeet Lal Kumar (18), who was also arrested by the police. Around 48 kg of brass material was recovered from him.The police said Sonu had a criminal past with three cases already registered against him in Chandigarh. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-arrested-in-chandigarh-for-theft-361107
14-01-2022||---||Maloya murder: Day on, Chandigarh police make no headway||Chandigarh, January 13A day after the naked body of a 40-year-old woman was found in the forest area of Maloya, the UT police are yet to make headway in the case.Cops have questioned some persons who are residing in the area. Moreover, the footage of all CCTV cameras in the market was scrutinised to get some clue.The police said the victim’s husband denied having enmity with anyone.Meanwhile, the victim’s autopsy was conducted today by a board of doctors at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital in Sector 16.A police official said it was yet to be established whether the victim was raped before being murdered. “We are yet to receive the post-mortem report,” said a police official.The victim was dropped at a bus stop by her husband on Tuesday evening after which she went to the market. However, she didn’t return home. Her naked body with socks stuffed in her mouth was discovered the next morning in the forest area close to her house.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/maloya-murder-day-on-chandigarh-police-make-no-headway-361105
14-01-2022||Amit Bathla||Three firms bid for Panchkula MC tender||Panchkula, January 13Three firms have applied for a tender floated by the local Municipal Corporation for the work of door-to-door collection, segregation and transportation of garbage in the city.The firms that have evinced interest in the project are Shree Shyam Associates, Pooja Consultation Company and Lord Shiva Enterprises.The civic body has decided to revamp its garbage collection. Once done, city residents will not have to pay any charge for garbage collection.Currently, the garbage collection in various sectors of the city is carried out by private persons.As per residents, they have been inefficient in their work and charge arbitrarily for the service.The poor garbage collection system was also the key reason for the city’s fall in the cleanliness rankings, they added.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said the technical bid of the tender was opened today.“The financial bid will be opened thereafter. Once the bidding process is over, the selected firm will immediately start managing the overall waste disposal system in the city. With this, residents will not have to pay monthly charges for the garbage collection to private collectors,” he said.Nearly 143 tonne of garbage is generated daily in the areas under the jurisdiction of the MC. Under the terms of the tender, the private agency would be initially given a one-year contract.The selected agency would collect waste from every house. Apart from this, it will also clear the dustbins in residential, commercial and public areas.The firm will have to mention the garbage collection schedule on their vehicles.The agency will have to comply with the NGT guidelines while carrying out all works. The work of the agency will be regularly monitored through technical devices.As per instructions of the Urban Local Bodies Department, the agency will have to collect and transport the garbage to the dumping ground by 12 noon.Goyal said after the new garbage system was implemented, private players would be adjusted so that their employees don’t lose jobs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-firms-bid-for-panchkula-mc-tender-361103
14-01-2022||---||Chandigarh cyber cell sleuths arrest fraudster||Chandigarh, January 13A fraudster has been arrested by the cyber crime investigation cell of the UT police for duping a city resident of Rs70,000 on the pretext of providing him a job.The complainant, Narinder Singh, had reported that he had received a friend request on Facebook from a profile bearing a girl’s picture. The suspect stated that anyone wanting to get a job in the State Bank of India should contact one Harpreet Singh. The victim contacted Harpreet, who made him deposit a total of Rs70,000 for processing the job application.The victim later found that he had been duped. The police were informed about the incident and a case was registered at the Sector 31 police station.During investigation, the suspect, Harpreet Singh, a resident of Moga, Punjab, was arrested. The police said the suspect used to dupe people on the pretext of providing them jobs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cyber-cell-sleuths-arrest-fraudster-361102
14-01-2022||Amit Bathla||NHAI doesn't care two hoots for DC's orders||Panchkula, January 13Though Deputy Commissioner Mahavir Kaushik had instructed the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) on December 22 last year to repair the badly damaged Zirakpur-Kalka highway in 15 days, the directions are yet to be complied with.Not just those living in Kalka and Pinjore areas, who take this road to connect with Panchkula and Chandigarh, thousands of tourists, who enter Himachal Pradesh via this road, are forced to bear the brunt of the potholed highway.Besides causing damage to vehicles, the road can prove fatal for motorists, especially bikers.Fresh rain has made the situation worse. During a visit by Chandigarh Tribune, it was found that two vehicles had collided with each other on a flyover adjacent to the Western Command Cantonment area as one of them tried to dodge a deep pothole.Seeking immediate repairs on the highway, local Congress leader and advocate Vijay Bansal has written to the NHAI project director to immediately address the “apathy to road safety”.‘’Earlier, the NHAI had cited revenue crunch for the delay in the repair work due to no tax collection at the Chandimandir toll plaza, but it’s been a month since the operations began at the toll plaza after being vacated by farmers. I urge the NHAI to address the issue. They (authorities and the construction company) earn crores of rupees from the public as toll collection, but give no services in return,” he said.The Deputy Commissioner said he would seek a status report from the NHAI in this regard and issue fresh directions for compliance.He said he would also raise the matter at the next meeting of the District Road Safety Committee.In the previous meeting in December last year, in reply to the Deputy Commissioner’s query, NHAI officials had assured him that the patchwork on the highway was underway and would be completed in 10 days.The repair of the badly damaged national highway in the local jurisdiction is a persistent issue.Before the present Deputy Commissioner, his predecessor Vinay Pratap Singh, too, had asked the NHAI to repair potholes on the Zirakpur-Kalka highway before November 30 last year.After the NHAI missed the deadline, it was issued fresh instructions to repair the road.Will seek status report: KaushikDeputy Commissioner Mahavir Kaushik said he would seek a status report from the NHAI in this regard and issue fresh directions for compliance. He said he would also raise the matter at the next meeting of the District Road Safety Committee.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nhai-doesnt-care-two-hoots-for-dcs-orders-361099
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid restrictions: 7 buying veggies at Sec 26 market held||Seven persons, who had come to purchase vegetables at the Sector 26 vegetable market despite restrictions imposed by the UT Administration, were arrested by the police on Thursday. A case under Section 188 of the IPC was registered against them at the Sector 26 police station. They were later released on bail. In the Sector 26 vegetable market, only vendors are allowed and the entry is prohibited for general public. Meanwhile, 21 challans were issued for violation of Covid-appropriate behaviour. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-restrictions-7-buying-veggies-at-sec-26-market-held-361097
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh Covid alert app launched||To provide the public a handy access to all meaningful information on Covid, UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit today launched COVA Chd, a coronavirus alert application. It also provides citizens with preventive care information and other government advisories related to Covid-19.The application assists Covid patients in self-health inspection and updates them on necessary utilities, including details of essential commodity vendors, Covid care centres, hospitals and labs in their vicinity. It also helps the Health Department in patient management, contact tracing, sample collection and the management of home-quarantine patients.The geo-fencing feature of the application helps in tracking and tracing the patient and also assist in keeping tabs on quarantine-jumpers. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-covid-alert-app-launched-361089
14-01-2022||---||Chandigarh Administration cuts RT-PCR test rate to Rs299||Chandigarh, January 13The UT Administration today revised the cap on Covid-19 test rates and ordered all private laboratories to lower the charges.A maximum of Rs299 will now be charged for Covid-19 RT-PCR testing performed at private laboratories in the city. The earlier fixed maximum charge per test was Rs450. It will be inclusive of GST/all taxes, cost involved in pick-up, PPE, packing, transportation of samples, documentation and reporting.The price for the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) remains unchanged at Rs350.The IgG-based ELISA testing (antibody test) has been fixed at Rs250. The samples collected through home visits will cost Rs200. The upper cap for True Nat testing is Rs1,250.The UT Administration said the rates were revised “after due consideration and taking into account the cost of kits and consumables and rates fixed by the Haryana and Punjab governments”.Any private lab found charging a higher amount will be penalised under Section 188 of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-administration-cuts-rt-pcr-test-rate-to-299-361079
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Stickers on Covid norms for shopkeepers released in Chandigarh||To highlight the importance of following Covid norms, the Chandigarh Beopar Mandal (CBM) has released colourful stickers for free distribution among all shops in the city. The stickers will ask visitors to abide by the government guidelines of wearing mask and full vaccination.Charanjiv Singh, president, CBM, said they appealed to the traders to paste the stickers at the entrance to their shops.In a memorandum to the UT Adviser, the CBM has requested the Administration to refrain from any undue harassment to the shopkeepers for violation done by customers regarding vaccination since a majority of the shops are small and medium set-ups, which cannot afford extra security or gatekeeper to check and verify vaccination proof from each and every customer. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/stickers-on-covid-norms-for-shopkeepers-released-in-chandigarh-361073
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Over 2 lakh students to take online PU exams||A record number of over 2 lakh undergraduate students will appear for the forthcoming online examinations (odd semester) of Panjab University.“In the forthcoming examinations, a total of 2,07,033 students will appear for the undergraduate examinations, while 43,271 students will appear for the postgraduate examinations,” said Prof Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, Panjab University.The Panjab University authorities had announced to conduct both theory and practical (odd) semester examinations online. The theory examinations for undergraduate and postgraduate semesters are schedule to start from January 24. Practical examinations will start from January 17. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-2l-students-to-take-online-pu-exams-361069
14-01-2022||Gaurav Kanthwal||One in five samples positive for Covid in Mohali||Mohali, January 13Roughly one of the five persons being tested is turning out to be Covid-19 positive in Mohali district for the past two days.As many as 4,627 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Thursday, of which 917 were found positive. On Wednesday, 5,732 samples were tested, of which 974 returned positive.Of the total 336 beds (L2) allocated till now, 69 are occupied in various hospitals of the district. The ratio of L3 beds (without ventilator) is 23/86, while that of L3 beds (with ventilator) is 32/113, according to the latest information on the administration portal.Mohali Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said: “As of Thursday afternoon, 16 beds (L2) were occupied with Covid patients at the district hospital. Most of the cases being reported have mild symptoms and do not require hospitalisation. Bed occupancy in the hospitals is under control.”The positivity rate in the district is 19.82 per cent.Health Department officials said Mohali (urban), Dhakoli and Kharar continue to account for a majority of the new cases. Incidence of new Covid-19 cases is far more in the urban areas as compared to the rural areas in the district.4,449 get first doseAs many as 4,449 eligible beneficiaries were jabbed with the first dose of the Covid vaccine, while 3,354 were administered the second dose on Thursday. As many as 461 beneficiaries, including 60-plus age group, frontline and healthcare workers, got the booster dose today. A total of 1,424 beneficiaries were jabbed in the age group of 15-17 years.The stats As many as 4,627 samples were tested for Covid-19 on Thursday, of which 917 were found positive. On Wednesday, 5,732 samples were tested, of which 974 returned positive.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-in-five-samples-covid-ve-in-mohali-361064
14-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||MC open to any technology  for processing garbage in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, January 13Staying away from its previous plan of using ‘waste-to-energy’ technology for upgrading the beleaguered solid waste processing plant in the city, the Municipal Corporation will now go for any technology suitable for the plant. The only condition will now be that the entire 500 metric tonne waste generated in the city daily should be processed with arrangement of disposing of its by-product.The waste-to-energy technology, which was aimed at producing power by procession dry garbage, was approved in the last MC House meeting. However, officers feel, “Why should we restrict to one technology. We will keep it open-ended. Any technology, which is suitable for the plant, will be adopted.”The UT Administration today okayed the new plan.The IIT, Ropar, today gave a presentation on its detailed project report and the request for proposal to UT Adviser Dharam Pal and MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra.However, officials said the presentation was not satisfactory and the IIT team had been asked to submit a fresh report next week with suggested changes.After finalising it, a tender will be floated to set up the new technology at the plant. More land at some other site, if required, will be given for upgrading the plant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mc-open-to-any-technology-for-processing-garbage-in-chandigarh-361061
14-01-2022||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Panel orders probe into 'abuse of dominant position' by CHB||Chandigarh, January 13The Competition Commission of India (CCI), New Delhi, has directed an investigation into an alleged abuse of dominant position by the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) in a case related to the payment of an instalment of a flat.According to informant, Ramesh Kumar, a resident of Kurukshetra in Haryana, the CHB had floated a self-financing housing scheme in December 2010 offering 160 flats on a freehold basis in Sector 51-A. On October 25, 2011, the UT Administration stated that “it will take two years to complete the housing scheme”. It has been averred that the construction of flats commenced in October 2011, but the contractor failed to complete the construction within the stipulated period.However, the CHB issued an acceptance-cum-demand letter (ACDL) on April 25, 2012, advising the schedule of payment of instalments and the last instalment was to be paid within 18 months, by October 25, 2013.He stated that he had deposited over Rs38 lakh till April 2013, but could not pay the last instalment in time. However, there was also corresponding delay in the completion of construction by one year. While the construction was nearing completion, the CHB decided to initiate the process of allotment and cancelled the registration of the informant on October 24, 2014, after issuing a short notice on October 17, 2014, owing to the non-payment of the last instalment.The informant submitted an appeal on November 3, 2014, to the CHB Chairman, requesting condonation of the delay in paying the third instalment and revival of the allotment of the flat. He deposited the amount of the last instalment on November 18, 2014.The CHB intimated the informant on January 27, 2015, to deposit an additional amount of Rs5,36,900 towards interest, etc. The said amount was deposited on February 6 that year and the revival order was issued by the CHB on April 22, 2015.The informant further stated that the CHB charged an interest at the rate of 30 per cent per annum for a period from October 25, 2013, to November 18, 2014, although there was concurrent delay on the part of the CHB in initiating the process of allotment and that the Board also charged renewal fee for the revival of registration.He submitted that the CHB, in its brochure, did not make any specific mention of date or time schedule for the completion of construction or for handing over the possession of the flat. Even in the ACDL, there was no mention of any specific date for completion/handing over of the possession of the flat.The informant alleged that the CHB abused its dominant position by way of imposing unfair terms and clauses on the allottees.Alleging that certain clauses in the brochure/scheme were exploitative, he has sought interim relief in the form of refund of Rs5,36,900. Besides, he also demanded any other relief which the commission might deem fit and appropriate.The CCI stated, “The commission is of the prima facie view that the CHB appears to have acted in derogation of the provisions of Section 4(1), read with Section 4(2), of the Competition Act.”The commission directed the Director-General to investigate the matter and submit a report within 60 days.Informant’s Plea to Competition Commission||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-orders-probe-into-abuse-of-dominant-position-by-chb-361058
14-01-2022||Panchkula||Yamunanagar teacher found dead in car||The body of a 35-year-old man was found in a car at the Sector 11 market here this morning.The victim, Padam, was a resident of Mansurpur village in Yamunanagar. He was a computer teacher. The police said according to his family members, he had left home yesterday in an Alto car, which he had borrowed from his friend.The police got an alert around 11.30 am, following which a team of the Sector 10 post reached the spot. The victim’s body had been sent for a post-mortem, the police said. There were no injury marks on the body. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/yamunanagar-teacher-found-dead-in-car-361057
14-01-2022||Amarjot Kaur||Chaos at Chandigarh railway station, courtesy auto drivers||Chandigarh, January 13The sight of auto-rickshaw drivers looking for potential customers in train passengers who are dropped off at the city railway station has become a regular vexation for weary travellers and the railway authorities in the recent past. While the entry of auto drivers and cabbies is banned at the station platform, the “without platform ticket” challans and constant checks are doing little to keep them contained to the one-way “in road” of the station, which facilitates easy pickups and drop-offs for passengers and is a convenient drive-through for taxi and auto service providers.Recently, Svati Saggi had gone to receive her friend at the station, who was visiting the city from Delhi. “My friend just got off the train and reached the exit point of the station towards the Chandigarh side, but right when she got off the platform and headed for the stairs, two auto drivers started hounding her,” she said. “She was too tired of the long journey and had told the driver that her friend was here but he just didn’t listen. She was completely flustered.”According to the data provided by the railway authorities, 870 people have been fined in the past six months for entering the city railway platform without a ticket. An official from the ticket-checking department of the station, requesting anonymity, said, “There’s a regular inflow of auto and taxi drivers at the station and of all people who have been caught at the station without the platform ticket, most are auto drivers and cabbies.” The official added, “While the ticket-checking squad, the GRP and the RPF keep a regular check on those entering the platform, the station is big and open from all sides, making it difficult to spot a trespasser or a miscreant sometimes.”Another official from the RPF said, “Though 90 per cent of the auto drivers are straight-jacketed people trying to earn a decent living, there are some who actually work for hotels at the nearby Daria village. These auto drivers take a heavy commission from hotel owners for providing them with a guest as they have tie-ups with hotel owners. These people don’t look for regular customers, but for those who want to stay in the city so they can make bigger bucks. They usually wait around for days at the station looking for the right customer.”The ordealMy friend just got off the train and reached the exit point of the station towards the Chandigarh side, but right when she got off the platform and headed for the stairs, two auto drivers started hounding her. — Svati Saggi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chaos-at-chandigarh-railway-station-courtesy-auto-drivers-361056
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Expect foggy conditions till January 17 in Chandigarh||Expect foggy conditions and a partly cloudy sky in the city till January 17. According to the UT Met Department, fog/mist in the morning is likely till January 17. After that, there is likely to be no significant fog for a few days. The city recorded a maximum temperature of 16°C on Thursday, five degrees below normal, while the minimum temperature was 10.7°C, five degrees above normal. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-foggy-conditions-till-january-17-in-chandigarh-361055
14-01-2022||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh on the green path, forest cover crosses 50%||Chandigarh, January 13There is a good reason to rejoice for residents of Chandigarh as the green cover in the city has almost doubled in the past two decades.According to the India State of Forest Report (ISFR), 2021, the green cover of Chandigarh has increased from 46.25 per cent in 2019 to 50.05 per cent in 2021.The Forest Survey of India (FRI), Dehradun, a premier institute, brings out a biennial report on the forest cover map of the entire country following both remote sensing data followed by ground truthing at the field.As per the report released by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, there is a jump in the forest cover of the UT by 85 hectares. The open forest area has also increased by 158 hectares that signifies that more non-forest area has been brought under the green cover, said Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, UT.The efforts of the Department of Forest and Wildlife and other greening agencies of the UT Administration have paid dividend in enhancing the green cover of the city, he said, adding that in 2001, the green cover of the city was nearly 26 per cent, which had increased to 50.05 per cent in 2021.To increase the green cover in UT, the Greening Chandigarh Action Plan (GCAP) was prepared every year by all greening agencies such as the Forest Department, the horticulture wing of the Engineering Department, UT, and the Municipal Corporation, he said, adding that the annual target of plantation was set for all three departments.Further, the Department of Forest and Wildlife is making sustained efforts in improving the quality of the forest by planting indigenous species such as shisham, shahtoot, khair and babul and no exotic species are being planted for the past couple of years. Saplings are also distributed free of cost to local residents to add to the total greenery.In addition, the continuous engagement of the department with all important stakeholders such as NGOs, RWAs, eco clubs, environmental societies and involvement of media has played a crucial role not only in protection of the forest but also in further increasing the green cover of the UT. Dalai said the green cover included all trees in the city and the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-on-the-green-path-forest-cover-crosses-50-361054
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tops in Covid-19 vaccination||The UT Administration has achieved a milestone in vaccination as it has administered the first dose to 125 per cent of the target population against the national average of 92 per cent.As per a presentation given to Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the review of Covid status today, with 125 per cent first dose of the vaccination, Chandigarh is first among all states and UTs, said UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg. “With 97 per cent second dose of the vaccination, we are fifth in the country against the national average of 69 per cent and in the next three days, we will be in the league of 100 per cent,” he added. Expressing satisfaction over the vaccination rate, UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit said the vaccination was a “critical pillar of our Covid response; we should ensure cent per cent vaccination of all eligible at the earliest”. As of now, the vaccination is being carried out at 89 different sites in the city and the first dose has been administered to 124.70 per cent and the second dose to 97.23 per cent target population in the above 18-year category, whereas 50.38 per cent population (15-18 years) has been jabbed. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-tops-in-vaccination-361053
14-01-2022||---||Chandigarh relaxes timings for home delivery of food||Chandigarh, January 13Not in favour of imposing strict restrictions, the UT Administration has decided to relax the timings for home delivery of food.The decision was taken at a review meeting, presided over by UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit here today.A consensus emerged at the meeting that hotels, restaurants, café, coffee shops and eating places would be allowed to function up to 10 pm. However, kitchens of these premises will be allowed to remain open up to 11 pm and no home delivery will be allowed after midnight.It was also decided that persons with disabilities and pregnant women employees in government offices in Chandigarh will be exempted from attending office but they were required to work from home. To prevent overcrowding, it was decided that public transport, including bus, taxis and auto-rickshaw, will run only with their permitted seating capacity. In case of violations, strict action under appropriate law will be taken against the violator.These orders will come into force from January 14 and will be applicable until further orders.Appreciating efforts of the UT Administration to arrest the spread of Covid by increasing the testing three-fold, taking the testing figures to 5,000 a day as against 1,200 to 1,500 a day, Purohit hoped that the early detection followed by quick isolation would help in checking the spread of the virus.Ordering strict enforcement of the Covid guidelines/restrictions, Purohit said intensive containment and active surveillance should continue, unabated. He said it had been brought to his notice that the Covid protocol was being violated in certain markets/mandis. He asked the DGP to intensity challaning and enforce strict Covid protocol in the city. Making an appeal to the public, Purohit said as of now, the common public perception was that the Covid infection in the ongoing wave was mild. He said the lesson learnt from the past experience was that the Covid scenario was fluid, it was dynamic and kept evolving. “So, we should not lower our guard,” reiterated Purohit.Eateries allowed to function till 10 pmHome delivery till 10 pm in MohaliMohali: The administration on Thursday ordered that home delivery would be allowed till 10 pm on all days. The orders would remain in force till January 15. All earlier Covid-related orders would continue in the same manner to ensure their compliance. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-relaxes-timings-for-home-delivery-of-food-361052
14-01-2022||Chandigarh||At 1,338 new Covid cases, Chandigarh clocks another high||1 fatality, 917 fresh cases in Mohali distMohali: One person died while 917 new Covid-19 cases were reported from the district on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as a 79-year-old man from Kharar. As many as 364 persons recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours. Among the new cases, 387 were from Mohali (urban), 289 from Dhakoli, 138 from Kharar, 38 from Dera Bassi, 28 from Gharuan, 22 from Boothgarh, nine from Kurali and three from Lalru. The total positive case count in the district is 74,982, of whom 68,988 have recovered. The active case count is 4,915. With one more death, the toll has climbed to 1,079. TNS701 fresh cases in Panchkula distPanchkula: At a positivity rate of 27%, the district saw 701 fresh cases on Thursday. It was the second highest daily count since the inception of the pandemic. It had clocked its highest daily peak with 734 cases on Wednesday. There are to 2,593 active cases. The case tally is 34,886 and the toll 382. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-1-338-new-covid-cases-chandigarh-clocks-another-high-361051
14-01-2022||Naina Mishra||Despite surge, Covid bed occupancy in Chandigarh only 23%||Chandigarh, January 13The daily cases continue to swell in Chandigarh, leaving the Covid-19 beds at designated hospitals 23 per cent occupied now. While there were 4,808 active cases in the city on Wednesday, only 2 per cent (109) were hospitalised and the remaining were in home isolation.Chandigarh has 1,206 designated Covid beds for the third wave and 278 of these have been occupied by patients from Chandigarh and nearby states. During the second wave, the bed occupancy had increased manifold and the hospitalisation rate had gone up to 20 per cent. Many patients had died for want of Covid ICU beds. The hospital occupancy at any given time was between 85 per cent and 100 per cent when the active cases had peaked at 5,000 in May last year.A majority of the patients are admitted to the PGI. Of the 190 patients admitted to the Covid ward, 85 belong to Chandigarh, followed by 50 patients from Punjab, 25 from Haryana and the remaining from other states.As many as 66 per cent patients were in the bracket of 13 to 40 years, followed by 23 per cent in the age group of 41 to 60. Eighteen patients were admitted to Covid-19 ICUs and 13 to the paediatric Covid ward.Death count low this timeThe city has witnessed five deaths due to Covid-19 this month, while the first two weeks of April last year had seen 24 deaths due to Covid.Oxygen capacity sufficientThe peak requirement of medical oxygen is estimated at 49.5 MT in the third wave and the UT has 53.8 MT oxygen production capacity installed already. No concern of oxygen requirement has been flagged by any hospital as of now.Hospitalisation rate was 20% in 2nd waveDuring the second wave, the hospitalisation rate was 20%. Many patients had died for want of ICU beds. The hospital occupancy at any given time was between 85% and 100% when the active cases had peaked at 5,000 in May last.Covid is dynamic, don’t lower guard: PurohitAs of now, the public perception is that Covid infection in the ongoing wave is mild. The lesson learnt from the past experience is that the Covid scenario is dynamic and keeps evolving. So, we need not lower our guard. — Banwarilal Purohit, UT Administrator‘We need to be careful’We are seeing a sharp rise in cases. So far, the cases have been largely asymptomatic. However, we have the elderly and those with co-morbidities. We need to be careful as mild disease can affect them. — Dr Suman Singh, DHS, UT||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/despite-surge-covid-bed-occupancy-in-ut-only-23-361045
