19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 1,502 new Covid-19 cases at 25.91 per cent positivity rate||Chandigarh on Wednesday reported 1,502 new cases of Covid-19 up from 1,275 cases reported a day earlier.A positivity rate of 25.91 per cent was recorded in the last 24 hours as 5,797 samples were tested.The positivity rate recorded yesterday was 21.96 per cent.The cumulative number of cases in the city has reached 81,269 of which 9,966 are active cases.As many as 1,112 patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed seven days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.Two deaths were reported in the city in patients with co-morbidities.A 78-year-old Covid positive woman, a case of multiple organ dysfunction syndrome, died at Mayo Hospital, Mohali. She was not vaccinated for Covid.A 73-year-old Covid positive man, a case of coronary artery disease, hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus, died at Fortis Hospital, Mohali. He was fully vaccinated for Covid.With this the death toll has reached 1,093 while 70,210 people have been cured till date.                                      #Chandigarh                                     #Chandigarhcovid                                     #Covid                                     #Covid19||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-1-502-new-covid-19-cases-at-25-91-per-cent-positivity-rate-362656
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Celebrated drama critic CL Ahuja passes away at 88||Celebrated drama critic CL Ahuja passed away at a New Delhi hospital on Tuesday night.He was 88.The researcher spent his life dedicated to teaching English drama and appreciating Indian theatre. He was associated with the daily ‘The Tribune’ as drama critic for more than 20 years.‘Contemporary Theatre of India’ and ‘Theatre Thinking in India’ are his well-known books on the subject.For the past 15 years he was engaged in writing Urdu poetry. He was honoured with the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award for his overall contribution to the art of drama and theatre.Renowned Punjabi playwright and theatre director Atamjit says, “He was an honest and dedicated person, without any agenda except his academic integrity, who writing on theatre. He was a hardworking man. For two of the books he has written, he might have approached about 400 theatre writers, directors and actors across the country visiting them, recording their interviews and making notes. It was a laborious work to be done by organisations but he could individually do it, which speaks volumes about his dedication.”Playwright and theatre director Kewal Dhaliwal remembers Ahuja as one of the first few who worked on Punjabi theatre post Partition. “He treasured Punjabi theatre through his articles and registered its presence at the national level, contributing significantly to treasure it,” says Dhaliwal.Theatre actor and director Sudesh Sharma remembers Ahuja as the foremost critic from the region. “At that time the only main newspaper in the region was ‘The Tribune’. Every Friday theatre artistes would wait for Ahuja’s column in which he would have reviewed all the plays of the week. Each play would get only two to three lines but it was so significant, people would be opening dictionaries to understand it.”Sharma says Ahuja’s feedback meant the world to artistes. “We would carry the newspaper cuttings in our pocket gloating over the fact that Ahuja had written about us.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/celebrated-drama-critic-cl-ahuja-passes-away-at-88-362608
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Three snatch mobile in Chandigarh, arrested||Youth held with banned vialsChandigarh: A Mauli Jagran resident has been arrested by the UT police with 62 banned injections. The sSuspect has been identified as Vikas (28). The police have registered a case under the NDPS Act at the Mauli Jagran police station. TNS60-kg polythene seized at mandiChandigarh: The Municipal Corporation on Tuesday carried out a special drive at the Sector 26 grain market and seized 60 kg of polythene. The drive was conducted by sanitary inspectors of the MC during which 14 violators were challaned for using banned plastic bags and 12 violators were issued challans for sanitation. The MC warned shopkeepers not to use banned plastic bags or be prepared to face strict legal action. TNSWoman killedLalru: A 47-year-old woman died after being hit by a train on the Ambala-Kalka tracks near here on Monday morning. The deceased has been identified as Santosh Kumari, a resident of Khatoli village. The railway police said the body was handed over to here kin after post-mortem.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-snatch-mobile-in-chandigarh-arrested-362544
19-01-2022||---||Roots AITA Championship: Top seed Daksh enters quarters||Mohali, January 18Top seed Daksh Kapoor ousted Yash Verma (9-0) to qualify for the boys’ U-14 quarterfinals in the Roots AITA CS7 National Rankings Championship in Zirakpur.Punjab’s Kirtarth Singh defeated Vedant Jivani (9-7), while sixth seed Ruhan Komandur outplayed Haralam Singh (9-6). Chandigarh’s Pragun Thakur outplayed Sachit Thakur (9-2) and third seed Hridhay defeated Siddhant Mohapatra (9-2). Fifth seed Sumukh Singh also march ahead by defeating Haryana’s Trishubh (9-3) and Anav Grover defeated Prabhroop Singh (9-1). Ribhav was trailing (0-6) to Armaan Walia before the latter conceded the match.In the boys’ U-16 pre-quarterfinals, top seed Haryana’s Akshat Dhull defeated Siddhant Mohapatra (9-3) and Ruhan Komandur outplayed Punjab’s Mehraab Singh (9-3).Punjab’s Sumukh Marya defeated Haramnbir Singh (9-4), Sachit Thakur faced a tough resistance from Satvik Singla before logging a (9-8(0)) win, Aryan Jolly ousted Kirtarth Singh (9-5) and Advit Tiwari struggled hard to defeat Hridhay (9-8(5)). Sixth seed Daksh Kapoor also march ahead by defeating Haralam Singh (9-2), while second seed Parth Sharma ousted Pragun Thakur (9-7).Jasmine logs winIn the girls’ U-16 first round, Punjab’s Jasmine Kaur defeated Chandigarh’s Mokshika Yadav (9-1). Vedehi Pundir also moved ahead in the second round by defeating Poonam (9-6).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/roots-aita-championship-top-seed-daksh-enters-quarters-362543
19-01-2022||---||Chandigarh cueist Ranveer to feature in documentary||Chandigarh, January 18National champion Ranveer Duggal is all set to become the city’s first cueist to get featured in a documentary by news presenter Alisha Singh on world’s young achievers.The 17-year-old prodigy recently defeated Dhruv Patel of Gujarat to win the sub-junior title of the National Snooker Championship in Bhopal.Alisha, a United Kingdom-based news presenter, has associated with the Chandigarh Billiards and Snooker Association to cover the achievements of Duggal. “Alisha is a well-known broadcaster, who has worked with the likes of late Alex ‘Hurricane’ Higgins, Ronnie O Sullivan and others. She is expected to be in India as soon as the Covid pandemic subsides, to shoot and interview me,” said Duggal.Duggal hogged the limelight after winning bronze in the U-16 World Snooker Championship held at Tyumen, in 2019. He started playing the game at the age of seven years. Duggal lost his father Sandeep Duggal, a national-0level cueist, in 2015 and since then his aim has been to fulfil his father’s dream of winning a professional world title.The youngster has the honours of becoming the youngest ever pool player in India to participate in the National Pool Championship, the youngest player to participate in the 6-Red National Snooker Championship and the National Snooker and Billiards Championship. He became the junior and sub-junior champion in the Chandigarh State Snooker Championship in 2015 before becoming the Chandigarh State Champion in the U-18 and U-21 snooker categories in 2016. In 2017, he was selected for the Indian U-16 snooker team for the IBSF Snooker Championship held in St Petersburg, Russia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-cueist-ranveer-to-feature-in-documentary-362542
19-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh fails to hold inter-school championships, yet again||Chandigarh, January 18For the second consecutive year, the UT Education Department has failed to conduct inter-school championships of any sport.Last held in 2019, the championships for sessions 2019-20 and 2020-21 were not conducted in the recent past despite the MHA’s relaxation for hosting sports events, following Covid-appropriate behaviour, issued across the nation.While the authorities blamed the pandemic for not holding the events, physical education instructors (teachers) of government schools claimed that non-contact games could have been conducted. Notably, local sports associations had conducted several state championships in which students from various schools (both private and government) participated.Last year, the office of the District Education Officer (DEO) issued a circular asking the schools to seek Education Department’s approval before allowing their students to participate in competitions organised by local associations.“The School Games Federation of India (SGFI) has not issued any schedule for conducting national championships. In this scenario, there’s no chance of conducting any local tournament. If the SGFI announces any schedule, we will definitely conduct inter-school events and happily extend our calendar to April,” said an official, seeking anonymity.“There has to be some explanation on this. While local associations conducted championships, the government bodies had no planning or zeal to conduct any event. This will be for the first time that the department failed to conduct any championship for the second consecutive year. It’s a direct question on the functioning of the stakeholders,” said a teacher.“It will be a disparity for school students as only a handful of them will be able to take advantage (scholarship and gradation certificates). These two years have been crucial for several students,” said another teacher.Last year, after getting clearance from the MHA, the UT Administration had opened sports complexes for trainees. During this period, many local sports associations conducted their state championships. Despite partial closure of the campus, Panjab University conducted inter-college championships not only in Chandigarh, but also in other cities of Punjab. However, the UT Administration (Sports and Education) has failed to conduct any championship.Non-contact games could have been conductedWhile the authorities blamed the pandemic for not holding the events, physical education instructors (teachers) of government schools claimed that non-contact games could have been conducted. Notably, local sports associations had conducted several state championships in which students from various schools (both private and government) participated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-fails-to-hold-inter-school-championships-yet-again-362540
19-01-2022||Mohali||Poll buzz: Balbir Sidhu visits Mohali villages||Kulwant intensifies campaignMohali: Kulwant Singh, former Mayor and AAP candidate from the Mohali Assembly constituency, has been intensifying his election campaign and reaching out to people through door-to-door campaign. On Tuesday, he campaigned at Patton village. Sukhjit Singh, Harjit Singh, Satnam Singh, Rajveer Singh, Sukhjinderpal Singh and Karnail Singh from Bari village along with Harnek Singh, Bittu Sharma, Satish Kumar and Roshan Khan from Jhiurheri village joined the AAP. TNS‘Special care of poor taken during Akali tenure’Mohali: SAD-BSP candidate Parvinder Singh Sohana and his supporters launched a door-to-door campaign in the city on Tuesday and reached out to voters personally. According to Sohana, the campaign is launched to create awareness about the future programmes of the party by reaching out to the locals. Sohana is also holding private meetings at various places to meet the people. During a visit to Shaheed Udham Singh Colony and Guru Nanak Amar Colony, Parvinder said special care of the poor was taken during the tenure of the Akali government. It would again be repeated, if the party formed the government in the state.                                     #BalbirSidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/poll-buzz-balbir-sidhu-visits-mohali-villages-362538
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh police salary scam: Accused denied bail||A local court has denied bail to an accused, Balwinder Kumar, arrested in the alleged salary scam in the Chandigarh Police. While the counsel for the accused pleaded before the court that he had been falsely implicated in the case, the public prosecutor opposed the bail.The police arrested the accused after registering an FIR under Sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC at the Sector 3 police station on February 2, 2020.The FIR was registered on the basis of an inquiry, which allegedly found that 39 police officials were allegedly disbursed excess salary.The public prosecutor argued that the special audit team pointed out an alleged embezzlement of over Rs1.1 crore. During investigation, it was found that the applicant, Junior Assistant, being in-charge of the branch, was responsible for checking monthly salary bill in addition to other work. The investigation with regard to other police officials is in progress and there is strong apprehension that he may tamper with the records and win over the witnesses, if granted bail.After hearing the arguments, Dr Rajneesh, Additional Sessions Judge, Chandigarh, said there was nothing on record to suggest that the prosecution launched by the complainant was false.“Mere presentation of a challan in the court does not entitle the applicant to grant relief of bail. Trial is yet to commence. Therefore, there is every likelihood that, if granted bail, the applicant may attempt to hamper the trial in one way or the other. At this stage, it is too early to jump to any conclusion for the purpose of bail. Therefore, without further delving into the merits of the case and in view of the serious allegations against the present applicant, the court is of the opinion that at this stage, the applicant is not entitled to the concession of bail,” said the court. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-police-salary-scam-accused-denied-bail-362536
19-01-2022||---||Lehragaga man killed as car rams into truck near Sohana||Mohali, January 18A 30-year-old man was killed while another one was seriously injured when the car they were travelling in hit a tipper truck near Sohana last night. The deceased has been identified as Davinder Singh, a resident of Lehragaga. The injured has been identified as Harvinder Singh, who was admitted to the Government Medical College & Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, where his condition is stated to be serious.The police said the accident took place around 9 pm when two occupants of a car were coming from Sector 80 and heading towards Mataur. The speeding car hit the tipper and was damaged completely. Victim Davinder Singh was rushed to a hospital in Sohana where he was declared dead.The other injured person was rushed to the GMCH-32 where his condition is stated to be serious.The police said the speeding car hit the truck from the rear as the vehicle in front applied brakes suddenly.Investigating officer Kewal Singh said, “The tipper has been impounded and a case has been registered in this regard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-killed-as-car-rams-into-truck-near-sohana-362535
19-01-2022||---||Eatery owner, friend attacked in Pinjore; three arrested||Panchkula, January 18The police today nabbed three persons on the charge of attacking the owner of a restaurant with a sword and sticks in Pinjore. They have been identified as Sunny and Sandeep Sharma, both residents of Saini Mohalla, and Gurpreet Singh of Vasudevpura village near Pinjore.The three were produced before the court which remanded them in one-day police custody.Chirag Garg, owner of Urban Food situated on Bitna Road, told the police that on January 16 at 9 pm, around seven youths came to his restaurant in a vehicle and started attacking him and his friend, Kuber Singh with, a sword and sticks. His friend suffered severe injuries on the head and was rushed to the Civil Hospital, Sector 6.A case under Sections 148, 149, 323, 452 and 506, and 25, 543 and 59 of the Arms Act has been registered at the Pinjore police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/eatery-owner-friend-attacked-in-pinjore-three-arrested-362533
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chancellor notifies inclusion of 7 more fellows in PU Senate||The Vice-President of India in capacity of Chancellor, Panjab University, has approved the elections of seven more fellows to the Panjab University Senate.Dr Inderpal Singh Sidhu, Dr Harpreet Singh Dua, Dr KK Sharma, Dr Shaminder Singh Sandhu, Jagdeep Kumar, Dr Jagdish Chander and Dr Jagtar Singh have been inducted into the Senate. According to the notification, “The Vice-President of India and Chancellor, Panjab University, has approved the elections of seven fellows, in exercise of powers conferred by Sub-section (2) of Section 13 of the Panjab University Act, (1947), as Ordinary Fellows to the Senate of Panjab University.” The term of these fellows will remain until October 31, 2024.A total of eight members were elected to the Senate from the Arts constituency. However, the university had later declared Tarun Ghai not eligible for the constituency. Following this, the notification of the inclusion of the rest of seven elected fellows was put on hold. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chancellor-notifies-inclusion-of-7-more-fellows-in-pu-senate-362532
19-01-2022||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh: Panel tells Lake Club to restore life membership||Chandigarh, January 18In one of the significant judgments, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, UT of Chandigarh, has ordered the Lake Club here to restore the lifetime membership of a member with immediate effect which was terminated for not depositing maintenance and other charges.The commission says, “The life membership, as its title denotes, is for life and cannot be cancelled. So the act of the club in cancelling the life membership of the complainant is wrong and illegal.”A member of the club, Capt MP Singh, had approached the commission through counsel Amarbir Dhaliwal alleging that the club had cancelled his lifetime membership illegally. He said he took the lifetime membership of the club before 2000 by paying a hefty fee of Rs10,000. He was not supposed to pay any other maintenance or subscription charges to the club in lieu of the membership as per the rules, he said.Capt MP Singh said the club changed its nomenclature to Lake Sports Complex in 2006 without informing him.He said no demand was ever raised by the club till 2016 with regard to any maintenance charges or any other charges, but he was issued demand notices in 2016 by the club asking him to pay charges.He requested the club to recall the demand notices as he was not liable to pay the said amount, but they did not. The club illegally terminated his membership vide a letter dated June1, 2017, he said.Meanwhile, the club filed a reply and denied that the complainant was not supposed to pay any maintenance and subscription charges to the club in lieu of membership as per the rules. The club said Rs10,000 had been paid by the complainant towards one-time subscription fee only for becoming a member of the Lake Sports Complex and even a lifetime member of the club had to pay maintenance charges of the Lake Sports Complex. The club claimed that before terminating the membership, he had been informed by the club. When the complainant failed to clear his dues of Rs 6,638 as on May, 2017, despite ample opportunities, his membership was terminated vide a notice dated June 1, 2017.The commission, comprising Rajan Dewan, president, and BM Sharma, member, also said in case some additional infrastructure facilities had been created and provided by the club for which other life members were also being charged, then the amount as per the benchmark applicable to other life members might be charged from the complainant. Further, the complainant will continue to pay the monthly charges, as per the rules and norms of the club applicable to their other life members for availing of special/additional facilities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-panel-tells-lake-club-to-restore-life-membership-362530
19-01-2022||---||Haryana Speaker all praise for Health Department||Panchkula, January 18Haryana Speaker Gian Chand Gupta congratulated the entire team of the Health Department on achieving 100 per cent coverage of both doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the district.With this, Panchkula became the third district in the state to achieve this milestone, he said. Gupta said till now 50 per cent children in the age group of 15 to 18 years had been administered the first dose of the Covid vaccine in Panchkula.Gupta said efforts made under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to prevent the spread of Covid in the country were unmatched.He said though the third wave of the Covid was not as severe as the previous ones, people need to be cautious and follow proper protocols.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/haryana-speaker-all-praise-for-health-department-362516
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||3 pairs of trains suspended till  Feb 28 due to fog||Three pairs of trains shuttling between Chandigarh and Prayagraj and Lucknow and Dibrugarh have been cancelled in view of poor weather conditions till February 28.An official from the Ambala Division of the Northern Railway confirmed that three trains - Unchahar Express (14217/14218), Lucknow Jn-Chandigarh Express (15011/15012) and Dibrugarh-Chandigarh Express (15903/15904) - had not been running since December 1.An official at the Ambala Division said the decision to cancel the trains was taken by the parent zonal railways or the Railway Board.“Trains that have low patronage of passengers or those running on congested routes are usually cancelled every year because of bad weather conditions during the winter. We have a fog signal device, but long-route trains often pass through long foggy patches. We cannot take any risk, especially when it comes to passengers’ safety. So we suspend these trains,” he said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/3-pairs-of-trains-suspended-till-feb-28-due-to-fog-362508
19-01-2022||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Chandigarh: MACT gives Rs20-lakh relief  to road accident victim's kin||Chandigarh, January 18The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Chandigarh, has directed an insurance company, a car driver and the vehicle owner to pay a compensation of Rs20,23,000 to the wife, two children and the father of a person, Amreesh Kumar, who died in a road accident in 2018.The claimants filed the claim petition under Section 166 of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988. In the petition filed through counsel Satnam Singh, Archna Devi, wife of the deceased, and other claimants, said Amreesh, a resident of Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh, the accident took place due to the negligent and rash driving by the car driver.The claimants said Amreesh was on way from Nathanpur to Lakkarmai village, Partap Pur, in Yamunanagar district, on a bike when a car coming from the opposite side allegedly hit him in the area of Nathanpur village. The car was coming from the wrong side.Amreesh, who suffered serious injuries in the mishap, later succumbed to his injuries.The claimants said they all were dependent upon his income. They sought a compensation of Rs60 lakhs along with interest from the respondents.After hearing the arguments, Rajiv K Beri, presiding officer, MACT, directed the insurance company, the car driver and the vehicle owner to pay a compensation of Rs20,23,000 jointly and severally to the claimants.The Motor Accident Claims Tribunal said of the total amount, both minor children would receive Rs1 lakh each and the father would get Rs3 lakh. The remaining amount of the compensation would go to the victim’s wife. The shares of the minor claimants should be kept in fixed deposits with a nationalised bank till they attain majority.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mact-gives-20-lakh-relief-to-road-accident-victims-kin-362506
19-01-2022||Gaurav Kanthwal||Deepinder Dhillon, 3 MC chiefs train guns on Dera Bassi MLA||Zirakpur, January 18Dera Bassi Congress in-charge Deepinder Dhillon, Zirakpur MC president Udayvir Dhillon, Dera Bassi MC president Ranjit Singh Reddy and Lalru Municipal Council president’s husband Mukesh Rana today rejected the allegations made by Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma of wrongdoing on their part.Deepinder Singh Dhillon today said Sharma was making baseless allegations as he could foresee his defeat in the upcoming elections.Responding to Sharma’s allegation of misappropriation of MC funds, Deepinder alleged that Sharma had got at land at Bhankharpur Patti village registered in his name in spite of stay orders and re-constructed a petrol pump there.Udayvir Dhillon said the Dera Bassi MLA had allegedly misused public money in his housing and commercial projects in the past.Responding to Sharma’s allegations of misappropriation of funds in the installation of street lights in the parking area of Shri Nabha Sahib Gurdwara, Dhillon said the street lights were installed before the release of Rs23 lakh to the contractor.Rana said the alleged illegal felling of trees by Sharma was a non issue as these were axed as per the rules.Sharma said he would quit politics if Deepinder Dhillon and the three MC presidents proved allegations of corruption. “If I have done something wrong, why the government has not taken any action yet?” he said.                                     #DeraBassi                                     #NKSharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/deepinder-dhillon-3-mc-chiefs-train-guns-on-dera-bassi-mla-362502
19-01-2022||Amarjot Kaur||Countering child abuse, victim shaming with grief counselling||Chandigarh, January 18“It’s indifference, not grief, that torments victims the most,” says Renu Mathur (58), the first and only grief counsellor to have been officially appointed by the Panchkula police at the Woman Police Station, Sector 5.In 2017, when Renu volunteered for the role of a counsellor, she didn’t quite expect to be put on the payroll of the Panchkula Commissionerate a year later. “I’ve been a grief counsellor for over 20 years. When I spoke to a senior police official about offering my services to the victims of domestic and sexual abuse, he was quite supportive. For a year, I counselled victims, especially children, under POCSO Act. In 2018, I was put on the payroll. I am now a counsellor for even the staff who work here,” she says.With an overwhelming sense of sensitivity, Renu puts good policing into perspective, approaching it with compassion and care. “Usually, victims of abuse are shamed by society. The society’s moral yardstick’s a little flawed that way. It tends to point the blame at victims and their families. In most cases, such victims become suicidal and sink into depression, even post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). That’s where I step in. It’s my job to counsel the victim and that, in my opinion, is good policing. In fact, I don’t even use the word victim. I’d rather call them survivors,” she says.Even during the lockdown, as an online grief counsellor for the Haryana State Commission for Women, Renu says she counselled around three persons every day. “The cases of domestic abuse went up during the lockdown. Not only was I available at the Woman Police Station, but also online for the Haryana State Commission for Women. Almost every day, I counselled two-three persons.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/countering-child-abuse-victim-shaming-with-grief-counselling-362498
19-01-2022||---||Nigerian among two cyber fraudsters in Chandigarh police net||Chandigarh, January 18Two cyber fraudsters, including a Nigerian, who had duped a woman of Rs13.70 lakh on the pretext of sending her costly gifts, have been arrested by the cyber crime investigation cell of the UT police.The police said one of the suspects, who posed as Richard from the UK, befriended the victim, a resident of Sector 21, on Instagram, last year.The victim, in her complaint, stated that during the conversation, the suspect said that his birthday was approaching and as a kind gesture, his family sends gifts to all his friends.The suspect then sent a message to the victim that since Diwali was approaching, he had sent £10,000 and some gifts to her.A few days later, she received a call from a person who posed as a courier company executive and informed her that Richard had sent a parcel for her. The person asked her to deposit Rs40,000 to get the parcel. However, even after depositing the money in the given bank account, no parcel was received by her.She called on the number from which she had received a call to enquire about her parcel following which the imposter told her that there were various expensive gifts in the parcel due to which customs clearance, police clearance and other permissions were required.The victim then contacted the suspect, who posed as Richard on a WhatsApp number. He replied that there were expensive gifts, including gold sets, in the parcel. He sent photos of gold sets to the victim and made her transfer Rs13.31 lakh in the given bank account.The victim later found that she had been duped following which she approached the police. A case of cheating was registered at the Sector 19 police station in December.During the investigation, the suspects, identified as Satvinder Singh (33), a resident Delhi, and a Nigerian, Odoeke Fransic Ifeanyi (37), who is at present residing in Delhi, were arrested.Laptops, debit cards recoveredThe police have recovered mobile phones, laptops and debit cards from them. “We are gathering information about other persons involved in this cheating racket,” said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/nigerian-among-two-cyber-fraudsters-in-chandigarh-police-net-362495
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Expect rain on January 21, 22 in Chandigarh||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/expect-rain-on-january-21-22-in-chandigarh-362493
19-01-2022||Mohali||Harjeet Singh new Mohali SSP||Harjeet Singh, a 2010-batch IPS officer, has been posted as the Senior Superintendent of Police, Mohali. He replaces Navjot Singh Mahal, who took charge on October 5, 2021. Harjeet Singh is one of the eight police officers who have been directed to take charge as SSPs in the state following directions of the Election Commission of India, issued on Tuesday evening. He has earlier served as the AIG (Intelligence), Punjab, at Chandigarh and as the SSP in Tarn Taran, Barnala and Fazilika.Sartaj Singh Chahal, a 2015-batch IPS officer, has been directed to take charge as the Senior Superintendent of Police, Fatehgarh Sahib. He replaces Sandeep Goel. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/harjeet-singh-new-mohali-ssp-362491
19-01-2022||Panchkula||SUV crash on Pinjore-Parwanoo bypass leaves 1 dead, 3 injured||One person was killed and three others, including two girls, were injured when a rashly driven Fortuner in which they were travelling collided with a Scorpio after turning turtle near Tipra village on the Pinjore-Parwanoo bypass.The deceased has been identified as Arman, a resident of Maloya in Chandigarh. The owner of the damaged Scorpio, Vijay Mittal, said his shop was located near the accident site. He said he was closing his shop to return home when the Fotuner, coming from the Parwanoo side, turned turtle thrice before hitting his Scorpio. He said people gathered at the site and rescued the injured from the Fortuner and rushed them to the Civil Hospital in Panchkula, where one of them succumbed to his injuries. Eyewitnesses claimed that all boys and girls were drunk. They said they saw bottles of liquor and beer near the damaged vehicle.The Pinjore police are looking into the case. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suv-crash-on-pinjore-parwanoo-bypass-leaves-1-dead-3-injured-362490
19-01-2022||Chandigarh||Power engineers to call on Chandigarh Administrator Banwarilal Purohit against privatisation||A delegation of the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers (NCCOEEE) will meet UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit on February 1 and hand over a memorandum to him against the privatisation of the UT Power Department.VK Gupta, spokesperson, All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF), said an online meeting of the NCCOEEE was held today under the leadership of Shailendra Dubey, chairman, AIPEF. It was decided to oppose the decision of privatisation of profit-making power departments of the UTs of Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu and Puducherry.He said NCCOEEE core committee leaders would reach Chandigarh on February 1 to support UT power sector employees’ strike against the privatisation.He said the Chandigarh Power Department had been making profit for the past seven years. Profit for 2020-2021 was Rs257 crore and line losses in Chandigarh were only 9.2 per cent. The electricity tariff of Chandigarh was also cheaper as compared to Punjab and Haryana. The privatisation of such a profit-making utility was not acceptable. Gupta said a petition filed by UT employees was sub judice as the matter was first referred to the Supreme Court, which then directed it to High Court. The next date of hearing was January 20 and the High Court was yet to decide the case on its merit. The Union Cabinet had approved the bid of the highest bidder on January 6 to privatise the Electricity Department of Chandigarh. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/power-engineers-to-call-on-chandigarh-administrator-banwarilal-purohit-against-privatisation-362489
19-01-2022||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Rent defaulters of CHB small flats to face the music||Chandigarh, January 18Coming down heavily on rent defaulters, the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has decided to cancel the allotment of more than 13,000 allottees of small flats.Nearly 12,132 occupants of small flats in eight rehabilitation colonies have failed to pay their outstanding rent to the tune of more than Rs43.91 crore up to December 31, 2021. They were allotted small flats at Dhanas, Sector 38 (West), Sector 49, Sector 56, Ram Darbar, Mauli Jagran, Maloya and the Industrial Area several years ago.Similarly, nearly 1,329 occupants of small flats under the Affordable Rental Housing Scheme (ARHS) at Maloya have also failed to pay their rent of more than Rs3.04 crore up to December 31 last year.The CHB had time and again sent recovery notices to the defaulters to pay their rent or be ready to face cancellation proceedings against their units.In 2019, the CHB had cancelled the allotment of nearly 250 allottees for the violation.Despite several notices issued to the defaulters, they failed to pay their rent, said Yashpal Garg, Chief Executive Officer, CHB. He said now cancellation proceedings would be initiated against the defaulters and their allotments would be cancelled. Due to the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, strict action against the rent defaulters was kept on hold, but now no further relaxation would be given to them, he added.To make the city slum-free, the UT Administration had allotted the small flats to slum dwellers under the slum rehabilitation scheme in different parts of the city. Allottees of the one-room EWS flats are charged Rs800 to Rs1,000 per month as ground rent, which is increased by 20 per cent after five years of allotment.Under the Chandigarh Small Flat (Amendment) Scheme 2020, if allottees do not pay the rent, they are liable to pay a penalty of 12 per cent per annum. If paid on time, the yearly collection of rent will be around Rs20 crore. While the CHB keeps 5 per cent of the recoveries as administrative cost, the rest is deposited with the Administration.                                     #ChandigarhHousingBoard||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rent-defaulters-of-chb-small-flats-to-face-the-music-362488
19-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh MC plans to spend Rs 6 crore on processing dry garbage||Chandigarh, January 18The Municipal Corporation has proposed to spend Rs6 crore in one year for processing dry garbage at the Sector 25 waste processing plant as setting up of new technology here will take some time.As per an estimate prepared by the civic body, Rs2.5 crore will be spent on the upgrade and repair of the existing dry waste plant and Rs50 lakh will be spent on buying a shredder, while Rs3 crore is the one-year cost of running the plant.“We cannot keep waiting for new technology to be set up here. We have to make some arrangements as the unprocessed waste is piling up at the dumping ground,” MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra told Chandigarh Tribune.According to the MC, at present, about 60-70 metric tonnes of dry waste per day is getting processed, while the city produces about 200 metric tonnes of dry waste daily. The remaining is thrown at the dumping ground. Officers claim that with the new plan, the entire garbage would be processed daily.In June 2020, the civic body took possession of the plant from the Japyee Group, which, according to the MC, was able to process only minimal waste. The civic body has failed to set up new technology or upgrade the plant. It has sought a reply from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar, which has been tasked with the detailed project report (DPR) and the request for proposal (RFP) to upgrade and maintain the waste processing plant. The agenda will be taken up at the January 24 House meeting for approval. After that, there will be a one-month tendering process. The upgrade work is expected to start around June.No plan for wet, horticulture wasteThe city generates about 150-200 metric tonnes of wet waste per day. Only a small amount of it gets processed as compost. There is no plan for processing horticulture waste.Legacy wasteThe agenda regarding clearing more than 7.5 lakh metric tonne legacy waste from the Dadu Majra dumping site will be taken up at an MC House meeting. The corporation has sent a proposal regarding the Rs77-crore project to the Union Government. It will take at least three years once the work starts.‘Can’t keep waiting’We cannot keep waiting for new technology to be set up here. We have to make some arrangements as the unprocessed waste is piling up at the dumping ground. — Anindita Mitra, MC Commissioner||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-mc-plans-to-spend-6-crore-on-processing-dry-garbage-362487
19-01-2022||Naina Mishra||Covid: Doctors warn home-isolated patients against taking unwarranted drugs||Chandigarh, January 18Even after witnessing devastating effects of consuming unwarranted drugs in the name of Covid-19 during the second wave and patients developing mucormycosis (black fungus), patients in home isolation continue to take medicines prescribed by their private practitioners that are not needed for resolution of symptoms. These medicines, PGI and GMCH, Sector 32, doctors say, lack empirical evidence and do not help with Covid-19.A lot of home-isolated patients in the tricity have been found taking multivitamins, antibiotics and antivirals that have been put off treatment in the revised treatment protocol by the ICMR.ExpertspeakRoutine use of medicines such as antibiotics, vitamin supplements, anti-oxidants and ivermectin is not needed at all. Several home-isolated patients continue to use these drugs on their own. — Dr Ashutosh Aggarwal, Dept of Pulmonary Medicine, PGIA 32-year-old Covid patient in home isolation said, “I had only throat irritation and there was no fever or body ache. I was suggested to take ivermectin, vitamin C and zinc tablets by my physician.”Another patient from Mohali said he was prescribed a schedule of eight tablets that included multivitamins and antibiotics for his kid, who tested Covid positive. His entire family was in home isolation, though his prescription had a different set of medicines which also included montek LC (anti-allergic).In the case of other home-isolated patients, it was found that a lot of them were also taking azithromycin, an antibacterial medicine that has no role in Covid-19.This practice of prescribing unwarranted drugs continues in Chandigarh and the tricity even as the guidelines drafted by experts from the ICMR-Covid19 Task Force, AIIMS and the Directorate General of Health Services, favour not recommending medicines like antibiotics doxycycline and azithromycin, and antiparasitic ivermectin for mild cases of Covid-19, which are to be managed at home in isolation.Dr Ashutosh Aggarwal from the Department of Pulmonary Medicine, PGI, said, “The guidelines for the treatment of Covid-19, recently updated by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, have reiterated the policy of minimum medication for people having mild disease. Only symptomatic treatment, mainly antipyretic drugs (like paracetamol) and cough suppressants, are recommended as per need.”“Routine use of other medicines such as antibiotics, vitamin supplements, anti-oxidants and ivermectin is not needed at all. Several home-isolated patients continue to use these drugs on their own, and many medical practitioners are prescribing these to all patients. This not only inflates the overall cost of therapy but also unnecessarily exposes patients to the side effects of these drugs, without any beneficial effect on recovery. Such indiscriminate polypharmacy should be avoided,” added Dr Aggarwal.Dr Sanjay D’cruz from the Department of Internal Medicine, GMCH, said, “Most of the drugs and multivitamins consumed by patients in home isolation are not required. Mild patients can take crocin or cough syrup. They should monitor their oxygen saturation and report to the nearest medical facility if there is a cause for alarm. There is no point taking antibiotics as these do not help in viral illness. There is no evidence that drugs like ivermectin help in Covid. Our rapid response teams are available 24X7 and patients can call us directly for any help.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/doctors-warn-home-isolated-patients-against-taking-unwarranted-drugs-362484
19-01-2022||Panchkula||416 infected, no fatality in Panchkula||As many as 416 fresh cases of Covid surfaced in the district during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of positive cases to 37,620. No death was reported, while five patients recovered from the disease. Of the 37,620 cases reported from the district so far, 34,596 patients have been cured. There are now 2,640 active cases. The death toll stands at 384. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/416-infected-no-fatality-in-panchkula-362481
19-01-2022||Mohali||Five comorbid patients die in Mohali, 1,195 +ve||Five more succumbed to Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 1,092 in the district.The deceased are a 37-year-old man from Mohali, a 53-year-old man from Baidwan village, a 75-year-old man from Banur, a 49-year-old man from Phase 1, Mohali, and a 76-year-old man from Dhakoli. All deceased were suffering from comorbidities.The district saw 1,195 new cases, taking the tally to 81,414, while 707 patients were cured of the disease.Among the new cases, five each came from Lalru, 11 from Kurali, 22 from Banur, 61 from Boothgarh, 46 from Dera Bassi, 79 from Gharuan, 177 from Dhakoli, 220 from Kharar and 574 from the Mohali (urban). Of the 81,414 cases reported from the district so far, 72,012 patinets have been cured. There are now 8,317 active cases. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/five-comorbid-patients-die-in-mohali-1-195-ve-362480
19-01-2022||---||Chandigarh reports 1,275 fresh Covid cases, two deaths||Chandigarh, January 18The city reported 1,275 new Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours, an increase of 47.5 per cent in cases recorded a day earlier. The city has 9,104 active cases. Its positivity rate stands at 21.96 per cent, marginally higher than the previous day’s 21.42 per cent, but perceptibly lower than 26.71 per cent recorded on Saturday.The UT recorded two new fatalities on Tuesday — that of a 76-year-old man from Sector 38 (West), and of a 72-year-old man from Dhanas, who was suffering from hypertension and kidney problems. They were both unvaccinated. The Covid death count of the city stands at 1,091. Chandigarh also recorded 541 new recoveries in the past 24 hours. The UT has been reporting a slight dip in Covid-19 cases since Saturday, although health experts say it is too early to call this a trend. Testing today was down 20 per cent from last Friday when the UT recorded 1,834 new Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day tally yet, fuelled by the highly transmissible Omicron.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-1-275-fresh-covid-cases-two-deaths-362478
19-01-2022||---||Covovax: PGI yet to complete vax trial for age group 2 to 6||Chandigarh, January 18The PGI, one of the trial sites for Covovax, a vaccine for the younger population, is yet to complete the trial for children aged two to six.“The vaccine trial is still going on. We have completed the seven to 17 age bracket, but the target for the two to six age group is yet to be achieved. Parents of healthy children, aged two to six, who want their children to participate in the study, are requested to send the registration form by visiting the PGI website,” Dr Madhu Gupta, principal investigator for Covovax trials among the younger age group, said.“So far, we have vaccinated 32 children in the age group of two to 17 years and require 60-70 more candidates for the age group two to six. We are sensing hesitancy among patients of this age group. The children who were administered Covovax are safe and no side effects were encountered. The antibody response is not known yet,” added Dr Gupta.The vaccine is sponsored by the Serum Institute of India and participation in this vaccine trial is purely on a voluntary basis. The multi-centre trial is aimed at checking the safety and immune response of (Covid-19 vaccine) Covovax in children, aged two to 17.It is a phase 2/3, observer-blind, randomised, controlled study to determine the safety and immunogenicity of Covovax (SARS-CoV2 recombinant spike protein nanoparticle vaccine). The study vaccine is injected intramuscularly (into a muscle) in the deltoid or the anterolateral aspect of the thigh as two doses of 0.5 ml each on Day 1 and Day 22. The participants are observed closely for 30 minutes post-vaccination. The study objective in this cohort is to evaluate the safety of Covovax in comparison to Placebo; and immunogenicity of Covovax in children from two to 11 years of age in comparison to adult participants (adult participants in the reactogenicity and immunogenicity cohort from the Covovax group), separately.No side effectsDr Madhu Gupta, principal investigator, Covovax, says, “So far, we have vaccinated 32 children in the age group of two to 17 years and require 60-70 more candidates for the age group two to six. We are sensing hesitancy among patients of this age group. The children who were administered Covovax are safe and no side effects were encountered. The antibody response is not known yet.”Covid care centre opened in Sec 26Chandigarh: A mini-Covid care centre with a 52-bed capacity and L-2 facilities, set up at the police hospital in Sector 26, was inaugurated by UT DGP Praveer Ranjan. Sri Sathya Sai Gramin Jagriti has set up the centre that provides all facilities free of cost. The centre has 52 oxygen beds and a team of 28 doctors and medical staff to look after patients round the clock. The organisation has also provided blankets, geysers and heaters at the centre. Besides, indoor game facilities have also been provided. TNS                                     #Covovax                                     #PGIChandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pgi-yet-to-complete-vax-trial-for-age-group-2-to-6-362475
