20-01-2022||Chandigarh||No move to set up Covid care centres in Panjab University hostels: Chandigarh Administration||The Chandigarh Administration on Thursday clarified that there is no move for setting up a mini Covid care centre in the Panjab University hostels.Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit said that PU hostel students need not panic over this issue.Reviewing the Covid preparedness in the city, the Administrator directed all the officials to pull up the gear against the fight with Covid-19.Keeping a tab on all the arrangements made by the city hospitals, the Administrator showed his satisfaction over the efforts made by the administration, but has stressed on adopting different strategy in improving the testing rate.The Administrator lauded the aggressive approach followed by the health department in administering vaccination to the targeted population, but has also asked to improve the vaccination rate in the category of 15-18 years, which is currently 66.37%.He also showed his concern in covering the remaining population for second dose of Covid vaccination.Urging the residents of Chandigarh to vaccinate, the Administrator said,” Vaccination is the only way to protect ourselves from the grip of prevailing virus.”The Administrator directed the enforcement of strict Covid protocols at the public places. He said that penalties should be imposed on individuals and institutions who are found violating the protocols, especially those found without masks.Knowing the 70 per cent bed availability in the premier health institutions, the Administrator expressed his satisfaction on the readiness of the city for any unforeseen circumstances.                                     #BanwarilalPurohit                                     #Chandigarh                                     #Covid19                                     #Covidcarecentres                                     #PanjabUniversity                                     #PU||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-move-to-set-up-covid-care-centres-in-panjab-university-hostels-chandigarh-administration-362978
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Wine shop owner, cashier booked in Chandigarh||Water supply to be hit tomorrowChandigarh: There will be low pressure water supply in the city on Friday evening due to maintenance work. According to the MC, on January 21, there will be normal water supply from 3.30 am to 9 am, while from 6 pm to 8 pm, the supply will be at low pressure. TNSCovid teams for PanchkulaPanchkula: Fourteen teams, comprising staff of the administration, Health Department and police, have been constituted by District Magistrate Mahavir Kaushik for the implementation of Covid-appropriate behaviour in public areas. TNS14 Zirakpur cops contract virusZirakpur: As many as 14 personnel of the local police station were found Covid positive on Wednesday. Zirakpur SHO Omkar Singh Brar is down with fever but officials said he had not tested positive for Covid. Some of the police personnel who tested positive earlier have recovered from the infection. TNSOffice-bearers of ICSI electedChandigarh: Puneet Tangri has been elected chairman of the Chandigarh Chapter of the Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI). Arshdeep Kaur Judge has been elected secretary, Shitij Sharma treasurer and Vishawjeet Gupta, Rahul Jogi, Arjun Tyagi and Gurvinder Singh Sarin members of the unit during a meeting of the Managing Committee on Wednesday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wine-shop-owner-cashier-booked-in-chandigarh-362844
20-01-2022||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Patiala man held for issuing death threats to Punjabi singer's husband||A resident of Patiala has been arrested for allegedly issuing death threats to a Punjabi singer’s husband living here.The police said the suspect, identified as Harpreet Singh who claimed to be a member of the Bambiha group, threatened Sajan Sharma, aka Saj, the husband of singer Afsana Khan, with shooting him on the next date of hearing in a court case related to his (Saj’s) first marriage. Reportedly, this is the singer’s second marriage and a court case is going on in a dispute between her husband and his previous wife.The police said Harpreet Singh, a resident of Urban Estate, Patiala, was evading arrest in two cases already registered against him.DSP Harjinder Singh Gill said, “Saj, also a singer, has been receiving death threats on his mobile phone from a person calling himself to be a gangster of the Bambiha group. It is being investigated as to which gang the accused belonged to and what was his connection with Saj’s first wife.” —                                     #Zirakpur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-patiala-man-held-for-issuing-death-threats-362842
20-01-2022||Amarjot Kaur||Day after inspection, chaos, wrong parking of autos at Chandigarh railway station||Chandigarh, January 19After Chandigarh Tribune carried a three-part series on the menace created by auto drivers at the city railway station, senior railway officials of Ambala Division commercial wing, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and the Government Railway Police (GRP) took stock of the prepaid auto booking booth on Tuesday. A day after the meeting, autos were still found stationed in no-parking zones. A bonfire was also lit inside the booth, which is said to have been lying defunct since the onset of the Covid pandemic.The booth, manned by the GRP, lacks basic amenities like tubelight, fan or an electric heater in this biting cold weather. Made of tin sheets, the booth has a cast-iron bench and two small tables, along with a list of old auto fares.Dheeraj, Deputy Superintendent of Police, GRP, Ambala Division, said, “Just yesterday, we had a meeting with top officials of the division from the RPF and the commercial department. It is wrong to set fire inside the booth, but cannot there be some compassion towards the auto drivers or our personnel who may have lit the fire because of the unsparing dip in the mercury?” Dheeraj assured that the booth would soon be made functional and the process to get it started was underway.Sangeeta Kalia, Superintendent of Police, GRP, shared, “There is some jurisdictional problem with the booth and we are working on it. Soon, the SOPs for working of the booth will be in place.”Even today, the sight of auto drivers swarming passengers on the railway platform, right at the entrance, pointed at the lackadaisical attitude of the station authorities towards the vexation of rail travellers.“I had just kept my bags down, but the auto drivers at the platform of the station started harrowing me for a ride. I was on a train from Sainagar Shirdi to Kalka and it’s a long journey, as the train was already delayed. Fare of radio cabs is cheaper than what auto drivers charge here,” said Neha, one of the passengers.Satish Malik, president of the union of auto drivers at the Chandigarh railway station, said, “I ask the auto-rickshaw drivers to not enter the platform, but they don’t listen. What can they do anyway? Passengers book radio cabs if auto drivers don’t catch a customer. Even auto drivers need to make some money, don’t they?”At the railway station, autos have been parked in no-parking zones. One of the autos was parked right in front of the train engine near the entrance of the station, while others were parked along the exit road and even in the single-lane auto road in front of the station’s entrance.Nitish Sharma, Senior DSP, RPF, Ambala Division, assured, “I have issued instructions. The RPF will conduct a drive against illegal parking.”Rlys to take over IRSDC functions by March 31||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/day-after-inspection-chaos-wrong-parking-of-autos-at-chandigarh-railway-station-362839
20-01-2022||Amit Bathla||Accused also rigged HCS-2021 pre-exam: VB||Panchkula, January 19Dismissed HCS officer Anil Nagar, along with other accused, had also falsified the HCS-2021 preliminary examination and not just the dental surgeon examination.The “shocking relevation” was stated in the challan presented before a Panchkula court by the state Vigilance Bureau in the alleged HPSC recruitment scam.As per the challan, Nagar, in his confession to the Bureau officials, stated that he had fixed a rate of Rs20-25 lakh per aspirant for the HCS pre-exam.“In this regard, I received roll numbers of 15 aspirants from other accused involved in the case. After the scanning process, I had taken out the OMR sheets of these candidates. I, along with Ashwani Sharma, then filled the unanswered questions with current answers in the original and carbon copy of the OMR sheets of aspirants at my office. Five aspirants had passed the exam. For the same, I had received a total of Rs1.30 crore,” the challan read, quoting Nagar, who was then deputy secretary of the HPSC and entrusted with the work related to the HCS-2021 and dental surgeon-2021 examinations.“Similarly, for dental surgeons’ recruitment exam, I received roll numbers of 17 candidates. I, along with Ashwani Sharma, forged their OMR sheets. Thirteen aspirants had passed this exam. For this, I took Rs2.08 crore,” stated Nagar in his admission to the Bureau officials, as per the challan submitted in the court.Nagar and two others were arrested by the state Vigilance Bureau last year for allegedly manipulating marks of candidates, who appeared in the recruitment examination for dental surgeons.On Monday, the Bureau submitted a challan against Nagar, Naveen Kumar and Ashwani Sharma in the local court.In the court, the Vigilance Bureau stated that the matter was still under investigation and the samples of voice, handwriting, etc, were awaited from the laboratory in Madhuban. Once the report was received, a necessary supplementary challan would be submitted in the court, the Bureau stated.The matter of the alleged cash-for-job scam had sparked statewide protests by the Opposition parties against the Manohar Lal Khattar-led state government, alleging that there was a large-scale corruption in the government recruitments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/accused-also-rigged-hcs-2021-pre-exam-vb-362837
20-01-2022||Ambala||Ambala Congress Bhawan owes  MC Rs 13L property tax, gets notice||The Ambala Municipal Corporation today pasted a notice on the gates of the Congress Bhawan in Ambala City for not paying property tax of over Rs13 lakh.The notice has been issued in the name of the president, Congress Bhawan. The building is situated in ward number 10 of Ambala City. The notice pegged the total dues at Rs13,83,691 and stated that if no reply was submitted and the tax pending for several years was not paid, the corporation will seal the building.Mithun Verma, the Congress councillor from the ward, said, “The tax was wrongly assessed. I will take up the matter with the MC. The Congress is ready to pay the actual amount of tax.”Rohit Jain, Treasurer, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee, said, “We wrote to the MC that the demand was unjustified and the assessment was not correct.”Aman Dhanda, Deputy Municipal Commissioner, said, “A seven-day period has been given for personal hearing following which further action will be taken.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ambala-congress-bhawan-owes-mc-13l-property-tax-gets-notice-362836
20-01-2022||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Fake promotion orders: Many Punjab Police officials involved, suspect Chandigarh Police||Chandigarh, January 19The Chandigarh Police suspect that many Punjab Police officials were involved in the alleged forgery of promotion orders of 11 personnel issued under the name of a former Punjab Director General of Police (DGP).The police made the claim while seeking a remand of the five accused arrested in the case. The police produced the accused, Sandeep Kumar, Mani Katoch, Bahadur Singh, Satwant Singh and Sarabjit Singh, before a court today and sought their remand for 10 days. However, the court allowed their four-day police custody.On a complaint of a Deputy Superintendent of Police, on behalf of the Punjab Police, the UT police had registered a case against unidentified persons on January 12. The complainant alleged forgery in the promotion orders. The names of many constables, senior constables, sub-inspectors and assistant sub-inspectors were mentioned in the alleged promotion orders issued under the signatures of former Punjab DGP S Chattopadhyaya.The police claimed that during the course of investigation, all arrested accused confessed to the crime and disclosed that they had prepared forged orders many times. The police claimed that the order was prepared in personal laptops and computers of the accused. The police said the case was very sensitive in nature and the accused were allegedly not cooperative as they had changed their statement many times.The police said it was a big scam and the promotion/transfer orders were issued by using the signature of the DGP, Punjab, without following any rules. Many police officials of the Punjab Police were involved in this case, they claimed.While justifying the demand for a 10-day remand, the Chandigarh Police said they were to recover laptops/computers used to prepare the fake order and kept at Amritsar, Jalandhar and Patiala.Naveen Upadhyay, the counsel of Bahadur Singh, claimed that the accused was falsely implicated in the case. While opposing the remand, the counsel said there was nothing to be recovered from the accused.Meanwhile, the counsel moved an application before the court for production of the CCTV footage of the Sector 3 police station for the last three days.Case registered on January 12||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fake-promotion-orders-many-punjab-police-officials-involved-suspect-chandigarh-police-362835
20-01-2022||Amit Bathla||Crores spent on cowsheds, no end to stray menace in Panchkula||Panchkula, January 19The local Municipal Corporation, led by the BJP-JJP, spent crores on new cattle sheds, but the city becoming free of strays is still a distant dream.After opening a cowshed in Sukhdarshanpur, built at a cost of over Rs5 crore last year, Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta recently laid the foundation for the construction of another cattle shed at Kot village, which will be called ‘nandishala’.It will be built on around 9 acres at a cost of Rs2.5 crore and could accommodate nearly 1,000 head of cattle. Both the MLA and Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal termed the occasion “a new beginning” to address the menace of stray cattle in the city.Similar claims were made during the inauguration of the cowshed at Sukhdarshanpur village, but the stray cattle menace continues to persist.“Though there are 12 cow shelters across the district, only “nandis” or stray male bovines will be kept at the nandishala,” said Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal while defending the rationale to open another cowshed.According to Goyal, since January last year, the MC has shifted around 1,200 head of stray cattle to various cow shelters across the city, including the Sukhdarshanpur cowshed and Mata Mansa Devi Gaushala. However, residents said the civic body needed to look beyond raising the number of gaushalas.“The strategy doesn’t seem to be working so far. At least the results are not visible on the ground. Stray cattle still roam the streets. Their presence at garbage bins searching for food is a common sight in the district. It is just a plan to benefit trusts running the cowsheds,” said Rakesh Aggarwal, a resident of Sector 12.It may be mentioned that civic body had last year announced a financial assistance of Rs3 lakh per month to Madhav Gaushala Charitable Trust, which runs the Sukhdarshanpur cowshed. To upgrade machinery, the civic body had also announced to purchase two cattle catchers worth Rs43.71 lakh.Clearly, the spending is just on the rise.What Mayor had promised||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crores-spent-on-cowsheds-no-end-to-stray-menace-in-panchkula-362834
20-01-2022||---||Kin campaign for NK Sharma||Dera Bassi, Januray 19Zirakpur councillor Dharminder Sharma, brother of Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma, today held door-to-door meetings with voters of Sheikhpur Kalan and Karkaur villages in the Dera Bassi Assembly constituency.He said the SAD-BSP alliance was heading towards a big win in Dera Bassi. He highlighted the SAD's works with respect to the Atta Dal and Shaun schemes, providing free cycles to schoolgirls and old-age pension in the uplift of the underprivileged.                                     #DeraBassi                                     #NKSharma||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kin-campaign-for-nk-sharma-362831
20-01-2022||Dera Bassi||Senior leader Charanjit Singh Tiwana joins SAD||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/senior-leader-tiwana-joins-sad-362829
20-01-2022||Mohali||Three return to Congress fold||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/three-return-to-congress-fold-362828
20-01-2022||Mohali||Cong sarpanch, others join AAP in Mohali||Congress sarpanch Chhajja Singh Kurari, Nirmal Singh, Jagbir Singh, Najar Singh Jagatpura along with others today joined AAP. Party candidate from Mohali Kulwant Singh welcomed them into the party fold.Chhajja Singh, sarpanch of Kurdi, said Balbir Singh Sidhu did not improve the condition of the villages despite his party being in power in the state. They said they admire developmental works Kulwant carried out as mayor of the Mohali MC. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-sarpanch-others-join-aap-in-mohali-362826
20-01-2022||Mohali||Mohali: Balbir Sidhu holds village meetings||Congress candidate from Mohali Balbir Singh Sidhu today held a series of “nukad” meetings in Hussainpur, Thaska, Mananaa, Taroli, Jhampur, Bahlolpur, Jujhaarnagar, Barmajra, Raipur and Daon villages. During the meetings, he urged the villagers to vote for the Congress.While targeting Aam Aadmi Party candidate Kulwant Singh and Akali candidate Parvinder Singh Sohana, he said they both were opportunistic and follow personal gains philosophy rather than thinking about the welfare of the general public. —                                     #BalbirSidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-balbir-sidhu-holds-village-meetings-362825
20-01-2022||Gaurav Kanthwal||PUNJAB POLL 2022: Upgrade of bus stand, CHC on Zirakpur residents' mind||Zirakpur, January 19Upgrade of the local bus stand and the expansion in the Dhakoli Community Health Centre (CHC) are the foremost things on the mind of voters in this town that falls in the Dera Bassi Assembly constituency. More than four lakh people reside in Zirakpur and its periphery but the area is deprived of these basic facilities.The bus stand near Paras Down Town, which is more or less defunct, betrays the expectations of residents who have to board buses and auto-rickshaws on the busy highway daily. There have been instances of elderly persons, women and children getting fatally injured while boarding vehicles of the public transport on potholed roads.The Punjab Transport Department, the Zirakpur Municipal Council, the PWD and the Local Bodies Department have not done enough to address the issue.Even more baffling is the state of affairs at the Dhakoli CHC. It has been more than a year since former Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu announced the upgrade of the 30-bed centre to a 100-bed sub-divisional hospital. A gynaecologist and a surgeon were to be added to the existing staff besides an upgrade of the laboratory at the CHC before March 2021. But the proposed expansion has remained a pipe dream.People are forced to go to the Civil Hospital, Panchkula, and the GMCH-32, Chandigarh, and other private hospitals for treatment.The CHC infrastructure had been exposed during Covid and the outbreak of diarrhoea and dengue in the past one year.“It is high time voters asked questions to all candidates regarding the upgrade of the Dhakoli CHC. The candidates should give a time frame in which basic health facilities are made available to the residents,” said Gursevak Singh Ahluwalia of Jamuna Enclave.Kuljit Singh Randhawa, AAP candidate from Dera Bassi, said, “Residents have every right to demand a better bus stand and quality healthcare.”                                     #Zirakpur||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-poll-2022-upgrade-of-bus-stand-chc-on-zirakpur-residents-mind-362823
20-01-2022||---||Duping people in name of CHB flats allotment: Chandigarh Police file chargesheet against woman||Chandigarh, January 19The Chandigarh Police have filed a chargesheet against Manjit Kaur who allegedly cheated many people on the pretext of allotting CHB flats situated in Sector 51 here. The police arrested her after registering a case on a complaint of a former DSP of the Chandigarh Police, Davinder Singh Thakur.The case was registered for the offences punishable under Sections 420 and 406 of the IPC last year. In the complaint, Devinder alleged that the woman claimed that she could get a CHB flat allotted to his son in Sector 51 through the Governor’s quota. He claimed that the woman told him that the Governor of Punjab was personally known to her and she could get any work done directly from him. She also claimed that she also knew persons in the Prime Minister’s office.Thakur said the woman claimed that she was a member of the Governor’s Oustee Quota Committee and that she was authorised to receive payments in her account for the allotment of CHB flats situated in Sector 51. The accused took his son along to show him a flat which was shut. When asked, Manjit Kaur said as the original allottee had defaulted in payment, the Governor would re-allot these flats under the Governor’s quota and she, being an executive member of the committee, would recommend the names of eligible persons to the Administration.She said the money had to be transferred to the executive members’ accounts and they would further transfer it to the Governor’s account. She allegedly said houses were under renovation and that she would deliver their physical possession on receipt of full and final payments. The complainant said he believed the woman as her son was a friend of his son.Thakur said he paid over Rs7 lakh to the woman on separate dates as earnest money through bank and cash payments. Llater, he came to know that she was lying. He said after rigorous follow-up, she transferred only Rs5 lakh into his son’s bank account and promised to return the rest of the money in a week’s time, but failed to do so. Later, more people filed cases against her for cheating them in a similar pattern.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chargesheet-filed-by-chandigarh-police-against-woman-362820
20-01-2022||---||Panjab University issues norms for online examinations||Chandigarh, January 19Panjab University issued guidelines/instructions for the students appearing for the online examinations commencing from January 24 for regular, re-appear, USOL, private, additional and deficient subjects.According to Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examinations, detailed guidelines and instructions have been posted on the university’s website. The students have been advised to contact their department, regional centre or college for their roll numbers. The roll number of USOL/private /re-appear/additional/deficient subjects’ candidates are available at the website.The online examinations for the students of 1st, 3rd, 5th, 7th and 9th semesters will commence from January 24. The time slots for the examinations will be 9:30 am to 12:30 pm and 1:30 pm to 4:30 pm. The question papers will be available on, online.puexam.in, 20 minutes before the start of the respective examinations. Downloading the question paper is students’ responsibility as the same will not be forwarded to them by any other means. The undergraduate students can use 20 A4 size sheets and the postgraduate students can use 24 A4 size sheets. Only one side of the sheet should be used for writing the answers.The students of colleges, university departments and regional centres will submit the answer sheets online only by mailing the same to the email ID/website provided by the respective institute and it should be done within 60 minutes of the completion of the paper in both morning and evening slots. The USOL, private, re-appear, additional and deficient subjects candidates have to upload their answer sheets only at the university’s examination portal.Students are required to make a single PDF of their answer sheet and email the same to their own email ID also. This is to be done mandatorily on the day of examination and within the stipulated time of 60 minutes after the completion of exam. The candidates have been advised to keep a physical copy of answer sheet in their possession for six months from the date of examination. A demo video for scanning, creating and uploading a single PDF of RGE answer sheet to the portal is available for the students on the portal (online.puexam.in).In case any student confronts any problem in downloading a question paper, he or she may call the helpline numbers provided by their institute, said Bhushan.Writers for Visually impaired studentsVisually impaired or differently abled students will be allowed to have assistance from a scribe/writer as per the university rules and no separate permission from the university is required for the purpose. The examinations for the candidates of improvement of performance will be conducted later.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pu-issues-norms-for-online-examinations-362819
20-01-2022||---||Punjab Police Inspector among 5 nailed for fake promotion orders||Chandigarh, January 19Five persons — a Punjab Police Inspector, a head constable, two superintendents and a dismissed Sub-Inspector (SI) — have been arrested by the UT police for issuing fake promotion orders bearing the signatures of then Punjab DGP Sidharth Chattopadhyaya.A case was registered by the UT police last week on a complaint of Vibhor Kumar, staff officer of the then DGP.Kumar had received four orders, which were fake. On verification, it was found that some of the police officials had been promoted on fake orders and also the bad entries in ACRs of an Inspector were eliminated under the forged signatures of Chattopadhyaya.The UT police interrogated all beneficiaries who got promotion and others benefits, which led to the revelation that five persons had prepared fake orders in connivance with each other.The police then arrested Inspector Satwant Singh, who was posted at the cyber cell, Mohali, Sandeep Kumar (55), a superintendent, GP fund branch, Bahadur Singh (52), a superintendent, E-1 branch, Head Constable Mani Katoch (33) and Sarabjit Singh (47), a dismissed SI of the Punjab Police.Divulging information about the role of each suspect, a police official said both Satwant and Sarabjit claimed to have close links with the then DGP, and meetings to prepare forged orders were conducted at Sarabjit’s house in Mohali. The duo then got the forged orders prepared by Sandeep and Mani.“Sandeep prepared forged orders in his laptop with the help of Mani, who was recently transferred from Amritsar to 13th Battalion, Sector 1, Chandigarh,” the police said.The forged promotion orders were then given to Satwant, who managed to put forged signatures of Chattopadhyaya on the orders.After Bahadur Singh made an entry in the dispatch register of the branch and the same orders were circulated accordingly. The police said forged orders, laptop, CPU, mobile phones, dispatch register and a car had been recovered from the suspects.Two suspects have a criminal past. While Sandeep was booked in a case of the Prevention of Corruption Act, Sarabjit was booked in an NDPS case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-police-inspector-among-5-nailed-for-fake-promotion-orders-362818
20-01-2022||---||Need-based changes in CHB units: Panel members favour one-time settlement||Chandigarh, January 19One-time settlement on the Delhi pattern was suggested during the second meeting of the committee constituted to examine requests for further need-based changes in dwelling units of the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB).The meeting, which was chaired by the CHB Secretary, was attended by former Mayor Poonam Sharma, member of the board, Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Resident Association of Welfare Federation (Crawford), and architect Surinder Bahga. All three are non-official members of the Board of Directors of the CHB and they have been included as special invitees to the committee.At the meeting, the members said relief could be given to people only by implementing a one-time settlement scheme on the lines of Delhi. Puri suggested that three categories could be formed for providing relief to the allottees. He said compoundable offence could be regularised after charging a penalty, second category could be the violation carried out within the boundary wall and encroachment on government land could fall in the third category, he said, adding that the authorities should in the initial stage regularise need-based changes carried out in the first and second categories. While the construction on government land, which cannot be regularised, should be allowed to be used by the people with some charges and the right to such land should remain with the CHB.Puri said people could be given relief by implementing need-based changes on the lines of Delhi and hence they had raised all these issues at the meeting. He said the Chief Architect and the Chief Engineer could not attend the meeting as they were down with Covid and no decision could be taken. These issues would now be discussed in detail at the next meeting.He said notices should not be sent to allottees on old construction unless a new policy on need-bases changes was implemented on the lines of Delhi. In addition, there was a demand to remove the ban on property transfer due to violation in houses.They also sought increase in the floor area ratio (FAR) in independent houses. He said with the increase in FAR, people would be able to make changes as per their requirement. The recommendations of the committee would be sent to the Board of Directors of the CHB for a final decision.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/need-based-changes-in-chb-units-panel-members-favour-one-time-settlement-362817
20-01-2022||Mohali||2 deaths, 1,231 cases in Mohali||Two Covid-related fatalities were reported from the district on Wednesday. A 40-year-old woman of Dera Bassi and a 72-year-old man of Phase 2, Mohali, succumbed at the GMCH, Sector 32, and the PGI on January 17 and 18, respectively. The man was vaccinated with both doses while the woman had got the first dose only.The underlying medical condition of the woman (L3) was recorded as hypotensive, while the amn (L2) had multiple myleoma and the SARD syndrome.As many as 1,231 new Covid cases were reported from the district on Wednesday, while 972 persons recovered from the virus in the past 24 hours.Seven doctors of the Civil Hospital, Mohali, have been found Covid-19 positive. All non-essential surgeries, including dental, orthopaedic and ENT have been put on hold for the next 15 days.Among the new cases, 417 were reported from Mohali (urban), 223 from Dhakoli, 247 from Kharar, 126 from Dera Bassi, 107 from Lalru, 14 from Banur, 48 from Gharuan, 29 from Boothgarh and 20 from Kurali. Of the 82,652 cases reported so far, 72,984 patients have recovered. There are now 8,574 active cases. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-deaths-1-231-cases-in-mohali-362810
20-01-2022||Amit Bathla||Panchkula sees a dip in teen vax pace||Panchkula, January 19Though the Haryana Government recently announced that teens without the first dose would not be allowed to attend classes when schools reopen, the pace of vaccination in the 15-18 age bracket has come down drastically in the district.In the first eight days of the beginning of the vaccination for this age group (January 3 to 10), 14,889 teens were vaccinated. However, the number went down in the next eight days. Only 4,784 beneficiaries got their first jab from January 11 to January 18.Until yesterday, 19,673 beneficiaries in the 15-18 age group were vaccinated in the district – 49.2 per cent of the target. The district health administration aims at vaccinating 40,000 teens. Last Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had lauded the fast pace of vaccination among teens.The local Health Department said the non-operation of schools was the key reason behind the drastic decline in the vaccination pace in the 15-18 age group as parents were not sending their children to other vaccination centres in health settings for fear of contracting the virus.Dr Meenu Sasan, District Immunisation Officer, said since schools were shut, parents were not sending their wards to other vaccination centres in healthcare facilities where they feared they would catch the virus.“The Covid surge is also refraining people from sending their children for vaccination. Secondly, the cold wave is keeping people inside their homes,” she said.To improve the figures, she said, “All ANMs have been instructed to focus on vaccinating teens like other age groups in rural areas.”After Gurugram and Ambala, the district had recently claimed to achieve 100 per cent double dose coverage. The double dose coverage now stands at 101.38 per cent. The first dose coverage is 111.5 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-sees-a-dip-in-teen-vax-pace-362807
20-01-2022||Panchkula||452 fresh cases, 952 recover from virus in Panchkula||At a positivity rate of 19.40 per cent, Panchkula recorded 452 fresh cases on Wednesday. Meanwhile, 952 people were cured of the disease. With the recovery count more than the new cases in the district, the active caseload has come down to 2,140. The overall tally has reached 38,072, while the number of recovered persons has risen to 35,548. The death count remained unchanged at 384. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/452-fresh-cases-952-recover-from-virus-in-panchkula-362803
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh logs 1,502 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||The city on Wednesday reported 1,502 new cases of Covid-19, up from 1,275 cases reported a day earlier. A positivity rate of 25.91 per cent was recorded in the past 24 hours as 5,797 samples were tested. The positivity rate recorded on Tuesday was 21.96 per cent. There are 9,966 active cases. As many as 1,112 patients were discharged. Two deaths were reported in the city among patients with comorbidities. A 78-year-old Covid positive woman, a case of multiple organ dysfunction syndrome, died at Mayo Hospital, Mohali. She was not vaccinated against Covid. A 73-year-old Covid positive man, a case of coronary artery disease, hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus, died at Fortis Hospital, Mohali. He was fully vaccinated for Covid. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-1-502-new-covid-cases-2-deaths-362800
20-01-2022||---||Over 97,000 in Chandigarh yet to take 2nd jab||Chandigarh, January 19Despite the city reeling under the highly infectious third wave, around 97,967 beneficiaries are yet to take the second dose in Chandigarh. Amid the growing infection rate and deaths among unvaccinated patients, the UT Health Department is on its toes to spur up the vaccination numbers.Worried over the rise in cases, Yashpal Garg, UT Health Secretary, took stock of the Covid vaccination in the city. Garg said, “The Covid infection is spreading in the city at an alarming speed and we have already crossed the highest daily cases, daily positivity rate, weekly positivity rate and active cases on a particular day recorded during the first and second wave. There are more than 9,500 active cases in the city.”“After a minor dip, the increasing trend of daily positive cases is back and hence we need to be very careful. Yesterday, there were two Covid deaths in the UT and unfortunately, both of them were unvaccinated. The Health Department has deployed a lot of its resources for early vaccination of the eligible persons. We have sufficient doses of the vaccine and there is no waiting time for getting the vaccination. Citizens must take both doses of the vaccine.”Call centre for overdue beneficiariesSeveral beneficiaries are already past the due date of availing the second dose. The second dose coverage of the city stands at 99.11 per cent, while for the first dose, the coverage is 126 per cent. This implies that around 2,22,940 people have been inoculated more than the target of 8,43,000 for the 18 and above age group.The Health Department has now set up a separate call centre wherein these beneficiaries are being separately contacted and briefed about their overdue status. During the past two days, about 20,000 telephone calls have been made to such beneficiaries.Slow vax pace among teensHealth Secretary Yashpal Garg directed the Health Department to vaccinate 100 per cent of the children between 15 and 18 years of age at the earliest. The Health Secretary said, “We are behind as many states and UTs have covered more than 90 per cent of their target population of children. We set a target of providing the first dose vaccination to 100 per cent of the target population of our children, but now it is not possible due to the slow pace of daily vaccination. Now, we have revised the target to January 26.”The vaccination of children between the age of 15 and 18 started on January 3 and so far, Chandigarh has vaccinated about 65 per cent of the target population (72,000).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/over-97-000-in-chandigarh-yet-to-take-2nd-jab-362775
20-01-2022||Dushyant Singh Pundir||CHB to offer 8 sites to pvt builders at IT Park for construction of flats||Chandigarh, January 19The Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will soon offer eight plots, measuring nearly 38 acres, on a freehold basis to private builders for the construction of flats at IT Park in the city.During a recent meeting, Dharam Pal, UT Adviser-cum-Chairman, CHB, directed the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), CHB, to utilise the vacant land available with the board at IT Park.The Adviser told the officer to first utilise the sites reserved for residential projects so that people in need of houses could get one and then prepare a roadmap for the utilisation of land reserved for commercial projects so as to start economic activities.Yashpal Garg, CEO, CHB, said eight plots of different sizes, measuring 37.72 acres in all, would be offered to private builders or developers for the construction of flats at IT Park. He said they were working on the modalities to sell the plots on a freehold basis.He said the builder could construct the flats only after getting approval for building plans from the UT Administration. The number and categories of flats to be constructed and the number of storeys to be raised would be approved as per the provisions of the Administration, he added.The CHB had recently sought a clarification from the office of the Deputy Commissioner on the collector rates of residential and commercial categories at IT Park. Garg said they would get the clarification on the collector rates in a few days and after that they would work on the reserve price to be fixed for the plots. The CHB would also take a call soon on the mode of selling the sites, whether it would go for an e-auction or e-tender, he said, adding that the sites could be offered as early as next month.The CEO said they were also planning to go for the public private partnership (PPP) mode for the auction of an 8.23-acre site reserved for a hospital at IT Park.Assuming that private parties would not come forward for the auction of the hospital site on a leasehold basis, the CHB was now mulling over offering the site on the PPP mode. The board had already studied the model of different states and union territories. The hospital site was put up for auction with a reserve price of Rs344 crore in September 2017, but despite many extensions, there was no response from buyers.In October 2006, the CHB had decided to develop residential and commercial properties on 123 acres at 20 sites and transferred the land to Parsvnath Developers at IT Park. However, the project could not materialise due to various issues and the builder then approached the court. In January 2015, the arbitrator appointed by the Supreme Court directed the CHB to refund Rs567 crore to the builder, following which the land was transferred back to the CHB.The CHB has recently decided to construct 728 flats in three categories in seven-storey towers on sites 1 and 2, which are spread over 16.6 acres, for the public. The remaining 18 sites, including one reserved for a hospital, will be offered to private builders or developers for the construction of residential and commercials buildings.‘Working on the modalities’Yashpal Garg, CEO, CHB, said eight plots would be offered to private builders or developers for the construction of flats at IT Park. He said they were working on the modalities to sell the plots on a freehold basis. The number and categories of flats and the number of storeys to be raised would be approved as per provisions of the Administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chb-to-offer-8-sites-to-pvt-builders-at-it-park-for-construction-of-flats-362770
20-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: F&CC members to be elected unopposed||F&CC members will be elected unopposed on January 24 as only five members filed their nominations today. BJP councillors Saurabh Joshi and Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, AAP councillors Taruna Mehta and Jasvir Singh Laddi and Congress councillor Gurbax Rawat filed their nominations for the five-member panel. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-fcc-members-to-be-elected-unopposed-362765
20-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Cong, AAP councillors skip Chandigarh Mayor's first meet||Chandigarh, January 19A political slugfest erupted today after Congress and AAP councillors did not attend the first meeting called by Mayor Sarabjit Kaur to apprise the elected representatives of the functioning of the civic body.MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra gave a presentation about the working and set-up of the corporation during the meeting and officers introduced themselves to the newly elected councillors.The Mayor said of the 35 councillors, 29 were first-timers, thus such a session was vital for all of them. However, the Congress and AAP stayed away from the introductory meeting and criticised the move.City AAP president Prem Garg said, “First of all, we do not recognise the Mayor as she was fraudulently elected and the invitation should have come from the Commissioner or Secretary. Secondly, the event should have been held in the MC building and not at the Community Centre, Sector 38 (West).”City Congress president Subhash Chawla said, “Before calling any meeting, the Mayor should take all councillors into confidence. She is a ‘minority Mayor’. She should bring a common minimum programme of all parties. We are not here for the BJP agenda, but for the development of the city. The meeting should not have been held in a particular ward, but in the MC office or the UT Guest House.”Mayor Sarabjit said, “Moving away from party lines, I tried to take councillors of all parties along. I called up each councillor. It’s always the Mayor who has been calling introductory meetings in the past. The meeting was called at the Community Centre in view of a surge in the Covid cases. I will keep trying my best to bring them along for the development of the city in future as well. Its up to them whether they want to be a part of development or politics.”The development indicates that things are not going to be easy for the Mayor. Unlike last year when the BJP was in a majority, getting agenda items approved is going to be an uphill task this time.Councillor seeks perksBJP councillor Saurabh Joshi demanded that office and staff should be given to all councillors at community centres. He also demanded official vehicles for the Senior Deputy Mayor and the Deputy Mayor.The MC Commissioner replied, “The office is already there. And for other things, the House has approved the agenda and it is lying pending with the UT Administration.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cong-aap-councillors-skip-mayors-first-meet-362761
