22-01-2022||---||Chandigarh logs 1,149 new Covid cases||Chandigarh, January 22The city on Friday reported 1,149 new Covid-19 cases at a positivity rate of 21.03% per cent.The cumulative number of cases has reached 84884, while the active case figure stands at 8,614. As many as 5717 samples were tested in the past 24 hours.The city had yesterday reported 1,1172 cases and two deaths were reported among patients with co-morbidities. An 80-year-old woman of Mani Majra died at Ace Heart and Vascular Institute, Mohali. She was a case of severe heart disease, lung disease, hypertension and diabetes mellitus. She was fully vaccinated. A 58-year-old woman of Raipur Khurd, a case of perforation peritonitis, died at the PGI. She was fully vaccinated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-1-149-new-covid-cases-363524
22-01-2022||---||Covid vaccination at home being undertaken only for elderly and bedridden people with disabilities, says Chandigarh health dept||Chandigarh, January 22The Chandigarh Health Department on Saturday said Covid vaccination at home is being undertaken only for the elderly and bedridden people with disabilities/diseases.It clarified that Covid vaccination at home is not being done for the other adult persons and children in the age group of 15 to 18.In a press release, the health department said,Covid vaccination facility at home is provided only to following persons:Elderly persons who are unable to visit the vaccination centre due to their advanced age;Bedridden persons with disabilities/diseases who are unable to visit the vaccination centre.These persons may make a request at Help Line No 1075 for Covid vaccination at their home. Such requests will be assessed before sending the mobile vaccination team to their houses.Here it is clarified that Covid vaccination at home is not being done for the other adult persons and children in the age group of 15 to 18 years.All the persons eligible for Covid vaccination are again requested to visit the nearby Covid Vaccination Centre and get themselves vaccinated immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-vaccination-at-home-being-undertaken-only-for-elderly-and-bedridden-people-with-disabilities-says-chandigarh-health-dept-363489
22-01-2022||Delhi Public School||'Clock-Making Activity' organised at DPS, Chandigarh||‘Clock-Making Activity’ was organised for young learners of Class II of Delhi Public School, Chandigarh. It was a hands-on experience for students as they made analog clocks. A story was narrated to them highlighting different times of the day. Kids showed the time on their clocks, which had moving hands. The activity, which was engaging, helped boost the sensory as well as critical thinking skills of the children in an entertaining manner. TNSAKSIPS-41 Smart School, ChandigarhAKSIPS 41 Smart School, Chandigarh, participated in the SLEPC 2021-22 under the INSPIRE award scheme. Nikshit Goyal of Class IX, who was selected for the state-level competition, brought laurels to the school by winning a cash prize of Rs10,000. The INSPIRE awards aim at motivating students in the age group of 10-15 years studying in Classes VI to X. TNSJitender veer Sarvhitkari, MohaliJitender Veer Sarvhitkari Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 71, Mohali, organised a Covid vaccination camp wherein children above 15 years of age and adults were administered the vaccine. TNSSt Joseph’s, Sector 44-DNational Technology Day was observed at St Joseph’s Senior Secondary School, Sector 44-D, Chandigarh. Different activities such as poster-making, declamation and poetry recitation were organised on the occasion.Mount Carmel School, MohaliAn English-speaking activity on “Junk Food Affects Health” was organised for students of Class III at Mount Carmel School, Sector 69, Mohali. Students spoke fluently, confidently and clearly. They used placards for better expression and presentation. The performance of all students was appreciated by their teachers and classmates.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/clock-making-activity-organised-363377
22-01-2022||Mohali||Liquor biz rose during Balbir Sidhu's term: Kulwant Singh||The tenure of Congress MLA and liquor businessman Balbir Singh Sidhu only saw either drugs reaching villages of Mohali or the MLA registering false cases against youths in villages.This was alleged by AAP candidate from the Mohali constituency and former Mayor Kulwant Singh while addressing election meetings in Kambala, Kambli, Papdi, Chachumajra and Kurdi villages today. He said instead of raising the level of education in the area, Sidhu increased the business of alcohol and opened liquor shops despite opposition from the local people.Kulwant Singh said women of the villages were facing a lot of trouble due to these liquor vends and registration of alleged fake cases against the youths. In the coming elections, the Congress candidate would have to bear the brunt of these ‘excesses’, he said. —                                     #BalbirSidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/liquor-biz-rose-during-his-term-kulwant-singh-363376
22-01-2022||---||Kalka man kept arms for ‘hunting’ purpose||Panchkula, January 21The Kalka man, who was arrested yesterday in an arms case, had reportedly kept the illegal weapons and ammunition recovered from him for the purpose of hunting.A senior official of the CID, not wishing to be named, claimed that the suspect held the arms for hunting purpose and didn’t seem to have nefarious intention. He added that the case would be handled like any other case of possession of illegal arms.On Wednesday evening, the CM Flying Squad had arrested the suspect, identified as Tarvindra Singh of Tagra village in Kalka, and seized illegal arms and ammunition from his house. On searching his and his aunt’s house, weapons, including pistols, magazines, live rounds, sharp weapons and swords, were recovered. A case under Section 25 of the Arms Act was registered. The suspect was sent to two-day police custody by a local court yesterday.During the police interrogation, the suspect revealed the source of the illegal weapons. He reportedly bought these from a resident of Uttar Pradesh. Teams had been dispatched to nab him, the police said. More arrests in the case would be made soon, the police added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kalka-man-kept-arms-for-hunting-purpose-363373
22-01-2022||---||Firing case in Ambala: Victim’s body given to kin after autopsy||Ambala, January 21The body of Mohit Rana was handed over to his family members after the postmortem conducted by a board of doctors at the Civil Hospital, Ambala Cantonment, today.Mohit Rana, a resident of Punjab, was killed, while Vishal of Ambala Cantonment was injured in a firing incident in Ambala on Thursday evening. Mohit had been associated with the Bhupi Rana gang, while Vishal is facing an extortion case.They were travelling in a black car when assailants, who were following them in a white car, intercepted them on the Ambala-Saha road around 5 pm. Two men in the white car fired shots at the victims before fleeing towards Saha.In a Facebook post, Goldy Brar, who is associated with the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, later claimed the responsibility of the incident.Mohit’s brother Subhash had claimed that Mohit had suffered around 20 bullet injuries. Vishal, who is still undergoing treatment at the PGI, Chandigarh, had reportedly suffered nine bullet injuries.Suresh, SHO of the Mahesh Nagar police station, said: “Mohit’s body has been handed over to his family members after postmortem. We are yet to receive the postmortem report.”Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said: “The CCTV footage is being examined. The involvement of other sympathisers and supporters of their gang in this incident is being ascertained. Our teams are making efforts to nab the suspects.”The caseMohit Rana, a resident of Punjab, was killed, while Vishal of Ambala Cantonment was injured in a firing incident in Ambala on Thursday evening.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firing-case-in-ambala-victims-body-given-to-kin-after-autopsy-363372
22-01-2022||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Fake promotion orders: Punjab cop’s anticipatory bail application dismissed||Chandigarh, January 21A local court has rejected the anticipatory bail application of Punjab Police SI Harwinder Singh in an alleged forgery of promotion and recruitment orders of 11 Punjab Police personnel issued under the name of a former Punjab Director General of Police (DGP).The Chandigarh Police have registered a case on a complaint of a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), working as staff officer to the then Director-General of Police, Punjab. The complainant alleged that fake orders for the promotion of some police officers were issued under the name of the DGP.Anil K Sagar, counsel for the accused, argued before the court that custodial interrogation of the applicant is not required and no useful purpose will be served by sending him in judicial custody. Further, he has been falsely implicated in this case and he has nothing to do with the alleged orders. The applicant is not aware of the entire matter.Opposing the bail application, additional public prosecutor Atul Sethi said the applicant had been shown as one of the beneficiaries in the orders. In one of the orders, he had been shown to have been promoted. In another order, his son, Paramvir Singh, had been shown to have been recruited as a constable in the Punjab Police. Custodial interrogation of the applicant was required to know about his role, modus operandi and his connection with other co-accused.After hearing the arguments, Additional Sessions Judge Narender dismissed the anticipatory bail application.The court, in its orders, said: “The investigating agency requires custodial interrogation of the applicant to know about the role of the applicant and his modus operandi in the present case. In these circumstances, where the custodial interrogation of the accused is required, the relief of anticipatory bail sought by the applicant through the application under adjudication cannot be allowed. Accordingly, in the light of the above referred facts and circumstances, the application in hand is dismissed finding no merits therein. However, it is made clear that the above observations will have no bearing on the merits of the case as these have been given only for the purpose to decide the application under adjudication.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fake-promotion-orders-punjab-cops-anticipatory-bail-application-dismissed-363370
22-01-2022||---||Builder fails to give commercial space on time, told to pay Rs 1 lakh to Panchkula resident||Chandigarh, January 21The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a builder to pay a compensation of Rs 1 lakh to a Panchkula resident after it failed to deliver the commercial space in the promised time.The commission also directed the builder to refund the deposited amount of Rs30 lakh, along with interest @ 9 per cent per annum from the date of deposit till realisation, to the complainant.Mamta Jain, a resident of Panchkula, in a complaint filed before the commission, said she booked a multi-use studio on the ninth floor having a super area of 475.13 sq ft in GBP Centrum on August 31, 2016. The total price was fixed at Rs30 lakh inclusive of all charges. The complainant paid the entire amount of Rs30 lakh through cheques.As per the agreement, the builder agreed that the possession of the unit would be delivered on or before 48 months from the date of signing the agreement.The builder was obliged to deliver the actual, physical possession in August 2020. Even after taking six-month grace period on account of failure on part of the opposite party, the actual physical possession was to be delivered by February 2021. However, the builder failed to fulfil the promise.The commission said a notice was sent to the builder seeking its version. However, nobody appeared on behalf of the opposite party despite service. Therefore, it was proceeded ex-parte.After hearing the arguments, the commission said the act of the builder or non-honouring its promise for handing over the possession of the unit in the promised time, collection of money without required sanctions/permissions and non-honouring the terms and conditions of its own agreement was illegal and arbitrary, which certainly caused physical and mental harassment to the complainant and proved its indulgence in unfair trade practice.The commission said in view of this, the builder was directed to refund an amount of Rs30 lakh, along with interest @ 9 per cent per annum from the date of deposit till realisation, to the complainant. The commission also directed the builder to pay Rs70,000 compensation for mental agony and harassment and Rs30,000 as cost of litigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/builder-fails-to-give-commercial-space-on-time-told-to-pay-rs-1-lakh-363369
22-01-2022||---||10 shanties razed at veggie market in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, January 21A joint team of the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation and the Estate Office launched a special drive in the vegetable market, Sector 26, here, today. It demolished nearly 10 illegally constructed shanties during the drive.The drive was called off after occupants of the shanties protested against the drive due to cold. The officials gave them 15 days to remove the shanties.Around 50 shanties have been constructed illegally in the mandi. The Market Committee had appealed to the MC and the Estate Office to remove these shanties. Following this, the two departments jointly decided to carry out a demolition drive in the mandi.An official said encroachments were on the rise in the mandi. Phariwalas have also raised shanties here. A drive wouldagain be launched to remove the encroachments, if the shanties were not removed soon.Senior Deputy Mayor Dalip Sharma also reached the spot and appealed to the team members to stop the drive. He said it was not right to displace these people during the nail-biting cold.As soon as the demolition squad left the spot, occupants started reconstructing jhuggis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/10-shanties-razed-at-veggie-market-in-chandigarh-363368
22-01-2022||---||PUNJAB POLL 2022: Beware of turncoats, says Balbir Singh Sidhu||Mohali, January 21Sitting MLA and Congress candidate from Mohali Balbir Singh Sidhu today appealed to residents of the constituency to beware of turncoats like former Mayor Kulwant Singh.During his tour to villages, including Manakmajra, Bhago Majra, Baironpur, Maujpur, Raipur Kalan, Shampur, Seneta, Dhirpur, Dhelpur, Gudana, Gige Majra and Nagari, Sidhu urged villagers to not to fall for fake claims of Kulwant Singh and Parvinder Singh Sohana, the AAP and SAD candidates, respectively. He alleged that Kulwant Singh was a man of dual character.The MLA alleged that during the previous SAD-BJP government where both Kulwant Singh and Parvinder Sohana enjoyed power, Mohali was pushed towards destruction, but the present Congress government put it back on the path of prosperity.Meanwhile, Balbir Sidhu’s election campaign got a major boost when a large number of Muslims from Balongi, Barmajra and Jujhar Nagar villages declared their support to him. Leaders of the community met Mayor Amarjit Singh Jeeti Sidhu at the Congress election office in Sector 79 today and announced full support to Balbir Sidhu.BJP, SKM name candidates for Dera Bassi seatZirakpur: The BJP on Friday announced realtor Sanjiv Khanna as its candidate from the Dera Bassi assembly seat. Former AAP leader from Nagla, Navjot Singh Saini, will contest as the SKM candidate from the Dera Bassi constituency.Poonam Rani joins SADDera Bassi: A former councillor of Lalru MC, Poonam Rani, along with her supporters, joined the SAD in the presence of Dera Bassi MLA NK Sharma on Friday.SAD, AAP get notice over violationsZirakpur: The Election Commission has issued a notice to the SAD and AAP for violating the model code of conduct during poll campaigning in the Dera Bassi constituency. Both the parties have been asked to furnish their replies within 24 hours. The Dera Bassi SDM-cum-Returning Officer had received a complaint regarding the violations. Sources said the SAD workers were distributing calenders, diaries and pens with the picture of the party candidate, while AAP used an LED (visual medium) on an auto-rickshaw while the permission was taken only for loudspeakers. TNS                                     #BalbirSidhu||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-poll-2022-beware-of-turncoats-says-balbir-singh-sidhu-363365
22-01-2022||---||HSSC male constable test: 5th FIR registered in impersonation case||Panchkula, January 21A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the local police has registered fifth FIR in connection with the alleged impersonation in the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) male constable exam in its different stages – first physical measurement at the Parade Ground in Sector 5 and then physical screening test at Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Sector 3.Four people have also been arrested in the latest case.The total number of people arrested in the case had reached 18, said ACP (Headquarters) Vijay Kumar Nehra, who is leading the SIT.“In the first case, 10 people have been arrested so far. In the second case, three persons have been nailed. In the third case, filed on a complaint of the HSSC chairman, no arrest has been made so far. In the fourth case, one person has been arrested. In the fifth and the latest case, four people have been nabbed,” he said.The ACP said they were trying to get to the bottom of the matter.Reviewing the extent of investigation, Saurabh Singh, Commissioner of Police, Panchkula, had constituted the SIT to investigate the matter on January 12.According to the police, the suspects had allegedly impersonated as original candidates in the HSSC male constable exam.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hssc-male-constable-test-5th-fir-registered-in-impersonation-case-363364
22-01-2022||---||Two die of cold in Panchkula||Panchkula, January 21The local police reported two deaths of senior citizens, found without any warm covers in the Mansa Devi Complex area on Thursday when the maximum temperature remained seven degrees below normal.The police said there was a distinct possibility that both deaths were due to the intense cold wave experienced over the past few days.The identification of both deceased is not known yet, the police said, adding that their bodies had been kept at the mortuary of the Civil Hospital in Sector 6.According to a policeofficial, they seemed to have died due to being out in the cold.Another middle-aged man was found unconscious at Majri Chowk on January 16. The Sector 7 police station team had shifted him to the Civil Hospital, where he was declared dead.The police said he also had no cover on him, adding that his DNA samples were taken for the purpose of identification.Meanwhile, the district administration has decided to set up 10 additional night shelters to save the homeless from the biting cold.According to senior officials, these night shelters can accommodate up to 150 people at a time.Recently, Deputy Commissioner Mahavir Kaushik had a meeting with MC officials to review the arrangements in night shelters across the district.During the meeting, Kaushik had asked the police to make sure that those sleeping in the open were shifted to the nearest night shelter by the administration.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-die-of-cold-in-panchkula-363363
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Copper wire theft: 4 held||Compensation for landChandigarh: The UT has announced a compensation of Rs12.40 crore for the acquisition of 3.72 acres at Kishangarh in Mani Majra. The land has been acquired at the rate of Rs3.33 crore per acre, including 100 per cent solatium of Rs1.48 crore and interest of Rs37.26 lakh. The total compensation paid to the owners is Rs12.40 crore. The land is meant for school, a community centre and a tube well.Brar elected PSEB employees’ body chiefMohali: Baljinder Singh Brar has been elected as president of the Punjab School Education Board Employees Association by defeating Parvinder Singh Khangura in elections conducted on Friday. The other office-bearers are Ramandeep Singh Gill Senior, vice-president; Gurpreet Singh Kahlon and Paramjit Singh Randhawa, vice-president 1 and 2, respectively; Vakil Singh, junior vice-president; Sukhchain Singh Saini, general secretary; Sunil Arora, secretary; Baljinder Singh Chanarthal, joint secretary; Rajinder Saini finance secretary; Pardeep Singh Boparai, office secretary; Manoj Kumar Rana, organisation secretary; and Guriqbal Singh Sodhi, press secretary. Besides, 27 executive members were also elected. TNSTwo booked in fraud caseZirakpur: The police have registered yet another fraud case against GBP owner Satish Gupta and a Panchkula resident for defrauding a Chandigarh resident of Rs 5 crore on the pretext of acquiring a house in Chandigarh. A case has been registered on the instructions of the SP (Rural) after a complaint was submitted to him in November 2021. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/copper-wire-theft-4-held-363360
22-01-2022||---||Hit by speeding SUV, man dies||Panchkula, January 21A 60-year-old man, who was returning home after work, died after being hit by a speeding SUV on Thursday evening near the Mauli bus stand in Raipur Rani. The man, identified as Jagir Singh, worked in a poultry farm.The police booked the driver on a complaint of the victim’s son, Baldev Singh.A case was registered under Sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC at the Raipur Rani police station. The victim was hit by the vehicle while he was trying to cross the Panchkula-Shahzadpur road.The victim, who sustained serious head injuries, was taken to the Civil Hospital in Sector 6, where doctors declared him brought dead.The victim’s son claimed that the SUV driver, who identified himself as Bhim Singh of Lohgarh village in Pinjore, came out of the car after hitting his father, but later fled from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/hit-by-speeding-suv-man-dies-363359
22-01-2022||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Leopard died of cardiac failure in Nepli Range of Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary||Chandigarh, January 21The post-mortem of the nearly five-year-old leopard that was found dead in the Nepli Range of the Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary on December 23 last year, has indicated that the big cat died of cardiac failure.A panel of three veterinary doctors, comprising experts from the UT Animal Husbandry Department, the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the Wildlife Department conducted the post-mortem to find out the cause of the death.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, UT, said the cause of the death of leopard was due to respiratory and cardiac failure.In a condition of restlessness, the animal suffered from breathlessness while running here and there which had adverse impact on the heart and it led to the cardiac arrest and could have also been aggravated by the prevailing cold conditions, he added. As no injury mark was found on the body, he ruled out poisoning and hunting as all claws of the leopard were found intact.Sambar rescued from DhanasA male sambar strayed into the market in Dhanas on Friday. The animal was caught by a team of the Wildlife Department and was released in the Kansal forest.Debendra Dalai, Chief Conservator of Forests and Chief Wildlife Warden, UT, said on getting information, a team of the Wildlife Department reached the spot and rescued the animal, which had entered a crowded place in the market of Dhanas. It was a very challenging operation as one of the labourers also got a minor injury while rescuing the animal, he said.“Among the crowd of about 200 people, we safely rescued the sambar and released it in its natural habitat at the Kansal forest,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/leopard-died-of-cardiac-failure-363358
22-01-2022||Amarjot Kaur||Chandigarh auto fare unchanged since 2013, no revision in taxi rates post-2015||Chandigarh, January 21The State Transport Authority (STA) of the City Beautiful has not revised the auto fare since 2013 and taxi rates since 2015. In the absence of revised rates, people using public transport, especially auto-rickshaws and taxis, are put at the risk of being fleeced.Will soon decide on matter: AdviserI will soon discuss the matter with the Secretary, STA. I think the solution lies in fixing competitive rates, after comparing the fare charged by Uber and Ola. The common person should not be overcharged and people running transport services must benefit too. We’ll soon decide on the matter. Dharam Pal, UT adviserAn auto ride from the city railway station to central sectors like 17 and 22 can vary between Rs100 and Rs150. Those blessed with exceptional haggling skills stand a chance of getting to these sectors at Rs80 for a one-way trip. So, who decides the rate? A coterie of auto-rickshaw drivers in that particular area.The scenario is no different when it comes to taxis. For rides booked on mobile applications of Uber or Ola, passengers have to pay a price fixed by the company operating these cabs. Unfortunately, one's bargaining skills won't come in handy when it comes to taxi fares. A taxi ride from the city's railway station to the central sectors varies between Rs160 and Rs200.In May 2013, the UT Administration had issued a notification fixing the rates for air-conditioned taxi, non-air conditioned taxi, radio autos and ordinary autos. The fare of radio auto was fixed at Rs15 for first kilometre and Rs10 per km for subsequent journey. The fare of ordinary auto was fixed at Rs14 for first kilometre and Rs7 per km for subsequent journey, along with Rs10 as waiting charges. The night charges of both, ordinary and radio autos, was pegged at 25 per cent of the fare between 11 pm and 5 am. By these rates, the ride in an ordinary auto from the railway station to Sector 17, for instance, should cost Rs75 for a distance of 7.2 km.In April 2015, another notification was issued by the Administration. In this notification, the UT fixed the rates only for taxis, excluding the auto rickshaws entirely. A total of 10 rates were fixed for taxis depending on the type of the vehicle. For an ordinary cab (Indica, Ford, Ambassador, Maruti Swift, Maruti Dzire and i20), the rate was fixed at Rs9 per km. However, a ride in high-end cars like Audi 7 series and S-Class Mercedes Benz has been fixed at Rs75 per km. By these rates, the cost of travelling the 7-km stretch between the railway station and Sector 17 should range between Rs63 and Rs525.When contacted, UT Adviser Dharam Pal said, "I will soon discuss the matter with the Secretary, STA. I think the solution lies in fixing competitive rates, after comparing the fare charged by Uber and Ola. The common person should not be overcharged and people running transport services must benefit too. We'll soon decide on the matter."Meanwhile, auto drivers are harrowed over rising prices of petrol and CNG.An auto driver at the railway station, Bhupinder Shukla, said, “Even the rates displayed at the prepaid auto booth have not been updated. The fare from the railway station till Sector 17 is fixed at Rs70 on the rate list at the booth, but we charge about Rs100. With prices of CNG and LPG going up, how do you expect us to run autos at the given fare.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-auto-fare-unchanged-since-2013-no-revision-in-taxi-rates-post-2015-363357
22-01-2022||Amarjot Kaur||Sticker plan to make auto rides safer from Chandigarh railway station||Chandigarh, January 21To make auto rides safer for train passengers, there is a plan to introduce stickers exclusively for three-wheelers which ply at the Chandigarh railway station, said members of the local auto union and railway and security officials.The move comes just days after a woman was raped by the driver of an auto-rickshaw she hired from the railway station on January 9 night. Chandigarh Railway Station Auto-Rickshaw Union president Satish Malik confirmed that the plan to introduce stickers had been suggested at a meeting between auto drivers and the railway authorities. “That way, we will also be able to streamline distribution of work. We are also fed up by outsiders who come to pick up passengers every time a train arrives,” said Malik.GRP, Ambala Division, DSP Dheeraj said a similar mechanism had earlier been introduced at the Ambala Cantonment railway station. “The monthly charges collected from auto drivers is also nominal,” he said.Ambala Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) GM Singh said the monthly charges collected from auto drivers would be deposited with the Railways. He added that the auto drivers, after the collection of the monthly charges for plying at the station, would be issued a receipt. “Other auto-rickshaw drivers, who enter the station premises, will be fined,” he said. “We are already not allowing drivers to enter the station platform,” he added.An official at the railway station said though a similar system was being followed in Ambala Cantonment, this would be the first time that such a mechanism, of issuing stickers or receipts to auto drivers, would be implemented in Chandigarh.Angered by rape, say driversAuto-rickshaw and taxi drivers at the Chandigarh railway station said they too felt sad over an auto-rickshaw driver allegedly raping a woman when he was taking her from the railway station to the Sector 17 bus stand. “Such acts only make us look bad. A hard-working person who respects his work would never think of committing such an act,” said Satish Malik, president of the Chandigarh Railway Station Auto-Rickshaw Union. “However, you cannot blame all of us for an act committed by one person,” he added.The triggerThe move comes days after a woman was raped by the driver of an auto she hired from the railway station on January 9. Chandigarh Railway Station Auto-Rickshaw Union president Satish Malik confirmed that the plan to introduce stickers had been suggested at a meeting between auto drivers and the railway authorities.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sticker-plan-to-make-auto-rides-safer-from-chandigarh-railway-station-363356
22-01-2022||Sanjay Bumbroo||Mohali active caseload up 100 times in 20 days||Mohali, January 21The active cases of Covid have increased 100 times in the past 20 days in the district. From 91 active cases on December 31, the count has reached 9,013.According to the data provided by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), the positivity rate also increased from 1.31 per cent to 32.09 per cent during this period.With 1,171 fresh cases in the past five days, the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur has become a Covid-19 hotspot. The Kharar subdivision has become another Covid hotspot as it reported 1,196 cases in the past five days.The district witnessed a 21.5 per cent increase in Covid-19 cases during the same period as the total number of cases has gone up from 69,162 to 84,012. Similarly, the number of persons recovering from the disease too jumped from 67,997 to 73,901 till yesterday.The death toll increased from 1,074 to 1,098 during the same period. A total of two fatalities were reported in December last year, while 24 deaths have already been reported from the district in the past 20 days.During a random survey of the markets in the city and other places in the district, every other person was found moving without a mask, thus exposing themselves to the deadly virus.Civil Surgeon Adarshpal Kaur said people should also understand their responsibility and follow the basic Covid guidelines like wearing a mask, keeping social distance and washing hands frequently. She said since the new variant of Covid-19, Omicron, was very infectious and spread faster than the Delta variant, people need to follow the Covid guidelines and all beneficiaries, including those in the age group of 15 to 18 years, need to be fully vaccinated.In case of persistent cough, cold, fever, etc, one should visit a government health facility and seek the advice of a doctor and get a Covid test done. People should step out of the house only when there was an urgent need and should avoid unnecessary travel and crowds, she added.Covid hotspotsWith 1,171 cases in the past five days, the Dhakoli area of Zirakpur has become a Covid-19 hotspot. The Kharar subdivision has become another Covid hotspot as it reported 1,196 cases in the past five days.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-active-caseload-up-100-times-in-20-days-363354
22-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh logs 1,172 Covid cases, 2 deaths||The cumulative number of cases has reached 83,735, while the active case figure stands at 9,260. As many as 6,868 samples were tested in the past 24 hours.Two deaths were reported among patients with co-morbidities. An 80-year-old woman of Mani Majra died at Ace Heart and Vascular Institute, Mohali. She was a case of severe heart disease, lung disease, hypertension and diabetes mellitus. She was fully vaccinated. A 58-year-old woman of Raipur Khurd, a case of perforation peritonitis, died at the PGI. She was fully vaccinated. The toll has reached 1,097.55 from UT Guest House positiveThe RT-PCR tests of 163 staffers and guests of the UT Guest House were conducted on Thursday of whom 55 tested positive for Covid and they have been isolated.3 more die in Mohali, 1,313 new casesThree more persons succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 1,101 in the district. A 70-year-old man and an 87-year old woman, both residents of Dera Bassi, and a 25-year-old woman from Mohali died of the disease. All of them were suffering from co-morbidities. Among them, only one had been vaccinated. The district witnessed 1,313 fresh Covid cases, taking the tally to 85,325, while 1,215 patients were cured of the disease. Of the 9,108 active cases, only 16 persons are hospitalised. Among the new cases, 57 were reported from Lalru, six from Banur, 72 from Boothgarh, 125 from Dera Bassi, 85 from Gharuan, 57 from Kurali, 321 from Dhakoli, 231 from Kharar and 359 from Mohali (urban). Of the 85,325 cases reported so far, 75,116 patients have been cured.547 fresh Covid cases in P’kula, no deathAt a positivity rate of 25.37 per cent, Panchkula recorded 547 fresh Covid cases on Friday. While the overall tally reached 39,285, the active caseload came down to 2,108. The death count remained at 384. The number of recovered persons stands at 36,793. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-1-172-covid-cases-2-deaths-363353
22-01-2022||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh vaccination rate dips, experts cite rising cases||Chandigarh, January 21After administering a record one lakh doses in the first week of January, the city has again started witnessing a decline in the vaccination numbers with a drop of 70 per cent this week.The decline is being attributed to city residents acquiring the infection in the ongoing third wave that has deferred their vaccination by three months. The third wave of Covid-19 started in the last week of December and Chandigarh has already recorded 17,840 Covid cases this month.Vaccination deferred by 3 monthsA lot of people have been infected in the third wave and their vaccination has been deferred by three months now. Besides, some people are apprehensive of going to vaccination facilities fearing they would catch the infection there. Dr Suman Singh, DHS, UTThe week ending January 21 saw only 31,968 doses administered to beneficiaries, whereas the preceding week had seen 77,826 doses being given to the eligible population.Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said, “A lot of people have been infected in the third wave and their vaccination has been deferred by three months now. Besides, some people are apprehensive of going to vaccination facilities when the city is already reeling under the third wave fuelled by the highly infectious Omicron. They are scared that they might get infected in these facilities.”43% deaths of unvaccinatedAs many as 16 patients lost their lives to Covid-19 in the UT, of which seven deaths were of patients who were unvaccinated.Yashpal Garg, UT Health Secretary, said, “Though we have vaccinated more than 99 per cent of the target population (18 years plus) with the second dose, many Covid deaths were of unvaccinated persons. The ratio of deaths of unvaccinated persons should have been nominal because most of the persons have been vaccinated. The higher ratio of deaths of unvaccinated persons clearly indicates that the fatality rate of unvaccinated persons is comparatively high than that of the vaccinated.”“We are making all-out efforts to increase the pace of vaccination and there is a need for analysing each death of the unvaccinated in Chandigarh. We are going to talk to the family members of the deceased and find out the reasons behind the unvaccinated status of the deceased,” said Garg.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-vaccination-rate-dips-experts-cite-rising-cases-363351
22-01-2022||---||Canada-based gangster Duneke’s accomplice held with pistol in Mohali||Mohali, January 21The Organised Crime Control Unit and the Mohali police have arrested an accomplice of the Davinder Bambiha and Sukha Duneke group, Happy Singh, alias Amy, a resident of Dohak village in Muktsar Sahib, and seized a .32 calibre foreign-made pistol along with six live rounds on the Chunni-Kharar road.A case under Sections 392, 382, 384, 364-A, 365, 473 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act has been registered against him and his accomplices at the Kharar City police station.Happy Singh is a close accomplice of gangster Sukha Duneke, who is based in Canada and involved in major heinous crimes such as murders, kidnapping, extortion and carjacking in the Malwa region.Happy Singh, along with his gang members Harry of Moud Mandi, Harry of Rajpura, Manpreet Singh, alias Samma, Avtar Singh Aulakh and Sabu of Goniana and Yadwinder Singh and Sona of Jandwali, are acting on Duneke’s command and executing murders, kidnapping, extortion.During the investigation, Happy disclosed that he was involved in the kidnapping of a prominent doctor of Muktsar on December 20, 2021, when the couple had gone for a walk in the wee hours on the Thandewala road in Muktsar.Amy, along with his accomplices, demanded a ransom of Rs1 crore to release him. They kept the doctor in their custody for more than three hours, then released him after taking a ransom of Rs25 lakh from his family. A case was registered on December 22, 2021, at the Muktsar Sadar police station. This was an untraced case.Happy Singh said on the directions of Duneke, he provided weapons to the shooters who executed the killing of Manpreet Singh, alias Challa Sidhu, and Manpreet, alias Vicky, accomplices of deceased Kulbir Singh Naruna.A case was registered on January 12 this year at the Nathana police station in Bathinda. Amy and his gang members are also involved in more than 10 criminal incidents in the state. Further investigation is on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/canada-based-gangster-dunekes-accomplice-held-with-pistol-in-mohali-363349
22-01-2022||---||Mohali: Gunshot fired in car, youth in coma||Mohali, January 21A 32-year-old Kharar resident suffered a gunshot injury on the head inside a car in a Phase 5 residential area under mysterious circumstances this afternoon. The police said a married woman, a teacher, was in the driver’s seat of her vehicle while her husband was nearby when the incident took place.A licensed pistol belonging to the victim, Harpreet Singh, was found in the car from the spot.Sources said the woman, aged 35, reportedly told the police that Harpreet had been harassing her for the past five six months. Today, he met her in the market and pointed a pistol at her and forcibly took her to the residential area in Phase 5. When Harpreet saw the woman’s husband, a Phase 4 resident, approaching them, he first pointed the pistol at her and then suddenly shot himself in the right temple. The victim was taken to a nearby private hospital from where he was shifted to the PGI. He is stated to be in a state of coma, said the police.The victim’s father, Harjeet Singh, said Harpreet and the woman were known to each other through Instagram for the past five-six months. He alleged that a few days ago, the woman’s family members had called them to their home where they had threatened and assaulted his son and him. The husband of the woman said eight days ago, they had approached the Phase 1 police about the harassment.DSP, City 1, Sukhnaaz Singh said, “The woman and the husband are being probed. It is not clear who fired the gunshot. The CCTV footage of the area is being scanned. The weapon, a licensed pistol in the name of the victim, has been recovered. He was employed in a private security agency. The victim’s father has not given his statement yet. Based on his statement, a case would be registered.”Victim’s licensed gun found in vehicleA licensed pistol belonging to the victim, Harpreet Singh, was found in the car from the spot. Sources said the woman, aged 35, reportedly told the police that Harpreet had been harassing her for the past five six months. On Friday, he met her in the market and pointed a pistol at her and forcibly took her to the residential area in Phase 5. When Harpreet saw the woman’s husband, a Phase 4 resident, approaching them, he first pointed the pistol at her and then suddenly shot himself in the right temple.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-gunshot-fired-in-car-youth-in-coma-363348
