23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 808 new Covid-19 cases at 14.01 per cent positivity rate||Chandigarh on Sunday reported 808 new Covid-19 infections taking the cumulative number of cases to 85,692.A positivity rate of 14.01 per cent was recorded as 5,768 samples were recorded in the last 24 hours.The number of active cases has risen to 8,064.As many as 1,356 patients were discharged including persons from home isolation who have completed seven days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.Two deaths were reported in patients with co-morbidities. A 69-year-old woman resident of Sector 45 died in Grecian Hospital, Mohali. She was a case of hypertension, renal disease and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome. She was not vaccinated for Covid-19.A 91-year-old male resident of Khuda Alisher died at GMSH, Sector 16. He was a case of pleural effusion. He was not vaccinated for Covid.The death toll has reached 1,102 while 76,526 patients have been cured till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-808-new-covid-19-cases-at-14-01-per-cent-positivity-rate-363800
23-01-2022||---||Juvenile among 2 held for assault||Panchkula, January 22A youth and a juvenile have been apprehended for allegedly attacking a man with rods and sticks in Budanpur.The suspects have been identified as Muskaan (19) and a 14-year-old boy.In his complaint to the police, Yasin Khan stated that while he was on his way home in Budanpur in his car, five youths stopped him and attacked him with rods and sticks. Before fleeing, they allegedly threatened to kill the victim.Subsequently, Khan approached the Sector 16 police post and lodged a complaint. A case was registered under Sections 148, 149, 323, 506 and 34 of the IPC at the Sector 14 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/juvenile-among-2-held-for-assault-363683
23-01-2022||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Punjab cop, 4 others held guilty of child trafficking||Chandigarh, January 22The court of Additional Sessions Judge Narender has held five persons guilty in a case involving an interstate child trafficking racket busted by the UT police in 2020.The court will pronounce the quantum of the sentence on January 27. Those held guilty are Amarjit Singh, a constable in the Punjab Police and residing in Kharar, Mandeep Singh, a resident of Punjab, ASHA workers Kuldeep Kaur of Patiala and Sarabjit Kaur of Sangrur, and Bhawna, also a resident of Punjab, but putting up in a rented accommodation in Burail.The police had arrested them near the Airport light point on August 3, 2020.After finding them prima facie guilty, the court framed charges against them for the commission of the offences punishable under Section 370 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 81 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act-2015, to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.As per the prosecution, the suspects used to sell a girl child at a price between Rs80,000 and Rs1 lakh and a boy for around Rs4 lakh. The gang was active in Punjab and Delhi.The police claimed that the gang members had already sold at least two children, one in Delhi and the other in the city, before they were caught.The police had laid a trap after receiving a tip-off on illegal sale of a child by a Punjab-based gang. A decoy customer was sent and the deal was struck for Rs4 lakh for a boy. They were caught near the Airport light point on Dakshin Marg while they were travelling in a car. One of the women was holding a two-day-old boy in her lap.The police claimed that the child was born at a hospital at Malerkotla in Sangrur district of Punjab before being brought to Chandigarh for sale.Atul Sethi, Additional Public Prosecutor, argued before the court that the prosecution has fully proved the charges against the accused. He said the newborn was recovered from the accused on the spot.The police said ASHA workers used to keep tabs on expected women in their jurisdictions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-cop-4-others-held-guilty-of-child-trafficking-363682
23-01-2022||---||Waiving interest on dues: Panchkula  Municipal Corporation eyes Rs 100-cr pending property tax||Panchkula, January 22After the Haryana Government recently decided to waiving interest on pending property tax if the owners cleared the dues by March 31 this year, the local Municipal Corporation is hopeful of recovering around Rs 100 crore pending tax. The MC has collected Rs30 lakh as house tax in the past one month.Mayor Kulbhushan Goyal said they were optimistic about the recovery of house tax dues to the tune of nearly Rs100 crore in the remaining period of this financial year.He warned that property owners failing to clear their tax dues by March 31 would face sealing of properties. He said top property tax defaulters include hotels, banks, government institutions, schools and petrol pumps.According to civic body officials, property tax is the major revenue source and the MC is fund starved. The financial condition of the civic body was poor for another reason — non-payment of prescribed fee for installation of towers and laying of telephone lines by telecommunication companies. Around 290 towers have been installed by various telecom companies in the city.In the previous meetings of the MC General House, resolutions had been passed to strengthen the financial position of the civic body by acting tough against defaulters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/waiving-interest-on-dues-panchkula-municipal-corporation-eyes-rs-100-cr-pending-property-tax-363681
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh lad hits record 162 in U-19 cricket World Cup||Raj Angad Bawa from the city today smashed an unbeaten 162 off 102 balls, the highest score by an Indian in U-19 World Cup history. His unforgettable innings came during India’s final group game against Uganda in Trinidad.The Indian side posted a mammoth total of 405 for five wickets in 50 overs.The 19-year-old reached the milestone in the 49th over of the Indian innings, after decimating the bowlers to notch up his maiden youth ODI ton. His innings included 14 boundaries and eight sixes.Bawa surpassed the record held by current India opener Shikhar Dhawan during his sizzling run in the 2004 edition, where he had scored unbeaten 155 against Bangladesh.He is the son of a renowned cricket coach Sukhwinder Bawa and grandson of hockey Olympian Tarlochan Bawa, who was a member of the team that won gold at London in 1948.“There are no words to explain our happiness. I wish to see many more such innings from his bat in coming matches,” said Sukhwinder. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-lad-hits-record-162-in-u-19-cricket-world-cup-363680
23-01-2022||Mohali||Top seed Daksh Kapoor wins tennis title||Top seed Daksh Kapoor defeated fifth seed Punjab’s Sumukh Marya (6-1, 7-5) in straight sets to win the boys’ U-14 title on the concluding day of the Roots AITA CS7 National Ranking Championship.In the boys’ U-16 final, top seed Akshat Dhull overpowered sixth seed Kapoor (7-6(4)), 7-5).Dhull and Kapoor won the boys’ U-16 doubles final by defeating Mehraab Singh and Parth Sharma (6-2, 6-3). In the girls’ U-16 doubles final, Shrawasti Kundilya and Akshdha Sharmaoverpowered Kanak Shekhawat and Priyanshi Katial (7-5, 6-3). —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-seed-daksh-kapoor-wins-tennis-title-363679
23-01-2022||---||Chandigarh girl selected for Indian fencing team||Chandigarh, January 22In a proud moment for the City Beautiful, local fencer Kashvi Garg has been selected to represent the nation in the Fencing Grand Prix 2022, scheduled to be held at Doha from January 28 to 30.I am not only the youngest player in the Indian squad, but probably in the entire tournament. Around 150 top fencers of the world will participate in this championship. I am looking forward to bringing home a medal. Kashvi GargKashvi, the youngest player (16) of the Indian contingent, participate in the epee event. Selection trials for the championship were conducted at Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar.The Fencing Association of India (FAI) had selected 32 epee fencers (men and women) for the trials on the basis of their past performance and ranking in the national and international championships. Top performing top eight men and eight women fencers were selected to participate in this championship.“I am not only the youngest player in the Indian squad, but probably in the entire tournament. Around 150 top fencers of the world will participate in this championship. I am looking forward to bringing home a medal,” said Kashvi, a student of Carmel Convent School, Sector 9.“This is a prestigious tournament. Based on the performance in this tournament, players get points that are taken into consideration while deciding the world rankings,” said Kashvi. “This is my first big tournament. I will compete with the best players and it will be a huge learning platform for me,” she said.Kashvi practices under the guidance of senior fencing coach Charanjit Kaur and Mukesh Kumar.A two-time national gold medallist, Kashvi had earlier represented the country in the 41st International Children Fencing Tournament at Wroclaw (Poland) in 2018.Apart from this, she was also awarded with a commendation certificate by the UT Administration for her achievements in the field of sports.Kashvi is also the child rights’ ambassador for the Chandigarh Commission of Protection for Child Rights.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-girl-selected-for-indian-fencing-team-363678
23-01-2022||Ambala||Couple booked for duping three on pretext of govt jobs||The Ambala police have registered three FIRs against a couple for allegedly duping three men from Ambala and Kurukshetra on the pretext of providing them government jobs through the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC).The cases have been registered against Vikram Singh and his wife Baljinder Kaur of Naraingarh at the Naraingarh police station.Vikram is allegedly deputed as a special police officer (SPO), while his wife Baljinder Kaur is reportedly a head constable.Rakesh Kumar, a resident of Kurukshetra, in his complaint, alleged that he was duped of Rs5 lakh on the pretext of providing him the job of a clerk through the HSSC in 2020. He stated that Vikram had claimed that he was the personal security guard and driver of former HSSC chairman Bharat Bhushan Bharti. Vikram had sought Rs7 lakh for the job. While a sum of Rs5 lakh was to be given in two instalments before getting job, the remaining amount was to be given after getting the job. After they failed to provide a job, the complainant sought his money back. The suspects gave him a cheque for Rs3.50 lakh, which got dishonoured. They later threatened to kill him.Sunil Kumar, another complainant, said he was assured of a job in Group-D. He gave a sum of Rs3 lakh and documents to Vikram in Naraingarh on October 18, 2020.“After the suspects failed to provide a job, they promised to return the money. Later, the duo started threatening to kill me and implicate me in a false case,” said Sunil.The third complainant, Gurpreet Singh of Ambala, alleged that he was promised the government job of a telephone attendant at the Haryana Vidhan Sabha in Chandigarh. The suspects sought Rs8 lakh for the job. He gave them Rs6 lakh. When he sought his money back, they threatened him also.DSP Naraingarh Anil Kumar said: “Cases have been registered against the suspects and investigations have been initiated into the matter.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/couple-booked-for-duping-three-on-pretext-of-govt-jobs-363677
23-01-2022||---||Sector 27, Chandigarh, robbery accused denied bail||Chandigarh, January 22A local court has dismissed the bail application of one of the accused, Arjun Shresth, who allegedly robbed a woman in Sector 27, Chandigarh.The incident took place in September 2021 when three men, with their faces covered, held the woman captive for around an hour and robbed her of Rs6.5 lakh at knifepoint at her rented accommodation in Sector 27 here. The police registered an FIR on a complaint of model-turned-actress Alankrita Sahai.She said three persons forcibly entered her house on September 7, 2021. One of them pushed her aside, while the other one caught hold of her from her neck and asked her not to shout. One of them went to the kitchen and took a knife. They threatened to kill her if she did not hand over all cash, ATM card and other valuables. She identified one of the suspects who came to deliver furniture at her house on August 30, 2021.The police arrested all suspects, including the applicant Arjun Shresth.The counsel for the accused argued that the applicant had been falsely implicated in the case. He had no concern with the alleged offence. He had been in the judicial custody since September 17, 2021. The recovery, whatsoever, had already been effected. The trial of the case would take a long time. Therefore, no useful purpose would be served by keeping him behind the bars.While opposing the bail, the public prosecutor said if he was granted bail, he could abscond and harm the witnesses.After hearing the arguments, Dr Rajneesh, Additional Sessions Judge, dismissed the bail application.“At this stage, it is too early to jump to any conclusion for the purpose of bail. The case is under trial. The applicant, if granted bail, can hamper the trial by threatening the witnesses. Therefore, without further delving into the merits of the case and in view of the serious allegations against the applicant, the court is of the opinion that at this stage, the applicant is not entitled to the concession of bail,” said the judge in the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sector-27-chandigarh-robbery-accused-denied-bail-363676
23-01-2022||---||Mohali Cops take out flag march||Mohali, January 22Arun Kumar Mittal, Inspector-General of Police, Rupnagar Range, held a meeting with police officials regarding the security arrangements for Republic Day and Assembly elections at the District Administrative Complex here on Saturday.The meeting was attended by all SHOs, senior police officials and paramilitary forces officers. Mohali SSP Harjeet Singh briefed all officers and the SHOs about their duties and directed that the gazetted police officer himself should supervise inter-state checkpoints set up at the district boundaries in view of the elections. After the meeting, a flag march was also taken out from Phase 6 to Phase 11 here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-cops-take-out-flag-march-363675
23-01-2022||---||Paramdeep Singh Baidwan is Sanyukt Samaj Morcha candidate from Kharar||Mohali, January 22The Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM), led by Balbir Singh Rajewal, announced Paramdeep Singh Baidwan as its candidate from the Kharar Assembly seat for the forthcoming elections, today.Baidwan’s name figures in the list of 35 candidates announced by the newly formed front.Baidwan, a youth leader, was an active member from the area during the farmers’ agitation near the Delhi border.The 48-year-old social worker was primarily tasked with community kitchen, ‘langar’, at the Singhu border during the farmers’ protest. His two sons, aged six and nine, accompanied him during the agitation.Aam Aadmi Party has announced Punjabi singer Anmol Gagan Maan as its candidate from the constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/paramdeep-singh-baidwan-is-sanyukt-samaj-morcha-candidate-from-kharar-363674
23-01-2022||Amarjot Kaur||Chandigarh Railway Station: 98 auto drivers booked for unauthorised entry last year||Chandigarh, January 22The Railway Protection Force (RPF) at the Chandigarh railway station has registered cases against 98 auto drivers for unauthorised entry at the station last year under Sections 144, 147 and 159 of the Indian Railways Act, 1989.The RPF authorities said the decision to press charges against regular offenders was seen as the last resort to curb the menace of unauthorised entry of drivers to the prohibited areas on the railway station premises.According to the data provided by the station, a maximum number of auto drivers, as many as 21, were booked by the RPF in the month of January last year. In February, the number plummeted to 2, 5 and 4 in February, March and April, respectively. In May and June, not even a single auto driver was booked for unauthorised entry. In July again, the number rose to 20. The figure dwindled thereafter.According to Section 144 of the Indian Railways Act, 1989, if a person canvasses for any custom or hawks or exposes for sale any article whatsoever in any railway carriage or upon any part of a railway, except under and in accordance with the terms and conditions of a licence granted by the railway administration in this behalf, will be punishable with imprisonment for a term, which may extend to one year, or with fine that may extend to Rs2,000, or with both.The Section 147 applies to trespass and refusal to desist from trespass, failing which a person will be punishable with imprisonment for a term, which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to Rs1,000, or with both. Under Section 148, if anyone is found guilty for making a false statement in an application for compensation, the person will be punishable with imprisonment for a term, which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.An RPF official said: “We have been keeping a constant check on unauthorised entries of auto drivers on the station premises and have done everything from reprimanding them to booking them, but this needs to be checked. We are now keeping a stricter check.”Last resort to curb menaceThe RPF authorities said the decision to press charges against regular offenders was seen as the last resort to curb the menace of unauthorised entry of drivers to the prohibited areas on the railway station premises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-railway-station-98-auto-drivers-booked-for-unauthorised-entry-last-year-363673
23-01-2022||---||If voted to power, AAP will end corruption in Punjab: Kulwant Singh||Mohali, January 22After the formation of the AAP government in Punjab, corruption will be curbed and the people of the state will be given corruption-free and public-oriented administration.These views were expressed by Kulwant Singh, former Mohali Mayor and AAP candidate, during his campaigning at Saneta, Dharamgarh, Tangori, Dhelpur and Manoli villages.He said people had decided to form AAP government in the state this time. So, they were joining the party in a huge number.Kulwant Singh said Mohali would be developed in every way after the formation of the AAP government and the atrocities being committed on people by present leaders would also be taken into account. He said during his past tenure as the Mohali Mayor, several development works were carried out in the district.He said this time people of Mohali would not even like to see the faces of liquor and land mafia.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/if-voted-to-power-aap-will-end-corruption-in-punjab-kulwant-singh-363672
23-01-2022||Mohali||Mohali industrialists back Congress nominee Balbir Singh Sidhu||Over 100 industrialists here have come out in support of Balbir Singh Sidhu, former Cabinet Minister and Congress candidate from Mohali, for his development agendas and commitment towards Mohali and the industries.In a meeting held here late last night, industrialists endorsed Sidhu’s development agenda extending full support to him. Speaking on the occasion, Anurag Aggarwal, president of the Mohali Industries Association, said during the Covid-induced lockdown Sidhu stood shoulder to shoulder with local industries for resuming operations, curfew passes, vaccination availability or distribution of free ration for industrial workers.Vivek Kapoor, vice-president of the Mohali Industries Association, said Sidhu was accessible at all times unlike other candidates who allegedly have a 3-tier security and were impossible to meet.Speaking on the occasion, Balbir Sidhu remembered his 42 years of association with the Mohali industries. He said development of Mohali was his sole mission. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-industrialists-back-congress-nominee-balbir-singh-sidhu-363671
23-01-2022||Gaurav Kanthwal||PUNJAB POLL 2022: Dera Bassi Congress leaders put on notice||Zirakpur, January 22The Dera Bassi SDM-cum-Returning Officer today issued a notice to Dera Bassi Congress in-charge Deepinder Singh Dhillon and his son Udayvir Singh Dhillon for violation of model code of conduct during the campaigning in the constituency.After receiving complaints from several political parties, Election Commission (EC) officials issued a notice and sought reply from them within 24 hours. Several parties had complained to EC officials that Congress workers were distributing sports kits bearing the photo of the father-son duo among youth in Zirakpur and Dera Bassi.Notices have already been issued to the AAP and the SAD for violating model code of conduct here.The Congress is yet to announce its candidate from the constituency. Deepinder Singh Dhillon and Amit Bawa Saini are tipped as strong probables for the party ticket. The SAD, BJP, AAP and the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) have already announced their candidates.The Dera Bassi Assembly seat has been a stronghold of the SAD with NK Sharma emerging victorious in 2012 and 2017. However, the Congress, led by Dhillon, swept the Municipal Council elections, in Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru in February last year.Former AAP leader joins CongParminder Singh Kamboj, former AAP leader from Zirakpur, joined the Congress in the presence of Dera Bassi Congress in-charge Deepinder Singh Dhillon on Saturday. Councillor Harjit Singh Minta, Amarinder Singh Nalwa and Jagtar Singh welcomed Kamboj in the party fold.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-poll-2022-dera-bassi-congress-leaders-put-on-notice-363670
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||One arrested for drinking in public||BJP candidate faces workers’ ireZirakpur: A day after realtor Sanjiv Khanna bagged the BJP ticket from the Dera Bassi Assembly seat, local BJP leaders came out in the open against his candidature. Khanna faced some anxious moments on Saturday when he visited the house of BJP Mandal in-charge Mukesh Gandhi, considered a strong candidate for the BJP ticket till recently. The BJP ignored Dera Bassi Mandal in-charge Mukesh Gandhi and District BJP president Sushil Rana, who were tipped as the frontrunners for the ticket. The BJP workers had already gathered at Gandhi’s house expressing resentment. When they saw Khanna there, they started protesting vociferously. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/one-arrested-for-drinking-in-public-363669
23-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||2 banquet halls hanging fire, Mayor proposes another||Chandigarh, January 22Even as work on two already approved banquet halls in the city could not be started, Mayor Sarabjit Kaur has proposed to set up another hall in Mani Majra.According to the Mayor, a piece of about 3 acres of the Municipal Corporation land is lying vacant at Govindpura, Mani Majra, where a banquet hall with an underground multi-level parking and other latest facilities will be built.“We have readied a proposal in this regard. We will bring the agenda regarding this, hopefully, at a MC House meeting in February. It will be then sent to the UT Administration for a final approval,” said the Mayor. She had earlier raised the matter with UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit.The 3-acre piece of land recently came under the MC limits after which the plan to build a banquet hall there came up. “It has been a long-standing demand of the local residents. Now that the land is with us, we can plan it,” she shared. “For holding big functions such as marriage, Chandigarh residents have to go to places like Zirakpur and pay about Rs7 lakh. There is no banquet hall in Chandigarh,” said the Mayor.If the plan is readied, then arranging funds is going to be the main challenge. The civic body will have to seek funds from the Administration. The MC last July gave approval to build a modern banquet hall by razing the existing Janj Ghar in Sector 47. The House approved Rs76.40 crore for the project. As per the plan, the building will have ground, first and second floor and three levels in the basement for the parking of vehicles and other purposes. A meditation centre, a yoga centre, a library, a gym, a dormitory, AC rooms, an open hall, parking for 350 cars in basements, lifts and other facilities have been planned for the project.The civic body had earlier approved another banquet hall in Industrial Area, Phase 1, but work on both these projects could not be started to date due to the fund crunch.‘Long-standing demand of local residents’The 3-acre piece of land at Govindpura, Mani Majra, recently came under the MC limits after which the plan to build a banquet hall there came up. “It has been a long-standing demand of the local residents,” said Mayor Sarabjit Kaur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/2-banquet-halls-hanging-fire-mayor-proposes-another-363668
23-01-2022||Mohali||Mohali firing case: Two-day police remand for couple||The court today sent Sarabjit Kaur, a teacher, and her husband, Ravjot Singh, both residents of Phase 4 here, to two-day police remand in an abetment-to-suicide case which was registered after Kharar resident Harpreet Singh allegedly shot himself in the head in Sarabjit’s car here yesterday.A case under Sections 306 and 511 of the IPC was registered at the Phase-1 police station. Phase-1 SHO Shivi Brar said, “The duo has been sent to two-day police remand. The victim is battling for life at the PGI. The police are scanning footage of CCTV cameras installed in the area and questioning the couple regarding the case.”On Friday morning, Harpreet Singh, employed with a private security agency, suffered a gunshot injury in a car under mysterious circumstances. The police said a married woman was in the driver’s seat of her vehicle while her husband was nearby when the incident took place. Harpreet’ licensed pistol was found in the car from the spot.Sources said the woman, aged 35, reportedly told the police that Harpreet had been harassing her for the past about six months. Yesterday, he met her in the market, threatened her with a pistol and forcibly took her to the residential area in Phase 5. When Harpreet saw the woman’s husband approaching them, he first pointed the pistol at her and then suddenly shot himself in the right side of the temple. The victim was taken to the nearby private hospital from where he was shifted to the PGI. The victim’s father, Harjeet Singh, said Harpreet and the woman had known each other through Instagram for the past five-six months. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-firing-case-two-day-police-remand-for-couple-363667
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Fog slows down trains in Chandigarh||The foggy weather continues to slow down passenger trains that ply through the city railway station. Delayed by five hours, Sachkhand Express (number 12716) running from Amritsar to Nanded, which arrives at the city station at 9 am, arrived at about 2 pm today. Sachkhand Express -12715 (Nanded to Amritsar Junction), too, was delayed by two and a half hours. Besides, Amritsar-Mumbai Bandra T Paschim SF Express (number 12926), was delayed by three hours.An official from the city station said, “The two pairs of trains are late by a few hours because of the foggy weather. This happens every year. As soon as the weather gets better, trains will start plying on their designated routes on time.” —                                     #Fog||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fog-slows-down-trains-in-chandigarh-363666
23-01-2022||---||More rain likely today in Chandigarh, clear sky after tomorrow||Chandigarh, January 22The city witnessed 1.3-mm rainfall today and more rain is likely on Sunday. According to the Chandigarh Meteorological Department, light to moderate rain is likely on Sunday.There are less chances of rain on Monday, but there could be light rain. Fog is also expected on Monday, following which, there is a forecast of clear sky.Meanwhile, the day’s temperature dropped in the city due to the rain. The maximum temperature yesterday was 19°C which fell to 16°C today, which is four degrees less than normal. While the minimum temperature yesterday was 6°C, it reached 9.8°C, four degrees above normal. The minimum and maximum temperatures are not expected to see major shift. This month has seen unusual rain. Just nine days of this month had witnessed the highest rainfall in January in city since 2017.According to the weathermen, a total of 114.1-mm rainfall had been reported in Chandigarh from January 1 to 9. It is a record as before this it was in 2017 that more rain was witnessed in January. In 2017, the month recorded 132-mm rainfall. Normal rainfall, however, this month is 33 mm.                                     #ChandigarhRain||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/more-rain-likely-today-in-chandigarh-clear-sky-after-tomorrow-363665
23-01-2022||---||All 40 electric buses hit key routes in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, January 22The Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) has pressed all 40 electric buses into service on various routes in the city. UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit flagged off the first batch of 11 electric buses on November 13 last year.To reduce air and noise pollution, the UT Administration has decided to replace its entire fleet of 358 diesel buses of the CTU with electric ones by 2027-28.In September 2020, the Centre had sanctioned 80 electric buses for the UT under Phase II of the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles in India (FAME India) Scheme. The UT had floated tenders for the procurement of 40 buses in the first phase.Ashok Leyland was awarded the contract to run the environment-friendly buses for a period of 10 years on the basis of the kilo metre scheme.An official said all electric buses had been delivered by December last year and now these had been made operational on express routes devised keeping in view the minimum travel time for commuters. Meanwhile, the process for procurement of another 40 electric buses has been started. An official said after getting approval from the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, the UT Administration has decided to invite bids for the second batch of 40 electric buses.After being charged, a bus will be able to cover a distance of nearly 130 km. It will take nearly two or two and a half hours to fully charge a bus. Each bus has a seating capacity of 36 people and a maximum of 54 people will be able to travel at a time, and will run 200-300 km in a day.A charging station has been set up at Depot No.3 in Sector-25. The buses has also been fitted with fire detection and alarm system.Ministry gives nodAn official said after getting approval from the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, the UT has decided to invite bids for the second batch of 40 electric buses.                                     #ChandigarhTransportUndertaking                                     #ElectricBuses||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/all-40-electric-buses-hit-key-routes-in-chandigarh-363664
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Daily Covid cases continue to be above 1,000 in Chandigarh||Single-day Covid-19 cases continue to be above 1,000 since January 12, which has prompted the UT Administration to speed up vaccination for those who cannot visit health facilities due to their age or medical condition.Last week, the city reported a total of 8,515 cases, an average of 1,231 cases daily. From January 8 to January 15, as many as 8,614 cases were reported. The city today reported 1,149 new Covid-19 cases at a positivity rate of 20.10 per cent. It was only on January 17 when Chandigarh saw daily cases under 1,000. The tally again shot up the next day.The city today reported three deaths due to the virus. A 65-year-old resident of Sector 26, a case of chronic kidney disease and hypertension, died at the PGI. She was fully vaccinated for Covid. A 54-year-old man from Sector 43 was brought dead at the GMSH-16. He was a chronic alcoholic. He tested positive for the virus posthumously.He was fully vaccinated too. A 67-year-old man from Sector 19, a case of bronchopneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome, breathed his last at the GMSH-16. He too was fully vaccinated.The UT has recorded 21 deaths this month. Only seven of these patients were unvaccinated.Vax at home for elderly, bedriddenThe Chandigarh Health Department on Saturday said the Covid vaccination at home was only for elderly and bedridden people with disabilities/diseases. It has been clarified that this facility is not being provided to the other adult persons and children in the age group of 15 to 18 years. Eligible persons may make a request at Helpline 1075 for Covid vaccination at their home. Such requests will be assessed before sending a mobile vaccination team to their houses.Four more die, 1,245 test +ve in Mohali Mohali: Four more persons succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 1,105 in the district. They all were comorbid and only two of them vaccinated. The district also logged 1,245 fresh cases, pushing the tally to 86,570 on Saturday. Among 8,858 active cases, 24 are hospitalised. — TNS546 fresh cases reported in P’kulaPanchkula: The district recorded 546 fresh cases of coronavirus on Saturday, taking the active caseload to 2,364. The positivity rate stood at 30.46 per cent. While the overall tally reached 39,831, the death count remained at 384. Meanwhile, the number of recovered persons rose to 37,083. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/daily-cases-continue-to-be-above-1-000-in-chandigarh-363663
23-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: No registration fee for PGI OPDs||Amid a spike in daily Covid cases, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has decided to waive registration charges for patients visiting outpatient departments (OPDs) of the institute.The institute had suspended walk-in OPDs from January 10. The Medical Superintendent, Dr Vipin Kaushal, said, “This is done for the time being till the walk-in OPDs remain suspended. Patients who come from tele-consultation already have their appointments and taking registration fee from them created hurdles. This way, patients can directly go to the doctor and get their check-up done.”Patients are utilising tele-consultation and they visit the institute with prior appointments if physical evaluation at OPDs is required. The decision to suspend walk-in OPDs was taken to prevent exposure of co-morbid patients to the infection. —                                     #PGI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-no-registration-fee-for-pgi-opds-363662
