24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh records 568 new Covid-19 cases; fall of 29 per cent from yesterday||Chandigarh on Monday reported 568 new Covid-19 cases, a fall of 29 per cent from yesterday.The city had recorded 808 cases on Sunday. The cumulative number of cases has reached 86,260.The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours was 3,920 while 5,768 samples were tested a day earlier.A positivity rate of 14.49 per cent was recorded today which is marginally higher than yesterday’s 14.01 per cent.A total of 863 patients were discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed seven days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.The number of active cases has fallen to 7,768. It was 8,064 yesterday.An 85-year-old Covid positive man of Sector 7 succumbed at GMSH, Sector 16. He was a case of hypertension and hypothyroidism. He was not vaccinated for Covid.The death toll has risen to 1,103 while 77,389 people have been cured till date.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-records-568-new-covid-19-cases-fall-of-29-per-cent-from-yesterday-364035
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Man booked by Chandigarh police for attacking wife||Tributes paid to NetajiChandigarh: On Prakram Diwas, Punjab Governor and UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit paid tributes to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. In a quiet and solemn ceremony organised at Punjab Raj Bhawan, Purohit and officials of the Raj Bhawan paid floral tributes to Netaji on his 125th birth anniversary. The Governor said Netaji personified valour, determination and sacrifice and played an invaluable role in liberating our motherland from the British rule. TNSTyres, batteries stolen from shopDera Bassi: Thieves broke open the lock of a shop on the Barwala road in Dera Bassi and stole tyres worth lakhs. After receiving a complaint, the police visited the spot. The shop owner, Amrit Singh, said he sells tyres for trucks, motorcycles and other vehicles. He locked the shop as usual last night. In the morning, neighbours informed him that the lock of the shop was broken and the goods were missing. The complainant stated that the thieves, with the help of a jack, lifted the shutter of the shop and stole 63 new tyres and batteries from the shop. The police said after receiving a complaint, investigations have been initiated into the matter. They were scanning CCTV footage to get clue about the thieves. TNSTrains on Shimla route suspendedChandigarh: Inclement weather has hit rail traffic on the heritage Kalka-Shimla route. All trains plying on the route have been suspended till January 24, according to an order issued by Ambala Division of the Northern Railway. The engineering division had requested the suspension of traffic due to continuous rain and falling of boulders. It said the services had to be halted for the safety of passenger and repairs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/man-booked-by-chandigarh-police-for-attacking-wife-363963
24-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Panchkula shuttler's dream comes crashing down||Panchkula, January 23It’s a dream of every player to play against his role model one day. Anupama Upadhyaya, a 16-year-old ace shuttler, also inched closer to face two-time Olympics medallist PV Sindhu in the final of Syed Modi India International 300 Super Series in Lucknow. However, her hopes came crashing down as she lost her semi-final tie, despite winning the opening game, to Malvika Bhansod.Panchkula’s Anupama, who bagged a bronze medal in the Syed Modi India International 300 Super Series, lost to Malvika (19-21, 21-19, 21-7). The semi-final match lasted for over one hour.“I was confident of winning the match. However, the final result was disappointing. I was confident of facing my role model Sindhu in the final. I was prepared to showcase the best of my ability in this match. Nevertheless, I still have a long way to go to achieve the best and I will give my best in future,” said Anupama.The ace shuttler was the only player from Panchkula district to play in this championship. She defeated Samiya Imad Farooqui (24-22, 23-21), Smit Toshniwal (21-12, 21-19) and Rituparna Das (21-7, 21-10) before reaching the semis. She has now become world Junior 10 in the Junior BWF rankings this year.Earlier this month, she played the Yonex India Open Super 500 Series Tournament. She bowed down against Jia Min Yeo, world ranked 16th, of Singapore, who was seeded No. 3 in the tournament (21-13, 7-21, 12-21).“By the virtue of these two results, I am hoping to get good points to improve my rankings. There are high chances that I will manage a berth in the top 100 of Women’s Singles Badminton World Federation (BWF) rankings,” said Anupama.She will now participate in the Open 2022 Super 100 Series Tournament in Cuttack, scheduled to be held from February 25 to 30.“As I said, I still have a long way to go. Playing in the Syed Modi India International 300 Super Series was a learning experience, especially after overcoming the hindrances that occurred due to the Covid pandemic. I am looking forward to improving myself in the Super 100 Series, scheduled for next month,” said Anupama, who will turn 17 next month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-shuttlers-dream-comes-crashing-down-363962
24-01-2022||---||Panchkula resident alleges threat call from gangster||Panchkula, January 23The police have registered a case against an unidentified person on a complaint of a Sector 4 resident who claimed that he got a threat call from a gangster, Kala Rana.The complainant, identified as Avi Sharma (27), said he got the call from a US number around 4 pm on Thursday. The caller identified himself as Kala Rana and threatened him to bring back his wife from her maternal home in Faridabad.He threatened him that either he patches up with his wife and brings her back from her maternal home within two days or he will kill him and his family members, the FIR reads, quoting the complainant.Sharma told the police that he was married to Monika in 2018, but she had been living at her maternal home since February 2019.Their matrimonial case was sub judice at the Faridabad court.The complainant also alleged that the threatening call could have been made on the directions on his wife and her family members.A case was registered under Section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-resident-alleges-threat-call-from-gangster-363961
24-01-2022||Zirakpur||Zirakpur: Pistol recovered from theft suspect||The police have recovered a country-made pistol from one of the two suspects held in a theft of mobile phones worth Rs20 lakh from a shop in Baltana here recently.The suspects have been identified as Sonu, a native of Uttar Pradesh, and Neeraj, alias Kaku, of Kishangarh. The third suspect is still at large.The police recovered the weapon from Neeraj. It was hidden after digging the earth near the Dhakoli railway line.As many as 105 mobile phones were stolen from a shop in the main market of Baltana. The suspects had loaded the stolen mobile phones in a cart before fleeing from the spot.The police said 63 mobile phones, an LCD, a washing machine and Rs1.5 lakh had been recovered from the suspects. The suspects sold the remaining mobile phones. The suspects later fled to UP and purchased a country-made pistol. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/zirakpur-pistol-recovered-from-theft-suspect-363960
24-01-2022||Amarjot Kaur||Chandigarh: Eight days on, killer yet to be identified||Chandigarh, January 23Eight days after a woman was found brutally murdered near the city railway station, the government railway police (GRP) are yet to identify any accused.An official said they were still questioning the suspects. They had not booked any person or reached any theory yet. The woman was found brutally murdered with at least 10 stab wounds in the forest area near the Panchkula side of the railway station on January 15.She used to work as a cleaner at the Mauli Jagran police station. Vilayati Saini, SHO, GRP police station, said they were still questioning people who were in touch with the woman. They had sent the swab samples collected from the body for examination to find out if there was any possibility of rape or sexual assault.“We have not yet received the reports of the swab samples,” he said.The police official said according to the post-mortem report, the woman died of injuries caused by a sharp weapon. The autopsy report had ruled out the possibility of the woman being pregnant at the time of her death.“We are working on the case every day. I cannot give you any detail at this moment like how many people we have questioned or who they are as it is a matter of investigation,” said Saini.The woman had left for her home around 6 pm on January 14, but never returned. Her body was later found in the morning. She was the sole breadwinner of her family.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-eight-days-on-killer-yet-to-be-identified-363958
24-01-2022||Gaurav Kanthwal||Zirakpur: BJP office-bearers resign in protest||Zirakpur, January 23A large section of BJP office-bearers of Zirakpur, Dera Bassi and Lalru resigned from their posts in protest against the announcement of realtor Sanjeev Khanna as the BJP candidate from the Dera Bassi Assembly seat.They would, however, continue to be associated with the party, the office-bearers said.The disgruntled section of the BJP office-bearers and workers held a meeting in Dera Bassi today and appealed to the party’s senior leadership to reconsider its decision.General Secretary Subhash Sharma and senior leader Rajesh Bagga have assured them to take up the matter with the high command.The BJP ignored Dera Bassi Mandal in-charge Mukesh Gandhi and district BJP president Sushil Rana who were tipped as the frontrunners for the ticket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-office-bearers-resign-in-protest-363951
24-01-2022||---||Two days of rain exposed works done by Mohali MLA: Kulwant Singh||Mohali, January 23Former Mohali Mayor and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate from Mohali Kulwant Singh said only two days of rain had exposed the development works carried out by former minister and MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu. There was a flood-like situation in every village, including Mohali city.Kulwant Singh was addressing election meetings at Jhiurheri, Nadiali, Safipur, Roorkee, Bakarpur villages, Azad Colony, Ambedkar Colony, Ramgarh and Mataur in the Mohali constituency today.Kulwant Singh said people of Mohali elected Balbir Sidhu for three times in a row. Insteadof developing the area, Sidhu focused on developing his family.SSM nominee seeks support from votersMohali: Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) candidate Ravneet Singh Brar here today urged people to unite and support the party in the forthcoming Assembly elections. Ravneet Brar campaigned in Manana, Sohana, Kumbhra and Madanpur villages falling under the Mohali Assembly constituency. Brar also met people in Phase 5, Aerocity Block-C and Phase 7 here and sought their support.Kamaldeep Saini PLC candidate from KhararMohali: Former Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday announced the Punjab Lok Congress (PLC) candidate, Kamaldeep Saini, for the Kharar Assembly seat. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/two-days-of-rain-exposed-works-done-by-mohali-mla-kulwant-363947
24-01-2022||---||Committed to improving Mohali infra: Balbir Singh Sidhu||Mohali, January 23Sitting MLA and Congress candidate from Mohali Balbir Singh Sidhu today said he was committed to improving the basic infrastructure in Mohali.Sidhu said though Mohali had top class private health facilities, they worked hard to match these by improving government medical facilities. He said they upgraded a civil dispensary into a community health centre in 3B1. He said this 30-bed centre had been built with modern technology and would have doctors from 11 specialties.The Congress candidate said they had also planned a 350-bed district hospital at a cost of Rs100 crore at Sector 66. Of the 350 beds, 50 would be for private rooms. He said the hospital would also house a 50-bed mother and child hospital.Meanwhile, Sidhu received a shot in the arm as three Akali families joined the Congress at Sekhan Majra village today in his presence.Welcoming these families into the Congress fold, Sidhu said he had urged all to come and join them in their dream to make Mohali the number one district of Punjab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/committed-to-improving-mohali-infra-balbir-singh-sidhu-363943
24-01-2022||Naina Mishra||Patients incidentally tested +ve on admission: PGI doc||Chandigarh, January 23The city lost 23 patients, who were also Covid positive, this month. Dr Ashutosh Aggarwal from the Pulmonary Medicine Department, PGI, who is handling Covid-dedicated ward in the hospital, said most of the patients, who died at the PGI, were incidentally found to have Covid-19 at the time of admission to the hospital. They did not have clear features of lung involvement due to Covid.A 67-year-old Covid positive woman died at the PGI on Saturday. She was also found to be suffering from chronic kidney disease and hypertension. Several Covid patients who died at city hospitals had some or the other comorbidities involved like the above-mentioned case.“Several patients at the PGI are dying because of their underlying medical or surgical conditions, rather than Covid complications. Most of the patients who died at the hospital were incidentally found to have Covid at time of admission to the PGI. They did not have clear features of lung involvement due to Covid. We are hardly seeing casualties directly related to severe Covid-related lung injury and refractory oxygen desaturation, although one cannot be sure if Covid indirectly contributed to some way to these deaths,” said Dr Aggarwal.In the recent genomic sequencing results, 20 samples were detected with the variant of concern. Ten samples each were of Delta and Omicron variants. While the third wave is believed to be fuelled by the Omicron variant, experts have noticed lesser hospitalisation and severity of disease in this wave. Delta, on the contrary, had led to the situation wherein hospitals ran out of Covid ICU beds and the city suffered from shortage of medical oxygen as well.Asked about the role of variants in Covid deaths, Dr Aggarwal said: “Admissions and deaths at the PGI are spread across all spectrum of ages, from children to elderly, and a clear age pattern is still not discernable, unlike that was observed during the previous waves. In the absence of any firm virological data, we are still not sure how much Delta or Omicron variants are relatively contributing to our hospitalisations and mortality.”Lesser CT chest requirementPGI radiologist Dr Mandeep Garg said: “We are getting few requisitions for CT chest in the current wave despite the number of Covid patients being so high. The main reason behind this is that the disease manifestations are certainly milder as compared to the second wave leading to lesser hospitalisations. This is primarily because of vaccination and previous exposure to Covid infection. Moreover, now we all are aware about the role of CT scan in Covid and this has prevented the indiscriminate use of CT chest in the current wave.”“Generally, Covid patients being referred for CT scan are for other indications rather than Covid pneumonia per se; and a miniscule number who get CT chest done for Covid are usually those who have associated comorbidities and where CT is expected to change the management of patients. Lung involvement is much lesser in this wave. Majorly, it is involving the upper respiratory tract. Regarding the pattern of lung involvement, it has the same Covid pneumonia pattern on CT scan,” said Garg.DocspeakSeveral patients at the PGI are dying because of their underlying medical or surgical conditions, rather than Covid complications. Most of those who died at the hospital were incidentally found to have Covid at the time of admission to the PGI. They didn’t have clear features of lung involvement due to Covid. — Dr Ashutosh Aggarwal, Pulmonary Medicine Department, PGI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patients-incidentally-tested-ve-on-admission-pgi-doc-363937
24-01-2022||Being an educational hub||Open house: What steps should the Administration, police take to make Chandigarh safer for women?||Sapna Sharda, ChandigarhQUESTIONSeveral crimes involving auto drivers have been reported in the past. A large number of unregistered autos ply on city roads and there is no record of drivers employed by auto owners. What measures should the Administration and the police take to ensure the accountability of auto owners and to curb crimes involving auto drivers?Suggestions in not more than 70 words can be sent to openhouse@tribunemail.comNeed to encourage street activitiesMeasures such as shifting bus stops from vulnerable points, installing street lights in dark spots and constructing more public toilets can greatly improve women’s safety in the City Beautiful. We need to encourage street activities to create natural surveillance. Public transport can be made safer at night. Raising awareness is one of the first steps to reduce and prevent violence against women in public places. Technology can play an important role in raising awareness against sexual harassment as well as on reporting assault and unsafe areas to the authorities concerned.Vineet Gandhi, Mani MajraCriminals have no fear of policeIt appears these criminals have no fear of the police as they easily commit such crimes and get away. We see hardly any police patrolling during night. Illogical justifications are given for police inaction on various such crimes which happen during daytime and night.Capt Amar Jeet, KhararPlay safe and be safeWhile the UT Administration and the police are duty-bound to keep tabs on crimes against women in the City Beautiful, my most humble submission could be: “Play safe and be safe”. It is strongly felt that the proposed “action plan” of the authorities for effectively dealing with crimes against women should be published along with the views of the “Chandigarh Tribune” on this matter.Vinayak, Panchkulaset up Women cell at each police stationIncidents of crime against women have increased manifold in the tricity. It is, therefore, of paramount importance that the police set up special women cells at each police station. At the same time, NGOs and social organisations should be involved to ensure that women get their due status and must be treated on a par with men. Exemplary punishment must be awarded to culprits timely which will act as a deterrent. Lastly, education, health, economic independence and gender equality with self-esteem must be given due weightage in uplifting women in society.Col TBS Bedi (retd), MohaliNight curfew to blameImposing night curfew to control the spread of Covid 19 has created more problems than solutions. A woman passenger was raped by an auto-rickshaw driver in a place like Sector 17 during the curfew hours. The murder of two lonely women at Maloya and Mauli Jagran last week can also be attributed to the fact that criminals could easily get away with crime in the absence of witnesses. The UT Administration should review the decision of imposing night curfew or intensify police patrolling and get street lights installed in dark spots in the city.SC Luthra, ChandigarhAdmn, police must work togetherThe Chandigarh Administration and the police must work together to ensure intensified patrolling by PCR vehicles in incident-prone areas for the safety of women. Women should be provided with safety aids. Each and every woman must be encouraged to download safety apps or helpline numbers which come in handy in case of emergency.Dr Shakha Sharda, ChandigarhInstil fear in criminals’ mindsWomen’s safety is a very important topic these days. Every now and then, we got to know about some crime against women. To ensure their safety, we must identify the spots vulnerable to these crimes. Police patrolling should be intensified in those areas, specially, during the night hours. Criminals commit crime because they don’t fear the law. Thus, fear needs to be instilled in the minds of criminals by enacting strict laws. We need to guard our city not only from crime but also every obnoxious thing.Sushree Priyadarshni, ChandigarhEncourage women to be braveSelf-help is the best help. Women should not depend on others for their safety. They should learn martial art to handle any untoward situation. They must be bold and vigilant enough not to fall prey to any person with low mentality. The men folk in families should encourage women to be brave. Such incidents happen due to a corrupt mind-set of people as well as degeneration of moral values. More stress be laid on value-based education in our schools so that the male members of society are taught gender sensitisation. Police patrolling should be intensified. There should be special women squads to tackle the cases of crime against women. The functioning of women helpline numbers and police stations must also be streamlined. Above all, residents should speak and act against crime against women there and then instead of being a mute spectator.Bir Devinder Singh Bedi, ChandigarhDeploy cops in secluded placesForest areas with no lights and no check on migrants as well as auto-drivers pose a threat to the safety of women in the city. The Administration needs to deploy police personnel near secluded places and keep tabs on auto-drivers. The authorities need to keep a check on migrants.Abhilasha Gupta, MohaliTake up plaints by women seriouslyWomen’s safety in Chandigarh is a matter of great concern. The reasons behind this scenario are many — mainly, a lack of respect for women even in the so-called decent society, and secondly, no fear of law or social pressure against this behaviour. The first step that the Administration should take is strictly enforce the law and heavily punish those who indulge in crimes against women whoever they may be. The police personnel as well as the public should be sensitised that complaints by women should be taken up seriously and humanely. A victim’s family and society should support her rather than hiding or blaming her. The autos, taxis, rickshaws and their drivers should be in database so that they can be easily traced. Illegal plying of vehicles should be checked. All roads should be well lit, vulnerable places covered with CCTV cameras and police patrolling intensified to ensure the safety of women in the city.Bubby Soin, ChandigarhGive exemplary punishmentIt is heart-rending to hear such news. Women be imparted self-defence training so that they can save themselves in such situations. The first and foremost duty of the UT police is to register all three-wheelers and cabs, they be called at police stations in batches and sensitised to the need of building a clean character. People are required to change their mind-set regarding women. This type of act is not a crime but a sin. Bad characters be awarded exemplary punishment.MR Bhateja, NayagaonEnsure regular beat patrollingIt seems all is not well with the law-enforcing agencies. Criminals have created a sense of insecurity among local residents, especially women. There is a need to instil fear of law among criminals. It’s time to tell them the city police are alive and alert. There is a need to ensure regular beat patrolling as well as the use of technology in police investigation.Vidya Sagar Garg, PanchkulaWomen must know helpline numbersThe Administration should take necessary steps to prevent such crimes. It should ensure police patrolling at night and well-lit streets. All women must know the helpline numbers. The CCTV system and drone technology should be used to ensure the safety of the women. Persons committing crimes against women should be given exemplary punishments. Laws protecting and promoting the interests of women need to be widely propagated and effectively implemented. Education can also help in eradicating social evils. Society should also come forward to ensure the safety of the women.Adish Sood, AmlohMake public places safe for womenSuch incidents have happened in the past too. The culprits are mostly auto drivers. Why the police do not take such incidents seriously. Mostly, autos are operated by people migrated from UP and Bihar. There should be some check on them. There is a need to effectively monitor the implementation and efficiency of the schemes for curbing harassment of women. Teams of police women in plain clothes need to be deployed outside all girls’ schools and colleges. The introduction of women-only buses to educational institutions, deployment of more women constables in pain clothes at public places, awareness drives on anti-sexual harassment panels in all organisations, installation of more CCTV cameras at public places, easy access to the IT cell to register complaints are the need of the hour.Vijay Malia, ChandigarhEffective police patrolling requiredThe Administration must provide support to vulnerable women and girls. There should be a pickup and drop facility for women who don’t have access to safe vehicles in odd hours. The Administration must strengthen “SHE Teams”. Priority should be given to women safety and for this, technology be optimally used. Spread awareness on women security and empowerment through posts on the social media.Anita K Tandon, KhararAdmn needs to focus on efficiencyThe incidence of crime against women has been increasing each year. Rape, eve-teasing, murder, domestic violence and harassment for dowry are common crimes against women. The Chandigarh Administration is famous for its quick action in such cases, but its efficiency has decreased in the past years. Special SOS numbers, GPS connectivity, especially during the late hours for working women; timely action, proper patrolling and most importantly, changing the mind-set, rather than changing the law is the need of the hour.Avinash goyal, ChandigarhSafety of women a big concernIt seems the police and the administrations of the tricity are not learning from the past. If any proper action plan had been formulated by the police to prevent such incidents, these incidents would have never happened. Such incidents have exposed the false claims of the police. The security of the citizens of the tricity in general and that of women in particular should be the top priority of the police and to ensure that, there has to be 24X7 vigilance on all roads through patrolling vans and the CCTV camera system.Sanjay Chopra, MohaliMake presence of police feltThe fear of being caught should be instilled in the minds of criminals to make Chandigarh a safe place for women. Prepaid booths and services linked with Apps should be made compulsory for operating autos. The helpline numbers should be displayed prominently and women educated about their safety. The police of the tricity should work together to prevent crimes against women.Bharat Bhushan Sharma, ChandigarhWomen can rely on local cabsTravelling by an auto in night is never considered safe for women unless the vehicle is fitted with a working GPS. Though no mode of conveyance for women is safe at night, at least, one can rely on local cabs. Once a person books a cab, he or she can share the cab number and the driver’s contact number with friends and family members so that they can track him or her to home. For the night travel, the Administration can press into service a few cabs fitted with GPS. For this enhanced safety, no one would mind paying a little extra.Savita Kuthiala, ChandigarhPoor policing also to blame for crimeThe recent crimes in the tricity have raised questions regarding the safety of women, especially during the night. The primary reason, of course, is poor policing. However, we cannot overlook other reasons for such crimes. There should be tougher laws against perpetrators of crimes against women. Criminals are aware of gaping loopholes in the existing laws for protection of women. The delay in our justice system also encourages many men to commit crimes. There is no fear of the police and other law-enforcement agencies in the minds of criminals. We need to inculcate values in boys regarding extending respect to all women. Moral education in schools will also help. All women should be taught skills to defend themselves in case of assault. The government should tie up with NGOs and other agencies in this regard. In fact, providing safety and dignity to women is the responsibility of every member of society.Dr Anil Kumar Yadav, ChandigarhMake GPS mandatory for all vehiclesThe cases of rape and eve-teasing are always in news in the tricity. The recent murders and rape of women have belied big claims of the police. The police may have a number of policies, but the implementation is poor. The Administration should install more CCTV cameras in sectors and villages, light up dark spots, recruit more police personnel, launch new SOS service and make GPS mandatory for all vehicles.Aarti Verma, PanchkulaTighten noose on criminalsIf the back-to-back incidents of crime against women in Chandigarh are any pointers, the city is not safe for women. These recurring incidents have earned the city an amusing sobriquet of crime capital of the country. Close on the heels of the rape of a Kolkata native by an auto driver in Sector 17, the mutilated body of a woman was recovered from the forested area near Maloya. A day later, the body of yet another woman was found in a forest near Chandigarh railway station. No arrest in the cold-blooded murders has been made so far, pointing a finger at the police. If the Administration is serious about making the city safe for women, it needs to go for a complete overhaul of the police force. Police patrolling needs to be stepped up around the vulnerable spots across the city. Those at the helm need to do a recce of the sensitive areas and order installation of streetlights around the forested areas. Installation of the much-awaited CCTV cameras at vantage points and deterrent punishment to perpetrators would go a long way in curbing the rising crime in the city.Ramesh K Dhiman, Chandigarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/open-house-what-steps-should-the-administration-police-take-to-make-chandigarh-safer-for-women-363926
24-01-2022||Amarjot Kaur||Women's safety a major concern at Chandigarh railway station||Chandigarh, January 23Safety has become a major concern for women travellers, who frequent the city railway station and board trains to their destinations almost every other week. While most of them prefer travelling during daytime, others who board the trains at night often try and shorten their sojourn at the station.“I work at a private pharmacy company here. I go to my hometown in Dhampur, Bijnor, almost every week. I board a train from the city railway station. However, I do not feel safe at the station here,” said Parul Jatav.She said poor lighting on the main roads leading to the station was one of the major worries and the absence of a direct path to the bus stop from the station also caused inconvenience to many like her.“The road that turns towards the railway station from the traffic lights that may be half a kilometre away from the Kalagram traffic lights is not well lit at all. It has an open forest area on the side. If you board an auto to Panchkula, most drivers take that route. For Chandigarh, they take the Industrial Area route, which too is not that safe. There is also no direct way to reach the bus stop at the station. One has to cross car, taxi and auto parking to reach the bus stop. There should be a designated path for pedestrians to reach the bus stop,” she said.“I usually take the morning train to Delhi, which has not been problematic at all. However, I reach Chandigarh by the evening train. Now that’s the time when I feel a bit scared not on the platform, but the area outside it. You can’t walk to the main road because auto drivers are bound to hound you,” said Pallavi Bajaj, who works with a private company in Delhi.Rakhi Sharma from Dera Bassi, said: “I am leaving for Raebareli with my mother-in-law. I don’t feel too worried because my husband dropped me here and will see us off too. However, it’s a little perplexing to not see many women at the station after the sunset. I’ll feel a little scared to be here without my husband.”GM Singh, DRM, Ambala, said: “I believe there is a law and order problem at the station and its circulating area because of a jurisdictional issue between the Chandigarh Police and the Haryana Police. We will look into the issues related to lighting too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/womens-safety-a-major-concern-at-chandigarh-railway-station-363916
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Fleeing thief falls from building in Chandigarh, hurt||A thief was nabbed by the UT police after he was caught stealing an AC compressor and a condenser coil from the roof of a showroom in Sector 44. The suspect tried to flee, but fell from the building and got injured. According to the police, complainant Ravinder Singh reported that two persons were stealing an AC compressor and a condenser coil from SCO 342 when the security guard saw them.The police said while one of the suspects managed to escape, the other, Vikas, a resident of Burail, tried to flee by jumping from the rear side of the building.People gathered at the spot and recorded the incident on the mobile phone. In the video, the suspect is seen hanging with an iron stuck out of the wall while a person is trying to pull him up.The suspect, however, lost grip and fell down. The police were informed after which the suspect was apprehended and admitted to a hospital.A case has been registered at the Sector 34 police station. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fleeing-thief-falls-from-building-hurt-363914
24-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Wrong info for passport has man booked||A 36-year-old man has been booked by the UT police for furnishing wrong information for his passport verification. The suspect did not give information about criminal cases registered against him.According to the police, a complaint was received from the Regional Passport Officer, UT, that Himansh Verma, a resident of Sector 8, was issued a passport in May 2021 on the basis of a police clearance certificate given by the UT.Later, the passport office received a complaint from the in-charge of the CIA-1, Jalandhar, mentioning that a case of cheating had been registered against the suspect in October 2021. It also stated that the suspect also has cases registered against him by the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the past. The passport office impounded the suspect’s passport on January 18.The police said the suspect concealed the fact about the cases pending against him.A case under Section 420 of the IPC and Section 12 of the Passports Act has been registered against the suspect at the Sector 3 police station. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-wrong-info-for-passport-has-man-booked-363912
24-01-2022||---||Panchkula cops bust gang of car battery thieves, nail 7||Panchkula, January 23With the arrest of seven persons, the Sector 26 crime branch of the local police claims to have busted a gang involved in stealing batteries from parked vehicles outside houses. Of the seven, two were junk dealers.The suspects have been identified as Sahib Kumar, a native of Champaran in Bihar who resides in Mauli Jagran, Rohit Jaswal and Satnam Singh, residents of Sector 4, Panchkula, Shivam, alias Monu, a resident of Baltana, Madan Shah, a native of Madhuban in Bihar who resides at Abheypur in Sector 4, and Deepak and Mohit, residents of Baltana. The police said the suspects were wanted in connection with separate (seven) theft cases reported from various police stations across the city.The police said 64 stolen batteries had been recovered so far. The gang members, all youngsters, were active in the city for the past many days.On complaints from residents, DCP Mohit Handa had appointed a team of the crime branch, Sector 26, to probe the matter and nab the suspects.Inspector Aman Kumar, in-charge of the crime branch, Sector 26, said the police had received multiple reports of car batteries being stolen from various parts of the city.“CCTV footage from the areas was scanned during the investigation and we finally got a breakthrough with the arrest of three suspects, who led us to the other suspects in the case. The suspects used to steal batteries of cars parked outside houses in the same lane at night and sell these to junk dealers,” he said.Recent cases||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-cops-bust-gang-of-car-battery-thieves-nail-7-363911
24-01-2022||---||Firing suspects identified, car recovered, say Ambala police||Ambala, January 23The Ambala police have identified the assailants and also recovered the car used in the firing incident in which gangster Mohit Rana was killed while his friend had suffered bullet injuries in Ambala Cantonment.The car was recovered from Pipli in Kurukshetra. The suspects had left the car there and then took a bus to travel further. The same car was reportedly used in a murder case in Rohtak and the number used on the recovered car was fake.There were three assailants in the car. They belonged to the Delhi NCR region.SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said, “The car used in the crime has been recovered and the assailants have been identified. We have got some important leads on how they got the weapons. Our teams are working on the leads.” He added, “The entire route taken by the suspects has been tracked. They used the Saha-Dukheri-Pipli route and then left the car at Pipli. The Lawrence Bishnoi gang was behind the attack. The identities of the attackers can’t be disclosed at this stage, but we can say that they belong to Delhi, Rohtak and Sonepat. Raids are being conducted to nab them.”Mohit Rana, a resident of Punjab, was killed, while Vishal of Ambala Cantonment was injured in a firing incident in Ambala on Thursday evening. Mohit had been associated with the Bhupi Rana gang while Vishal is facing an extortion case. They were travelling in a black car when assailants, who were following them in a white car intercepted them on the Ambala-Saha road. Two men in the white car fired shots at the victims before fleeing towards Saha. In a Facebook post, Goldy Brar, who is associated with the Lawrence Bishnoi gang, later claimed responsibility of the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/firing-suspects-identified-car-recovered-say-ambala-police-363902
24-01-2022||---||Chandigarh logs 808 Covid cases, two deaths||Chandigarh, January 23The city witnessed a dip in the daily cases of Covid with 808 persons testing positive for the virus on Sunday at 14 per cent positivity rate, which is the lowest since January 10.The average positivity rate in the past seven days stands at 19.82 per cent.UT Health Secretary Yashpal Garg said, “It is a positive sign that the positivity rate has shown a sharp fall today. However, the weekly positivity rate is a better indicator and we will wait for it to decline in the coming days.”On January 17, Chandigarh saw a slight dip in cases as it reported under 1,000 new infections to record a figure of 864. The tally again shot up the next day and the city recorded cases above 1,000 until Sunday.The city also witnessed two deaths, taking the Covid toll to 1,102 today. A 69-year-old woman, a resident of Sector 45, died at Grecian Hospital, Mohali. She was a case of hypertension, renal disease and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome. She was not vaccinated for Covid.A 91-year-old man, a resident of Khuda Alisher, breathed his last at the GMSH, Sector 16. He was a case of pleural effusion. He too was not vaccinated for Covid. Out of 8,064 active cases, only 1.4 per cent are hospitalised and remaining patients are under home isolation.3 die, 1,084 found +ve in Mohali districtMohali: Three persons died of Covid in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 1,108 in the district. As many as 1,084 new cases were reported, while 1,827 patients were cured of the disease. The Civil Surgeon also tested positive for the virus. — TNS615 fresh cases, one death in Panchkula districtPanchkula: At a positivity rate of 38.29%, the district saw 615 cases on Sunday, taking the active caseload to 2,493. It also logged one death. An 83-year-old unvaccinated woman from Sector 7, who had comorbidities, died. —TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-logs-808-covid-cases-two-deaths-363898
24-01-2022||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh in grip of 3rd wave, GMSH yet to start RT-PCR laboratory||Chandigarh, January 23Even after the highly infectious third wave has spread its tentacles in Chandigarh, the much-awaited RT-PCR laboratory at Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, Sector 16, is yet to start.Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said the laboratory was likely to begin by the end of January. The laboratory at the GMSH will be able to test 500 samples of Covid-19 per day.The UT has been given Rs5.6 crore for projects under the Emergency Covid Response and Health System Preparedness (ECRP). The Centre has approved Rs35 lakh for setting up an RT-PCR laboratory at the GMSH. The Centre has set a deadline of March to complete the project.As of now, the hospital collects samples for the Covid-19 test, but is dependent on the PGI and the GMCH, Sector 32, for the RT-PCR reports. The RT-PCR capacity of the PGI stands at 2,500 samples per day, while that of the GMCH is around 1,000 samples per day.So far, the GMSH has a TrueNat machine that gives results in three to four hours, but is only meant for testing of emergency cases and not mass-scale testing.Failing to expand the RT-PCR testing capacity in government institutions, the UT Administration had roped in private testing laboratories during the second wave. The ministry had asked the UT to increase the share of RT-PCR tests to 80 per cent of the total tests. Both the PGI and the GMCH could not stretch the capacity to 950 samples per day.At present, Chandigarh has three government facilities for RT-PCR testing — the PGI, the GMCH and IMTECH — and three private laboratories.Likely to begin by month-endDr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said the laboratory was likely to begin by the end of January. The laboratory at the GMSH will be able to test 500 samples of Covid-19 per day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-in-grip-of-3rd-wave-gmsh-yet-to-start-rt-pcr-laboratory-363888
24-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||First Chandigarh MC House meeting likely to be a stormy affair||Chandigarh, January 23The first Municipal Corporation House meeting is likely to be a stormy affair tomorrow as the Opposition will take on the ruling BJP over the agenda of processing dry garbage at Rs6 crore for a year.The MC has proposed to spend Rs2.5 crore on the upgrade and repair of the existing dry waste plant and Rs50 lakh on buying a shredder, while Rs3 crore is the one-year cost of running the waste processing plant in Sector 25.Senior AAP leader and former councillor Chandermukhi Sharma said, “According to the consultant, the IIT, Roorkee, all machines are already 12 years old, which is practically the life of such machines. And these machines cannot be upgraded or repaired. Then, how come they are going to spend such a huge amount on it. They should bring in new technology or set up a new machine here.”“This agenda is in violation of the consultant’s report. Either the Mayor is incompetent and if that is not the case, she should take action against the officers who have brought the agenda or else the Mayor should resign at her first House meeting,” he said.The report had concluded, “For dry or mixed waste, even after repairs/maintenance of the existing machinery, shredder and trommels, the existing plant will at best handle 60 to 65 tonnes per day (TPD). Hence, if the corporation expects the plant to treat 200 TPD (40 per cent of the 500 TPD), additional new equipment will be required.”The city AAP discussed the issue at its pre-house meeting. All councillors were briefed about the case. They are going to raise the matter in the House tomorrow. A Congress leader said they would also question the BJP over it.On her part, Mayor Sarabjit Kaur said, “We cannot keep waiting for new technology to be set up here. Some arrangements have to be made as the unprocessed waste is piling up at the dumping ground. Last year, it could not be done due to the model code of conduct ahead of the MC poll.”Even during the mayoral poll, huge ruckus was witnessed in the House. AAP had created a high drama after the BJP Mayor won accusing the saffron party of favouritism after cross-voting.According to the MC, at present, about 60-70 metric tonnes of dry waste per day is getting processed, while the city produces about 200 metric tonnes of dry waste daily. The remaining is thrown at the dumping ground. Officers claim that with the new plan, the entire garbage would be processed daily.?Other agenda items||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/first-chandigarh-mc-house-meeting-likely-to-be-a-stormy-affair-363886
24-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Chandigarh's wettest January since 1983||Chandigarh, January 23The month has set an all-time rainfall record for January, surpassing the highest-ever figure of 166.6 mm reported way back in 1983.This month, so far, the city has received 173.6 mm of rainfall, never seen before in January in the history of Chandigarh. The normal rainfall for this month is only 33 mm.Manmohan Singh, Director, Chandigarh Meteorological Department, said, “A western disturbance remained strong. It was deep and the moisture from Arabian Sea was also more. Induced cyclonic circulation was also intense. This all caused unusual rainfall.”This month has seen five to six western disturbances. However, the current one and two earlier this month were very strong to cause good amount of rain.The weatherman said the whole region, including Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, had seen the effect of the current weather pattern. The Himalayan region saw snowfall, while the plains saw a good amount of rainfall.The rain will help improve the ground water level and is good for agriculture too.According to the weatherman, there could be scattered rainfall at isolated places on Monday. Thereafter, the weather will be clear. Fog is likely and the temperatures are expected to fall. For the next few days, there will be colder days.Western disturbance remained strongA western disturbance remained strong & moisture from Arabian Sea was more. Induced cyclonic circulation was intense, causing rainfall. — Manmohan Singh, MET Director||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarhs-wettest-january-since-1983-363882
