26-01-2022||Mohali||Mohali Employees’ Society backs AAP candidate Kulwant Singh||Congress MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, who had won elections by making a false promise of getting the residents of Mohali a complete waiver of property tax five years ago, will suffer a crushing defeat this time. These views were expressed by Councillor Ramanpreet Kaur Kumbhra from Ward No. 28 while addressing a meeting held by the Mohali Employees Society in Sector 68 in favour of AAP candidate Kulwant Singh.Kumbhra said during the tenure of Congress MLA Balbir Singh Sidhu, who lied on the issue of property tax, water charges were also increased five times in sectors 66 to 80 of GMADA. She said the Congress MLA did not make any effort to reduce the charges. Many councillors filed a case in the court and got the increased water charges refunded. Even now, the Opposition councillors have filed a separate case in this regard. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/employees-society-backs-aap-candidate-364525
26-01-2022||---||SAD-BSP candidate Parvinder Singh visits Mohali villages||Mohali, January 25Parvinder Singh, SAD-BSP candidate from Mohali, has intensified his election campaign. He, along with other local leaders of the party, is visiting villages and towns.Parvinder Singh Sohana, along with his campaigning team, today visited Gobindgarh village where he was weighed against laddoos. The villagers assured the SAD candidate of their support. They also honoured him and other SAD-BSP leaders on the occasion.While addressing the gathering, Parvinder Singh flayed the policies of the Congress and claimed that people of the state were anxiously waiting for Sukhbir Singh Badal-led SAD-BSP government. Flaying the AAP, he said the party had no base and was only trying to befool people of the state by making aimless promises.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-bsp-candidate-visits-villages-364524
26-01-2022||---||PUNJAB POLL 2022: No party close to competing with Congress, says Balbir Singh Sidhu||Mohali, January 25Addressing an election rally in Durali village today, Congress candidate from Mohali Balbir Singh Sidhu said the people of Punjab wanted the Congress to form the government again in Punjab.Sidhu said endorsing development works carried out by the Congress government in Punjab, the people of Mohali had elected a Congress Mayor and now, the people of Punjab were eagre to again bring the Congress to power in the state with a thumping majority.Sidhu said AAP was making a false propaganda on the social media to prove that it was in a direct fight with the Congress this time. In actual, no party is close to competing with the Congress this time too and the latter will win the 2022 elections with a huge majority, he added.Meanwhile, in a boost to the Congress candidate, AAP leader Bir Singh Bajwa from Shahimajra village, along with his supporters, joined the Congress in the presence of Mayor Amarjit Singh Jiti Sidhu and Deputy Mayor Kuljit Singh Bedi. Bajwa had fought the Mohali MC poll last year.Speaking on the occasion, the Mayor said in the 2017 Assembly elections, Balbir Sidhu had broken all records by winning the Mohali seat by a margin of over 30,000 votes. He said AAP candidate Kulwant Singh was trying to mislead people by using petty tricks. He was rejected so badly in the 2021 municipal elections that he lost from his own ward by a margin of nearly 300 votes, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-poll-2022-no-party-close-to-competing-with-congress-says-balbir-singh-sidhu-364523
26-01-2022||---||32 to get commendation certificates in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, January 25The Chandigarh Administration has decided to award commendation certificates to 32 persons on Republic Day for rendering outstanding meritorious services in their particular field. The certificates will be given by UT Adviser Dharam Pal during the function.Awardees from different departments of the UT Administration include Dr Kanwarjit Singh, Joint Director, Department of Animal Husbandry & Fisheries, Dr Surender Singh Dahiya, Director, Directorate of Higher Education, Jatinder Singh, Senior Assistant in the office of Director Higher Education, posted in the Police Branch, UT Secretariat, Heena Talwar, Excise & Taxation Officer, Excise & Taxation Department, Parveen Kumar, peon, Labour Department, Jasbir Singh, constable, Chandigarh Police, Dinesh Singh, Senior Assistant, Cultural Affairs Department, Suresh Kumar, Deputy Controller (F&A), Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU), Pawan Kumar Sharma, Superintendent, CTU, Sarban Singh, Sub-Divisional Engineer (Civil), CP Division No.3, and Satyavir Singh, patwari.The awardees from the Department of Health include Ravinder Yadav, Medical Social Welfare Officer, GMCH-32, Dr Varinder Saini, Head of Department, Pulmonary Medicine, GMCH-32, Dr Charru Singla, Senior Medical Officer, GMSH-16, Dr Amarjeet Singh Senior Medical Officer, GMSH 16, Pinki Martha, Senior Nursing Officer, GMSH 16, Munish Kumari Sharma, Senior Nursing Officer, GMSH-16, Parul Sharma, LHV, GMSH-16, Hari Bahadur, ward servant, GMSH-16, Shankar Kumar, sweeper, GMSH-16, and Chaman Lal, security guard, GMSH-16.Vijay Kumar Premi, Executive Engineer, Public Health Circle, Municipal Corporation, Manohar Lal, peon, Chandigarh Industrial & Tourism Development Corporation, and Jang Parminder Singh, Senior Assistant, Chandigarh Housing Board will also be felicitated from other departments.Aanandita Kapoor, in the field of social service, and Rajiv Sharma, honorary secretary, Chandigarh Rowing Association, in the field of public service, will also be awarded on Republic Day.Special Olympic players Tanveer Singh, Kalpana, Rupinder Singh and Jatin Kashyap will be honoured in the field of sports. Vinay Kumar Lal, and Tarushi Gaur will also be given commendation certificates for their contribution to sports.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/32-to-get-commendation-certificates-in-chandigarh-364522
26-01-2022||---||Mohali SP (HQ), Zirakpur SHO awarded President's Police Medal||Mohali, January 25Mohali Superintendent of Police (Headquarters) Ravinder Pal Singh and Zirakpur Station House Officer (SHO) Onkar Singh Brar have been awarded with the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service and Police Medal for Meritorious Service on the eve of Republic Day.The recognition for outstanding services is given by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India.Director General of Police (DGP) Punjab VK Bhawra congratulated the 15 Punjab Police awardees and encouraged the police force to work with more dedication and devotion.Chief Airport Security Officer honouredChief Airport Security Officer Commandant Prabhat Ranjan Mishra of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) has been awarded with the President’s Police Medal in recognition of distinguished service of 22 years in different parts of the country and services in foreign mission in the United Nations.Recognition by MinistryThe recognition for outstanding services is given by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sp-hq-zirakpur-sho-awarded-presidents-police-medal-364521
26-01-2022||Dushyant Singh Pundir||Chandigarh: 500-kW floating solar energy plant to come up at Dhanas Lake soon||Chandigarh, January 25The Chandigarh Renewable Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST) will soon set up a 500-kW floating solar energy plant at Dhanas Lake.Debendra Dalai, Chief Executive Officer, CREST, said 90 kW of energy produced by the plant would be utilised to run a 10-12 metre-high fountain, which would be set up in the lake.The Ministry of New and Renewable Energy had enhanced the city’s solar power generation target from 69MW to be achieved by 2022 to 75MW to be met by August 15, 2023. Till date, the UT has achieved a generation of around 45MW.The UT Administration, in a notification issued on May 18, 2016, had made installation of rooftop solar power plants mandatory in residential houses measuring 500 sq yd and above and group housing societies.Last year, the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) had rejected the UT Administration’s petition for implementing Renewable Energy Service Company (RESCO) model for solar plants installation in the city. The CREST had filed a petition withthe JERC for implementing the RESCO model. CREST had proposed the model after the approval of the UT Administrator as residents were not coming forward for the initial investment.Under the RESCO model, the UT had planned that private companies will install solar energy plants on private property, and in return, charge the building owner a much lower tariff than the normal electricity rate for about 15 years (or whatever period is agreed in the tender). Thereafter the house owner will get the plant. The building owner and the private company will sign a deal.The plant will be installed under the net metering mode, whereby a solar energy unit is connected to the building’s electricity system and the solar energy exported to the grid is adjusted in terms of units imported from the Electricity Department during a billing cycle.To be installed under net metering modeThe plant will be installed under the net metering mode, whereby a solar energy unit is connected to the building’s electricity system and the solar energy exported to the grid is adjusted in terms of units imported from the Electricity Department during a billing cycle.                                     #SolarEnergy||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/500-kw-floating-solar-energy-plant-to-come-up-at-dhanas-lake-soon-364520
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Youth snatches mobile, held||Batteries stolen from vehiclesChandigarh: Thieves stole batteries of six vehicles parked in Mani Majra and two from a canter in Daria. According to the police, complainant Gurwinder Singh, a resident of Dera Sahib, Mani Majra, reported that the battery of his car and those of five other vehicles parked near Shivalik Garden, were stolen between January 22 and 24. In another incident, complainant Amarnath Mallah reported that two batteries were stolen from a canter parked at Daria on the intervening night of January 23 and 24. TNSTheft at shop in Mani MajraChandigarh: Coins worth around Rs50,000 were stolen from the cash box of a confectionery shop at the motor market, Mani Majra. The theft was reported on the intervening night of January 23 and 24. The police have registered a case on a complaint of Deepak Kumar. TNSServant booked for theftChandigarh: A domestic help has been booked for allegedly stealing a laptop from a woman’s house in Sector 35. A case has been registered against the suspect, Shibu, a resident of Mohlai, at the Sector 36 police station. TNSPeddler held with heroinChandigarh: A drug peddler has been arrested by the crime branch of the UT police with 50 gm of heroin. The suspect has been identified as Panna, a native of Kulu district in Himachal Pradesh. He was nabbed from Sector 31. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered at the Sector 31 police station. TNSHarmanjit logs win in tennisMohali: Top seed Harmanjit Singh defeated Kulish Chhonkar (8-1) in the boys’ U-18 first round match on the opening day of the Roots-AITA CS(7) National Rankings Championship, on Tuesday. Vansh Sharma also marched ahead by defeating Maharashtra’s Ayaan Qureshi (8-5), whereas Pragun Thakur defeated Aryan Aggarwal (8-3). Agnivesh Bhardwaj also moved to the next round by defeating Tanav Gupta (8-0). Chandigarh’s Kartik Sunil Kumar defeated Gurbaaz Singh (8-7(5)). In the girls’ U-16 first round matches, Akshita Vashisht defeated Mokshika Yadav (8-3) and Akshdha Sharma overpowered Kritika Sharma (8-5). Delhi’s Kanak Shekhawat also moved to the next round by defeating Mankirat Kaur (8-3) and Rasha Saini Sood ousted Florence Bhumak (8-7(4)). Akshita Vashisht won her girls’ U-18 tie by defeating Poonam (8-2). Ira Chadha defeated Kritika Singh (8-5), Kritika Sharma defeated Mokshika Yadav (8-6) and MehakPreet Kaur outplayed Mannat (8-5). Saravnoor Kaur logged (8-4) win over Snigdha Pandey and Kanak Shekhawat defeated Rasha Saini Sood (8-1). TNS15,400 appear for online examChandigarh: As many as 15,400 undergraduate and postgraduate students appeared on the second day of Panjab University online odd semester examinations on Tuesday. Dr Jagat Bhushan, Controller of Examination, said 47 examinations for undergraduate courses and 18 of postgraduate courses were conducted. The examinations were conducted smoothly as per the plan and no untoward incident was reported, he said.Colours of republicThe open hand monument located at the Chandigarh-Zirakpur border lit up in Tricolour hues on the eve of Republic Day in Chandigarh. Tribune photo: RAVI KUMARAuthorities in deep slumberPotholes pose a threat to commuters on the Ambala-Chandigarh highway near Decathlon, Zirakpur, on Tuesday. A major portion of the highway from the Singhpura light point to the Metro store has also developed potholes after the recent rain. TRIBUNE PHOTO: NITIN MITTAL||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/youth-snatches-mobile-held-364519
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Suspect flees from custody, nabbed||A Sector 52 resident, who was arrested in a case of theft, managed to flee from the custody of the police. However, he was chased by the police and nabbed after an hour.The suspect, Sandeep, alias Kala, was arrested for the theft of copper wires and was on three-day police remand.On Monday, while the police were taking Sandeep to produce him in the District Courts, he managed to escape from the parking of the Sector 34 police station.The suspect ran towards a residential area. He was chased by the police and finally nabbed after an hour.The police have registered another case under Section 224 of the IPC against the suspect at the Sector 34 police station. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/suspect-flees-from-custody-nabbed-364517
26-01-2022||Zirakpur||Mohali: Domestic help flees with Rs 40L from property dealer's house in Aerocity||A Nepalese national (49), employed as a domestic help, allegedly fled with Rs 40 lakh from the house of a property dealer in Aerocity, Mohali, today. Complainant Romeo Chugh stated that Laxmanpuri, alias Bahadur, was employed as a domestic help at his house for the past sometime.Four days ago, when he was sleeping on the first floor of his house in the afternoon, his wife left for the market, leaving her children with the domestic help. When she came back from the market around 2.30 pm, she found an almirah open and the suspect missing from the house.The police said a case had been registered under Section 381 of the IPC at the Zirakpur police station and a search for the suspect was on. The complainant told the police that he was a property dealer and had kept the money for some purpose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/domestic-help-flees-with-rs-40l-from-aerocity-house-364516
26-01-2022||Mohali||Auto driver stabbed to death in Balongi||A 36-year-old auto driver, father of three, was stabbed to death in a roadside brawl by three-four unidentified youths at Balongi here last night.The deceased, identified as Lal Rattan, a resident of Badhmajra, was hit in the stomach several times by a sharp weapon. The youths who attacked him had come on two motorcycles.The victim was rushed to the Civil Hospital in Phase 6 from where he was shifted to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Sector 32, Chandigarh, at night. He succumbed to his injuries this morning. Rattan’s friends Anil and Sonu, who were standing alongside, too had received injuries and were admitted to the Civil Hospital.The police have arrested Anil Kumar, also an auto driver and a Badhmajra resident, and booked two more suspects under Section 302 of the IPC at the Balongi police station.DSP (Kharar-1) Bikramjit Singh Brar said, “The main suspect Anil Kumar, an auto driver, has been arrested. His accomplices will be nabbed soon. There was an old enmity between the victim and the suspect over a monetary dispute.” The victim’s brother Sanjay said Rattan was standing with his two friends Sonu and Anil on the roadside when he was attacked. The youths then fled the spot. The deceased had no enmity with anyone, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/auto-driver-stabbed-to-death-in-balongi-364511
26-01-2022||Gaurav Kanthwal||Feel honoured, will continue to work for leprosy patients: Padma Shri Prem Singh||Mohali, January 25Mohali resident Prem Singh, one of the Padma Shri (social work) awardees this year, said, “I feel honoured to receive the award and will continue to work for leprosy patients and senior citizens.”Prem Singh said the attitude of society towards leprosy patients needed to change. “I had invited patients cured of leprosy to the ‘bhog’ of my mother 15 years ago where relatives refused to eat alongside them. I said it’s your wish to eat food here or not but these patients are cured now. They will not go from here without food.”I had invited patients cured of leprosy to the ‘bhog’ of my mother around 15 years ago where relatives got angry and refused to eat alongside them. Prem SinghPrem Singh recounted that once candles made by children of leprosy patients went unsold, he had to find an alternative arrangement for them. On October 4, 2019, Prem Singh was honoured with the Vayoshrestha Samman national award in the ‘Courage and Bravery’ category by the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment.He is a retired audit officer. He has funded the movement from his own pocket and even sold his house to build a shelter to rehabilitate patients.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/feel-honoured-will-continue-to-work-for-leprosy-patients-padma-shri-prem-singh-364506
26-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Neglected underpasses in Chandigarh set to get a makeover||Chandigarh, January 25Four neglected underpasses/ underbridges in the city are set to get a facelift as they are being revamped and remodelled for creating awareness on waste management and to inculcate good practices.At the Sector 17-22 subway, murals on waste management have been made. Besides, the Municipal Corporation is going to place litter bins there and will have a cleaning roster. Lighting will also be made available there. The whole area will be under the eye of CCTV cameras.Chief Architect’s nodThe aim is to inculcate good practices and revamp four locations. Since it is a heritage city, we got an NOC from the Chief Architect. Anindita Mitra, MC CommissionerThe subway had dirty walls with paan and chewing tobacco stains. Even though the subway is situated in a prominent location of the city and a large number of people use it daily for taking buses, it was lying unattended.The three other places which are set to get a facelift are the Sector 15 /11 underpass, the Mani Majra underpass and an underbridge in the Industrial Area, Phase 1. These too had remained neglected earlier. MC chief Anindita Mitra said an NGO, Green Dream Foundation, was carrying out the work of murals on 15,000 sq ft area without any charges under the CSR initiative. The murals depict messages of segregation, composting, plastic waste and other related topics. The wall paintings are being done under the “Paint my City” project.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/neglected-underpasses-in-chandigarh-set-to-get-a-makeover-364501
26-01-2022||Amarjot Kaur||Mohali railway station has a chair for a police post!||Chandigarh, January 25The Mohali railway station has a chair for a police post. In the absence of any booth, office or post for the Government Railway Police (GRP) and the Railway Protection Force (RPF), passengers have nowhere to go to get their problems related to safety and security addressed. The situation at the station is such that not a single person from the RPF has been posted there and only three GRP personnel take turns to clock a 12-hour shift each for ensuring the safety of passengers.An RPF official from Chandigarh said, “Till 2019, there was an outpost for the RPF at the Mohali station, but that was removed when the pandemic started. Since then, no booth or post has been given to the RPF; so there has been no deployment of RPF personnel there since the pandemic.”A GRP official at Mohali said, “There are only three GRP officials here to man the security and safety of the passengers at the station. Each one of us takes turns to clock a 12-hour shift. There’s no room for us, or a post or even an office. We have kept a chair each to sit here at the station. Earlier, there were four of us, but now one person has been shifted to another station in Punjab.” He added, “In case, someone has a problem, they complain to the station master, who directs them to us.”At present, a total of 16 pairs of trains are plying over the Mohali railway station. “I have not seen a single police official at this station. It’s a matter of concern because this station is located on the outer area of the main city. There should be a designated place for passengers to go and complain in case of a mishap or problem,” said Paramjit Kaur, who was at the station.Asked, Ambala Division DRM GM Singh said, “We did get a proposal from the GRP and the RPF for making separate offices for them at the Mohali station. I had even earmarked a place where the offices were to be made, on the right side under the ramp at the station. I had issued instructions for the same; I will follow up and see what has been done in this regard.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-railway-station-has-a-chair-for-a-police-post-364497
26-01-2022||Chandigarh||Covid positive woman leaves Chandigarh hospital along with her newborn baby, booked||A Covid positive woman who, along with her newborn baby, was admitted to the Covid ward at the GMCH, Sector 32, disobeyed the Covid quarantine guidelines by leaving the hospital without intimating the hospital staff.The complainant, Dr Abhishek, reported that the woman, a resident of Mohali district, tested positive for Covid and was admitted along with her two-day old son on January 22. However on January 24, the woman left the hospital along with her child without informing anyone. On finding the woman missing, the police were informed following which a case under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act has been registered against her at the Sector 34 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/covid-patient-leaves-hospital-booked-364491
26-01-2022||Naina Mishra||Chandigarh adult population fully vaccinated||Chandigarh, January 25The UT today vaccinated the entire targeted adult population with both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. The achievement comes in the wake of the highly infectious third wave and experts cited the higher vaccination coverage for lesser hospitalisation and deaths in the city.The city was given the target of vaccinating 8,43,000 persons aged 18 and above. The UT has inoculated 10,70,344 persons with the first dose, which is 127 per cent coverage, and 8,43,000 with the second dose, which is 100 per cent coverage.Though the city reported 20,904 cases in just 25 days of the third wave, hospitalisation was not more than two to three per cent. Around 24 Covid patients lost their lives during this period.On the contrary, the UT saw 27,826 cases during the second wave between March 15 and May 10, a period of around two months. The period was marked with 217 fatalities due to Covid-19.During the second wave, only 7 per cent of the target population was fully immunised, while only 20 per cent of the population had taken the first dose of the vaccine.Suman Singh, Director, Health Services (DHS), UT, said, “We are experiencing the third wave of Covid. As compared to the first and second waves, there was a sudden surge in the number of cases because of the highly transmissible Omicron variant. In spite of the high positivity rate, we observed that the hospitalisation rate remained at 2-3 per cent. One of the factors for a large number of patients showing mild symptoms could be the high vaccination rate in the city. Among the hospital admissions, it was noticed that some of the patients with severe disease were not vaccinated.”UT Adviser Dharam Pal said, “Even after achieving this milestone of 100 per cent second dose, we will continue the sincere efforts to cover more and more people, even from the adjoining areas. The UT Administration is fully prepared to deal with the ongoing case surge and each aspect is being monitored. There is no issue with regard to availability of beds in hospitals, medical oxygen and critical medicines, etc. The rates of different tests and treatment have also been rationalised in the UT.”Test price cutThe price for rapid antigen test of Covid has been reduced from Rs350 to Rs100 in the UT.UT logs 540 casesChandigarh: The city on Tuesday reported 540 new cases of Covid-19, logging a positivity rate of 11.81 per cent. The positivity rate was 14.49 per cent on Monday. The cumulative number of cases has reached 86,800, while the active caseload dropped to 7,033 from 7,768 a day before. A total of 1,275 patients were reportedly cured of the disease in the past 24 hours. With no new death, the toll remained at 1,103. TNS3 more succumb in Mohali, 916 casesMohali: Three more persons succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours in the district. A 61-year-old woman from Tangori village, an 80-year-old man from Zirakpur and a 58-year-old man Sotal village in Mohali district died of the virus. All of them were suffering from comorbidities. Of the three, only two were vaccinated. A total of 916 fresh cases surfaced on Tuesday, while 1,183 patients were cured. Of the 8,240 active cases, only 26 are hospitalised. Among new cases, 20 were from Lalru, 10 from Banur, 71 from Dera Bassi, 52 from Gharuan, 25 from Kurali, 225 from Dhakoli, 195 from Kharar and 285 from the Mohali urban area. — TNS2 die, 479 infected in Panchkula Panchkula: Two women succumbed to Covid-19 during the past 24 hours in the district. The deceased have been identified as a 56-year-old from Berwala village and an 87-year-old from Sector 11. Both of them were comorbid. Meanwhile, 479 fresh cases, including 279 males and 200 females, surfaced during the past 24 hours, pushing the overall tally to 41,106 in the district. Health officials said 10 more healthcare workers were diagnosed with Covid, taking the total number of health workers affected with the virus to 140 in the third wave. There are now 2,135 active cases with 19 of them admitted to hospital. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-adult-population-fully-jabbed-364485
