27-01-2022||Chandigarh||565 new Covid-19 cases in Chandigarh at 15.50 per cent positivity rate||Chandigarh on Thursday reported 565 new Covid-19 cases at a positivity rate of 15.50 per cent.The city had recorded 618 cases yesterday while the positivity rate stood at 12.11 per cent.A total of 3,645 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.The number of active cases fell to 5,420 from 6,149 yesterday.As many as 1,291 patients have been discharged, including persons from home isolation who have completed seven days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.Chandigarh reported three deaths related to Covid-19, among them two elderly patients who were suffering from co-morbidities.A 73-year-old man of Sector 44 died at Fortis Hospital, Mohali. He was a case of myocardial infection, Type-2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome. He was fully vaccinated for Covid.A 90-year-old woman of Sector 33 died at Healing Hospital. She was a case of acute ischemic stroke, subarachnoid hemorrhage and hypertension. She was vaccinated for 1st dose of only.A 34-year-old man residing in Sector 28 was brought dead at GMSH-16. He was tested and reported positive for Covid posthumously. He was working here as a ‘Dhobhi’ for past 18 years. His vaccination status is not known.With this, the death toll has reached 1,108 in the city.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/565-new-covid-19-cases-in-chandigarh-at-15-50-per-cent-positivity-rate-364722
27-01-2022||---||Chandigarh Covid positivity rate declines, admn lifts restrictions; from Feb 1, schools to open for classes 10, 12||Chandigarh, January 27Banwarilal Purohit, Chandigarh Administrator, on Thursday reviewed the pandemic situation in the city with all the senior officials.He expressed his satisfaction over the decline in positivity rate and appreciated the health officials for being pro-active in handling the ongoing situation. He also congratulated the Administration for administering 100 per cent second doze of vaccination to adult population of Chandigarh.With this the administration has decided to lifts restrictions1. All Gyms and Health Centres shall be allowed to operate till 10 pm at 50 per cent of their capacity subject to all staff present and the users being fully vaccinated.2. All markets, including Apni Mandis, will be allowed to remain open till 10 pm.3. All the activities, including boating at Sukhna Lake will be allowed to open from 5 am to 10 pm. However, the shops in the premises of Sukhna Lake will be open subject to compliance of Covid appropriate behaviour and proper sanitisation. 4 With effect from 1.2.2022, the schools will start functioning physically from 10th to 12th classes. All universities and colleges shall also be allowed to open normally.All public libraries shall be allowed to open at 50 per cent of their capacity. All the students of age group of more than 15 years should have been vaccinated at least for 1st dose while attending offline classes. All officials, students, etc, of age group of 18 years and above should be fully vaccinated. However, the detailed order in this regard will be issued by the Secretary Education, Chandigarh Administration, separately.5. Coaching institutions shall be allowed to open at 50 per cent capacity subject to the condition that all students from 15 to 18 years should have received single dose of vaccination and students/staff above 18 years of age are fully vaccinated.Purohit also directed the Police officials to ensure strict enforcement of Covid protocols at public places. He advised health officials to keep analysing small trends and surges and keep taking strict and prompt containment action.Updating the current Covid scenario, the officers of the tricity informed that Mohali has 7,774 active cases, Panchkula has 1,739 active cases while UT, Chandigarh has 6,149 active cases.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-covid-positivity-rate-declines-admn-lifts-restrictions-gyms-to-open-364700
27-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 618 Covid cases||The Union Territory of Chandigarh reported 618 Covid-19 cases, raising the tally to 87,418, according to a medical bulletin issued here on Wednesday.With two more deaths reported in the city in the last 24-hours, the toll reached 1,105.The positivity rate was 12.11 per cent.The number of active cases in the city was 6,149, while the number of recoveries was 80,164.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-618-covid-cases-364656
27-01-2022||---||Chandigarh will be a regional hub for education, health, commerce and IT, says UT adviser at Republic Day function||Chandigarh, January 26UT Adviser Dharam Pal on Wednesday said the Chandigarh administration had been working on making Chandigarh a regional hub for education, health, commerce and IT.Addressing the Republic Day function at Parade Ground in Sector 17, Dharam Pal spoke about Chandigarh Administration’s various initiatives—both proposed as well as ongoing.“We have been working on themes of Clean City, Green City and Smart City and making Chandigarh carbon neutral by 2030,” he said.“Under the Clean City project, we have been working tirelessly to set up an improved system of waste management. As many as 524 twin-bin garbage collection vehicles have been put into service to collect segregated waste, while 622 SWM vehicles have been put on GPS tracking for better monitoring; two material recovery facility centres are functional and processing 200 tonnes of waste daily. The third MRF Centre will start its operations soon and thereafter 550-tonne waste will be scientifically managed,” he said.“The sewage treatment plants of the city will be upgraded to follow most stringent parameters in country and make whole of treated water reusable for non-contact usages. The Construction and Demolition Waste Policy will be notified shortly.We have set ourselves a target of processing 100 per cent waste including construction and demolition waste by 2023.No un-processed waste will be allowed to go to the dumping site,” he added.“We have successfully introduced 40 electric buses on express commercial operations.Another 40 electric buses will be introduced by June. All diesel buses in the city will be replaced with electric buses in a phased manner,” he said.“To make the local service of CTU more reliable and punctual, Intelligent Transportation System has been implemented on 358 buses. This system enables the passengers to live track the buses; to know on real-time basis the departure and arrival times; access the top up smart card services. Smart Bus passes have been introduced to ease down the woes of passengers.“To further pursue the Green City concept and to make Chandigarh a Model Solar City, the Administration has installed solar plants at 3,841 sites with 47 MW capacity. We intend to expand this capacity to 75 MW by August 2023, in line with our India@75 Campaign. To achieve this, a few unique projects such as 2 MWP Floating Solar Photovolantic (SPV) Power Plant at Water Works, Sector 39; 500 KW Floating SPV Power Plant alongwith Fountains at Dhanas Lake; 2 MWP Canal Top SPV Power Plant at Patiala Ki Rao and 2.4 MWP Canal Top SPV Power Plant at N-Choe are already in pipeline and are likely to be completed by August 15. These are remarkable initiatives under Climate Change Action Plan.“In order to reduce carbon footprint and curtail the negative effect of emission, the UT Administration is making sincere efforts to popularise Zero Emission E-mobility. A comprehensive draft Electric Vehicle Policy is already prepared and will be put in public domain soon for all the stakeholders to send their views/suggestions before it is finalised.“Under the Accessible India Campaign, the work has been initiated to make all the buildings accessible for challenged people.“The Phase I of public bike sharing project has been completed with the rollout of 1,250 cycles at 155 stations. Almost 1,500 persons are taking daily rides. Under the next Phase, 1,250 more cycles, at 155 additional stations will be added by June 2022,” he said, adding, “With this we will emerge as the city hosting the largest public bike sharing system in the nation.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-will-be-a-regional-hub-for-education-health-commerce-and-it-says-ut-adviser-at-republic-day-function-364618
27-01-2022||Amarjot Kaur||Security tightened at Chandigarh railway station for Republic Day||Chandigarh, January 25Security agencies today stepped up vigil at the Chandigarh railway station in view of the Republic Day.An official from the Railway Protection Force (RPF) said joint teams of the RPF, the Government Railway Police and the Daria police station carried out checks to ensure the safety of passengers.Amarinderjit Singh, SHO, RPF Chandigarh railway station, said teams checked the luggage of passengers and cars of visitors to the station. This was done every year ahead of the Republic Day due to the threat perception around the national holiday.“We also used dog squads to check for any suspicious substances,” he said.The security agencies also carried out random checks and were also keeping a check on any suspicious activity, he said.The official said though there were no specific alerts, they were carrying out the checks because of the possibility of a threat from extremists.“The checks have been carried out in a combined way by the enforcement agencies. So far, we have not found anything untoward,” he said.The RPF officer said similar random checks were carried out on regular days too to ensure the safety of passengers. Heightened security arrangements would be in place on Republic Day too.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/security-tightened-at-chandigarh-railway-station-for-republic-day-364504
27-01-2022||---||Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit to hoist Tricolour in Mohali||Mohali, January 25Punjab Governor-cum-UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit will hoist the national flag during a state-level Republic Day function at Shaheed Major Harminder Pal Singh Government College in Phase 6, Mohali, on Wednesday.The function will begin at 9.58 am and culminate at 11 am. There will be no cultural function owing to the pandemic. Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia said directed district heads of various departments to ensure arrangements for the function are made well in advance. Meanwhile, SSP Harjeet Singh said around 500 police personnel will be deputed for the event.                                     #BanwarilalPurohit||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/punjab-governor-to-hoist-tricolour-in-mohali-364496
