28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 399 new Covid cases, no deaths||Chandigarh reported 399 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, a health bulletin from the administration said on Friday.The UT's active cases stand at 4,647. No new deaths were recorded, the bulletin showed.Chandigarh's total fatality since the pandemic began stands at 1,112.The bulletin also showed 1168 people had recovered over the last 24 hours.Positivity rate stands at 8.67 per cent.                                     #cases||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-399-new-covid-cases-no-deaths-365000
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||138 units of blood donated||1 lakh jabbed in patiala in a weekPatiala: One lakh beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district over the past week. The district on Wednesday and Thursday reported four and three deaths, respectively. Officials in the district administration said people should not take the vaccination lightly. Over 1,623 in the district were tested for Covid of them 92 were found positive, officials of the Health Department said. They said there was low testing as OPDs in the district were not functional due to Republic Day. Dr Sumeet, District Epidemiologist, said, “We are witnessing a downward trend in Covid cases in the past week. However, people should not take the virus and vaccination lightly.” “The Omicron variant spreads at a fast pace though it is less severe,” Dr Sumeet said. Meanwhile, officials of the Health Department said the number of people vaccinated in the district had crossed 20 lakh. As many as 17,061 people were vaccinated on Thursday. TNSMan held with illegal weaponChandigarh: A Kharar resident has been arrested by the operation cell of the UT police with a country-made pistol and live cartridges. According to the police, the suspect, Kuljeet Singh Kang (35), was nabbed from near Butterfly Park in Sector 26. The police have registered a case under the Arms Act at the Sector 26 police station. TNSYouth arrested with ganjaChandigarh: The UT police have arrested a 24-year-old Bihar native with 12.600 kg of ganja. The suspect, Arjun Kumar Yadav, was nabbed from near a government school at Raipur Kalan. A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against him at the Mauli Jagran police station. TNSBikers snatch mobile phoneChandigarh: Two motorcycle-borne miscreants allegedly snatched a mobile phone from a person near the Sector 40/41 light point in the city. The police received a complaint from Rafeeque Mohammad, a resident of Phase IV, Mohali, following which a case was registered at the Sector 39 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/138-units-of-blood-donated-364846
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||CRPF hoists National Flag||Additional Director General Darbara Singh Bains unfurled the National Flag at the Headquarters of the Central Reserve Police Force’s (CRPF) Northwestern Sector in Hallo Majra here.Extending felicitations to all personnel, he also read out the names of those who have been conferred awards for gallantry as well as for distinguished and meritorious service.A CRPF contingent also participated in the Republic Day function organised by the UT Administration at the Parade Ground in Sector 17 here.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/crpf-hoists-national-flag-364845
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||BBMB staff recite patriotic poems||Republic Day was celebrated at the Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) Secretariat, here. Chairman Sanjay Srivastava unfurled the National Flag.Congratulating the staff of various project stations through the virtual medium, he apprised them of the significant targets achieved last year as well as important works that are being executed. He also applauded the efforts by the staff for the ongoing public welfare works such as vaccination drives and blood donation camps, organised by the BBMB during the Covid-19 pandemic.Apart from recitation of patriotic poems by the staff, BBMB’s Hindi magazine “Jeevandhara” was also released on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bbmb-staff-recite-patriotic-poems-364844
28-01-2022||---||Top seed Sia moves to next round in tennis tournament||Mohali, January 27Top seed Sia Mahajan blanked Akshita Vashisht (8-0) in a pre-quarterfinal match of girls’ U-16 category during the ongoing Roots-AITA CS7 National Ranking Championship.Second seed Punjab’s Sidhak Kaur defeated Rasha Saini Sood (8-2), while third seed Mehak Preet Kaur defeated Akshdha Sharma (8-3).Saravnoor Kaur also marched ahead by defeating Kritika Singh (8-4) and Chandigarh’s Ira Chadha faced a tough resistance from Poonam before recording a (8-7(3) win. Mannat Awasthi defeated fourth seed Tamanna Walia (8-7(4), Kanak Shekhawat ousted Vrinda Verma (8-6) and Agampreet Kaur blanked Payal Khanwal (8-0) in other matches.In the girls’ U-18 category, top seed Gursimrat Kaur defeated Akshita Vashisht (8-5) to confirm her berth in the quarterfinals. Sixth seed Radha Sadhra recorded an easy (8-0) win over Mankirat Kaur and Agam Preet Kaur defeated Ira (8-2).Suhani Sabharwal defeated Kritika Sharma and Mehak Preet Kaur ousted Anusha Verma by registering an identical (8-1) win over their respective rivals. Saravnoor Kaur defeated Ananya Dogra (8-7(2) and Tamanna Walia outplayed Sidhak Kaur (8-6). Sia won the last match by defeating Kanak Shekhawat (8-2).* Gurbaaz enters quartersTop seed Gurbaaz Singh moved into the boys’ U-16 quarterfinals by defeating Ayaan Qureshi (8-2). Punjab’s Vansh Sharma defeated Akshit Ratti (8-5) and Chandigarh’s Pragun Thakur recorded (8-1) win over Kirtarth Singh. Arnav Bishnoi also recorded (8-1) win over Anav Grover, while Mehraab Singh outplayed Romair Singh (8-5). Harwin Singh defeated Advit Tiwari (8-4) and Armaan Walia logged (8-6) win over Japnaam Singh. Fourth seed Satvik Singha defeated Gaurish Madaan (8-1), Daksh Kapoor ousted Sachit Thakur (8-0), Harman Bir Singh outplayed Ayaan Chandel (8-1) and Haryana’s Trishubh defeated Pratush Gupta (8-0).Top seed Haramanjit Singh defeated Vansh Sharma (8-1) in the boys’ U-18 pre-quarterfinal match. Haryana’s sixth seed Agnivesh Bhardwaj outplayed Pragun Thakur (8-3), Arnav Bishnoi ousted Kartik Sunil Kumar (8-2) and Daksh Kapoor blanked Bharat Jaiswal (8-6). Satvik Singla thrashed Pratyush Gupta (8-0).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/top-seed-sia-moves-to-next-round-in-tennis-tournament-364843
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Panel starts auto-renewal of consent certificate for industry||To ease the regulatory compliance burden, the Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC) has started an industry-friendly service of auto renewal of consent and authorisation certificates.Debendra Dalai, Member Secretary, CPCC, said the consent or authorisation would be generated online immediately after submission of the application for renewal by applicants.Earlier, the process took a maximum of 45 days and now the consent/authorisation certificate was just a click away for industrialists, he said. “The new system is simple and easy to use. Although the online system for the grant of consent/authorisation has been there since 2015, it involves prior physical verification of units. However now, that too has been curtailed by the CPCC,” he added.As a step towards creating a working atmosphere for industries, e-Consent was introduced by the CPCC in the last quarter of 2021. The current step of auto renewal will further ease the procedure for industries /hotels/restaurants/hospitals.Besides, the CPCC also provides its users an online platform to submit their annual return of hazardous, biomedical and e-waste along with online submission of self-monitoring report of waste water, air emissions and noise, he added. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panel-starts-auto-renewal-of-consent-certificate-for-industry-364842
28-01-2022||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||Cop, 4 others get 14-year RI in child trafficking case||Chandigarh, January 27Additional Sessions Judge Narender has sentenced five persons, including 3 women, to 14 years of rigorous imprisonment (RO) in a two-year-old case involving an interstate child trafficking racket busted by the UT police. The court has also imposed a fine of Rs1.20 lakh each on the convicts.Those who have been jailed include Amarjit Singh, a constable in the Punjab Police, Mandeep Singh, a resident of Punjab, ASHA workers Kuldeep Kaur of Patiala, and Sarabjit Kaur of Sangrur, and Bhawna of Burail, Chandigarh.The police had arrested them near the Airport light point on August 3, 2020. The court had earlier held the accused guilty of the commission of offenses punishable under Sections 370 and 120-B of the IPC and Section 81 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, on January 22.The police had laid a trap after receiving a tip-off on illegal sale of a child by a Punjab-based gang. After getting information, a decoy customer was sent and the deal was struck for Rs4 lakh for a boy. They were caught near the Airport light point on Dakshin Marg while they travelling in a car. Three women and two men were sitting in the car. One of the women was holding a newborn in her lap. The two-day-old boy was to be sold for Rs4 lakh.The Police claimed that the accused used to sell a girl child between Rs80,000 and Rs1 lakh and a boy for around Rs4 lakh. The police claimed that the child was born a week before being brought to Chandigarh for sale.Amarjit Singh, one of the accused was working as a constable in the Punjab Police and residing in Kharar, Mohali. Bhawna was also from Punjab. She was living in a rented accommodation in Burail, Chandigarh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cop-4-others-get-14-year-ri-in-child-trafficking-case-364841
28-01-2022||---||Chandigarh: DAV College alumnus feted on Australia Day||Chandigarh, January 27An alumnus of DAV College here and the first India-born person to be elected to the Legislative Assembly of the Australian Capital Territory (ACT) has been honoured on Australia Day, which coincides with India’s Republic Day, for his community-related services Down Under.Deepak Raj Gupta has been awarded the Medal of the Order of Australia in recognition of his service and accomplishments in several areas, including multiculturalism, community work, education, minority advocacy, government service and the environment.The Order of Australia is an award that recognises Australian citizens and other persons for achievement or meritorious service. It was established on February 14, 1975, by Elizabeth II, Queen of Australia, on the advice of the Australian Government.An active voice for the Indian community, Deepak Raj has worked to address multicultural community issues, tolerance and social justice for almost two decades, besides contributing to the economic development of the ACT.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/dav-college-alumnus-feted-on-australia-day-364840
28-01-2022||---||87 files of telecom firms found missing from Panchkula MC office||Panchkula, January 27Haryana Speaker and local MLA Gian Chand Gupta today directed the local Municipal Corporation to cut the connection of telecommunication companies over non-payment of prescribed fee for installation of towers and laying telephone lines.Gupta conducted a surprise inspection at the Sector 14 located MC office and expressed dissatisfaction over non-availability of records related to telecom companies.He said during the inspection, as many as 87 files related to mobile companies were found missing. The missing record files included 21 related to Jio, 16 related to Indus Company, 13 of Airtel, 18 of Vodafone, three of BSNL and 16 of ATC.Gupta said a total of 318 mobile towers had been installed by various telecom companies across the city. Since 2016, the prescribed fee for installation of mobile towers hadn’t been paid by the telecom companies.“It’s a serious concern with regard to poor financial health of the civic body,” the Haryana Speaker added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/87-files-of-telecom-firms-found-missing-from-panchkula-mc-office-364839
28-01-2022||Mohali||Mohali: Kulwant Singh has dig at Balbir Sidhu||As the former Health Minister, Balbir Singh Sidhu not only looted Punjab, but also did nothing for the people of his area. Instead of helping Covid patients, he indulged himself in an illegitimate sale of the vaccine.This was alleged by Kulwant Singh, a former Mayor and AAP candidate from Mohali, while interacting with members of an organisation of various laboratories here today. He said after the AAP would form the government, the Mohali constituency would be made number one in term of health facilities. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/kulwant-singh-has-dig-at-balbir-sidhu-364837
28-01-2022||Sanjay Bumbroo||Gillco Group MD Ranjit Singh Gill files papers for Kharar seat on SAD-BSP ticket||Mohali, January 27A real estate baron and Managing Director of the Gillco Group, Ranjit Singh Gill (57), who is contesting the Assembly elections on the SAD-BSP ticket from Kharar, owns assets worth Rs74 crore. He also has a 1994-model Maruti car worth Rs25,000.In an affidavit filed along with his nomination papers before the returning officer at Kharar today, Gill declared that in 2017, his total assets were worth Rs29 crore. At Rs74 crore, his assets have increased three-fold in five years. In the 2017 Assembly elections, he had fought from the Kharar seat and finished third in the contest.As per the affidavit, an FIR has been registered against him under the Disaster Management Act-2005 for gathering more than 10 people in June last year.Gill has moveable and immovable assets worth Rs39.5 crore and Rs35.2 crore, respectively. Besides, he has Rs1.3 lakh cash in hand, bonds and mutual funds worth Rs18 lakh and jewellery worth Rs82.5 lakh. He also owns two tractors worth Rs6 lakh besides a Maruti car.Gill owns a 253-sq yd house in Phase 7 worth Rs50 lakh besides agriculture land in various parts of Ropar amounting to Rs9.15 crore.Gill, who is considered close to the Badal family, is the promoter of Gillco Valley, which comprises of commercial properties, residential projects, entertainment and educational projects spread in various parts of the Mohali district.A native of Majri Jattan village in Rupnagar district and presently residing at Sector 2, Chandigarh, Gill has graduated from the Government College, Rupnagar. After his stint as the village sarpanch and member of the Block Samiti, he had moved to Kharar in 2002.AAP, Cong, SAD all chipsof same blocks: CharuniFatehgarh Sahib: Gurnam Singh Charuni, chief, Sanyukt Sangharsh Party (SSP), today inaugurated the election office of Sarabjit Singh Makhan, the Sanyukt Samaj Morcha (SSM) and SSP alliance candidate from Fatehgarh Sahib. He urged farmers to unite in favour of farmer candidates and send them to Assembly to form their own government. He said political parties like AAP, Congress and SAD(B) were the chip of same block and that was the reason farmers had formed their own party.Meanwhile, Dr Amandeep Kaur Dholewal, SSM candidate from the Bassi Pathana Assembly constituency, opened her election office here today. District BKU leaders and farmers in large number attended the function.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gillco-group-md-files-papers-for-kharar-seat-on-sad-bsp-ticket-364833
28-01-2022||---||AAP Delhi model a sham: Balbir Sidhu||Mohali, January 27MLA and Congress candidate for the Mohali Assembly constituency Balbir Singh Sidhu today said the Delhi model was nothing but a sham.“The actual meaning of the AAP ‘Delhi Model’ is failed medical and education systems, water and air pollution, garbage dumping mismanagement and lack of sanitation,” said Balbir Sidhu while lashing down on his rivals for “false propagandas” to divert public attention.He said AAP Mohali candidate Kulwant Singh was fooling residents of the constituency by seeking their votes and support on the ‘Delhi Model’. “In fact, this model is bogus and a miserably failed one. Mohali doesn’t require Mohalla clinics on the Delhi pattern as we already have world-class medical facilities available. During the peak of Covid first and second waves, people from Delhi had rushed to Mohali for treatment,” he added.The MLA said the Congress government in Punjab had handled drugs and de-addiction problems with an iron hand whereas the AAP government in Delhi planned to open 864 liquor shops in residential areas of the national capital and also proposed to reduce the minimum age to buy liquor from 25 to 21 years. “This is an irony that once they opposed rampant use of liquor in society, but now promoting its distribution,” he maintained.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/aap-delhi-model-a-sham-balbir-sidhu-364832
28-01-2022||Sanjay Bumbroo||SAD-BSP face in Mohali Parvinder Sohana facing 3 criminal cases||Mohali, January 27Parvinder Singh Baidwan, aka Parvinder Sohana, having three criminal cases against him, today filed his nomination papers as the candidate of the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) alliance from the Mohali Assembly constituency.As per an affidavit filed by him before the Election Commission, he has not been convicted in any of these cases. He has declared in the affidavit that there are three criminal cases registered against him.In one of the cases, he is charged with cheating and fraud under Sections 420, 406, 465, 419, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC. The trial in this case is being conducted in a Mohali court. In the other two cases, charge sheet has not been filed yet. The latter two cases relate to firing of a gunshot in the air and holding protest defying the orders of an administrative officer.Parvinder Sohana is a Class XII passout from the Punjab School Education Board. His wife is a sitting councillor.The SAD-BSP candidate has a net worth of Rs12.51 crores. He has movable assets worth Rs11.05 crore in his and his family members’ names and immovable assets worth Rs1.46 crore in his name. He and his family own gold ornaments worth Rs21.43 lakh.He owns a Honda Activa scooter and three four-wheelers, including a Maruti Swift Dzire, a Toyota Innova and a Ford Endeavour.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/sad-bsp-face-in-mohali-facing-3-criminal-cases-364830
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh announces 10% pay hike for NHM staff||The UT Administration has announced a 10 per cent salary hike for NHM employees with effect from January 1. The lowest salary of a staff nurse engaged under the NHM will be revised to Rs21,132. An ANM will receive Rs15,247 and a Class IV employee Rs14,448.The NHM staff, who had been getting salary less than the employees working on the DC rates, will be given the revised salary in a way that it doesn’t exceed 90 per cent of the present DC rate for the particular category, the order stated. In case the revised salary is less than 70 per cent of the present DC rate for the particular category, it will be brought up to that level, it added.The hike in salary will also be applicable to the staff engaged under the National Ambulance Service (NAS).There will be a considerable rise in the salary of about 81 per cent of the staff engaged under the NHM and the NAS. As per the Administration, the 19 per cent staff, who would not get any financial benefit, are those who either get salary more than the present DC rates or their present salary was more than the 90 per cent of the present DC rate for the particular category. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-announces-10-pay-hike-for-nhm-staff-364828
28-01-2022||---||High Court stays Panjab University Syndicate members' election till February 28||Chandigarh, January 27The Punjab and Haryana High Court today stayed Panjab University Syndicate members’ election. The order will remain in force at least till February 28, the next date of hearing in the case.The directions by Justice Rajbir Sehrawat came on a petition filed by Keshav Malhotra and other petitioners against the PU Chancellor and other respondents.In their petition filed through senior advocate RS Cheema with counsel R Kartikeya, the petitioners submitted that they were duly declared elected by the PU-appointed returning officer as Senate members from the ‘faculty’ constituency. However, the university authorities did not issue the “necessary statutory notification” for declaring the petitioners elected.The counsel for the respondents, on the other hand, pointed out that the election of the Senate members, including those from the `faculty’ constituency, was subject to the Chancellor’s approval under the statutory provision.Some petitions preferred before the Chancellor regarding the election of ‘faculty’ constituency members, including the petitioners, had been entertained by him. Accordingly, the petitioners and other candidates had been issued show-cause notice by the Chancellor against their election. However, the petitioners had not filed a reply.Responding to the submissions, the counsel for the petitioners submitted that they had received the notices, but copies of the petitions filed against them before the Chancellor had not been supplied.Adjourning the hearing of the matter, Justice Sehrawat asserted: “In the meantime, the counsel for respondent–Chancellor shall supply copy of the petition, received against each of the petitioners by the Chancellor, to the respective petitioners within a period of one week. Thereafter, the petitioners will be at liberty to file their reply, if they deem it appropriate, within further 10 days. The counsel for the respondent has undertaken that the Chancellor shall decide the matter within a period of two weeks thereafter.”Before parting with the order, Justice Sehrawat ordered that the election of the Syndicate members would remain stayed till the next date of hearing only, keeping in view the situation and as an ad interim measure.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/high-court-stays-pu-syndicate-members-election-till-february-28-364827
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh bizman duped of Rs 9.99L on pretext of updating KYC||A businessman was allegedly duped of Rs9.99 lakh by a swindler on the pretext of KYC of his bank account.Hira Lal Mahajan of Sector 21 said on December 28, he received a call on his mobile and the person introduced himself as an executive from the KYC team of HDFC Bank.He had received a message regarding expiry of the KYC before the call. The suspect then sent a link on the complainant’s mobile. He took three OTPs on the pretext of updating the KYC. In no time, Rs9.99 lakh was transferred from the bank account in three transactions. The matter was reported to the police. Almost a month later, a case has been registered at the Sector 19 police station. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bizman-duped-of-rs-9-99l-on-pretext-of-updating-kyc-364826
28-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Panchkula shuttler Anupama breaks into world's top 100||Panchkula, January 27In a major boost, 16-year-old shuttler Anupama Upadhyaya has jumped 43 spots to grab the 84th position in the latest Badminton World Federation (BWF) rankings in the women’s singles category. She is the only girl from the district, and perhaps from the region or nation, to grab the position at the age of 16.At the beginning of the year, she was ranked 169th. However, after she played in the India Open-2022 and Syed Modi Badminton Tournament, she broke through the barrier to figure among the top 100 players of the world. From the latest nine tournaments, she got a total of 22,670 points to jump to the 84th rank.‘No dream unachievable’No dream is unachievable. There may be several ups and downs, but dedication towards achieving the aim is the key to overcoming all hurdles. —Anupama UpadhyayaAnupama, who bagged the bronze medal in Syed Modi India International 300 Super Series, had lost to Malvika (19-21 21-19 21-7) in the semi-finals, which lasted over an hour. In the India Open Super 500 Series Tournament, she gave a tough fight to Jia Min Yeo, world ranked 16 and who was seeded No. 3 in the tournament, before going down (21-13, 7-21, 12-21).“I am planning to reach the top 30 (world rankings) by the end of this year. I need to play a number of international tournaments and improve my rankings. It will help me get good exposure,” said Anupama, who is in Odisha to play a Super 100 Series Tournament.Next month, she is scheduled to play the Ugandan International Challenge Tournament, followed by the European Circuit in March.“I am looking forward to participating in the Swiss Open, Poland Challenge and Orleans Open, scheduled to be held in March. It will be a great exposure against arch rivals. I just expect everything goes as planned,” she said.An avid follower of shuttlers Saina Nehwal and PV Sindhu, Anupama was barely one when Saina had scripted history after becoming the first Indian ever to win the women’s singles title of the Philippines Open (May 27, 2006).“No dream is unachievable. There may be several ups and downs, but dedication towards achieving the aim is the key to overcoming all hurdles. As I said, nothing is impossible and I am giving my cent per cent to excel in future,” she said.In 2019, she claimed the national title in the U-15 singles and got a bronze in the U-19 singles categories. Since then, there’s no looking back for Anupama.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/pkula-shuttler-anupama-breaks-into-worlds-top-100-364824
28-01-2022||Amit Bathla||‘Unscientific dumping of waste’ at Jhuriwala: Submit compliance report, joint panel told||Panchkula, January 27The National Green Tribunal has directed a joint committee of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board, the Chief Conservator of Forest and the District Magistrate, Panchkula, to submit a compliance report on the “unscientific dumping of waste” at the Jhuriwala site despite its earlier order against environmental violations.The compliance status has been sought from the committee following complaints of violation of environmental norms by the Panchkula Municipal Corporation in dumping of solid waste at Jhuriwala village. A Bench, headed by NGT chairperson Justice AK Goel, directed the panel to submit the report by email within two months.The pollution control board will be the nodal agency for coordination and compliance, the Bench said in its order.It has been alleged that illegal and unscientific dumping of waste was still continuing at the Jhuriwala site despite clear orders by the NGT against environmental violations.According to complaints, the Jhuriwala site is just 140 metres away from the Khol-Hai-Ratan Wildlife Sanctury. On that account, safeguards are necessary to avoid a negative impact of landfill on the ground water.The matterAt the 36th meeting of the standing committee of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) in November 2015, a proposal had come up to set up a solid waste management project at Jhuriwala.Members of the committee had suggested that the landfill site must be located away from the current location as it will be a source of diseases for human beings and the wildlife. The chairman of the committee had asked the civic authorities to present proposed mitigation measures for preventing groundwater pollution and ambient environment. In the reply, the civic authorities had pledged to ensure “engineering construction” measures for composting of solid waste and whatever was required for environmental protection.On the basis of assurances, the committee had agreed to a proposal of setting up of a waste plant at Jhuriwala in addition to adherence to conditions proposed by other agencies concerned.After it stopped dumping waste at the Sector 23 dumping ground, the Panchkula MC went ahead with dumping of solid waste at Jhuriwala in June last year without setting up a waste management plant for processing of garbage.Subsequently, the NGT received a complaint that the civic authorities were not taking steps to ensure environmental protection in the operation of the Jhuriwala site.“The Panchkula MC has been dumping all kinds of waste at the project site in violation of conditions on the basis of which the NBWL permitted the project,” the applicant stated.In July last year, the pollution control board had issued a show-cause notice to the Panchkula MC for dumping untreated garbage at Jhuriwala despite expiration of environmental clearance and consent for establishing a solid waste management plant at the site.Meanwhile, the MC continues to give assurances for earliest installation of the solid waste management plant at the Jhuriwala site.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/submit-compliance-report-joint-panel-told-364822
28-01-2022||Dushyant Singh Pundir||NGT: Don't dump solid waste in N-choe||Chandigarh, January 27The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the Punjab Government and the UT Administration that no solid waste should be dumped in the N-choe or the catchment area, which is polluting the Ghaggar.The grievance in an application filed by advocate-cum-social activist Sunaina was against the failure of the statutory authorities of Punjab and Chandigarh to install the necessary sewage treatment plant (STP), resulting in discharge of pollution into the drain originating from Chandigarh and passing through various sectors and villages of Mohali, before merging into the Ghaggar. “The pollution is affecting the eco-system, including aquatic life, and also public health. The discharge of untreated sewage into the drain is a violation of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act,” she submitted. Further, since the wastewater of the drain is used for cultivation of crops and washing of vegetables, which are consumed by residents, it is affecting the food chain and public health.The tribunal directed the Joint Committee (Punjab and Chandigarh) to ascertain the status of the quantity of sewage being discharged by the UT and Punjab and STPs identified for interception of sewage and its treatment, which is also a part of the restoration of the water quality of the Ghaggar.On January 3 this year, the Joint Committee submitted a status report mentioning the status of violations and steps taken in the matter in Punjab and Chandigarh.In its final order, the tribunal directed that the Punjab Government and the UT Administration were required to sort out the issue with regard to the jurisdiction of Faidan village and take appropriate action of laying of sewage network and its treatment in a time-bound manner.The NGT stated that the Punjab Government was required to take action for collection and treatment of untreated sewage from villages of the Mohali area — Amb Sahib Colony and Kambala, Papri, Manauli, Dairi, Kaura Majra, Chachu Majra, Saini Majra, Chau Majra, Nagiari, Ginemajra, Kalauli, Mote Majra, Hulka, Nadiali and Jhansali villages and many others of the Patiala region, in the vicinity of the drain, which were discharging untreated sewage into the drain, leading to the Ghaggar.“The immediate action is required to regulate the dairies and gaushalas located in villages of Chandigarh and Mohali by following the “guidelines for environmental management of dairy farms and gaushalas”, stated the tribunal.The tribunal further stated that the authorities of Chandigarh and Punjab were required to ensure that STPs operated efficiently so as to achieve the prescribed parameters without diverting untreated effluents into the drains.“The UT Administration and the Punjab Government must ensure that no solid waste is dumped in the N-choe or the catchment area and no waste from Hadda Rodi sites is dumped into the N-choe/drain,” ordered the NGT.The implementation will be overseen by the Chief Secretary of Punjab and the UT Adviser.                                     #Environment                                     #NGT                                     #Pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/ngt-dont-dump-solid-waste-in-n-choe-364819
28-01-2022||Mohali||Punjab Consumer Commission staff perform cultural activities||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-consumer-commission-staff-perform-cultural-activities-364813
28-01-2022||---||5 Mohali health workers felicitated for services||Mohali, January 27Five officers/employees of the District Health Department were honoured for providing commendable healthcare services during the Covid-19 pandemic, during the Republic Day function held here yesterday.Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit honoured District Immunisation Officer Dr Girish Dogra, Senior Medical Officer, District Hospital, Dr Vijay Bhagat, Health Inspector Bhupinder Singh Dahri, Dr Manpreet Singh (CHO) and sweeper Sandeep Singh.Congratulating the staff, Civil Surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said it was a matter of pride that her staff had received this prestigious honour. She said the Health Department was working tirelessly for the well-being of people. The entire staff, including doctors, risked their lives to save the lives of people during these tough times.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-mohali-health-workers-felicitated-for-services-364800
28-01-2022||---||Patriotic fervour, gaiety mark Republic Day celebrations in tricity||Panchkula, January 27Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya unfurled the National Flag at the Parade Ground in Sector 5 here on Republic Day.The Governor said: “‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ is being celebrated across the country. This year, along with giving special respect to the freedom fighters of the country, a vision and framework are also being made for the next 25 years so that India can provide leadership to the entire world on the completion of its 100 years of Independence in 2047”.“The state government is taking forward the vision of Digital India with the aim of benefiting the people of the state. As many as 511 schemes of 41 departments have been made online through about 20,000 Atal Seva Kendras and 117 Antyodaya and Saral Kendras in the state,” he said.The Governor stated that Haryana was the first state in the country to procure 14 crops at MSP.Speaking about the progress of vaccination in the state, he said 385 lakh doses (first and second) had been administered to the eligible beneficiaries so far.He also paid homage to martyrs at the War Memorial in the district. He felicitated healthcare workers, government employees and social workers for their exemplary work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/patriotic-fervour-gaiety-mark-republic-day-celebrations-in-tricity-364797
28-01-2022||---||At Republic Day event, Adviser lauds health staff||Chandigarh, January 27Patriotic fervour warmed up the cold winter morning in Chandigarh yesterday as officials of the UT Administration and residents of the city enthusiastically gathered at Parade Ground, Sector 17, to celebrate Republic Day.UT Adviser Dharam Pal, the chief guest on the occasion, laid a wreath at the War Memorial, Bougainvillea Garden. Moving to the main venue of the Republic Day celebrations, the Adviser unfurled the National Flag and inspected a guard of honour.After this, he witnessed the march past by various contingents of the police/fire/NSS/NCC during the Republic Day parade. This was followed by a vibrant parade comprising tableaux from different departments emphasising on social messages and development. The tableaux of the fire and rescue wing bagged the first position, whereas the second in line was the Municipal Corporation.Dharam Pal then addressed the audience with Republic Day wishes and highlighted the latest initiatives and achievements of the UT Administration. The Adviser expressed gratitude to the people of Chandigarh for being cooperative. He acknowledged all doctors, health workers and frontline workers for their tireless efforts in tacking the ongoing Covid situation, and congratulated the Administration for successfully vaccinating the adult population of the city with both doses.Roll of honourAwards were given to the best contingents of the parade wherein Civil Defence received the first award in the parade, the second was the Chandigarh Home Guards and the Chandigarh Fire Service got the third position.After the address, the chief guest gave commendation certificates to awardees who rendered outstanding services in the field of public service, art and culture, sports and social services. Along with this, police personnel were also conferred the Administrator’s Police Medal for their distinguished and meritorious services.Awards were given to the best contingents of the parade wherein Civil Defence received the first award in the parade, the second was the Chandigarh Home Guards and the Chandigarh Fire Service got the third position. In the police category, the first prize was bagged by the Chandigarh Police (Female 2), whereas Punjab Police (1) got the second position and the CRPF came third. The overall trophy was bagged by Chandigarh Police (Female 2). Among NCC contingents, NSS girls and boys bagged the best contingent trophy.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/at-r-day-event-adviser-lauds-health-staff-364793
28-01-2022||Mohali||Mohali sees 724 cases, 1 fatality||256 fresh cases, 3 deaths in PanchkulaPanchkula: The district reported 256 fresh coronavirus cases and three Covid deaths on Thursday.An 88-year-old man from Sector 11, a case of diabetes mellitus type 2, chronic kidney disease and prostate cancer, who was unvaccinated; a 68-year-old woman from Pinjore (fully vaccinated), a case of diabetes mellitus type 2 and hypertension; and a 15-year-old girl from Sector 20 (unvaccinated), a case of chronic kidney disease, died of the virus. While the overall case tally has reached 41,749, the death count has risen to 394. The active caseload has come down to 1,456. With 536 fresh recoveries, the number of discharged patients has gone up to 39,899.Of the four fatalities in the district in two days, two elderly women were fully vaccinated.The victims were identified as a 70-year-old woman from Sector 14, a case of hypertension and diabetes mellitus, and a 68-year-old woman from Pinjore, a case of diabetes mellitus type 2 and hypertension.Though the district has seen significantly low Covid deaths in the current surge (just 13 since December 31), at least 10 persons have died in the past five days. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-sees-724-cases-1-fatality-364792
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 565 Covid cases, 3 deaths||A 73-year-old man from Sector 44, who had comorbidities, died at Fortis Hospital, Mohali. He was fully vaccinated.A 90-year-old woman from Sector 33, a case of acute ischemic stroke and hypertension, died at Healing Hospital. She was only vaccinated with the first dose.A 34-year-old man from Sector 28 was brought dead at the GMSH-16. He was tested and found positive for Covid posthumously. His vaccination status was not known. The overall tally has reached 87,983. The death count now stands at 1,108. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/city-reports-565-cases-3-deaths-364791
28-01-2022||---||Covid: Shops, malls allowed to open till 7 pm in Panchkula||Panchkula, January 27As daily Covid-19 cases in the district are on a downward trend, District Magistrate, Panchkula, Mahavir Kaushik today announced relaxations in the pandemic restrictions, allowing malls and markets to now open till 7 pm.The markets were earlier allowed to open only till 6 pm.All shops of essential supplies like grocery, milk and medical shops would be allowed to operate at all times to “enable them to serve the public at large.”The District Magistrate also directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), SDMs, the Civil Surgeon and all designated officials to focus on the five-fold strategy for effective management of the pandemic i.e. test-trace-track-vaccination and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour.Traders in the district have been seeking relaxations in the restrictions after their re-introduction in the current wave, saying curbs have badly affected their businesses.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/shops-malls-allowed-to-open-till-7-pm-in-panchkula-364790
28-01-2022||Sanjay Bumbroo||As Covid cases dip, Mohali eases curbs||Mohali, January 27In view of a decline in fresh Covid cases, the district administration has given relaxation to gym operators in the district to operate with 50 per cent of the capacity.In the fresh orders issued on Wednesday, District Magistrate Isha Kalia said bars, cinema halls, multiplexes, malls, restaurants, spas, gyms, sports complexes, museums and zoos would be allowed to operate at 50 per cent of the capacity, provided that their staff was fully vaccinated. These directions would remain in force till further orders.Isha Kalia said all persons must wear mask in public places, including workplaces. This practice should be strictly observed and enforced. Social distance means there should always be a distance of at least 6 feet for all activities.As per the orders, under the upper limit of 50 per cent of the capacity, 50 persons will be allowed for indoor gatherings and 100 persons will be allowed for outdoor gatherings. These gatherings will be subject to Covid-appropriate behaviour.Night curfew would be imposed within the district limits from 10 pm to 5 am during which movement of persons for all non-essential activities would be restricted. However, essential activities such as conducting various shifts in industries, offices (both public and private), transporting persons and goods on national and state highways and unloading of goods would be permitted. After disembarking from buses, vehicles and trains, persons would be allowed to reach their destinations.As per orders, all educational institutions, including schools, colleges, universities and coaching institutes, will remain closed. However, academic activities can be continued through online teaching from these institutions. However, medical and nursing colleges may continue to operate normally.The District Magistrate said only passengers who were fully vaccinated, or recovered from Covid or with negative RT-PCR report of less than 72 hours would be allowed entry in the district. Passengers travelling by flights would be mandatorily required to be fully vaccinated, or Covid recovered, or with negative RTPCR reports of last 72 hour.‘Fully vaccinated staff must’District Magistrate Isha Kalia said bars, cinema halls, multiplexes, malls, restaurants, spas, gyms, sports complexes, museums and zoos would be allowed to operate at 50 per cent of the capacity, provided that their staff was fully vaccinated. These directions would remain in force till further orders.50 for indoor, 100 for outdoor gatheringsAs per the orders, under the upper limit of 50 per cent of the capacity, 50 persons will be allowed for indoor gatherings and 100 persons will be allowed for outdoor gatherings. These gatherings will be subject to Covid-appropriate behaviour.Educational institutions to remain shutAs per orders, all educational institutions, including schools, colleges, universities and coaching institutes, will remain closed. However, academic activities can be continued through online teaching from these institutions. However, medical and nursing colleges may continue to operate normally.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/as-cases-dip-mohali-eases-curbs-364788
28-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh eases Covid curbs as positivity rate dips||With a decline in the Covid-19 positivity rate in the city, the UT Administration has decided to lift several restrictions, including re-opening of gyms and extending the timings for opening of markets and apni mandis from tomorrow.Meanwhile, schools for classes X to XII will start functioning from February 1.Expressing satisfaction over the decline in positive cases during a review meeting on the pandemic here today, UT Administrator Banwarilal Purohit decided to lift various restrictions in the city with an appeal to follow the Covid protocol at public places.Gyms, apni mandis to open till 10 pmThe Administration has decided to allow all gyms and health centres to operate till 10 pm at 50 per cent of their capacity subject to all staff present and users being fully vaccinated.Further, all markets, including Palika Bazar and Sadar Bazar in Sector 19, Patel Market in Sector 15, Shatri Market and the mobile market in Sector 22, Krishna Market in Sector 41 and all apni mandis have been allowed to remain open till 10 pm.In another decision, all activities will be allowed from 5 am to 10 pm. Boating will also be allowed at Sukhna Lake, However, shops on the lake premises will be allowed to open subject to compliance with Covid-appropriate behaviour and proper sanitisation.In another major decision, schools will start functioning physically for classes X to XII from February 1. Similarly, all universities and colleges will also be allowed to open normally. All public libraries will be allowed to open at 50 per cent of their capacity. All students aged over 15 years should have been vaccinated at least with the first dose while attending offline classes.All officials and students aged over 18 should be fully vaccinated.The authorities have also allowed coaching institutions to open at 50 per cent of their capacity subject to the condition that all students from 15 to 18 years should have received the first dose of the vaccine and students/staff above 18 years are fully vaccinated.Purohit directed police officials to ensure enforcement of the Covid protocol at public places. He advised health officials to keep analysing small trends and surges and keep taking strict and prompt containment action.He appreciated health officials for being proactive in handling the ongoing situation. He also congratulated the Administration for administering 100 per cent second dose of the vaccination to the adult population of the city.With an objective to provide healthcare services to patients at home, e-sanjeevni OPD, the national teleconsultation service of the Government of India, was introduced in the city. These services were operational under two models earlier like patients to doctors consultation that started at 29 health and wellness centres and patients to specialists wherein consultation was given by specialists of the GMCH 32 and the GMSH 16. Now, the third model has been added to this service i.e., specialists to super specialists consultation, wherein specialists from the GMCH and the GMSH can consult PGI superspecialists.Traders welcome moveWelcoming the decision of the UT to allow all shops, including booth markets, to open till 10 pm, Chandigarh Beopar Mandal president Charanjiv Singh and spokesperson Diwaker Sahoonja said they were not allowing anybody inside the shops without a face mask and full vaccination. “We believe that long working hours will reduce rush in the markets and less people will assemble at a particular time,” they said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-eases-curbs-as-positivity-rate-dips-364787
28-01-2022||---||Jagmohan Singh Kang threatens to contest as Independent from Kharar||Chandigarh, January 27As Congress high command is set to declare the third and final list of the remaining eight seats, senior party leader from Kharar and a former minister Jagmohan Singh Kang on Thursday announced that his son Yadvinder Singh Kang would contest as an Independent if the party did not reconsider its decision on giving Kharar ticket to liquor contractor and Mohali District Planning Committee chairman Vikay Sharma Tinku.Hitting out at CM Charanjit Singh Channi for denying ticket in his family, Kang alleged that the CM's tilt towards Tinku was because of common business interests between the two. Kang claimed that barring Channi and Punjab affairs incharge Harish Chaudhary, other members of the central election committee were in his favour.Addressing a press conference, Kang said he had also written to party president Sonia Gandhi in this regard.                                     #JagmohanSinghKang                                     #Kharar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/kang-threatens-to-contest-as-independent-from-kharar-364786
