30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Chandigarh reports 441 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths||Chandigarh on Sunday reported 441 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths in patients with co-morbidities.A positivity rate of 9.36 per cent was recorded as 4,713 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.The cumulative number of cases has reached 89,144 while the active cases are 3,452.As many as 805 patients were discharged including persons from home isolation who have completed seven days and are asymptomatic, as per Ministry of Health guidelines.A 92-year-old man of Sector 21, a case of hypertension, heart disease and acute respiratory distress syndrome, died at GMSH, Sector 16. He was fully vaccinated for Covid.An 88-year-old man of Sector 35 died at SGHS Hospital, Sohana. He was a case of hypertension and lung disease. He was fully vaccinated for Covid.A 76-year-old Covid positive man of Daria, a case of leukemia, myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular accident died at Amcare Hospital, Zirakpur. He was also fully vaccinated.With this the death toll in the city has reached 1,118.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-reports-441-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-365585
30-01-2022||---||Mohali resident held with opium||Mohali, January 29The police arrested a resident of Phase 7 with 50 gm of opium along with drug money to the tune of Rs 50,000.A case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the suspect, identified as Pardeep Kumar, at the Phase 1 police station. SHO Shivi Brar said, “The suspect was produced in court on Saturday and sent to two-day police remand.”Meanwhile, the Gharuan police arrested a person with 210 narcotic pills. A day earlier, the Phase 8 police had nabbed a suspect with 1.2 kg of cannabis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/mohali-resident-held-with-opium-365500
30-01-2022||---||Girl refutes parents’ kidnapping charge||Panchkula, January 29A 14-year-old girl was allegedly kidnapped by a 24-year-old youth at Bhud village in Raipur Rani on Thursday. However, the police said the girl stated that she left her home on her own and wanted to marry the ‘accused’.In a complaint to the police, the girl’s parents, who work on a fish farm, had claimed that their daughter was kidnapped by Shiv Nath, who worked on a nearby fish farm.A case was registered under Sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 34 (common intention), 342 (wrongful confinement), 365 (abduction), and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Raipur Rani police station.The FIR also mentioned the name of his brother Megh Nath, their father and the owner of the fish farm, who allegedly intimidated them.“In her statement, the girl claimed that she was above 18, but her age on the Aadhaar card was mentioned as 14 years. We will get done the respective tests to ascertain her actual age and will act accordingly,” said Rajesh Kumar, SHO at Raipur Rani police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/girl-refutes-parents-kidnapping-charge-365499
30-01-2022||---||Revenue official among 8 booked for property fraud||Ambala, January 29A naib tehsildar and two nambardars are among eight persons booked in connection with a cheating case.In her complaint to the police, Geetika, a resident of Ambala City, stated that her brother Davin and his wife Sonia, on the basis of forged documents, sold two houses in Ambala Cantonment after showing themselves as the owners of the properties.On the basis of the complaint, a case was registered against Davin, Sonia, Mohit Giri, his father Sardar Giri, Nambardar Kashiram, Nambardar Davinder Kumar, Jasbir Singh, and the Naib Tehsildar under Sections 406, 419, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the Indian Penal Code at the Ambala Cantonment police station.As per the complainant, her father Ramkumar died in 2012 and mother Usha Rani passed away in 2017. Her father’s first wife had also died. Geetika stated that she, along with Ritu, Rajni, Bhawna, Divya and Davin, were the couple’s heirs. However, Davin and Sonia got the houses registered in the name of Mohit Giri and Sardar Giri, who were living there on rent.The complainant claimed that she and other heirs had never appeared before the notary or any other office for the registry work. The complainant alleged that the registry was done fraudulently by the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/revenue-official-among-8-booked-for-property-fraud-365498
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||‘Judicial education means nurturing good humans’||Judicial education means nurturing good human beings to be good judges, says a book by Chandigarh Judicial Academy Director (Academics) Prof Balram K Gupta.The book, “My Journey with Law & Justice”, was released virtually this morning by a distinguished panel of Judges and professors.Speaking on the occasion, Justice Dr DY Chandrachud, Judge, Supreme Court of India, shared that Prof Gupta had donned many hats — professor of law, senior advocate and director of a judicial academy. He added that if there was any person who would depict the contours of fairness and justice throughout his journey, it was Prof Gupta.Justice Surya Kant, Judge, Supreme Court of India, felt that the book was going to bridge the gap between judicial education and judicial academies. The multidimensional book, in fact, was the need of the hour.Justice Ravi Shanker Jha, Chief Justice, Punjab and Haryana High Court, shared that not a single negative incident was part of the book. Elaborating on the gist of the book, Justice Jha said, “Judicial education is all about making a good human being.”Justice Madan B Lokur, former Judge, Supreme Court of India, and presently Judge, Supreme Court of Fiji, said: You should enjoy your work, whatever you may do. The assertion came in reference to a sentence in the preface, “I have enjoyed living my journey”.Justice Amol Rattan Singh, Judge, Punjab and Haryana High Court, shared that for a student, it was a great honour to be associated with the book release event. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/judicial-education-means-nurturing-good-humans-365497
30-01-2022||---||Battery dealer guilty of deficiency in service||Chandigarh, January 29The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, has directed a dealer to pay compensation and refund the cost of the battery of an inverter after it failed to give appropriate service within the warranty period.Lalit Kumar Aggarwal, a resident of Sector 38, Chandigarh, approached the commission after the dealer failed to address his grievance.In his complaint, Lalit said he purchased an Amaron Tubular Inverter battery for Rs9,500 on February 14, 2018 from a dealer in Sector 28, Chandigarh. In August 2020, the inverter started giving some problem and he filed an online complaint regarding the same on August 20, 2020. A person from the company checked the battery and told him that it was okay without checking its backup time.He lodged another complaint again on March 24, 2021 when the battery started giving more problems. Instead of addressing the problem, the dealer said its warranty was over in February 2021 and asked him to pay Rs7,600 to settle the claim. The dealer told him that the battery was irreparable.The commission said a notice was sent to the dealer seeking its version in the case. However, nobody appeared on his behalf.After hearing the arguments, the commission held the dealer guilty of deficiency in service.The act of the opposite party (dealer) in not providing proper services, not repairing the inverter’s battery as per warranty terms and conditions and not appearing during the proceedings of the present case proved deficiency in service and unfair trade practice. In view of this, the dealer was directed to refund Rs9,500 to the complainant, along with interest at the rate of 9 per cent per annum, and pay a compensation of Rs5,000 to the complainant for causing mental agony and harassment and cost of litigation, said the commission in its order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/battery-dealer-guilty-of-deficiency-in-service-365496
30-01-2022||---||‘Change leaders’ honoured at Swachh event||Chandigarh, January 29Mayor Sarabjit Kaur today honoured ‘Change leaders’ during the Swachh Prerak Samaan Samaroh at Rani Laxmi Bai Mahila Bhawan in Sector 38 here.Addressing the gathering, she said every year, the Swachh Survekshan was redesigned innovatively to ensure that the process becomes more robust. She said this year, citizen participation was taken a notch higher with the introduction of indicators that encourage innovations led by citizens, start-ups, entrepreneurs and Swachhata champions.The Mayor said the scope of the survey had been expanded to cover all wards for sampling, as compared to 40 per cent wards in the previous years. “The Swachh Survekshan-2022 will see more than double the number of assessors deployed last year for the on-field assessment,” she added.MC Commissioner Anindita Mitra said designed with ‘People First’ as its driving philosophy, the Swachh Survekshan-2022 was curated to capture the initiatives of cities for the overall welfare and well-being of the frontline sanitation workers.The first rankers are the GMCH-32 in the Swachh hospital category; 1st Examination Branch, Sector 36 (Swachh government office); Residential Welfare Association, Sector 7-A (Swachh RWA); Market Welfare Association, Sector 16-A (Swachh MWA); St John’s High School and Sacred Heart Convent School, Sector 26 (Swachh private school), GMSSS, Sector 21-A (Swachh government school); and Infosys Limited (Zero waste campus).Swachhagrahis included Shakuntala, Vidya, Neelam, Usha Tiwari, Anshika, Himanshi, Ramandeep, Meenakshi, Kanta, Rubal, Amanjot, Dharmsheela, Manjeet, Parvinder and Tabassum.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/change-leaders-honoured-at-swachh-event-365494
30-01-2022||Ramkrishan Upadhyay||FAKE ED OFFICERS: Trial court order rejecting police remand of accused set aside||Chandigarh , January 29The court of Additional Sessions Judge Narender has set aside an order of the trial court, which declined an application of the UT police for allowing them the remand of an accused in a cheating case.The police had sought remand of Alamjeet Singh, alias Jordan, arrested in a case where his co-accused used to allegedly impersonate as an officer of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and the respondent-accused allegedly used to provide him the list of officers.While allowing the revision petition of the Chandigarh Police, the Additional Sessions Judge directed the trial court to reconsider the application seeking the police remand of the accused and pass a fresh order on hearing the parties. The court further directed the parties to appear before the trial court on January 31.The trial court had rejected the police application on January 22 when the accused was produced before it and sent him to judicial custody.The police had arrested the accused in a case registered at the Sector 19 police station on January 19. The FIR was registered on a complaint of Ajay Singh, Deputy Director, ED. The complainant had alleged that two persons, namely Girish Tyagi and Jitender Kumar, were impersonating as ED officials. He stated that no such persons were posted in the ED office. He had stated that these persons might cheat gullible persons.The police alleged that the accused even rang up Punjab’s Deputy Chief Minister, AAP and BSP leaders and some IPS officers and threatened them that the ED had received complaints against them.Atul Sethi, Additional Public Prosecutor, argued that the impugned order passed by the trial court on January 22 was liable to be set aside. He stated that the police had prima facie shown to the trial court that the co-accused, Taranjit Singh, alias Girish Tyagi, used to impersonate as an ED officer and the respondent-accused used to provide him a list of various officers. The accused had also even transferred an amount of Rs20,000 to the account of the co-accused. Sethi said these facts were not appreciated by the trial court while passing the impugned order. He said the custodial interrogation of the accused was required in order to unearth his involvement in the case.The counsel for the accused argued that the order of the trial court did not require any kind of interference as it was rightly and legally passed.After hearing the arguments, Additional Sessions Judge Narender said in the circumstances, where custodial interrogation of the respondent was required by the investigating agency to bring out the truth, the agency should be provided an opportunity to do so.“It is a settled law that during the period of the first remand of the accused, it can be changed from police remand to judicial remand and vice-versa. The impugned order is, thus, set aside only up to the extent related to the application of police custody of the respondent and the trial court is directed to reconsider the application seeking police remand of the respondent in the light of above observations of this court and pass a fresh order upon hearing the parties,” read the order.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/fake-ed-officers-trial-court-order-rejecting-police-remand-of-accused-set-aside-365489
30-01-2022||Amit Bathla||EMBEZZLEMENT OF FUNDS FOR CREMATION OF COVID VICTIMS: Had cremated bodies from tricity, Ambala, say accused||Panchkula, January 29MC officials, who have been accused of embezzling funds for cremation of Covid victims, have denied the charges levelled against them, claiming that they received bodies from the whole of tricity, Ambala and other adjoining areas for performing the last rites.The preliminary inquiry conducted by the Joint Commissioner indicted safai karamcharis and some MC officials involved in the cremations for claiming money for conducting the funeral of over 900 victims though only 377 Covid deaths were reported back then.“We have made the claim as per the data of cremation grounds. The data was maintained by pujaris, not us. It includes Aadhaar numbers, addresses and other proofs that corroborate the identity of every deceased. Further, every cremation had been verified by the pujaris with signature and stamp,” said Ajay Sood, Assistant Sanitary Inspector, Panchkula MC.When questioned about the mismatch between the bodies for which funds had been claimed by them and the official count, he said, “The Health Administration might have taken the data only from the Civil Hospital as we cremated the exact number of bodies for which we claimed funds. We received bodies from private hospitals in Panchkula, the PGI in Chandigarh and Mullana in Ambala.”“I do have the evidence which proves my innocence. I am ready to face any investigation,” he added.Sood and five others are facing the charge of embezzlement of funds.The Urban Local Bodies Department, Haryana, had announced that Rs2,000 would be paid to every safai karamchari of the five-member team for the cremation of each Covid victim.According to the inquiry findings, 14 safai karamcharis were made a payment of Rs31.34 lakh on September 29 last year for cremations, and of the total amount, Rs20.72 lakh was transferred inappropriately.Sood had received Rs6.30 lakh. However, he said payments of around Rs13 lakh were due to be made to him for his service. Pending payments, for which claims were made, were put on hold after an inquiry was marked into the matter.Inquiry report recommended legal action||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/embezzlement-of-funds-for-cremation-of-covid-victims-had-cremated-bodies-from-tricity-ambala-say-accused-365483
30-01-2022||Mohali||Tennis tourney: Sia Mahajan storms into girls’ U-16, U-18 finals||Sia Mahajan won back to back semi-finals in the ongoing Roots AITA CS7 National Rankings Championship today.In the girls’ U-16 semi-finals, top seed Sia defeated Punjab’s Mannat Awasthi (6-2, 6-1). She will be facing second seed Sidhak Kaur, who defeated Delhi’s Kanak Shekhawat in straight sets (6-2, 6-2). In the girls’ U-18 semis, second seed Sia ousted Punjab’s Mehak Preet Kaur (6-1, 6-1). Fourth seed Maharashtra’s Suhani Sabbarwal outplayed sixth seed Radha Sadhra (6-1, 6-3).Meanwhile, in the boys’ U-16 semis, top seed Gurbaaz Singh blanked Harwin Singh without conceding a game (6-0, 6-0). Second seed Hardhik Khanduja defeated third seed Chandigarh’s Daksh Kapoor (7-5, 7-5). Top seed Harmanjit Singh reached the boys’ U-18 final by defeating Daksh Kapoor (7-6(5), 6-3). Second seed Akshat Dhull overpowered a tough challenge by Aniruddh Sangra (6-4, 3-6, 7-6(2)).In the boys’ U-18 doubles semis, Agnivesh Bhardwaj and Abhinav Sharma defeated Bharat Jaiswal and Harwin Singh (4-1, 4-2), while Arnav Bishnoi and Aniruddh Sangra ousted Mehraab Singh and Armaan Walia (4-0, 4-0). In the girls’ U-18 doubles semis, Sia and Gursimrat defeated Saravnoor and Kanak (4-1, 4-0). Anusha Verma and Suhani Sabbarwal ousted Tamanna and Mokshika (3-4(5), 4-1, (10-6)). —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tennis-tourney-sia-mahajan-storms-into-girls-u-16-u-18-finals-365476
30-01-2022||---||Tennis Meet: Jay Kedar Dixit stuns second seed||Chandigarh, January 29Jay Kedar Dixit outplayed second seed Agnivesh Bhardwaj in straight sets (6-1, 6-0) to qualify further in the boys’ U-18 category on the opening day of the CLTA-AITA Super Series Tennis Tournament today.Third seed Aryan Aggarwal defeated Arnav Chaudhary (6-4, 6-3), while Kesav Dangi overpowered fourth seed Arpit Garg (6-1, 6-4).In other qualifying matches, Satvik Singla defeated Abhinav Sangra (6-2, 6-4), Svarmanyu Singh ousted Aditya Bhatnagar (6-4, 6-2), Aarya Vaibhav Nigam defeated Arjun Tanwar (7-5, 6-2) and Parmarth Kaushik defeated Ayush Singh (6-2, 6-1).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/tennis-meet-jay-kedar-dixit-stuns-second-seed-365475
30-01-2022||Mohali||Punjab People boycotting Congress, claims Sanjeev Vashisht||People of Punjab are now boycotting the Congress and Mohali Congress candidate Balbir Sidhu is also facing opposition as he has worked inefficiently to resolve important issues.Industrialist and BJP candidate from the Mohali Assembly segment Sanjeev Vashisht stated this after filing his nomination paper along with his wife Pooja Vashisht at the District Administrative Complex here today.Vashisht said Congressmen would be seen fighting with each other soon after the announcement of the Congress Chief Ministerial candidate. He said AAP candidate Kulwant Singh was trying to mislead people on false promises. He alleged that Kulwant was rejected in the 2021 MC elections and he lost from his own ward by a margin of nearly 300 votes. He said people from his own ward had rejected him. Residents of the constituency will once again not accept Kulwant.The BJP candidate said Punjabis would not fall into the trap, adding that Punjab residents had so far tested all parties. Now, they were eager to take Punjab on the path of progress by forming a double engine government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-people-boycotting-congress-claims-sanjeev-vashisht-365474
30-01-2022||Deepankar Sharda||Chandigarh Golf Club elections likely in March||Chandigarh, January 29Chandigarh Golf Club (CGS) is planning to hold its annual general elections in the second or third week of March. Earlier, the elections were scheduled to be held on January 30. However, the elections were postponed due to a spike in Covid-19 cases and restrictions imposed by the UT Administration.Now, it has been decided to hold the elections either on March 13 or March 20 and the final decision is likely to be taken in the next executive meeting of the club scheduled on February 2.A meeting of three presidential candidates - SPS Ghai (Nippy), Lt Col HS Chahal (Bobby) and Maj Rajinder Singh Virk (Lally) - was held with the present president Ravibir Singh and it has been decided to pursue the election process as soon as possible.“The three presidential candidates, who filed nominations for the post during the previous notification, held a meeting with the present president, Ravibir Singh, and it has broadly been decided to plan the elections. The final decision will be taken in the executive meeting to be held on February 2. If approved, the elections are likely to be held on March 13 or March 20,” said Dr GS Kochhar, vice-president and chairman, Media and Publicity, CGC. After the election notification, code of conduct will be imposed under Rule 51 (D) of the club.“Before announcing the final schedule of the elections, the executive committee will also assess the Covid situation and get approval of the UT Administration. Both things are important before making any announcement,” said Kochhar.The elections will be conducted to choose one president and 11 executive members. The rest of the office-bearers are nominated by the chosen president later.The club had last witnessed voting in the 2018 elections. Thereafter, the presidents were chosen unanimously. As many as 1,800 members have the voting right to choose new office-bearers of the club. As per the previous trends, 900 to 1,000 members turn up to cast their vote.The club had held elections in April 2018. At that time, a total of 918 votes were cast. The following year, Sandeep Singh Sandhu was unanimously elected for the next term. Due to the Covid pandemic, he continued on the same post for 2020. Thereafter, Ravibir Singh Grewal was unanimously chosen to run the show in January 2021. He had also won the president’s election in 2017-18 by 94 votes. He had also served as the acting president in 2016-17 after the demise of the then sitting president IPS Mann.This year, it is believed to be a triangular contest, a first in the history of the club.Entire process to start againSources confirmed that the entire process - notification for elections and filing of nominations - will be held again. “The previous notification stands null and void, so are the candidatures. The process will start again as per the club’s rules and regulations,” said a source.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/chandigarh-golf-club-elections-likely-in-march-365470
30-01-2022||Gaurav Kanthwal||No road, no vote, threaten Nagla residents||Zirakpur, January 29Residents of several housing societies on the Nagla road here today took out a protest march, highlighting the deplorable condition of the road.Residents from housing societies such as Maya Garden City, Escon Arena, La Prisma and Altura located on the Nagla road said: “The area lacks basic infrastructure such as road, power, drinking water supply and sewage system,” said Bhagirath Verma, a Nagla resident.Members of the Nagla Road Residents Association threatened “no road, no vote”, adding that they would opt for NOTA in the upcoming elections if their demands were not met. The protesting members said their protest march would continue in the coming days and more residents would join them in the coming days. The stretch had become a source of inconvenience for residents and commuters.It is a first-of-its-kind protest by the residents in Zirakpur ahead of the Assembly elections.“Several housing societies in the area are a home to people who have invested here in the hope of infrastructure getting better, but it is getting worse day by day. Party candidates will have to be held accountable for this situation,” said Surinder Bagha, a resident of Maya Garden.Protest to continue in coming daysThe protesting members said their protest march would continue in the coming days and more residents would join them. The stretch had become a source of inconvenience to residents and commuters.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/no-road-no-vote-threaten-nagla-residents-365469
30-01-2022||Mohali||Balbir Singh Sidhu a grassroots leader, says Anandpur Sahib MP||Mohali people are lucky that they have a leader like sitting MLA and Congress candidate Balbir Singh Sidhu, whose relentless efforts have put Mohali on the fast track of development. Manish Tiwari, Congress MP from Anandpur Sahib, stated this while addressing an election meeting at Shaheed Udham Singh Bhawan in Phase 3-A here.Tiwari said Balbir was a grassroots leader. He earned the respect and love of people due to his hard work and devotion towards welfare. Even Covid’s first and second waves failed to deter him from serving people during the testing times. He did his best to improve the functioning of government hospitals in the state. His efforts to tackle the pandemic were even praised by the Prime Minister.Tiwari said no one could challenge Sidhu’s dedication in improving infrastructure in Mohali.He appealed to Mohali voters to ensure Balbir Sidhu’s victory with a record margin so that he could continue his good work for Mohali.Balbir Sidhu said he was seeking support again on the basis of development works carried out by him in the past. He said, “I am not seeking support by making countless promises and accusing my rivals of baseless accusations. The agenda of my election campaign is simple and straight “kaam kiya hai aur kaam karenge”.“I am in people’s court again now. You elected me as your MLA three times and I served you with my best efforts and what I did is in front of you all. I seek your support again to take Mohali further on the development path and make it number 1 in the state,” Sidhu asserted. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/balbir-singh-sidhu-a-grassroots-leader-says-anandpur-sahib-mp-365468
30-01-2022||---||Need to change corrupt system, says Kulwant Singh||Mohali, January 29Kulwant Singh, AAP candidate from the Mohali Assembly constituency, during the election campaigning in Bairopur, Bhagaomajra and Bakarpur among several other villages, said the AAP was committed to bringing positive change in society.Kulwant said: “We have to change the corrupt system and bring an honest system. Till now, traditional political parties have been telling people that running a government is a difficult task. One has to be a little bit dishonest to run a government. The AAP government in Delhi has proved that governments can be run honestly”.Singh said governments failed to improve the education and health system of Punjab in the past 75 years since Independence. The present Congress government made false claims of education reforms by painting the walls of schools, but did not bring about any positive change in schooling.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/need-to-change-corrupt-system-says-kulwant-singh-365467
30-01-2022||Mohali||8 file nominations from Mohali, Kharar segments||A total of eight candidates filed their nomination papers from the Mohali and Kharar Assembly segments here today. District Election Officer-cum-Deputy Commissioner Isha Kalia said eight nominations were filed today. Of this, six were filed from the Kharar Assembly constituency and two from Mohali.Isha said Anmol Gagandeep Kaur and Sarabjot Kaur of AAP, Rupinder Kaur of the Punjab National Party, Baljit Singh Laddi and Kulbir Singh Bisht (Independents) and Lakhvir Singh of the Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) filed their papers from the Kharar Assembly segment.BJP’s Sanjeev Vashisht and Pooja Vashisht Kalia filed papers from the Mohali Assembly segment. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/8-file-nominations-from-mohali-kharar-segments-365465
30-01-2022||Gaurav Kanthwal||Dera Bassi Assembly seat: Candidates of major parties file papers||Zirakpur, January 29Candidates of various political parties filed their nomination papers for the Dera Bassi Assembly seat. SAD-BSP candidate NK Sharma, AAP’s Kuljit Singh Randhawa, BJP’s Sanjiv Khanna, their covering candidates and Right to Recall Party’s Yograj Sahota filed their nomination papers at the office of the Dera Bassi SDM-cum-Returning Officer.Babita Sharma, wife of NK Sharma, and Renu Khanna, wife of realtor Sanjiv Khanna, filed papers as covering candidates for their husbands, while Paramjit Singh filed papers as a covering candidate for his brother Kuljit Singh Randhawa.Randhawa was the first one to file nomination papers, followed by Sharma and Khanna.According to the affidavit, NK Sharma (Rs15.94 crore) turned out to be the richest candidate, followed by Sanjiv Khanna (Rs12.81 crore) and Kuljit Randhawa (Rs7.05 crore) among those in the fray from major political parties.Interestingly, NK Sharma (505.57 grams) has declared more jewellery than his wife Babita Sharma (150 grams).Four criminal cases are registered against the SAD candidate and one against the AAP candidate under Sections 188 (Disaster Management Act). Two criminal cases are registered against the BJP candidate under Sections 406, 420 and 120-B of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/punjab-poll-2022-candidates-of-major-parties-file-papers-365464
30-01-2022||Mohali||Mohali: Phase-3B1 Gurdwara cash box stolen||Two booked for raping minorDera Bassi: The police booked two UP natives on the charge of raping a 14-year-old girl who lives near a brick-kiln. Her father told the police that she had gone missing for the past some days. Later, he came to know that Sumit Kumar and Rahul, both natives of Rampur, UP, had forcibly taken the girl along. A case has been registered against the duo and the police are looking for them. TNSTwo arrested in arms caseChandigarh: The police arrested a 24-year-old youth, Rahul of Sector 17, Panchkula, and recovered a country-made pistol along with two live cartridges from his possession at Raipur Khurd on Friday. A case under the Arms Act has been registered at the Mauli Jagran police station. In another case, a Dadu Majra resident, Kuldeep Kumar, 31, was arrested after a country-made pistol and a magazine were recovered from his possession near the dumping ground on January 28. A case under the Arms Act has been registered at the Maloya police station. TNSPlastic carry bags: Two heldChandigarh: Two persons caught selling plastic carry bags at the grain market in Sector 26 on January 28 have been arrested. They have been identified as Ram Kumar Maurya, a resident of Sector 56, and Vijay Kumar, a resident of Sector 26. They were caught during a raid conducted by an assistant environmental engineer in Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee, Rhythem Aggarwal, and a team of the office of the SDM East. A case under Sections 15 of the Environmental Protection Act-1986 has been registered against the suspects at the Sector 26 police station. TNSAssault: Juvenile among 4 nailedChandigarh: A juvenile was apprehended and three youths were arrested for an assault on a Daria resident. The complainant, Amrender Kumar, alleged that his tenant Laxman, along with three-four persons, came to his house and attacked him with sticks on January 23. He sustained injuries in the attack and was taken to the Civil Hospital, Mani Majra. A case under Sections 323, 341, 147, 148 and 149 of the IPC has been registered at the Industrial Area police station. During the course of investigation, Daria residents Laxman, 24, Rohit Singh, 19, Vikas Deep, 20, and a juvenile were apprehended. Further investigation in the case is in progress. TNSScooter stolen from near houseChandigarh: A Ram Darbar resident, Ravi Kumar, reported that someone stole his scooter parked near his house on the night of January 23. A case under Section 379 of the IPC has been registered at the Sector 31 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/gurdwara-cash-box-stolen-365463
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Congress files plea against Ward 11 poll||District president of Chandigarh Congress Rajiv Kumar Moudgil has filed a petition before the Deputy Commissioner pleading that the election from Ward No. 11 be declared null and void in view of a “false” affidavit filed by Anup Gupta, BJP councillor and Deputy Mayor, before the returning officer in December, 2021.Moudgil was the Congress candidate from that ward.Addressing a press conference at Congress Bhawan here, Subhash Chawla, president of the city Congress, stated Gupta enrolled as an advocate in 2007 under the Punjab and Haryana Bar Council. On December 3, 2021, he filed an affidavit before the returning officer stating on oath that he was a businessman by occupation, and declared his income from business.Meanwhile, Gupta said, “I have not contested any case for the past 10 years. The business is in the name of my family. The Congress has no development issues to raise that is why it is talking of non-issues. This is the reason they have slipped to third place.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/congress-files-plea-against-ward-11-poll-365462
30-01-2022||Saurabh Malik||Panchkula Judge proceeded in ‘hot haste’, slipshod manner: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, January 29The Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted that a Panchkula Judicial Magistrate proceeded in “hot haste”, in a slipshod manner, and “obviously without application of mind”. Justice Sureshwar Thakur added the Magistrate proceeded to order initiation of coercive process against an accused, which resulted in untenable curtailment and fettering of his personal liberty.What High Court Justice observedConsequently, the trial Judge concerned could not have proceeded to make an order for cancellation of bail granted to the applicant, merely for his purportedly breaching the condition. — Justice Sureshwar ThakurThe matter was placed before Justice Thakur after the accused challenged the initiation of coercive process against him. Going into the background of the matter, Justice Thakur observed an application filed by the petitioner for anticipatory bail before Panchkula Sessions Judge was allowed. He had moved the Court following the registration of a cheating and criminal conspiracy case in September 2009 under Sections 409, 420, and 120-B of the IPC at the State Vigilance Bureau police station, Panchkula.Referring to the order, Justice Thakur further observed its perusal disclosed that “there was no imposition of any condition upon the bail applicant to record his personal appearance before the trial Judge concerned”.“Consequently, the trial Judge concerned could not have proceeded to make an order for cancellation of bail granted to the bail applicant, merely for his purportedly breaching the condition,” Justice Thakur further observed.In his detailed order, Justice Thakur added the jurisdiction to order initiation of coercive process against the bail applicant solitary vested with the Court granting bail — the Court of Panchkula Sessions Judge, even if the condition was purportedly breached and assumingly that the prosecution or the Court concerned deemed it fit to initiate the measures for ensuring his personal appearance. The jurisdiction did not vest with the “committal Court” concerned.Justice Thakur added it was clearly discernible from the orders appended with the petition that summons issued to the petitioner for recording his personal appearance before the Judicial Magistrate concerned “did not result in their becoming validly executed or served upon him”.Justice Thakur added: “The Judicial Magistrate concerned, without awaiting valid service being effected upon accused, rather in a hot haste and in a slipshod manner and obviously without application of mind proceeded to order initiation of coercive process against the petitioner... It is required to be undone”.Justice Thakur also quashed and set aside the impugned order dated October 7, 2021. “The executing agency is directed to not execute the non-bailable warrants. The NBWs, if not issued, be not issued against the petitioner,” the Bench concluded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/panchkula-judge-proceeded-in-hot-haste-slipshod-manner-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-365460
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Rain spell likely from February 2 in Chandigarh tricity||Rain is likely in the tricity from February 2 to 4. According to the Weather Department, an active western disturbance and a cyclonic circulation caused by it is likely to affect north-west India from February 2.“Under the influence of mid-tropospheric south-westerlies associated with the above western disturbance and lower level south-easterlies from the Bay of Bengal, scattered to fairly widespread light/moderate rainfall is likely over Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh from Feb 2 to 4,” said a weather update.Cold wave conditions in isolated pockets are likely over Punjab during the next 24 hours and will abate thereafter. Surface winds (speed 15-25 kmph) is expected in the tricity during next three days.“A gradual rise by 4-6°C in minimum temperatures till February 3 and a fall by 3-4°C thereafter is likely over most parts of north-west India.Maximum temperature is likely to rise by 3-5°C over most parts of north-west India till February 2 and fall thereafter,” said the weather update. —                                     #IMD||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/rain-spell-likely-from-february-2-in-tricity-365457
30-01-2022||Zirakpur||BJP flags burnt, second incident in five days||Miscreants set on fire a large number of BJP flags in the Dhakoli area last night.Party workers alleged the miscreants forcibly stopped an auto-rickshaw carrying the party flags to be displayed at an election campaign of BJP candidate Sanjiv Khanna from Dera Bassi. One of them, identified as Mandip Singh, raised the slogan of “Kisan Ekta Zindabad”, they said.The BJP workers alleged that the Opposition, including the Congress, the SAD and other parties, were perturbed at the increasing popularity of the BJP and Sanjiv Khanna. The BJP has lodged a complaint with the Election Office, Punjab, requesting for an early action as in less than five days, this is the second similar incident. A copy of the complaint has been given to the police, the workers said.Earlier, flex boards of the BJP displayed on an auto-rickshaw were damaged by six miscreants on January 25, for which a complaint was also lodged. The BJP said in its complaint that such repeated incidents, including the beating and intimidation of BJP workers and activists, would not only vitiate the peaceful atmosphere prevailing in the constituency but would also demoralise its cadres. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/bjp-flags-burnt-second-incident-in-five-days-365455
30-01-2022||Sandeep Rana||Donate clothes through Swachhta Sawari in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, January 29Residents who wish to donate their clothes can do it on their doorstep through Swachhta Sawari.Not only will they get donation receipts but their garments will also be washed and ironed before being displayed at Naya Sa, a clothing store run by the MC opposite a community centre at Dhanas.Needy persons can buy these clothes at Naya Sa for only Rs1 per piece by producing their Aadhaar card. “We have a self-help group of eight or 10 women who wash and iron the clothes donated by residents. Money earned by selling these garments goes to them. Besides, the civic body pays them for the work,” said an MC official involved in the initiative.The garments, which are in poor shape and cannot be worn, are used to make bags. Within a month of its launch on December 30, the corporation has sold about 2,500 garments out of a total of 2,766 pieces collected so far.“We have kept a limit of three clothes per person based on the Aadhaar card so that the facility is not misused. Around Dhanas, there are various colonies from where people come to the store,” added the official.The Swachhta Sawari vehicle has a supervisor and a driver. They, as per a roaster, daily visit houses in separate areas of the city. The corporation has also released helpline 9041998099 for donation-related queries.The idea behind the project is that a huge amount of garments dumped in a landfill every day can be kept under check by reusing clothes.“We are getting an overwhelming response from residents. People from Mohali and Panchkula are also showing interest. By this project, both Swachh Bharat as well as women empowerment is happening,” said an official. The MC had set up “Neki ki Deewars” at a few community centres in November 2020 where residents could donate their clothes. Officials, however, now feel collecting clothes from doorstep with a proper system is better than the previous arrangement.Concept of 3RsThis is to promote the concept of 3Rs — reduce, recycle and reuse. It is the concept of “mere ghar se aapke ghar tak”. The Rs1 price is to inculcate the feeling of pride of having bought something, instead of just having received in charity. A self-help group of 10 women launder and iron the clothes and also manage the shop , said Anindita Mitra, MC Commissioner||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/donate-clothes-through-swachhta-sawari-in-chandigarh-365453
30-01-2022||Amarjot Kaur||Wait for Chandigarh railway station makeover gets longer||Chandigarh, January 29The Chandigarh railway station’s wait to earn a “world-class” tag has got longer. There is no clarity on when the work on the project, hanging fire since 2012, will start.Earlier, the station’s redevelopment project came under the purview of Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation (IRSDC), which was shut down by the Railway Board on October 18 last year. All projects falling under the IRSDC will be handed over to zonal railways by March 31. The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) is now in charge of the station’s redevelopment project.The renovation of the station was first announced in October 2012, when former MP Pawan Kumar Bansal was the Railways Minister. The IRSDC was formed in 2012 for transforming the country’s railway stations into world-class hubs.In March last year, the IRSDC had conducted the first pre-bid meeting for leasing vacant land parcels for mixed-use development as part of the Chandigarh railway station redevelopment project. In September, bids were invited for setting up a rail arcade at the station. The work on the project is stuck since then.Bansal said the station was amongst the first five stations in India, which were to get a makeover. “This was decided during the first term of the UPA. Our idea was to keep the land, not lease it out to someone and use the PPP model for the buildings and services at the station,” he said.Ambala DRM GM Singh said the RLDA was now looking after the world-class project and it was in the process of hiring a new project manager. “We too are in the process of taking over other operations of the station that were earlier managed by the IRSDC. Maybe in another 10 days, we will be done with this process,” he said.                                     #Chandigarhrailwaystation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/wait-for-chandigarh-railway-station-makeover-gets-longer-365452
30-01-2022||Chandigarh||Cashless payment facility starts at Sukhna Lake in Chandigarh||The Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation (CITCO) has started the facility of cashless payment for most of its services at the Sukhna Lake.The department has started this facility for the boating counter, Food Court and the Chef Lakeview restaurant. The facility was launched in view of the spread of Covid-19. To avail of the facility, a card would be given to a customer which can be recharged as per his or her convenience.In this regard, an official of the department said CITCO had started the facility of cashless payment for most of the services at the lake. “Now, people will be able to pay with cards for boating and buying food, etc. For the card, people will have to pay Rs30 as security money once, after which they will be able to recharge the card according to their convenience and make payments from it,” he said, adding that on returning the card, the security amount would be refunded. At the same time, the system of payment for all services would also continue as before, he said.With Covid cases decliniing, all activities have started again at the lake from Friday.On January 3, the Administration had stopped boating and other activities after the third wave of Corona. Around 150 people enjoyed boating at the lake today. However, the number is much lower than visitors seen at the lake before during weekends. An official of CITCO said most tourists were not yet fully aware of the resumption of activities at the lake. He said the department was also working on starting more activities at the lake. A party boat is already operating at the lake. —                                      #SukhnaLake||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/cashless-payment-facility-starts-at-sukhna-lake-in-chandigarh-365451
30-01-2022||Mohali||Covid-19: 5 more fatalities in Mohali district||Five more fatalities were witnessed iduring the past 24 hours, taking the number of Covid deaths to 1,121 in the district. The deceased were two men aged 61 and 78 years, residents of Mamta Enclave in Zirakpur and Sector 61 in Mohali, respectively, and three women aged 62, 60 and 65 years, all residents of Kharar.Meanwhile, 605 fresh Covid cases surfaced till Saturday evening, taking the number of positive cases to 92,453. As many as 1,248 patients have been cured and discharged. Of a total of 605 fresh Covid positive cases, 223 cases were reported from Mohali urban, 25 cases from Gharuan, 17 cases from Kurali, seven cases from Lalru, 40 cases from Boothgarh, 45 cases from Dera Bassi, 132 cases from Dhakoli and 116 cases from Kharar. — TNSThree deaths, 242 cases in P’kulaPanchkula: The district reported three deaths and 242 fresh cases of Covid on Saturday. The active caseload now stands at 1,375. Meanwhile, the number of recovered persons went up to 40,575. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/5-more-fatalities-in-mohali-district-365450
30-01-2022||---||Signs of 3rd Covid wave flattening in Chandigarh||Chandigarh, January 29In what could be some respite for residents of the city, indications suggest the flattening of the third wave of Covid-19 with active cases showing a dip for the tenth successive day.With the test positivity rate falling to 7.36 per cent on Saturday, from 15.50 per cent on January 25, experts debated if that was a sign of the flattening of the curve in the city.Dr Suman Singh, Director, Health Services, Chandigarh, said, “We are seeing a decreasing trend in the number of active cases and daily cases, but we are still monitoring the situation very carefully and not letting our guard down.” UT Adviser Dharam Pal said, “Not only has the curve flatenned but it is also showing a declining trend.”Hospital bed occupancy still 25 per centAlthough the city is witnessing a declining trend in the cases of Covid-19, hospital admissions are still stable and have not significantly reduced. Around 25 per cent Covid beds were occupied in hospitals of the city on Saturday. In the past seven days, the positivity rate stood at 11.93 per cent while 546 daily cases were reported on an average.UT sees 321 cases, 3 deathsChandigarh on Saturday recorded 321 cases and three Covid deaths. These included a 74-year-old man from Sector 38, a case of diabetes mellitus, hypertension and acute respiratory distress syndrome, who expired at the PGI. He was fully vaccinated. A 76-year-old woman from Sector 20, with similar conditions, also expired at the PGI. She had received the first dose of the vaccine. A 27-year-old woman from Dhanas was brought dead at the GMSH-16. She tested positive for Covid posthumously. She also had her first dose. The tally of Covid deaths in UT has reached 1,115.                                     #Covid19||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/chandigarh/signs-of-3rd-wave-flattening-in-chandigarh-365445
