01-05-2021||Desperate times call for desperate measures and a deep rethink of some existing mores and practices. As the deadly wave of the coronavirus currently sweeping across the country leaves a long trail of dead bodies and consequential depleting space and wood for burials or lighting pyres||Go for electric mode||Even when last April, at the onset of the pandemic, experts recommended that the bodies of the Covid-infected be cremated in the electric or gas chambers, many picked the other choice given: of burying/cremating in large open grounds so the fumes emitted do not affect the nearby colonies. That is, until the last couple of weeks. Electric crematoria are working round the clock as people are flocking to this medically safe, clean, quick and eco-friendly mode of bidding adieu to their kin. Those lying unused or defunct all these years have been revived and cremation staff quickly learning to handle them, for the sudden manifold increase in the numbers of people succumbing to the virus has led to an acute shortage and black-marketing of wood and space, as also long waiting periods. Incidentally, in a reverse desperate measure, city administrations, like Pune, have been constrained under the weight of the influx of deaths to relax the electric cremation rule and open all crematoria for Covid victims.While trickles of people have all along been individually amenable to adopting the electric/gas eco-friendly mode (each pyre requires 300-500 kg of wood), the pandemic calls for a collective rethink. The leaders and mandarins of all faiths must find ways of consecrating the practice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/go-for-electric-mode-246513
01-05-2021||The sharp rise in the number of critical Covid cases in recent weeks has led to an exponential increase in the demand for medical oxygen in several states||Oxygen imbalance||Anomalies in oxygen supply have also come under the judicial scanner. For a patient gasping for breath, every moment is crucial. Even a short delay can prove to be fatal — and the worst has been happening in many cases. The High Court has questioned the Centre’s rationale for letting Delhi receive oxygen from far-off plants in West Bengal and Odisha. The logistic problems must be addressed at the earliest so that minimum time is consumed in transportation.The Centre has also invited the court’s ire for tardy progress with regard to the installation of four oxygen generation plants in the Capital, even as the state government too can’t escape blame for failing to take pre-emptive action. The Centre claims that there is no shortage of medical oxygen in the country, with the production enhanced from about 6,000 MT per day in August 2020 to 9,000 MT till date. Now, the twin tasks of rationalising the allocation and streamlining the supply must be prioritised. Regular monitoring is the key to removing state-specific bottlenecks. Timely administration of oxygen can save precious lives and bring down the Covid mortality rate.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/oxygen-imbalance-246495
