03-05-2021||There could not be a better description of the Indian situation than the lament by the Delhi High Court on Friday||Indian State has failed||The same day, in the suo motu hearing of the Covid crisis, the Supreme Court Bench of Justices DY Chandrachud, L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat made several important observations and orders, which the Central government should immediately implement. The Bench has warned the state governments and their police forces not to trample on the right of desperate caregivers to air their anxieties or to call for help on social media. Certain state governments have been brazen enough to impose the National Security Act and incarcerate those who take on the government for its policies. This order invoking the contempt law should stop them in their tracks.The Supreme Court has very pertinently asked the Central government why it is not following its own national immunisation policy and buying 100 per cent of the Covid vaccine doses. The court has rightly pointed out that pricing cannot be left to vaccine manufacturers, who cannot determine equity. Moreover, these manufacturers have received government funding, which needs to be accounted for. Most importantly, the Bench has asked the Centre to look at the possibility of importing Remdesivir from Bangladesh, which as a least developed country is allowed by the WTO agreement to produce patented drugs. Meanwhile, the government has to draw up a uniform policy on hospital admissions while ensuring hospital beds, oxygen cylinders and life-saving drugs. This is the last and final call to save the nation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/indian-state-has-failed-247508
03-05-2021||The metaphor of a lone woman fighting against the most powerful men of the country was not lost on anyone — least of all||The woman in white||The story of Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s win is that of a grateful electorate rewriting a 40-year-old tradition to bring back a government that cared for it during the devastating floods of 2018 and the Covid pandemic. The poor were sustained by the government’s distribution of household essentials in Covid kits and a decent dole that saw them through the difficult days of joblessness. While Kerala rewrote its recent electoral history, Tamil Nadu voted out a largely ineffective alliance weighed down by the BJP and brought to power MK Stalin, the son and heir of the late Dravidian patriarch, M Karunanidhi.While BJP retained Assam and won the Union Territory of Puducherry in alliance with local heavyweight N Rangaswamy, the biggest loser in this round of elections is the Congress. Party leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury’s personal pique against Banerjee and his flawed election strategy to tie up with the Left instead of the TMC has reduced the Congress to a big zero in West Bengal. The Congress leadership elsewhere too failed to measure up to its opponents. After the polls, we cannot term the voters as the ultimate victors because now they will have to pay for the feverish electioneering unleashed on them in the times of the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-woman-in-white-247513
