04-05-2021||With the second wave of the Covid pandemic intensifying across the country||Make lockdown count||Anthony Fauci, the chief medical adviser to the Biden administration, has suggested that there should be a shutdown for a few weeks in India to curb transmission of the virus. But he has hastened to add that this period should be utilised to ramp up supplies of oxygen, drugs and PPE kits, besides energising the vaccination programme. Almost every day, patients are dying due to oxygen shortage in some part of the country. Though it’s a race against time, work on sanctioned oxygen plants should be expedited to reduce the shortfall and save as many lives as possible.Another cause for concern is that India has managed to fully inoculate barely 2 per cent of its population since the vaccine rollout in mid-January. Many states are running out of stocks at a time when the vaccination drive has been extended to cover all adults. Though India accounts for one in every two global cases each day, its daily testing rate is just 1.24 tests per 1,000 people, less than half of America’s rate. All these issues need prompt resolution. A lockdown will be of little use if things go back to square one, or worse, once it ends. The whole exercise should be aimed at dealing with, and not merely delaying, the inevitable.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/make-lockdown-count-247796
04-05-2021||Adversity brings out the best in people||Ending Covid loot||It would be incorrect to say that the healthcare system has collapsed. It hasn’t, it is overwhelmed, but is still pretty much functional thanks to the dedicated staff. Falling short of ambulances and workforce, however, is inexcusable. An emergency-like situation demands drastic measures. Seeking aid is no sign of weakness; have faith in people, recognise their capacity to help get a grip on a situation fast going out of control. The Centre’s move to rope in MBBS passouts and final-year students is a step in the right direction. An appeal should also go out for volunteers and material requirements — from the civil society at large, or youngsters and other citizens eager to offer their services, be it at helpdesks, to address distress calls, monitor and supply medicines and essential deliveries, arrange transportation, ensure timely and dignified last rites. Anything to ease the load of the frontline workers.How difficult would it be to fix ambulance rates, which could be a tad higher than normal times given the increased workload and consequent risk that drivers and support staff are facing? Ensure a nodal desk to take cognisance of any report of overcharging, with strict action. As in Noida, where the police forced the ambulance driver to return Rs 42,000 that he charged a patient to cover just 25 km. Or the Jalandhar authorities announcing to reward those presenting evidence of Covid loot||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ending-covid-loot-247797
