05-05-2021||Like unending peels of an onion||Criminal wastage||That medical supplies crucial for tertiary care should gather dust exposes the abject apathy, appalling negligence and callousness of the healthcare system. Crores of rupees were spent on the procurement of medical equipment last year in the wake of the first wave of the pandemic. Ventilator manufacturers had risen to the occasion and ramped up production capacities. By June, the government had pumped in Rs 2,000 crore for supplying 50,000 ventilators to government-run Covid-19 hospitals across the country. But the devices are lying idle with the makers as there are very few takers in view of the inadequate strength of technicians. The dearth of breathing apparatus underscores the gross mismanagement.While it makes sense, for example, for the Mohali and Muktsar government hospitals to pass on the ventilators to hospitals that can make optimal use of them, it also raises some questions. Pertinently, considering the prohibitively high cost of private hospital ICU beds, what proportion, if any, of the respiratory apparatus given to the private hospitals is reserved for poor patients? Why are public hospitals, especially in smaller towns, so understaffed, lacking in trained hands? How does the equipment land up in places that are not equipped to handle it? Has anyone been held accountable for such wastage of meagre medical resources?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/criminal-wastage-248247
05-05-2021||The disruption of oxygen supply is causing deaths almost on a daily basis in the country. Earlier this week||Waiting to breathe||Time is of utmost importance when a patient’s life is on the line. It’s a no-brainer that oxygen must reach the recipient in the shortest duration possible. It defies logic that Punjab has to keep waiting for 4-5 days for a tanker to bring 90 MT (metric tonnes) of the gas from a plant in Jharkhand’s Bokaro. After the Chamarajanagar tragedy, the Karnataka government has decided to focus on three broad goals to streamline the supply of oxygen allocated by the Centre: reduce the time taken to refill tankers; provide a green corridor for faster commuting of tankers; and avoid delay at toll plazas. Such a template needs to be adopted across the board at the earliest in view of the enhanced inter-state movement of tankers.The Supreme Court has rightly directed the Centre to create a buffer stock of oxygen for emergency purposes in collaboration with the states and decentralise the location of the stocks so that it is promptly available if the normal supply chain is disrupted. That the Covid Care Centre at Delhi’s Commonwealth Games Village will soon have its own oxygen plant that will provide uninterrupted supply to 15-20 beds from its pipeline is too little too late. Such a self-sufficient arrangement will cut down potentially fatal delays. Coordination between the Centre and the states, and also among the states, is vital. There should be no disparity between a state’s requirement and the actual allocation as well as supply. The oxygen crisis can be overcome by removing bottlenecks at all stages.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/waiting-to-breathe-248226
