06-05-2021||It takes an election year to fast-track the fulfilment of long-pending promises and resolution of ticklish financial issues||Punjab largesse||The commission’s recommendations, which cater to about seven lakh employees and pensioners, are likely to lead to an additional expenditure of Rs 3,500 crore per annum from 2016. In its Budget presented in March this year, the government had earmarked Rs 9,000 crore for the purpose. Such a bonanza amid the devastating second wave of the pandemic sounds too good to be true, but with Punjab going to the polls early next year, the temptation to ‘beg, borrow or steal’ to release the payments would be irresistible for the ruling party. The big question: where will the money come from? Will the state, whose debt burden is expected to reach Rs 2,73,703 crore by March 2022, take the all-too-familiar loan route to woo this important section of the electorate?The state is in for tougher times as GST compensation from the Centre is slated to end from next year. Revenue generation will be a huge challenge in the coming months in view of the disruptions caused by repeated lockdowns and curfews. Successive governments in Punjab have given fiscal prudence the go-by so as not to displease the farming community and other vote banks. The tradition of living beyond one’s means is set to continue, so what if the state inevitably sinks deeper into the debt quagmire.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/punjab-largesse-248790
06-05-2021||It was in 1992 that a nine-judge Bench of the Supreme Court had drawn the ‘Lakshman rekha’ for reservation in jobs and education at 50 per cent||No quota beyond 50%||Significantly, also struck down were the findings of the commission which had led to enactment of the Maratha quota law, and the Bombay High Court’s validation in 2019 of the Maharashtra State Reservation for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes Act, 2018, by reducing the recommended quantum of reservation from 16 per cent to 12 per cent in education and 13 per cent in employment. As a concession, appointments made following the HC ruling would hold, but without further benefits. Students already admitted can continue.Backing Maharashtra, the Centre had argued that the state had the legislative competence to grant reservation. This, even as petitions claimed that Marathas had been dominant socially and politically as almost 40 per cent of MPs and MLAs of the state were from this community and the notion that they had been left behind was flawed. The hearing saw the Bench raise concerns over the ‘resultant inequality’ in case the overall 50 per cent limit was to be removed, as it sought to know for how many generations would reservations continue. ‘Can we accept that no development has taken place, no backward caste has moved forward?’ it asked. A question that several state governments, like Tamil Nadu which allows 69 per cent quota and faces a challenge in court, would be hard-pressed to answer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/no-quota-beyond-50-248782
