07-05-2021||THE ferocity of the second wave of Covid-19||Caregivers need care||The state of affairs has rendered the overwhelmed and overworked healthcare staff vulnerable to a host of psychiatric issues. They are physically burnt out, emotionally exhausted and mentally distressed due to the extreme work pressure since the pandemic broke out more than a year ago as also keeping away from their loved ones for fear of exposing them to the infection. It is triggering anxiety, insomnia, depression, frustration and other problems among an increasing number of medical professionals. Some of them are resorting to excessive use of ‘substances’ to cope with the stress.It is essential to address their problem not only for their own sake but also because only healthy physicians can offer optimal services. A ‘burnout helpline’ for healthcare workers set up in Haryana’s Panchkula Civil Hospital received 15 calls in just two days. Replicating this measure in all district hospitals is bound to assist the affected caregivers throughout the country. Building a network of psychotherapists on whom the medical personnel can fall back on must be prioritised as their mental well-being is vital to fostering a resilient and strong healthcare workforce.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/caregivers-need-care-249096
07-05-2021||THE Indian State failed conclusively in containing the second surge of the Covid pandemic. According to news reports||Preparing for third wave||It is in this breathless moment that the Principal Scientific Adviser (PSA) to Prime Minister announces the possibility of a third wave, without specifying the possible timeline or the probable target age group. We are none the wiser, nor safer, after the announcement because there still are no beds, not enough medical oxygen and there is a severe scarcity of drugs, equipment, manpower and even ambulances. The country that enforced the strictest lockdown in the world now cannot ensure that ambulances do not overcharge patients or those carrying the dead. Two days before the announcement, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation had begun preparing for the third wave, setting up a paediatric Covid-19 ward with 700 beds, fearing the next stage of the pandemic to hit those below 12 years of age.The Centre and the states now have to be ready with a national plan to manage the next wave. The Supreme Court has asked the Centre to draw up a comprehensive oxygen supply plan to ensure 700 MT of the precious gas to Delhi. The country as a whole needs such a plan for all critical care components, including testing kits. There is a large share of false negative reports, and those in External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar’s team turning positive after reaching London has become an international embarrassment. The Centre has to urgently ramp up testing and vaccination facilities, without which we will be left paralysed during the next wave.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/preparing-for-third-wave-249104
