08-05-2021||The Supreme Court has rejected the Election Commission’s plea to restrain the media from reporting oral remarks made by judges during hearings||Free speech order||A degree of caution and circumspection by the High Court would have allayed a grievance of the nature that arose in this case, it advised the HC. The verdict has to be understood from the standpoint of institutional interplay as it went much beyond the limited question in hand and enunciated very important principles of accountability and transparency in a democracy. Democracy functions through institutions which are assigned specific roles and together they form a system of checks and balances — a bulwark against possible concentration of powers in the hands of an individual, a group or even an organ of the State. Per se, there is nothing wrong in one pillar of democracy finding fault with the other as it is indicative of a healthy practice. One would agree with the verdict that open court proceedings ensure that the judicial process is subject to public scrutiny, which is crucial to maintaining transparency and accountability needed to establish people’s faith in the democratic set-up.In 2012, a Constitution Bench had imported the concept of ‘neutralising device’ from American jurisprudence to empower courts to order postponement of reporting of sub judice matters. The court’s assertion that citizens have a right to know about what transpires in the course of judicial proceedings and that it stands as a staunch proponent of the freedom of the media to report court proceedings would be music to the ears of votaries of free speech.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/free-speech-order-249715
08-05-2021||The Covid-19 pandemic||Access to vaccines||In October 2020, India and South Africa had submitted a proposal suggesting a temporary waiver for all World Trade Organisation (WTO) member countries on the implementation, application and enforcement of certain provisions of the TRIPS (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) agreement with regard to the prevention, containment or treatment of Covid-19. As and when it happens, the lifting of patent protections can potentially enable poor nations to get more vaccine doses and put up a better fight against the lethal virus.Not surprisingly, America’s stand has failed to enthuse big pharma, which claims that the waiver of intellectual property rights will neither facilitate vaccine accessibility nor help curb the outbreak any time soon. This misplaced pessimism is fuelled by greed. On an average, it costs more than $1 billion for a drug to pass all the development stages and get regulatory approval. The global pharmaceutical industry fears that disturbing the status quo on patents would eat into its profits and disincentivise innovators. Avarice amid adversity is nothing less than a crime against humanity. It’s high time all nations, big and small, realise that their destinies are intertwined. The world must come together to prevent public health from being sacrificed at the altar of profit-making. The onus is on Covid-battered India to drum up enough international support to deal a decisive blow to the virus.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/access-to-vaccines-249711
