10-05-2021||The recovery of almost 100 oxygen concentrators from an eatery in Delhi’s upscale Khan Market||Pandemic’s vultures||Rs 20,000-25,000 presumably for personal use, the concentrators were being sold for at least Rs 70,000. Greed alone cannot explain what’s unravelling; besides an immoral and vile mindset is the criminal recklessness that only lack of fear of punishment can induce and sustain.The rampant ambulance profiteering is now on the radar of the authorities as harassed and hapless family members of the sick and dying, already reeling under stress, pain and lack of institutional support, take it upon themselves to ensure that others are spared their fate. The helplines are buzzing and sting operations are being carried out across media platforms. The Delhi Police had to confront another sickening reality recently. Three men were arrested for selling fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders by painting them white. A massive, coordinated crackdown by the law and order machinery can only be called a starting point. An example needs to be made out with a fast-track court trial of those on a ruinous path to demean humanity.If a new bar is set every day for how low people can fall, the national capital is also witnessing how they can rise to the occasion too. From ‘oxygen langar’ to setting up Covid bed facilities, gurdwaras have again excelled in their selfless service. Twitter handles have served as lifelines. The second wave has exposed the inadequacies of governments like never before. Forget image correction, only earnest measures to deal with the unprecedented crisis can make a difference.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/pandemics-vultures-250566
10-05-2021||Testing is one of the three essential Ts to tackle Covid-19. Rather||Covid testing delays||The 10-day delay in the RT-PCR test results of Kangra more or less exemplifies the story. In this frustrating and disturbing interim, those found Covid-positive face a huge risk as they lose precious time for treatment; they may also unintentionally pass on the infection, especially if they are asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. Particularly impacted are the poor who cannot afford private labs, even as government facilities are buckling under pressure. Making the people desperate is also the fact that tied to their latest Covid status are aspects such as inter-state travel and leave from work.To meet the challenge, the ICMR guidelines state that on recovery, a patient need not go for a test to be certified as Covid-negative. It is mulling doing away with the need for a negative report for travel and asking people to not go for repeat tests. But these steps are fraught with danger at a time when the caseload is seeing no sign of abating. A person may be Covid-negative one moment, but become infected thereafter on exposure. Self-quarantine and taking general treatment once the symptoms are evident, as advised by Niti Aayog experts, are fine, but what if the situation deteriorates suddenly and prompt care is denied for want of the crucial report? Though on Saturday, the ICMR said a Covid-positive report is not a must for hospitalisation, the authorities cannot bypass the scaling up of diagnostic capacities. The much-promised mobile labs, walk-in/drive-through Covid test kiosks and dedicated RAT booths must be fast-tracked to ease the all-round travails.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-testing-delays-250565
