11-05-2021||The ICMR has warned that Covid patients who have uncontrolled diabetes and are on steroids that suppress the body’s immunity or have had a prolonged stay in the ICU must beware of black fungal infection (mucormycosis). They are predisposed to catching the infection as their ability to fight germs like this fungal pathogen (mucormycetes)||Black fungus worrisome||The advisory comes in the wake of a worrisome rise in cases of this otherwise rare fungal disease detected among Covid survivors in many places, including Pune, Delhi and Ahmedabad. The example of Pune — that traditionally saw just one such case every few months has witnessed around 30 cases in the past two to three weeks — should alert the vulnerable group of patients. They need to be on the lookout for such symptoms as sinusitis, black or bloody nasal discharge, pain on cheek bone or one side of the face, ache/loosening of teeth, blurred or double vision with fever, skin lesion, thrombosis, chest pain and shortness of breath.The set of preventive dos and don’ts enumerated should be helpful. Emphasis is laid on controlling blood glucose level and the judicious use of steroids, with correct timing, dose and duration — under medical supervision. Also highlighted is the need to maintain personal hygiene and stay masked and fully covered with shoes, gloves, long-sleeved shirts and long trousers. Even as guidelines have been prescribed for doctors — a team of various specialists is needed — for the line of treatment to be adopted, people showing warning signs would do well to promptly take medical aid before it turns into a back-breaking, deadly malaise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/black-fungus-worrisome-251008
11-05-2021||Over 33 lakh people have succumbed to the coronavirus pandemic in the past year and a half||Dig out Covid truth||These ‘revelations’, predictably dismissed by China’s state-run Global Times newspaper as an attempt to tarnish the country’s image, have reignited the global clamour for getting to the bottom of the matter. It’s a pity that the World Health Organisation (WHO), the UN nodal agency spearheading the fight against Covid-19, has not been able to bring us closer to the truth. A probe conducted by a team of experts from the WHO in Wuhan in January-February this year had dismissed as ‘unlikely’ the theory that the virus leaked from a lab. The investigation left a lot to be desired amid allegations that the Chinese authorities did not offer ‘full cooperation’ to the visiting contingent.China, which again finds itself under intense international scrutiny, needs to do a lot of explaining for the whys and wherefores of the 2015 documents. The WHO, on its part, has to ensure that a thorough investigation is conducted, making it incumbent on the Chinese government to keep the proceedings transparent. Reeling under the second wave of the pandemic, India should push harder for ascertaining the truth and fixing responsibility. With the Union Health Minister heading the WHO’s Executive Board, India needs to use this platform effectively so that Covid-like catastrophes don’t recur.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/dig-out-covid-truth-251005
