12-05-2021||It is a pity that the Covid-hassled public has had to pay the price for the inefficiencies of the authorities in implementing the price cap for RT-PCR testing in private diagnostic laboratories and hospitals. The Punjab Government has fixed Rs 450 for the test. However||Loot by private labs||Unless the law enforcers take a tough stance and swoop down on the overcharging labs and penalise them, the distressed people will not have much choice but to give in to the swindlers’ greed or, go for the worse option in a pandemic situation: not give swabs. Action, if taken, seems to be reactive as the authorities wait for complaints rather than being proactive. This bitter truth is mirrored by the example of Jalandhar, Punjab. The story is, perhaps, similar countrywide.In mid-March, an FIR was registered against Atulya Lab for allegedly charging Rs 1,500 for the Covid test — without a receipt — when an alert person submitted a video proof to the authorities, which was then examined. The Jalandhar DC had then warned the labs against profiteering and said they would be checked randomly and violators dealt with a heavy hand. Two months on, there seems to be little effect of the stern caveat. A sting operation by some affected people on May 10 revealed three centres, notably, including an Atulya Lab centre, asking for Rs 900-1,200. Based on the videos provided to the DC by The Tribune, notices have been issued to the prima facie offenders. When will the common man be assured of the benefit of Covid-specific welfare policies?||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/loot-by-private-labs-251568
12-05-2021||Covid seems to have taken us back to the colonial times of pestilence and famines||Covid corpses on Ganga||This is the story of Covid hitting the Hindi heartland, particularly UP, which has lost four ruling party MLAs to the pandemic. Union Minister Santosh Gangwar had last week written an angry letter to Adityanath pointing out the glaring lapses, apathy of medical officers and hoarding of oxygen cylinders. UP Minister and Lucknow MLA Brajesh Pathak, Bareilly MLA Kesar Singh (who later died), Mohanlalganj MP Kaushal Kishore, Basti MP Harish Dwivedi, Bhadohi MLA Dinanath Bhaskar, Kanpur MP Satyadev Pachauri and others have written similar letters expressing their inability to help their constituents. Jasrana MLA Pappu Lodhi released a video on social media of his wife lying on the floor of a Covid ward.There are BJP MLAs who have no qualms about blaming UP’s aggravated second surge on the state’s panchayat polls and the Kumbh Mela. While they claim that things are getting better, there is no denying that the situation is dismal in UP. This is the real India of mindless politico-religious priorities with no health infrastructure, no advance planning for a known disease, no treatment and finally, no dignity for its dead.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-corpses-on-ganga-251550
