13-05-2021||Haryana is going through a dismal phase as coronavirus ravages the state||Snap out of denial mode||It is unfortunate that numerous villages, and even towns, in the state are, instead, putting their faith in havan to ward off the virus and cleanse the air. It holds little water and would boomerang with a super-spread of the disease, much like the Kumbh Mela mahants’ belief that the pathogen would be washed down the Ganga.The Tribune has highlighted the sorry plight of Mahendragarh and Rohtak villages. This mulish attitude, steeped in irrationality, is also perhaps the main contributor to Haryana’s other bleak statistic: the state has reported the highest wastage of Covid vaccine.However, giving hope in this gloomy scenario is Barwa village of Bhiwani that stands out as an oasis. Its exemplary response to the Covid outbreak has put paid to the justification of people having had to resort to havan in view of the acute shortage of healthcare facilities. Jolted by death and disease, and with little help coming by from the authorities, Barwa villagers recently formed a ‘Corona Sahayata Samiti’ to assist those down with Covid symptoms. It enlisted four medical practitioners to monitor the ill patients. Though a modest effort, it does bring about awareness. It also sets the ball rolling for the requisite paraphernalia, including moving the authorities to provide aid to the needy and send vaccines. Such self-help groups at the village level can shape an effective and coordinated way of dealing with the dire situation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/snap-out-of-denial-mode-252061
13-05-2021||During the second wave||Covid hotspots||Amid the surge in rural areas, the Centre’s decision to ‘rationalise’ RT-PCR tests and increase RAT (Rapid Antigen Tests) testing is questionable. Though the RAT is cheaper and easier to perform, and provides quick results, it is far less accurate than RT-PCR. According to studies, antigen tests correctly identify Covid-19 infection in over 70 per cent of the people with symptoms and in around 60% of those who are asymptomatic. In contrast, the lab test has an accuracy rate of 90-100 per cent.Relaxing the Health Ministry’s norm of 70 per cent RT-PCR and 30 per cent RAT would lead to a sharp rise in the number of false negatives. A significant proportion of Covid-infected people, who will go by misleading test reports, won’t self-isolate themselves and would end up spreading infection. The way forward for the authorities is to ramp up RT-PCR testing infrastructure at the earliest. If it’s a toss-up between accuracy and speed, the former must be preferred. This is not the time to cut corners. The tried-and-tested drill has to be conducted across the board without fail.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/covid-hotspots-252058
