14-05-2021||Stock-taking||Ventilator fiasco||Several questions deserve answers. Why should quality-tested machines encounter glitches or fail the test of trust and reliability? Who failed to raise the red flag? Who chose not to respond timely to calls for repairs or technical assistance? Why the casualness all around? Why should there be a shortage of technicians trained to operate sophisticated machines? Over 4,000 is the daily recorded death toll. There is no time to lose, the only way forward is to quickly set the house — however disorganised and chaotic — in order. Get the devices running as fast as possible, make contractors duty-bound to have maintenance staff on call, ensure the doctors’ apprehensions are addressed, and hold emergency training sessions.PM Cares Fund has been mired in controversy over the lack of transparency surrounding it. It is difficult to fathom the hesitancy in making public the priority and account sheets, but the ventilator fiasco does demand accountability — from the manufacturers, the Centre and the states. When public welfare is the goal all three swear by, clearly something is missing. As the country prepares for the third wave and foreign aid pours in, it would be a colossal disaster if the institutions falter in course-correction on even basics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ventilator-fiasco-252448
14-05-2021||A year and a half after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic that has claimed over 33 lakh lives and infected more than 16 crore people worldwide so far||The buck stops with WHO||Indeed, the WHO hasn’t exactly covered itself in glory in these challenging times. During the early months of the pandemic, the UN agency kept insisting that mask-wearing was not recommended for the general public. It was only in June last year that the global body reversed its stand on this crucial matter. Though there were telltale signs that the virus was of Chinese origin, the WHO preferred to walk a diplomatic tightrope, sparking allegations that it was going soft on China. A probe into the origins of the coronavirus materialised as late as January this year when China finally allowed a team of international experts to visit Wuhan, Covid’s original epicentre. The investigation, however, proved to be a damp squib as the world didn’t get any conclusive answers.The IPPPR has stressed the need for empowering the WHO to send investigators at short notice to track down new disease outbreaks and publish their findings without delay. This recommendation is in itself an admission of the global organisation’s incapacity to take decisive action. The report comes ahead of the May 24-June 1 meeting of the World Health Assembly, the WHO’s decision-making body. The 194 member states need to go beyond discussing the panel’s findings and suggestions. What’s needed is consensus on promptly initiating reforms to transform the global pandemic preparedness and response system, starting with pushing the WHO to put its own house in order. All the deliberations will be of no consequence if the world remains ill-equipped to stave off another Covid-like apocalypse.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/the-buck-stops-with-who-252449
