15-05-2021||As social and religious gatherings flagrantly took precedence over the precautionary Covid practices prescribed to keep coronavirus at bay||Himachal emerges as hotspot||After the national positivity rate having dipped slightly to settle below 20 per cent, HP’s positivity rate has significantly climbed by 6 per cent in the past one week and crossed the 26 per cent mark as the virus has penetrated the hinterland. Particularly staggering under the strain of an immense caseload is Sirmaur — that has registered a mountainous 38.4 per cent positivity rate — as also Shimla, Solan and Mandi, all with more than 30 per cent rate. Notably, as per the WHO, the positivity rate should remain below 5 per cent for two weeks, before a government could start easing restrictions. With the state’s health services, not surprisingly, proving inadequate to cater to the surge of those in need of urgent medical care and equipment, including the life-saving oxygen, the case fatality rate (CFR) among Covid patients in the state stands at 1.42 — higher than the national average CFR of 1.09 per cent.It is imperative for the people to strictly adhere to the containment and corrective measures put in place. Public cooperation at the local level holds the key to breaking the deadly chain of transmission. At the same time, as the Himachal High Court directed, the government’s Covid response strategy must ensure equitable access to testing, medicine and hospital beds across the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/himachal-emerges-as-hotspot-252970
15-05-2021||The irony is painful||Tardy vaccine drive||In four months after the launch of its vaccination programme, India has managed to fully inoculate just 3 per cent of its citizens, while 10 per cent of the people have received one shot each. In stark contrast, the US and the UK have administered one dose to around half of their population, while about one-third of their citizens have been completely vaccinated. With the third wave seemingly inevitable, the grim situation may worsen in India as the vast majority might remain unprotected against the deadly virus.The Centre has announced that over two billion doses would be made available by the year-end, enough to cover the entire population, and that the number could be raised to three billion by the first quarter of 2022. These distant targets have nothing comforting to offer as it’s the short-term requirements which merit serious attention and prompt action. The government has taken too long to reassure companies that it would provide ‘all possible assistance’ to them to manufacture vaccines in India. Major international players like Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson are still not on board. The longer the Centre takes to remove production bottlenecks and plug supply gaps, the weaker the vaccine lifeline will become. With India losing roughly three lives to Covid every minute, there’s not a moment to lose.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/tardy-vaccine-drive-252969
