17-05-2021||Post-POLL violence in West Bengal has only compounded the challenge for the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government that has come to power for the third consecutive term with a thumping majority. While several lives were lost before and during the eight-phase polling||Stem violence in Bengal||With the CM now reinstating most police officers who were moved out by the Election Commission, the onus will lie on the TMC government to establish law and order — a state subject — and instil confidence in those having different political affiliations. If the winning party’s conduct has come under scrutiny, equally disconcerting is the Centre’s decision to provide CISF security cover to the newly-elected BJP legislators. It not only sets a wrong precedent, but also qualifies as direct and unwarranted interference.West Bengal has declared a near-complete lockdown till the month-end, days after the CM stated during the oath-taking ceremony that Covid vaccination and controlling the spread of the virus would top her agenda. The state is also thinking of completing the vaccination process of all the people in the next six months and needs the active cooperation of the Centre for this. With the election for the Speaker over, the Assembly is expected to convene in the days ahead. It is the designated forum to question the government and seek accountability. Elections over, governance should take precedence over politics.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/stem-violence-in-bengal-253819
17-05-2021||The Uttar Pradesh government is headed by a politician who wears saffron robes||Hiding corpses in Uttar Pradesh||This is not just un-Hindu, but it is unhygienic, unhealthy and unscientific. When the water level in the river rises, these bodies are bound to float again if they are not buried deep far away from the river. The likelihood of diseases these corpses could spread through the state’s most important water body ought to have shaken up the authorities. But no amount of suffering seems to make any difference to certain politicians, who have failed to offer life breath to the living, let alone the dignity of a cremation to the dead.If the poor of UP have let their dead float on Ganga Ma praying for their deliverance at least in the other world, the middle classes have been begging for slots to cremate their loved ones in the national capital. A former senior journalist of a reputed TV station has recently written about the mind-numbing experience of having to see her father getting cremated along with two others for want of space. Visuals from Himachal Pradesh’s Kangra district of a son carrying the body of his mother on his shoulder and walking alone to the crematorium sum up the Indian tragedy of inadequacies.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/hiding-corpses-in-uttar-pradesh-253820
