18-05-2021||Cautious relief should mark the apparent retreat of the second surge of the coronavirus that brought the country to its knees since it began wreaking havoc. Hope for better days floats as the national daily Covid cases dipped by 25 per cent in 10 days||Cautious relief||Coronavirus has been seen to resurge repeatedly the world over. The unprecedented misery unleashed during the March-May period holds crucial lessons learnt the hard way. Given the constraints of our economic and medical infrastructure, a public health crisis is riddled with huge human and humanitarian costs — a fact sadly laid bare in the ongoing second Covid wave.The only way to avoid a repeat is to keep potential super-spreader events locked down for an indefinite time. Mass religious, political and social gatherings should be a complete no-no. For the few numbers — 10 or so — allowed for these activities, a Covid-negative RT-PCR test should be mandatory. Government and private offices as also marketplaces need to work out staff/space decongestion plans for a long term. Meanwhile, even as the authorities strive to ramp up medical and vaccination infrastructures, the public must strictly follow the hand hygiene-mask-distancing regimen. Such measures should become a way of life for our own good.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cautious-relief-254440
18-05-2021||That the importance of testing to prevent Covid-related deaths cannot be underestimated is evident from the over 110 fatalities that have occurred in just four villages of Haryana. Of these||Death in the villages||The rapid spread of the virus in rural areas has gone unchecked, particularly in UP. The panchayat polls and reverse migration of people from the cities because of the loss of livelihood caused by the extended lockdown enhanced the danger of the virus spreading among the local population, besides the violation of Covid-appropriate protocol. Cases not getting reported also increase the risk. Already, there have been apprehensions over the Covid fatality rate being higher in the rural areas.The government has made recommendations like setting up Covid care centres in the villages to handle both symptomatic and asymptomatic cases but their functioning remains in doubt because of the lack of doctors and other healthcare staff, besides the required wherewithal like oxygen or medicines. While the steps may help in giving healthcare facilities a boost in the rural areas and upgrade them, the situation calls for pragmatic measures to prevent an outbreak, check mortality and improve chances of recovery.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/death-in-the-villages-254439
