19-05-2021||Repeated warnings issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) about any impending natural calamity are aimed at pushing the authorities to make adequate preparations in time so as to minimise loss of life and property. Thanks to state-of-the-art technological aids||Ill-prepared for cyclone||According to Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC), barge P305, deployed for offshore drilling, got de-anchored and started drifting because of the cyclonic storm. P305, which sank later, was an accommodation barge, which is used for providing lodging to the staff on projects where shore accommodation is not available. As Tauktae’s ferocity was a foregone conclusion, alternative arrangements should have been made to save the personnel from becoming drifting ducks. Exposing them to nature’s fury was clearly a sign of callousness.The heroic rescue operation, executed by the naval forces against heavy odds, deserves utmost praise, but at the same time the laxity of the authorities that led to this perilous situation should be thoroughly probed. It’s also imperative to fix accountability of the private and state-run companies which left their employees to fend for themselves at a critical juncture. The cyclone has exposed gaps in our disaster preparedness, with the surveillance of vulnerable offshore sites leaving a lot to be desired. The fact that no damage was reported by Jamnagar refinery, the world’s biggest oil refinery complex, and the Mundra port, India’s largest private port, shows that both were well prepared for the worst. Such watchfulness should have been replicated across the board. Hopefully, lessons will be learnt from the Tauktae experience to drastically improve disaster management.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/ill-prepared-for-cyclone-255082
19-05-2021||Even before the newly elected Assembly has convened||Standoff in Kolkata||It could not be a mere coincidence that the tapes of the sting operation were released before the 2016 Assembly elections, after which the Calcutta High Court ordered a CBI probe in 2017. Incidentally, some of the leaders who figured in the Narada tapes crossed over to the BJP from the TMC before the 2021 elections. The Central agency and the prosecution sanctioning authority need to reassure that their actions do not reek of political vendetta because the CBI has not yet arrested a turncoat — now a BJP MLA — figuring in the tapes. The journalist who had carried out the operation was also later booked by the state government.Politically, the incident is a throwback to the times when a similar sting operation caught the then BJP president Bangaru Laxman on camera allegedly accepting money for facilitating a fictitious defence deal. The incident had damaged the BJP politically. Even now, while the onus lies on the political parties to ensure financial probity in their ranks, it should also be the duty of the investigating agencies and courts to ensure that their actions are bereft of political motives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/standoff-in-kolkata-255046
