20-05-2021||The deadly pandemic has thrown up the daunting challenge of ensuring the safety of orphaned children and the protection of their rights and inheritances. Under the watch of the state government authorities||Protect Covid orphans||Such steps must be amplified across the country. Active governance is needed so that no child suffers for want of timely care. Past earthquakes, cyclones and other disasters offer ample proof of the lurking dangers and vulnerabilities that these unfortunate kids are exposed to. They are easy prey for child-trafficking, sexual abuse, child labour, denial of education, child marriage, manipulation, property usurpation et al. They may be emotionally and mentally scarred or burdened with the task of looking after younger siblings.Warning against a potential spurt in such tragic crimes, the Union government has said all cases of children left without guardians must be routed through the government authorities. In this context, spreading messages and appeals for adoption on social media is illegal as it attracts child traffickers and racketeers. The mandate to have a column on children and their custodians (in case of a tragedy) in hospital forms while admitting Covid patients is a necessary first step.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/protect-covid-orphans-255444
20-05-2021||Healthcare workers have been at the forefront of the grim battle India has been waging against Covid-19 since early 2020. Constituting the most significant high-risk group||Save the life-savers||In a nation whose estimated doctor-patient ratio is 1:1,700, far less than the WHO-mandated 1:1,000, the death of scores of doctors portends deeper trouble for the already overstretched healthcare system. Only two-thirds of India’s health workers have been fully vaccinated till now. Can the protectors do their job properly when they are themselves unprotected against the virus? The IMA has stated that barely 3 per cent of the doctors who have died this year had received both shots. There is no doubt that the authorities have been found wanting in ensuring vaccine compliance for this vulnerable section. Last year, 748 doctors had died during the first wave. Unless the vaccination gaps are plugged promptly, the toll might go up sharply in 2021 as the second wave’s fatality rate remains high and the third one is looming large.Another high-risk group, comprising crematorium workers, has escaped the attention of Central and state governments. Toiling under hazardous conditions without PPE kits, they have been cremating bodies of Covid victims on a daily basis. Their plight is underlined by the death of Praveen Kumar, an office-bearer of the Hisar MC Safai Karamchari Union who conducted the funeral of over 300 victims but eventually contracted the infection himself. The least that can be done is to frame a compensation policy for those who are eking out a living in the shadow of death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/save-the-life-savers-255465
