21-05-2021||AN ill-informed tweet by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal about a ‘new’ coronavirus strain triggered a war of words between the Central and state governments||Strain storm||The scaremongering, which was entirely avoidable, left the Indian government red-faced, prompting External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to clarify that the Delhi CM did not ‘speak for India’. In another damage-control exercise, the Indian High Commissioner rightly told the Singapore government that Kejriwal had ‘no competence’ to comment on Covid variants. The Centre simply could not afford to let the situation spin out of control, considering that Singapore is a trusted ally which recently came to India’s aid by providing much-needed medical oxygen.Boasting a robust healthcare system, Singapore has handled Covid-19 pretty well so far, reporting just 30-odd deaths since early last year. However, a fresh superspreading cluster has made the Southeast Asian country proactively impose tighter restrictions, including the closure of schools. With such a track record, it’s natural for Singapore to get upset when somebody casts aspersions on it without rhyme or reason. Kejriwal should have done a thorough fact-check before taking to social media and triggering a needless controversy. In his overzealousness to make Delhi future-ready, he should not lose sight of the immediate priorities — to ensure that the Capital has adequate oxygen, ICU beds, medicines, crematoria and vaccines during the ongoing second wave. He will also be well advised not to meddle in bilateral affairs, which are the exclusive domain of the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/strain-storm-255954
21-05-2021||Social media platform WhatsApp continues to be at loggerheads with the government over its controversial revised privacy policy||Protecting privacy||WhatsApp had been at the receiving end earlier also when it was alleged that the platform was being used to forward messages whose authenticity could not be verified, leading to proliferation of fake news. It had led the platform to effect changes in its features to prevent this. There have also been reports of data mined from social media platforms being used to influence the electoral prospects of candidates. In times of the pandemic, with most work and even political functioning switching over to the digital form, the need for privacy and checking intrusion will be felt even more. While the company claims its messages are end-to-end encrypted and can neither be read nor stored, its need for sharing of data calls for more scrutiny.Concerns over storage and privacy of data have been there even in the case of Aadhaar and the Aarogya Setu app with chances of a possible leakage and misuse. With every detail of a person available at the click of a mouse, privacy concerns are justified. While the government as well as the company may have a point in storing data to streamline their functioning, remove hassles and benefit the people, the hazards too are for real. India badly needs a national privacy policy to ensure uniform management and regulation of data.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/protecting-privacy-255955
