22-05-2021||Upholding their right to life and liberty to choose their partners||Accept live-in couples||Significantly, this judgment is a welcome departure from two other recent orders by the same HC’s separate Benches that dismissed similar petitions by two other live-in couples. Their relationship was frowned upon as being socially and morally disruptive. This censorious view is, notably, divorced from the growing trend of young lovers opting to stay together and even have children without marriage — in both big and small towns. The fact that in a space of a few days, three cases of live-in couples have been heard in the HC is indicative of the emerging reality of the youth’s mindset. While many elders have also graciously embraced the progressive social change (it precludes the dowry scourge, for one), our region, notorious for ‘honour’ killings, apparently is still largely shackled by an outdated and convoluted sense of morality.However, hope for better sense prevailing emanates from the string of legal rulings in favour of live-in relationships. Their legal sanctity derives from a provision in the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005. The spirit of the precedent set by the Supreme Court must be internalised by all law enforcers. Any departure from that would be a travesty of justice. In 2018, the apex court even quashed the archaic adultery law of 1860 as being unconstitutional, for it considers women as ‘chattel’ and ‘treats a husband as the sole master.’ Though adultery is no more a criminal offence, it remains a sufficient ground for divorce.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/accept-live-in-couples-256666
22-05-2021||The axe forgets but the tree remembers||Bahuguna’s legacy||His heart bled not only for the trees but also for the hapless people whose lives and homes were endangered by mega projects. Bahuguna fought a long and hard battle against the construction of the Tehri Dam, red-flagging the grave consequences of building major infrastructure in an environmentally fragile zone. It was his dream to recreate an ecosystem in which all life forms were respected, be it on land, in the air or in water. ‘Man cannot continue as the exploiter of other species,’ he had said, in a scathing indictment of humankind’s plundering and blundering ways.During the last decade of his life, Bahuguna was an agonised witness to two ecological disasters in Uttarakhand, his native state; the flash floods of 2013 and the Chamoli tragedy of 2021. Acknowledging that the Chipko movement of the 1970s had helped create awareness about the need to save trees, he felt that the situation was much more serious now in view of rampant deforestation and pollution. He had called for launching new Chipkos to protect the green cover so that every citizen could breathe clean air and drink potable water. A world grappling with the challenges of climate change and global warming needs to take a leaf out of Bahuguna’s green book to save itself from self-destruction. His simple message — every tree matters — is a mantra for sustaining life on our troubled planet. The onus is on us.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/bahugunas-legacy-256667
