24-05-2021||THE plot in the ‘Congress’ toolkit case has thickened. Social media platform Twitter has||Curious case of the toolkit||Twitter, however, has concluded that the toolkit is ‘manipulated’. Twitter’s policy states that documents or media ‘that are synthetic or manipulated, shared in a deceptive manner, and are likely to cause harm’ may not be shared on the platform. Several independent researchers and tech experts, after analysing the document and file data, have reached the conclusion that the document is, prima facie, forged. They also conclude that screenshots shared by Patra, allegedly linking the document to former Congress MP Rajeev Gowda’s office, are fake. In defence of the government, the IT Ministry has said that ‘Twitter has unilaterally drawn a conclusion in this matter’ despite an ongoing police investigation.Social media platforms such as Twitter are criticised, rightly, when they are used to disseminate rumours, falsehoods and fake news. If, using its own domain knowledge and expertise, Twitter identifies media as manipulated or fake, it must be lauded because, after all, nothing matters more than the truth. It is possible that Patra and the BJP were taken in by these dubious documents. The government must, in the interest of truth and justice, ensure that law enforcement agencies get to the bottom of this curious mystery. The case holds out an important lesson for all of us — don’t mindlessly believe everything that lands in your inbox.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/curious-case-of-the-toolkit-257498
24-05-2021||For far too long||Fleecing patients||The medical fraternity has deservedly been lauded for its continuing service during the biggest human crisis of our times. Private enterprise is business, after all, and making money is a rightful endeavour which cannot be looked down upon. However, there can be no justification for what is unfair and unscrupulous either. This perhaps is an opportune moment for serious introspection and course correction. The captains of industry have always stepped in to do more than their bit when the situation demands. A new code of ethics is the need of the hour, and a professional audit of what is acceptable and what is not.There is much to the argument that the only way to confront the fleecing of those in distress is by drastically augmenting government facilities, but the budgetary support and vision required for such a defining change have always missed the targets by wide margins. Hence, innovative ideas such as paying medical bills to employees only if they get treated in government facilities prove to be meaningless. The private sector is here to stay, and its role is crucial. The regulatory mechanism has been a letdown, and the loopholes have been exploited at the cost of patients. Covid-19’s one big lesson has been that empathy is the biggest asset. Every healthcare facilitator would have taken note of that||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fleecing-patients-257500
