25-05-2021||Baba Ramdev||Baba black sheep||His long litany of overreach notoriously includes advertising his hollow herbal ‘corona kit’ to ‘cure’ Covid last June. An FIR was filed against him for conspiring to sell a fake ayurveda medicine with the misleading claim. That he had to take back his words on this score too proves his culpability. Significantly, such irresponsible behaviour gives a bad name to the ancient practice of ayurveda and its honest practitioners.Even as Vardhan referred to Ramdev’s baseless claims as ‘unfortunate’, what is more unfortunate is that the businessman has been getting away lightly for his actions. His immunity derives from the state patronage that he enjoys for the perceived garb of nationalism wrapped around his ‘swadeshi’ products, with ministers endorsing their promotional events. It is time action is taken against unscientific, fake claims under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. The outbreak of the pandemic has been identified by scientific methods. It is being followed up by deep research for treatment as well as prevention through vaccines. Even as a cure remains elusive, the suffering of millions of victims has been mitigated. Mocking such efforts is criminal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/baba-black-sheep-257890
25-05-2021||The inordinate delay in taking a call on conducting CBSE Class 12 exams amid the Covid pandemic has kept students||Exams in limbo||From the outset, there has been no sense of urgency on this critical matter that impacts the future of lakhs of students. The Covid-induced disruptions to the academic calendar last year should have prompted the authorities to assess various examination options — online as well as offline — well in advance and frame a contingency plan this time. In 2020, the CBSE Class 12 exams had started in February-end, but the outbreak of the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown brought the process to a halt. Though the first half of July was later fixed for holding the pending exams, these were eventually cancelled. The evaluation was done largely on the basis of the exams in which the students had appeared.It’s no saving grace that the Centre is seeking suggestions from the states on the way forward. This exercise should have been carried out in late March or early April when it became evident that the second wave was upon us. The Delhi and Kerala governments are keen that students should be vaccinated before the exams. This is an impractical proposal for at least two reasons: no clearance yet to vaccines for under-18s; and overall acute shortage of the shots. In any case, making students throng vaccination centres when they should be preparing for the exams will only lead to utter chaos. The safety of teachers and examinees is undoubtedly a major consideration. A relatively low-risk option could be to confine them to their own campuses rather than forcing them to travel to other exam centres. The Centre must decide at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/exams-in-limbo-257892
