26-05-2021||After the states exercised their powers and imposed lockdowns at their own level to contain the second wave of the coronavirus||Walk in for the jab||Vaccines for the younger adult age group became available from May 1, but the demand soon surpassed supplies, exhausting stocks and halting the drive in several states. In Delhi alone, 400 inoculation centres have been shut down because of the unavailability of vaccines and talks with some companies have hit a bottleneck because of their refusal to deal directly with the states instead of the Central Government. While the availability of vaccines is expected to become broad-based in the country in the days to come, making them reachable by avoiding shortages will have to be ensured. The inoculation schedule for some vaccines has already been readjusted, resulting in confusion.The vaccination programme against the coronavirus does need a fillip to protect lives. But it should be well organised to ward off another surge of the deadly virus. For this, the Centre and the states should work in tandem. The onus will also lie on the people to minimise risks by taking all necessary precautions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/walk-in-for-the-jab-258451
26-05-2021||More than a year after the Covid-induced lockdown — imposed at a few hours’ notice — triggered a Partition-like exodus of jobless and penniless migrants across the country||Registering migrants||It’s inexcusable that the all-important exercise of developing a comprehensive national database for unorganised workers, undertaken by the Union Ministry of Labour and Employment, continues to be a work in progress almost halfway through 2021, even though last year’s horrifying chaos had underlined the dire need to speedily enumerate all such labourers. In the absence of reliable data, it’s tough to establish the proportion of workers who have not received cash transfers or free ration. The absolute numbers reeled off by ministers and government officials don’t show us the true picture on the ground.Though there has been no nationwide lockdown this year, various states and union territories have enforced stringent restrictions on economic activity and public movement, forcing many migrant workers to again adopt the desperate measure of returning to their home states. Those who have willy-nilly stayed back are also struggling for bare essentials. A recent survey in Punjab has revealed the disturbing reality: one-third of the migrant workers in the state’s urban areas are illiterate; and almost 60 per cent of them have a monthly income of less than Rs 8,000. What’s needed is a workable action plan — national as well as state-specific — to ensure adequate means of subsistence for migrant workers so that they can withstand repeated disruptions.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/registering-migrants-258450
