27-05-2021||The tussle over an individual’s right to privacy vis-a-vis the state’s duty to identify and punish wrongdoers has taken an interesting turn. The management of WhatsApp||Regulating digital media||But there’s much more to the issue than just user privacy. The new user policy of WhatsApp, introduced earlier this year, allows it to share an individual’s information — generated when a user interacts with a business account on WhatsApp — with its parent company, Facebook, and other group firms. The idea is for Facebook to use this data to its financial benefit. In other parts of the world, such as Europe, users can refuse to allow WhatsApp to share their data — in India, this option is not given to the users. WhatsApp bends to the rules of the European Union because they have a data protection law in place there — in India, such a law has been in the works for two years but it is yet to see the light of day. This has enabled WhatsApp to discriminate against Indian users.Over the last few years, after several cases of mob violence following rumours disseminated over WhatsApp, the company has attempted to arrest spread of misinformation. In a significant judgment in 2017, the Supreme Court ruled that individual privacy is a fundamental right, except when ‘legality, necessity and proportionality’ all outweigh it; digital media companies, thus, must disclose the identity of those causing or abetting crime through rumours or hate speech. Free speech advocates, however, fear that the government could use this provision to stifle dissent or criticism of its policies. Seeing the track record of the governments, it is a legitimate fear. Among these competing interests, a fair balance must be brought through debate, negotiation and a new law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/regulating-digital-media-258909
27-05-2021||It appears to be a lull after a devastating storm. India’s daily Covid caseload||No room for laxity||The current breather should prompt the Central and state governments to set their house in order and improve their pandemic preparedness. It is imperative to put the vaccination programme back on track. The role of vaccines in saving lives and fighting the virus cannot be overestimated. Universal inoculation will remain a distant dream as long as the shortage of shots persists. Barely 3 per cent of India’s population is fully vaccinated so far, whereas both the US and the UK have administered at least one dose to one-third of their citizens. The long gap of 2-3 months between two jabs will render tens of crores of Indians more vulnerable to contracting the infection. That’s where adherence to the Covid safety protocol is a must – wearing masks and maintaining social distancing ought to be a way of life and not perceived as an exercise done under duress.The authorities’ questionable decision to allow political rallies and major religious events during April caused untold damage, helping the second wave quickly attain monstrous proportions. Such congregations must remain a strict no-no for the time being. With most states starting to ease restrictions, there will be a general tendency to resume ‘business as usual’ at the earliest. But it should not be forgotten that the first wave peaked in September last year, a few months after nationwide unlocking was initiated. Recklessness during unlocking this time could take us back to square one.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/no-room-for-laxity-258902
