28-05-2021||At least 20 doctors are dying every day in the country due to Covid-19 during the second wave||Cover priority groups||Right from the outset, Punjab has been struggling to address vaccine hesitancy among health personnel. Despite the government’s repeated warnings, some doctors and other medical professionals have stayed away from the inoculation drive. Their reluctance to take the shot has rubbed off on the masses. Ensuring their compliance through a carrot-and-stick approach is a must to give a fillip to overall vaccination.The inoculation drive has also been impacted by the digital divide. Though walk-in vaccination is now underway for adults in the below-45 category, there is no denying that preference is being given to those who have booked online appointments. It’s disturbing to know that over 90 per cent of the slots for vaccination (18-44 age group) in the remote Dodra-Kwar area of Shimla district have been booked by outsiders as the locals are hampered by lack of Internet connectivity. A similar problem cropped up in Lahaul and Spiti last week as tourists from Delhi, Punjab and Rajasthan grabbed half of the slots meant for residents of the tribal district. Such irregularities are worsening the situation at a time when vaccine supplies are already running low. The authorities must remove the bottlenecks so as to save as many lives as possible.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/cover-priority-groups-259481
28-05-2021||Cyclone Yaas||Managing Yaas disaster||Amidst this horror, one figure stands out — while even one death is one too many, the single-digit toll suggests that the governments were effective in their efforts to minimise the loss of lives. Lakhs of people were evacuated from their homes and housed in shelters. The Coast Guard ensured that fishing boats returned safely before the storm hit. Personnel from the National Disaster Response Force — which deployed 113 rescue teams — and the Army rescued hundreds of people who had either refused to evacuate or were trapped by the storm. All in all, considering the severity of the storm and the density of population in the affected areas, it seems like a job well done. Barely a week earlier, Cyclone Tauktae struck the west coast, causing 174 fatalities, while 81 persons are still missing. While Tauktae was more powerful of the two, it seems the loss of lives due to Tauktae could have been lesser if more urgency had been displayed — in the case of the ONGC Barge P305, for instance.India Meteorological Department chief Mrutyunjay Mohapatra has suggested that the increased frequency of intense cyclones could be linked to climate change, though he did admit that more research and analysis is needed on the subject. Experts believe that climate change is leaving a cascading effect on our ecosystem — melting glaciers, rising sea levels, unseasonal snow and heat could be at the bottom of many natural disasters. This could be interpreted as nature’s increasingly insistent warning to us.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/managing-yaas-disaster-259464
