29-05-2021||Thirteen villages of Gurugram district have managed to ward off the virus by strictly following Covid-appropriate norms and observing a total lockdown||Keeping Covid at bay||Other places in the National Capital Region (NCR), such as Faridabad, Ghaziabad and Noida, are also finding it hard to tame the virus due to half-hearted enforcement of the restrictions and recklessness on the part of the residents. The sorry state of affairs is summed up by Thursday’s incident in Greater Noida, where two young men hurled abuse at a doctor and his staff, issued threats and opened fire outside the clinic after one of them was told to wear a mask before entering the premises.In Delhi, the authorities have been struggling to make people see reason and follow the pandemic safety protocol. On May 23, the Delhi Police did not challan people for violating Covid-19 guidelines and instead gave them masks and flowers to raise awareness about sticking to the basics. It’s a pity that grown-ups have to be schooled to shun complacency and indiscipline. The entire NCR needs to take a cue from Gurugram’s 13 villages and mend its ways. The second wave seems to be subsiding, but it’s way too early to take it easy. Nobody is safe until everyone is safe — it’s as simple as that.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/keeping-covid-at-bay-260027
29-05-2021||If the trend of rising international crude prices coupled with high Central and state taxes continues||Fuelling misery||Now when international prices are rising, governments have been unwilling to cut taxes in order to provide fuel at the previous rates. As a result, the average fuel price in India is among the highest in the world — Rs 93 per litre for petrol and Rs 88 per litre for diesel. From this, the Centre corners Rs 33 on every litre of petrol sold and states about Rs 20. This is reflected in the skewed correlation between global crude prices and the rate at the pump. Since May last, global petrol prices have risen by just Rs 3.53. But retail prices went up by Rs 20. States claim they have been deprived of the entire 41% of their excise share because the Centre levies cess which is not shared with them. Therefore, they are forced to play with the duty structure on fossil fuels (and liquor).If the state’s compulsions are reasonable, it is difficult to accept the Centre’s reasoning that pump prices are high due to cartelisation among oil-producing nations. If market forces are indeed behind the rise, why was there an 18-day pause when four states and a UT went to the polls recently? And as soon as counting was over, rates were jacked up half a dozen times, though global prices did not rise proportionally. It is also a mystery why PSU oil companies charge nearly the same price, despite different efficiencies. As inflation has crossed the RBI’s upper band, the Centre should provide some relief to the consumer, who has already been kneecapped by the pandemic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/fuelling-misery-260038
