31-05-2021||With just 53 days to go for the biggest festival of youth and sport||Olympics during pandemic||In this backdrop, the insistence of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) that the idea of calling off the Olympics is ‘off the table’ is intriguing, to say the least. The cost-benefit analysis of the Olympic Games has a benefit that is completely irresistible — money. The Olympics are the cash cow of IOC, which is sitting on an estimated reserve of $1 billion. The biggest chunk of IOC’s profits comes from broadcaster fees, which account for roughly 75 per cent of the revenues. Another 18 per cent revenues come from corporate partners. It’s big money. To put it crudely, IOC is prioritising money over the safety of athletes and Japan’s population, ignoring public opinion.The Japanese government too does not want to cancel or postpone the event — it has already spent over $15.4 billion to organise the Olympics, and a cancellation would mean a dead loss of this sum. Also, cancellation would lead to a loss of face for a country that prides itself on its efficiency. In all such debates, the human cost is often ignored — the pain of the dead and the dying, and of the ones left behind. If the money involved were small, cancelling the Olympics would have been a no-brainer. However, the government and the organisers must note this — if the Games are held and there is a steep rise in infections, the economic loss could be greater.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/olympics-during-pandemic-260803
31-05-2021||The note of dissent by a judge of the Calcutta High Court||When judge dissents||The Narada bribery case itself appears to be murky with its details and timing. Some of the leaders who figured in the tapes later went on to join the BJP. The CBI has sought the Lok Sabha Speaker’s nod to prosecute them, unlike in the case of the TMC leaders against whom action was taken after permission from the West Bengal Governor.The Narada case appears to be just one instance of the confrontation between West Bengal and the Centre; in the latest instance, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and the state Chief Secretary skipped a review meeting called to take stock of the damage caused by cyclone Yaas, following which the latter was called for Central deputation. It was a meeting at which Mamata’s bête noire Suvendu Adhikari was also present. In a surcharged atmosphere where every occurrence is seen through a political lens, the task for the probe agencies only gets harder. In such a scenario, the role of the judiciary becomes all the more important. It is held in high esteem and though individual opinions do matter, public expression of differences should not influence the functioning of the courts.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/editorials/when-judge-dissents-260804
