01-03-2022||Chandigarh||People throng temples in Punjab, Haryana on Mahashivratri||Devotees on Tuesday thronged temples across Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh to offer prayers on Mahashivratri.People started arriving at the temples from the morning to offer milk and fruits on the occasion, leading to long queues outside the shrines like the century-old Thaneshwar Mahadev temple and the Dukhbanjan Shiva temple in Haryana's Kurukshetra.Punjab Chief Minister Charanjit Singh Channi and his counterpart in Haryana Manohar Lal Khattar extended their greetings to the people."Warm greetings on the auspicious occasion of #Mahashivratri. May this pious occasion brings you and your family peace, prosperity, good health and happiness," Channi said in a tweet.Former Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal also greeted people."On the auspicious occasion of Maha Shivratri, I pray for everyone's wellbeing. May Lord Shiva shower his blessings on you and your family. Happy Maha Shivratri," Badal tweeted. #mahashivratri||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/people-throng-temples-in-punjab-haryana-on-mahashivratri-374153
01-03-2022||Sanjay YadavGurugram||Search of unoccupied Gurugram house leads to explosives||Gurugram Police said their search of an unoccupied house in Sector 31 of the city led to explosives, including grenades.A press statement from the police teams conducted raids at the house after they were tipped off.Police teams found 15 practice grenades, 43 empty cartridges, one Bicat strip, and two hand grenades, the press statement said.Police sources said teams also found some detonators.A bomb disposal team that was called dug a 7-feet-deep pit within the plot to help defuse the explosives, the statement said.Bicat strips are munitions inserted with crackers at strategic intervals. They are used by armed forces as practice ammunition to help stimulate the sound of gunfire.   “The house owner is learnt to reside in Delhi. We have traced the owner of this house and will interrogate him,” the statement said. #gurugram house||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cops-launch-search-on-tip-off-about-arms-hidden-in-unoccupied-gurugram-house-374125
01-03-2022||Ravinder Saini||Haryana board told not to charge registration fee from pvt schools||Rohtak, February 28In what appears to be another setback for the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH), the Department of Elementary Education has directed it not to charge any registration fee from private schools affiliated to the CBSE and other boards as exams for Class V and VIII for all government and private schools in the state have been deferred.Sources said the development came after the issue reached CM Manohar Lal Khattar. It was brought to his notice that the BSEH was pressurising private schools for registration by paying Rs5,000 fee even after the board exams for both the classes were postponed till next year.Even, warnings of taking action against schools were also issued in case they did not register with the board. There are over 2,000 private schools affiliated to the CBSE and majority of them are opposing the BSEH for continuing the registration process despite the state government’s announcement for no board exams of Class V and VIII in this session. The BSEH authorities claimed that more than 50 per cent of private schools affiliated to other boards were registered with the board. Their fee would now not be refunded as they need not register again next year.“Directing private schools to register themselves with the BSEH citing board exams for Class VIII is illogical and illegal as all educational institutions are conducting exams on their own level,” said Anil Kaushik, president, Progressive Private Schools Association, Haryana.Ved Prakash Yadav, vice-chairman, BSEH, said the process for registration of private schools affiliated to other boards had been temporarily been put on hold following the government’s directives. The process would be resumed in the next academic session, Yadav added.“As many as 1,048 private schools affiliated to the CBSE are already registered with the BSEH. Their registration will be considered for the next academic session. Private schools, which have enrolled their students for Class VIII regular exams in the state, have been asked to file claim applications to get refund of the registration fee,” said Yadav.Exams postponedBSEH was pressurising private schools for registration by paying Rs5,000 fee even after the board exams for both the classes were postponed till next year. #BSEH #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-board-told-not-to-charge-registration-fee-from-pvt-schools-374044
01-03-2022||---||Furlough over, Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim back in Sunaria jail||Rohtak, February 28Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh was today sent back to the Sunaria jail in Rohtak district after the completion of his 21-day furlough.He was brought to the jail under a tight security cover around noon on Monday.The dera chief is undergoing imprisonment in the jail in Rohtak district for the rape of two of his women disciples and murder of journalist Ram Chander Chhatrapati.He was granted a furlough from February 7 to 27 on his request that he wanted to meet his family members residing in Gurugram. #dera sacha sauda #gurmeet ram rahim||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/furlough-over-dera-head-back-in-prison-374047
01-03-2022||Chandigarh||1,786 students in Ukraine are from Haryana||The Centre has released a list of 1,786 students in Ukraine, who are from Haryana.After receiving this list, CM Manohar Lal Khattar directed all Deputy Commissioners to immediately constitute teams of officials to contact the families of these students in their respective districts.The Chief Minister directed the Deputy Commissioners to give assurance to families of students that the Centre and Haryana were taking all possible steps to safely bring back their wards.  #indians in ukraine #Khattar #russia ukraine crisis #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-786-students-in-ukraine-are-from-haryana-374049
01-03-2022||Nitish Sharma||Kurukshetra: Rs 2.5 cr to be spent on cleaning, beautifying Brahma Sarovar||Kurukshetra, February 28A budget of around Rs 2.5 crore will be spent on the beautification and improving cleanliness of Brahma Sarvoar in Kurukshetra.The funds will be utilised for the installation of fountains in the Brahma Sarovar, solar panels and buying equipment for cleanliness. The Brahma Sarovar is the biggest asset of the Kurukshetra Development Board and every year lakhs of tourists and devotees from across the country reach here. A KDB official said, “The Brahma Sarovar was included in the list of 30 Swachh iconic places in 2018 under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, and to further beautify and clean the Brahma Sarovar. The funds will be provided by Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) under its CSR project. Of total, Rs 1.5 crore are to be spent on the installation of fountains, around Rs 50 lakh on the installation of solar system, and the remaining budget on signboards, beautification and the procurement of equipment for cleanliness of the Brahma Sarovar area.“A proposal was submitted to the IOCL but due to Covid, the project got delayed. Now, the first installment of Rs 2.5 crore is expected to be received in April, and then after execution of work, more funds will be provided to the KDB by the IOCL”, he added.Meanwhile, Madan Mohan Chhabra, honorary secretary of KDB, said, “Fountains will be installed at different locations in the Brahma Sarovar and a budget being provided by the IOCL will be utilised for the project. Besides cleanliness and beautification, the board has also decided to install a solar system for lighting at the Brahma Sarovar. It will help in decreasing carbon emission. Soon a memorandum of understanding will be signed with the IOCL and the KDB will receive the budget. The project will help the KDB in increasing the attraction at Brahma Sarovar. After executing the work, more funds will be provided by the IOCL.” #brahma sarovar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-5-cr-to-be-spent-on-cleaning-beautifying-brahma-sarovar-374052
01-03-2022||---||Causeway to come up over Tangri river in Ambala Cantt||Ambala, February 28In a relief to residents of Shahahpur, Machhonda and other nearby areas, a causeway at a cost of Rs 2.25 crore will be constructed over the Tangri river in Ambala Cantonment.Tangri is a seasonal river and it swells when there is heavy rainfall in the Shivalik region. As per the information, the government has given its approval for the construction of the causeway. While approval for another causeway, which will be constructed over Tangri river at a cost of around Rs 2 crore, in the Kardhan area is expected to come soon. The causeways will be constructed by the Irrigation Department.The Executive Engineer, Irrigation Department, Parveen Gupta, said “The department has got the approval for a causeway which will be constructed at Shahpur village at a cost of about Rs 2.25 crore. The causeway will provide relief to a number of farmers and other people living in Shahpur, Machhonda and other nearby areas. The farmers who have their agricultural fields on the other side of the river, cross the river through unpaved paths or have to take a longer route, use the national highway to reach their fields, especially when the river swells during heavy rains. Soon, a consultancy firm will be hired for the design-related work.”Home Minister Anil Vij said an approval had been given for the construction of the causeway. Along with the construction of a causeway over the river, an approach road will also be built. The road will be about 7 meters wide. With the construction of the causeway, the resident will not have to take long routes and they will be able to take their tractor-trailers and other equipment through the causeway to the other side. Another causeway will be constructed over Tangri river, near the Kardhan area of Ambala Cantonment. The causeway will link Kardhan to Ekta Vihar on Tangri road.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/causeway-to-come-up-over-tangri-river-in-ambala-cantt-374054
01-03-2022||---||Haryana: DCs of affected districts told to send crop loss report||Mahendragarh, February 28Acting on complaints of crop losses due to hailstorm, the state government has directed Deputy Commissioners (DCs) of all affected districts to send preliminary report at the earliest so that further decisions could be taken accordingly.Officials of the Agriculture Department at the district level have also been asked to help distressed farmers. Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister JP Dalal disclosed this while talking to mediapersons after chairing a meeting of the district public relations and grievances committee in Narnaul on Monday.Insurance firm to pay compensationThe survey to assess loss to crops due to hailstorm will be conducted within 15 days for farmers insured under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana. The decision about uninsured farmers will be taken on the basis of the DC’s report. Insurance company will compensate farmers. —JP Dalal, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister“The survey to assess loss to crops due to hailstorm will be conducted within 15 days for farmers insured under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana. The decision about uninsured farmers will be taken on the basis of the DC’s report,” the minister said while adding that insurance company would compensate farmers.Sources said wheat and mustard crops spread over 40,000 acres in 80 villages of Mahendragarh and Rewari districts had suffered losses up to 35 per cent as per the preliminary survey conducted by local offices of the Agriculture Department.Khol, Jatusana and Bawal blocks in Rewari and Kanina, Satnali and Mahendragarh blocks are worst affected by the hailstrom.“The state government will not back down from taking any decision in the farmers’ interest. The state government has given Rs450 crore compensation for bajra crop under the Bhavantar Bharpai Yojana,” said Dalal. #Agriculture||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dcs-told-to-send-crop-loss-report-374056
01-03-2022||---||Faridabad boy's suicide: Cops collect papers for verification||Faridabad, February 28The local police have collected documents pertaining to the recent suicide case of a Class X student of a private school here.The documents, including the suicide note written by the deceased and a personal diary recovered from his residence, have been sent for verification by handwriting experts, said a police official.A police team visited the school and residence on Monday in connection with the investigation. An official said that the police have collected the relevant papers which include the answer sheet of the question paper attempted by the student during the recent pre-board examination.Had jumped from top floor of societyVictim Aarvey Malhotra, a student of Class X had ended his life by jumping from the top floor of his residential society located in Sector-81 here. In the handwritten suicide note left by him, he had charged the school authorities of ignoring his complaints regarding bullying by some students.He said while the academic head of the school has already been arrested and remanded to judicial custody, investigation about the role of students or other staff was also on.Victim Aarvey Malhotra, a student of Class X had ended his life by jumping from the top floor of his residential society located in Sector-81 here. In the handwritten suicide note left by him, he had charged the school authorities of ignoring his complaints regarding bullying by some students.Naming one of the teachers, functioning as academic head of the school, among others, Aarvey had written that he cannot live in this hateful world. According to Aarti Malhotra, the victim’s mother, her son was not only bullied or harassed by a group of students, but all the complaints lodged by him were also ignored, especially the academic head of the school.Aarti alleged that the academic head had even passed negative remarks against her son and Aarti instead of taking action on the complaints.Aarti, who is a teacher in the same school, said that her son was dyslexic and was not helped by the teacher concerned during the pre-board exam. That made him take the extreme step due to depression. A case for abetment to suicide was filed by the police on February 25.The complainant has demanded a strict action against those allegedly responsible for the her son’s suicide. The body of the victim was handed over to the the family members after a postmortem examination, said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-boys-suicide-cops-collect-papers-for-verification-374065
01-03-2022||Kaithal||Kaithal: FIR ordered against ex-DEOs for embezzlement||The Director Secondary Education, Haryana, has directed the District Education Officer (DEO), Kaithal, to get a criminal case registered against four former DEOs posted in the district between 2007 and 2013 for allegedly not depositing the interest of the withdrawal amount of Rs39.75 lakh from the bank accounts of the department without vouchers.The Deputy Commissioner, Pradeep Dahiya, also directed the DEO to get the FIR registered. The DEO has sent a written complaint to the Superintendent of Police in this regard.The Director has initiated the action based on the inquiry conducted by the Deputy Director of the department, in which the latter pointed out that four DEOs posted between August 2007 and July 2013, including Harcharan Singh, Kamla Midha, Sadhu Ram and Jasbir, had withdrawn Rs39.75 lakh from two bank accounts of the departmenwithout any voucher. No record of the expenditure was found with the department. This amount was later deposited in June 2014, but its interest was pending with the four retired DEOs, said the DC.“For recovery of the interest, an FIR has been recommended against four former DEOs,” he added. This was an embezzlement of government funds, he said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fir-ordered-against-ex-deos-for-embezzlement-374066
01-03-2022||---||Exclusion of Karnal from NCR to hit infra growth: Ex-Speaker||Karnal, February 28Amid reports of excluding Karnal from the National Capital Region (NCR) by reducing the radius from 125 to 100 km from Delhi, former Haryana Speaker Kuldeep Sharma has said that this will adversely affect the infrastructural growth of Karnal. The government should get amended the restriction of not allowing the plying of vehicles that have crossed the age of 15 (petrol) and 10 (diesel), he added.“Karnal would have good transport infrastructure, including rapid train, if it remains in the NCR. Karnal should be included in the NCR. Instead of getting it excluded from the NCR, the CM should work on getting the restrictions changed, which are not allowing the vehicle owners to ply the vehicles that have crossed the age 15 of petrol and 10 of diesel,” said the former speaker while interacting with media here.He accused the Chief Minister of failing to retain the tag of the NCR with Karnal and said after the exclusion, Karnal would not get development projects of the NCR level. He further stated that with the area limit of 100 km from Delhi, Gharaunda, would remain in the NCR which would not fulfil any purpose.Accompanied by the former Haryana Minority Commission Chairman, senior Congress leader Raghubir Sandhu, Jaswant Singh, Kauser Ali, the former speaker appealed to the CM to chalk a plan for it with the Opposition also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/exclusion-of-karnal-from-ncr-to-hit-infra-growth-ex-speaker-374073
01-03-2022||Kurukshetra||BJP-JJP govt has derailed Haryana, says Deepender Hooda||Congress leader Deepender Hooda today slammed the BJP-JJP government and said the ruling dispensation was just showing dreams to the people of Haryana, but not fulfilling them.Deepender was here to hold a workers’ meeting at the Congress Bhawan regarding ‘Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh’ programme scheduled to be held in Kurukshetra on March 13.He said, “The government has failed to fulfil its promises. In programmes Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh organised earlier, a large number of people had shared their problems. It shows the failure of this government.” — #deepender hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-jjp-govt-has-derailed-state-says-deepender-374075
01-03-2022||---||ASHA workers to be covered under AB-PMJAY||Chandigarh, February 28Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today granted formal administrative approval to cover ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist) workers under Ayushman Bharat-Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (AB-PMJAY).State Health Minister Anil Vij said the CM had declared at a meeting held on July 27, 2021, that Nambardars, chowkidars, ASHA, anganwari and MGNREGA workers, street vendors, rickshaw-wallahs and auto drivers will also be covered under the Ayushman Bharat scheme.Vij said the National Health Mission, Haryana, had allocated Rs248.11 lakh to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, to implement this project (Project Implementation Plan 2022-23) to cover ASHA workers in the Ayushman Bharat scheme, for which the proposal had already been sent to the Centre. #asha workers #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/asha-workers-to-be-covered-under-ab-pmjay-374077
01-03-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana Governor honours 11 scientists on National Science Day||Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya honoured 11 scientists during the Haryana Vigyan Ratna and Haryana Yuva Vigyan Ratna award distribution function at Raj Bhavan on the National Science Day today. This was the first time in the history of Haryana that two women have been conferred with the award.In the Haryana Vigyan Ratna award category, Prof Neeraj Jain and Prof Mukesh Jain for 2019; Prof Motilal Madan and Dr Sushila Mann for 2020 and Dr Chetan Prakash Kaushik and Dr Illora Sen for 2021 were honoured. A cash award of Rs 4 lakh was also given to them on the occasion.Dr Pooja Devi and Dr Ram Jiwari were honoured with the Haryana Yuva Vigyan Ratna award for the year 2019. In the same category, Dr Pawan Kumar and Satish Khurana for 2020 and Dr Kalpana Nagpal for 2021 were chosen. A cash award of Rs1 lakh was given to them. — #bandaru dattatreya||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11-scientists-honoured-on-national-science-day-374078
01-03-2022||Karnal||Dyal Singh Public School: Promoting scientific aptitude||National Science DayKurukshetra: National Science Day-2022 was celebrated under the aegis of faculty of science on the theme "Integrated approach in s&t for sustainable future." The keynote address was delivered by Prof Ravi Kumar Ranade, Professor and head of the department, Material Sciences and Engineering, NIT, Hamirpur (HP). Prof. Anil Vohra, Dean of colleges, welcomed the keynote speaker, Prof RK Chauhan Dean, faculty of science, apprised the audience about the theme of National Science Day-2022 and about various scientific activities and programms organised in different departments under the faculty of science. Prof Manjula Chaudhary, Dean Academic Affairs, stressed on the need for utilising science and technology for a sustainable future.Popularising science & technologyKarnal: The National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), organised National Science Day under the aegis of gender advancement for transforming institution (GATI)- a pilot project of department of science and technology (DST) and Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. This day is celebrated on February 28 to remember the Raman Effect discovery made by Sir Chandrasekhara Venkata Raman who received the Nobal Prize in 1930 in physics. A lead lecture on "Enviornmental issues and sustainable approaches" was delivered in virtual mode by Dr S Lakshmi Devi, founder principal of Shaheed Rajguru College of Applied Sciences, University of Delhi. She said as different natural resources were getting depleted; there was an urgent need to look into the issues of water shortage and loss of biodiversity to waste management. #dyal singh public school||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/promoting-scientific-aptitude-374083
01-03-2022||Palwal||Palwal: Man wanted in 31 cases held||The police have arrested an absconding criminal carrying a reward of Rs 2,500. He is involved in more than 30 cases.The accused, identified as Ikram, a resident of Sigaar in Nuh district, was nabbed by the police after receiving a tip-off this morning. A country made revolver has been recovered from the accused.A primary probe revealed that more than 30 cases pertaining to robbery, dacoity, cow slaughter, attempt to murder, looting ATM and under the Gangster Act were registered against the accused in Haryana, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and West Bengal, said Superintendent of Police (SP) Rajesh Duggal.In all, 11 cases were registered against the accused in Haryana, two in Gujarat, 12 in Uttar Pradesh and three each in Rajasthan and West Bengal, the SP added. A robbery was case registered against the accused in Rajasthan, the SP said. A reward of Rs2,500 was announced by the Rajasthan police for getting the accused arrested in this case, the SP added. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-wanted-in-31-cases-held-374084
01-03-2022||Faridabad||Official held for taking bribe||The Vigilance Department has nabbed an inspector of the Food and Supply Department for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs60,000 here today. Identified as Rajbir Singh, the accused was posted as inspector in the weights and measurement cell of the Food and Supply Department here.According to the complaint, the accused had demanded money for renewing license of a trader here. He was caught red handed today by the Vigilance team. It has been alleged that the accused had also taken money from the complainant last year for the licence registration. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/official-held-for-taking-bribe-374085
01-03-2022||Panipat||Man gets 7-yr RI for minor's rape||The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Sumit Garg on Monday sentenced a youth to seven years rigorous imprisonment (RI) for raping a 14-year-old girl.The court also imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 on him. In case of its non-payment, he will have to undergo further imprisonment of six months.Public Prosecutor Arvind Sharma said that the incident was reported on July 21, 2019 at Model Town police station. Mother of the victim in her complaint to the police said that her 14-year-old daughter was sleeping with her on the roof of the house. “At around 12.30 am, Kirpa Shankar of Basti district in Uttar Pradesh, who was staying in a rented accommodation in a colony here, came to the roof and abducted my daughter. He took her to a room and raped her there.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-gets-7-yr-ri-for-minors-rape-374087
01-03-2022||---||Man held for fraud||Karnal, February 28The Karnal police have arrested a ‘fraudster’ from Patna in Bihar, who allegedly cheated crores from residents of Karnal on the pretext of developing township. Three FIRs had been registered against him one each in Indri, city and Civil Lines police stations.The accused has been identified as Salil Narayan, a resident of Mithapur in Patna district, who introduced himself as the director of Akarshan Space N Design Private Limited, the registered office of which is in Mithapur, Patna, said Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of Police.The police team of economic offences investigation comprising Sub-Inspector Parveen Kumar and Assistant Sub-Inspector Bhadur Singh arrested the accused and he has been taken on transit remand and is being brought to Karnal for further investigation, said the SP.Giving further details, the SP said he used to cheat people by purchasing their land and for the payment he used to give cheques, which would bounce. The SP said he also used to occupy the land, offices forcefully. In the FIR registered against him at the Indri police station, Sanjeev of Sector 33 in Karnal alleged that Dharampal, his wife Anupriya, Amit Arora, Shivam Arora, residents of New Housing Board, Karnal, and Salil Narayan jointly got his land registered on their name without giving payment, the SP said, adding that in another FIR registered at the city Police Station, Savita of Rohtak alleged that Salil along with others had occupied her office in Ansal Township in Sector 4.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-for-fraud-374088
01-03-2022||Panipat||52-year-old man beaten to death in Tau Devi Lal Park in Panipat||A 52-year-old man was beaten to death in Tau Devi Lal Park in Sector 6 here late on Sunday night. He was sleeping in his room along with a gardener.The police, meanwhile, registered a case under sections of murder against a gardener of the same park after the family members suspected him and began a probe in the matter.The deceased was identified as Rajbeer of Ahar village, who was working as a chowkidar in the park. Ramesh of Rajapur village was also working as a gardener in the park. They were sleeping in the labour quarters in the park. Earlier, it was alleged that around eight-nine assailants entered their room and attacked them.Cops reached the spot at night and rushed them to hospital.Later, Raunak of Mohana in Sonepat district, son-in-law of Rajbeer Singh, in his complaint to the police, suspected that Ramesh had allegedly murdered his father-in-law due to some old enmity. He alleged in his complaint that Ramesh had sustained minor injuries, while Rajbeer succumbed to his injuries.A case of murder had been registered against Ramesh under sections of murder on the complaint of Raunak.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/52-year-old-man-beaten-to-death-374090
01-03-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Kidnapped delivery boy rescued, six nabbed||The Gurugram police rescued a delivery boy working for Swiggy from Rajasthan following the arrest of six men who allegedly kidnapped the delivery boy for revenge. The police said the dispute was over an earphone lead. An FIR has been registered at the Sector 65 police station and the police are questioning the accused.But in the complaint filed by Rohit Meena, a native of Rajasthan, he said he was living as a tenant in Umarpur Nangli village with Vikas and Pintu Lal Meena. It was Saturday afternoon when some men, including Lokesh and Chotu thrashed Pintu Lal Meena over some issue of money transaction. “The matter was over on that day but it was in the wee hours on Sunday when some masked men came at our room and thrashed Pintu again and later kidnapped him”, said Rohit Meena. Later the Alwar police informed the police that all six accused were detained and the delivery boy Pintu Lal Meena was rescued. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kidnapped-delivery-boy-rescued-six-nabbed-374092
01-03-2022||Despite tall claims of the development of civic infrastructure which include the construction of roads and highways||Safety hazards persist, commuters at risk||Remove constructions from roadsidesAn anti-encroachment drive underway in Panchkula urban estate is welcome and should be sustained on a regular basis. The local Estate Officer of the HSVP (earlier HUDA) should take head-on the challenge of removing decades-old illegal occupation of land along both sides of the main road in Sector 21 starting from its entry point on Sectors 20-21 dividing road up to the sector market. Residents have made permanent lawns etc. and parking lots outside their houses right up to the edges on either side of the road leaving no room for pedestrians who risk their lives braving the mounting vehicular traffic. Wide footpaths need to be laid along the busy road after removal of encroachments. —Lalit Bharadwaj, PanchkulaWhat Our Readers SayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/safety-hazards-persist-commuters-at-risk-374095
01-03-2022||Sanjay Yadav ||3 staffers of Gurugram CNG station hacked to death||Gurugram, February 28Three employees of a CNG pump in Sector-31 here were hacked to death by unidentified assailants in the wee hours today. The incident occurred at around 2.40 am and the victims were attacked with sharp-edged weapons. The deceased have been identified as Pushpender, a native of Banda district in Uttar Pradesh; Bhupender, a native of Bulandshahr district in UP; and Naresh, a native of Aligarh in UP, the police said. According to the post-mortem examination, the trio was attacked with different weapons. CCTV cameras turned off “The trio was attacked brutally with sharp-edged weapons. While Pushpender and Bhupender had around 10 injuries on the neck and chest, Naresh had over 12 injuries on his abdomen, chest and neck,” said Dr Deepak Mathur, who conducted the post-mortem examination. The brutality has made the police suspect personal enmity as the motive behind the incident. The hand of an old employee who had enmity with manager Pushpender is being suspected. Police said a search has been launched to apprehend the miscreants. The police investigation revealed that the CCTV cameras installed at the pump were found turned off. The accused have not committed any kind of robbery and even the mobile phones of the victims were found lying at the office.Prashant Gulati, owner of SKN Haryana City CNG Pump wrote in his police complaint: “After getting information from the police, I reached the pump. Pump manager Pushpender and employee Naresh were found dead and lying in a pool of blood in the manager’s room. Pump operator Bhupender was also found dead and was lying at the pump. The money from the sales was found safe.” An FIR has been registered against unidentified accused at Sector 40 police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-staffers-of-ggram-cng-station-hacked-to-death-373948
01-03-2022||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana mayors, zila parishad chiefs to have say in ACRs of IAS, HCS officers||Chandigarh, February 28In a departure from the past, Haryana mayors and zila parishad presidents will have a say in writing annual confidential reports (ACRs) of IAS and HCS officers.The reporting authorities for the Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) of zila parishads (ZPs) and the Commissioners of the municipal corporations (MCs) will consult the elected representatives (mayors and ZP chairpersons) for writing the ACRs of the bureaucrats. Junior IAS officers and middle-rung and senior HCS officers are usually appointed commissioners of the municipal corporations and CEOs of the ZPs.New norms in placeWith the budget of the MCs and ZPs going up substantially over the past few years, these officers wield a lot of administrative and financial powers. The Administrative Secretary, Development and Panchayat Department, is the reporting authority for the ZP CEO. Now, he will write ACRs in consultation with the ZP president and the Deputy Commissioner (DC) concerned.Similarly, for Municipal Corporation Commissioner, the Administrative Secretary, Urban Local Bodies (ULB), will be the reporting authority. He will write the ACR in consultation with the MC mayor and the Director, ULB. The ministers concerned are the reviewing authorities for ZP CEOs and MC Commissioners. The Chief Minister is the accepting authority for both the posts.A senior functionary of the BJP-JJP government asserted that the new system of writing the ACRs would lead to accountability in the functioning of the bureaucracy at the grassroots level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-mayors-zila-parishad-chiefs-to-have-say-in-acrs-of-ias-hcs-officers-373944
01-03-2022||Chandigarh||Dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim brought back to Sunaria jail in Rohtak||Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh was on Monday brought back to Rohtak’s Sunaria jail after his three-week furlough ended.The sect chief is serving a 20-year jail term for raping two women disciples at his ashram in Sirsa, where the 'dera' is headquartered. He was convicted by a special CBI court in Panchkula in August 2017.A Rohtak police official said the dera chief was brought from Gurugram to Sunaria jail in Rohtak district before noon under heavy security cover.He was granted the three-week furlough on February 7 for meeting his family in Gurugram.According to officials, the dera chief was provided Z-plus category security cover during his 21-day furlough considering the “high-level threat” to his life from "pro-Khalistan" elements.He was released after the Haryana government concluded that he did not fall in the category of hardcore prisoners.The furlough had come just days ahead of the Assembly polls in Punjab, where the sect has a large number of followers, particularly in Bathinda, Sangrur, Patiala and Muktsar.On February 7, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had rejected any link between the sect leader’s release from Sunaria jail in Rohtak district and the Punjab elections on February 20.“I think it is a coincidence and has no connection with the polls,” he had said. #gurmeet ram rahim singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dera-chief-gurmeet-ram-rahim-brought-back-to-sunaria-jail-in-rohtak-373856
01-03-2022||Gurugram||3 employees of Gurugram CNG pump hacked to death||Three employees of a CNG pump at Sector 31 here were hacked to death by miscreants in the wee hours of Monday.Police reached the spot and are examining the CCTV footage.According to the police, Bhupendra, Pushpendra and Naresh, natives of UP, were attacked by miscreants with sharp-edged weapons at around 2.40 am.The police have sent the bodies for post-mortem. They suspect robbery as the motive behind the killings. No FIR has been registered yet.Dharmendra, brother of deceased Bhupendra, said, “I got a call and reached the pump to find my brother and his two colleagues dead. My brother was a pump operator.” #gurugram triple murder||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-employees-of-gurugram-cng-pump-hacked-to-death-373811
