02-03-2022||Gurugram||Haryana Government opens help desk at Mumbai airport for students returning from Ukrain||A Haryana government help desk at Mumbai airport is assisting those returning from Ukraine to reach their homes in the state through Delhi, an official statement said.“We are in constant touch with the government to ensure that all Haryana students are back safely and will assist them in every possible way,” it said.The Haryana government help desk at Delhi airport is also helping the students.The Haryana government has contacted 700 out of 1,786 students from the state studying in Ukraine, while 90 students have been brought back from the war-hit country, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said on Tuesday. —  #indians in ukraine #russia ukraine crisis #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-opens-help-desk-at-mumbai-airport-for-students-returning-from-ukrain-374474
02-03-2022||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Will civic body fill this dug up pit in Panchkula?||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Will civic body fill this dug up pit in Panchkula?The photograph below captured near the market area in Sector 14 of Panchkula (not very far away from the city's MC office) exposes the MC's indifferent and lackadaisical attitude. This dug out pit remains unfilled/unlevelled for the past several months. This linked service road is partly usable only as its other half is yet to be 'recarpeted' despite being in a very poor shape. The civic body should wake up from its deep slumber and take the requisite remedial steps at the earliest. Vinayak, PanchkulaCity admn should repair roadsideThe photograph, captured at Sectors 7-8-17-18 roundabout (near Shaheed Major Sandeep Sagar Memorial) in Panchkula, says it all. The aggrieved residents earnestly hope that the city administration will soon make the departments concerned realise the folly of their indifferent attitude in this regard. Kumar Gupt, Panchkula||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-civic-body-fill-this-dug-up-pit-in-panchkula-374321
02-03-2022||Gurugram||Researcher gets national award||Workshop on logistics regressionKurukshetra: The department of commerce and the KU Alumni Association organised a workshop specialising in advanced research methods of scale development and logistics regression modelling. Prof Puja Khatri of the GGSIPU, Delhi, and Dr Atul Shiva of Chandigarh University delivered hands-on training to the research scholars of commerce, management, economics, geography, psychology, library science, etc. Prof Tejinder Sharma, chairperson of the department and Prof Anil Mittal, director, KUKAA, told the participants to organise more such advanced training programmes to improve upon the research ecosystem of the university. KU extends last date for submissions of applications for post of Assistant Professors.CUH holds convocationMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) organised its 8th convocation in which Governor Bandaru Dattatraya was the chief guest while National Board of Accreditation Chairman Prof KK Aggarwal was present on the occasion as the guest of honour. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeswar Kumar informed 1,078 students were awarded degrees of PhD, MPhil, postgraduate and undergraduate courses. Among them were 604 boys and 474 girls.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/researcher-gets-national-award-374317
02-03-2022||---||Dr Kuldeep Singh Lallar is Dean of Rohtak PGIMS||Rohtak, March 1Dr Kuldeep Singh Lallar, head, department of cardiology, has been appointed dean at the Pt BD Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here.The appointment letter was issued by Dr Anita Saxena, Vice-Chancellor, University of Health Sciences (UHS).Varun Arora, in charge, public relations cell, UHS, said born in a farmer’s family at Budha village in Kurukshetra district, Dr Lallar rose to this position due to his hard work and dedication towards duty.“Dr Lallar joined the PGIMS as a lecturer in 1999. He started a cardiac cath lab here in 2003 in a process to expand the facilities to patients. He became a senior professor in 2007 and single-handedly took care of the department till 2018. Dr Lallar started DNB Cardiology in 2020 and DM Cardiology in 2022. His 40 research papers have been published in various national and international journals,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dr-kuldeep-singh-lallar-is-dean-of-rohtak-pgims-374316
02-03-2022||Yamunanagar||Cop among 3 booked for misusing recovery van||The police have booked a constable and two personnel of the Home Guards Department, posted in the traffic police, Ambala, for allegedly misusing a recovery van of the department.On the complaint of Joginder Singh, in-charge, police station (traffic police), Ambala, a case was registered against constable Kulwinder Singh and Home Guards personnel Deshraj and Harinder Singh, all posted at the police station (traffic police), Ambala, under Sections 114, 279, 336 and 427 at the Chhappar police station of Yamunanagar district on February 27. The complainant in his complaint said constable Kulwinder Singh was posted as a driver on the recovery van of the traffic police, Ambala.He said the personnel of Home Guards, Deshraj and Harinder Singh, were also posted in the traffic police. He said they with the recovery van were sent at the traffic cut in Shastri Colony of Ambala Cantonment at 8 pm on February 26. He added, they did not reach there but went to some other place without informing any official. Hesaid he came to know that the recovery van met with an accident near Saran village the next day. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cop-among-3-booked-for-misusing-recovery-van-374314
02-03-2022||Chandigarh||De-recognition: Don’t take coercive steps against schools: Punjab and Haryana High Court||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed that coercive steps would not be taken against “NISA Education” and its constituent schools “in the context of de-recognition” in an RTI-related matter.The order will remain in operation at least till May 5, when the case comes up for further hearing.Taking up the petition, Justice Raj Mohan Singh observed it appeared that an appeal filed by one Manish Kumar Bangar was pending before the State Commission. SPIO-cum-Deputy Director on behalf of Haryana Director Secondary Education Haryana had passed the impugned order dated September 3, 2021, directing the petitioner to provide the necessary information, failing which a show-cause notice would be issued to the petitioner for the de-recognition of the schools.Petitioner’s counsel Pankaj Maini contended that the schools affiliated to the petitioner did not receive grant-in-aid from the government and did not fall under the definition of public authority in terms of the RTI Act. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/de-recognition-dont-take-coercive-steps-against-schools-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-374312
02-03-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram man kills self||A 35-year-old man died by suicide after jumping from the sixth floor of his residential society in Sector 103 on Tuesday. The police said the deceased, Govind, was an alcohol addict. No any suicide note recovered from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-man-kills-self-374309
02-03-2022||---||Police can face every challenge: DG||Gurugram, March 1The Director General, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Kuldeep Singh, today addressed the initiation ceremony of the 12th batch of police at the recruitment training center, Bhondsi, as chief guest today.He said: “The police play an important role in maintaining security of the country and state. The Haryana Police is capable of facing every challenge and have done a commendable in handling the pandemic.”The DG also felicitated three trainee constables for their performance.On the occasion, IG Dr Hanif Qureshi of training centre said the police also acted as an important link in the judicial system.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-can-face-every-challenge-dg-374305
02-03-2022||Chandigarh||Licence of 11 medical stores suspended||In view of the violations committed in the sale of medicines, licence of 10 retail drug stores and one wholesale store of the Karnal zone has been suspended. Meanwhile, licence of one retail and wholesale store has been cancelled.The licence of Kamboj Medicines, Chirag Medical Store, Nagpal Medical Hall, Paras Medical Hall, Rajesh Medical Hall and Choudhary Medicose of Indri; Rana Medical Store and Karan Medical of Karnal, Kartikay Medicose of Popra village; and Gravit Medicos of Jind has been suspended.The licence of Sharma Medical Store in Angadh (Karnal) had been partially cancelled under retail category. Similarly, the license of Vandan Medical Store in Karnal has been canceled under the wholesale category. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/licence-of-11-medical-stores-suspended-374297
02-03-2022||Faridabad||Faridabad student Suicide: Cops question society residents||Continuing the probe into the suicide of a 15-year-old boy, the police today visited the residential society of the victim to collect information about him.Sources in the Police Department said the investigating officials met some residents and the security staff of Discovery Park, Sector 81, where the deceased, Aarvey Malhotra, lived.“Aarvey’s behavior with his friends and neighbours before the incident was indifferent. He kept quiet and did not come out of the house to meet his friends the day he jumped off the roof,” an official said after talking to some residents.The official said some residents, including his friends, also said that Aarvey was perhaps under depression, adding that the police was collecting relevant information from the society residents.A student of Class X at a private school, Aarvey, who was suffering from dyslexia, died by suicide after he was allegedly scolded by a teacher. The mother of the victim alleged that Aarvey failed to get help while attempting a pre-board exam.The accused teacher, who is still in judicial custody, has reportedly been persistent in her claim that she was innocent. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/student-suicide-cops-question-society-residents-374294
02-03-2022||---||Khair wood worth Rs 15 lakh seized, 3 held||Yamunanagar, March 1The CIA-II unit of Yamunanagar district police has seized a truck loaded with over 25 tonnes (250 quintals) of illegal khair wood worth Rs 15 lakh from near Asgarpur village on Sadhaura-Kala Amb road in Yamunanagar.The khair wood was loaded from Jharkhand and was to be supplied in HP.Khair wood is used to prepare ‘kattha’, which is used as an ingredient in ‘paan’ and is also used in many ayurvedic medicines. Khair wood price is stated to be about Rs 6,000 per quintal in the market.On the complaint of Sub-Inspector Om Prakash of CIA-II of Yamunanagar police, a case was registered against three persons Irfan Ansari of Jharkhand, Naseem of Manakpur village and Prince of Arjun Majra village, both residents of Yamunanagar district.The complainant said that they got information that a truck loaded with khair wood would pass through the Sadhaura-Kala Amb road on February 27. He said that they also got information that a car was moving in front of the truck to track the road.Om Prakash said that a naka was laid near Asgarpur village where the car and truck were caught. The complainant said that there were two persons in the car and they have been identified as Naseem and Prince.The truck driver was identified as Irfan Ansari of Jharkhand.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khair-wood-worth-rs-15-lakh-seized-3-held-374288
02-03-2022||Palwal||1,369 kg of ganja seized, Delhi cop among 6 arrested||In one of the biggest recoveries, the district police today recovered 1369.75 kg of ganja patti (cannabis), worth about Rs 1.37 crore.It arrested six persons, including an assistant sub-inspector of the Delhi Police, on charges of drug pedalling.SP Rajesh Duggal said the huge cache of drugs was seized this morning after a police team, led by inspector Jangsher, in charge CIA , Hodal, checked a truck (RJ-20-GB-8399) at a naka at Hassanpur Chowk near the Karman border on getting inputs that a vehicle carrying huge quantity of drugs was on its way towards Ferozepur Jhirka in Nuh district.The truck, which was escorted by a car (HR-96-3618), was intercepted at the checkpoint and was found to be carrying as many as 44 bags hidden under coconuts loaded in the vehicle.The SP said on investigation, the accused, identified as Mohammed, Asif, Shoaib, Aas Mohammed, Lakhpat and Taufiq, had brought the Ganja Patti from Orissa and were on their way to Nuh district. He said while Mohammed was a resident of Rajasthan, the rest hailed from Palwal and Nuh districts. Claiming that Asif, one of the accused, who had been carrying a pistol, was found to be employed as an ASI and was posted in the special cell of the Delhi police in the Saket area of the national Capital. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-369-kg-of-ganja-seized-delhi-cop-among-6-arrested-374284
02-03-2022||Gurugram||Arms, ammunition found at locked house in Gurugram||Arms and ammunition were found in a closed house in Sector 31 here today.In an over six-hour intensive search, the police recovered two hand grenades, 17 practice grenades, 43 empty cartridges and one bicait strip in the house. All arms and ammunition were in two polythene bags and were hidden inside the commode of a toilet. The bomb disposal team defused the grenades BKF 63 and MK-90 practice hand grenades and the bicait strip.It may be noted that the house is a few metres from the CNG pump where a triple murder took place late on Monday night. It was in the morning that the police barricaded the area and stopped vehicles there. Residents of the area were confined to their homes and a bomb squad was called on the spot.Acting on a tip-off by a source, the Gurgaon police raided house No. P 12 in Sector 31 and found all ammunition, read a police statement.A senior police officer said the house owner was Ravinder Aggarwal, who lived in Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh area and was a chartered accountant by profession. A team reached Aggarwal’s house in Delhi and took him to police station for investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/arms-ammunition-found-at-locked-house-in-gurugram-374281
02-03-2022||Faridabad||Ukraine crisis: State-level control room set up in Faridabad||A round-the-clock operational control room has been set up for providing help and information to the residents and kin of the state students stuck in Ukraine.Announcing this, Sanjay Joon, Divisional Commissioner, Faridabad, and Resident Commissioner, Haryana Bhawan, New Delhi, said here today that the number 0129-2981617 had been provided at the control room set up at the office of the Divisional Commissioner here. Anyone in the state whose relative or kin is stuck in the war-hit country, could contact this number regarding the ongoing operation to bring back the affected persons from Ukraine.The names of the employees deputed in various shifts are as follows: First shift (7 am to 3 pm): Gaurav, Sonia and Pinky Saini. Second shift (3 pm to 11 pm): Brijmohan, Satya Kumar and Premlata. Third shift (1 pm to 7 am): Amrish Kumar, Ravi Kumar, Netram and Anil Ghathwal.Meanwhile, CM Manohar Lal Khattar said on Tuesday that the Haryana Government would set up a help desk at the Mumbai airport to help the students returning to the country from Ukraine. This desk would start functioning from Wednesday. It would make arrangements for the students from Haryana who arrive at Mumbai to reach Delhi. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ukraine-crisis-state-level-control-room-set-up-in-faridabad-374280
02-03-2022||---||File status reports on disposal of seized drugs: High Court to Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh||Chandigarh, March 1The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the states of Punjab and Haryana, along with the Union Territory of Chandigarh, to file status reports on the disposal of case properties in drug matters under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.The direction came after Justice Augustine George Masih and Justice Sandeep Moudgil issued notice to Haryana Advocate-General and UT Senior Standing Counsel for May third week. The case revolves around the disposal of contraband in a timely manner as per the directions already issued by the Supreme Court/ Government of India.Taking up a petition filed against the state of Punjab and other respondents by Jatinder Kumar, the Bench observed the case dealt with “the aspect of disposal of narcotic drugs which have been confiscated or have been recovered from the accused for which cases are pending or have been disposed of”.Enlarging the scope of the matter, the Bench, assisted in the matter by amicus curiae or the friend of the court Ishan Gupta, added the issue was related not just to the state of Punjab, but the state of Haryana and UT Chandigarh as well.In its judgment on storage of seized narcotics, the apex court had ordered destruction to prevent recirculation. The court had, in fact, issued guidelines on the disposal of narcotic drugs, psychotropic and controlled substances.The apex court Bench, comprising then Chief Justice TS Thakur and Justice Kurian Joseph, had issued directions to “avoid any confusion arising out of the continued presence of two notifications on the same subject”.The apex court had also requested the Chief Justices of the High Courts across the country to appoint a committee of judges on the administrative side to supervise and monitor progress made by the respective states in regard to compliance of the directions.The High Court had, subsequently, constituted a committee to oversee action taken on prompt disposal of contraband recovered by the police in view of the apex court guidelines. The counsels for the states of Punjab and Haryana, along with the Union Territory of Chandigarh, also undertook to comply with the Supreme Court directions “in letter and spirit”.The Bench was also told during the course of hearing that half-yearly status report would be submitted in the High Court Registry.Apex court had ordered destructionIn its judgment on storage of seized narcotics, the apex court had ordered destruction to prevent recirculation. The court had, in fact, issued guidelines on the disposal of narcotic drugs, psychotropic and controlled substances. #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/file-status-reports-on-disposal-of-seized-drugs-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-states-374279
02-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||‘Thuggee’ may increase if not sternly dealt with: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, March 1“Thuggee” or swindling might register an upspring if not dealt with sternly, putting people in peril and repeating history, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted. Justice Anoop Chitkara said the modus operandi adopted by accused in two different cases indicated the revival of swindling perhaps because the administration was sleeping over the issue of bringing in reforms and enactments to check the threat.“The sly manner in which the petitioner and his accomplices conned, tricked, deceived and swindled the gullible complainant and her family points towards the dangerous trend of the revival of ‘thuggee’, which may be due to the administration’s slumber in ushering reforms and not pushing the required enactments to curb the menace, but if not sternly dealt with now, it might upsurge, putting people in peril and repeating history,” Justice Chitkara said in both the cases against the State of Haryana and other respondents.‘Thuggee’ in general refers to the acts of thugs, who form organised gangs. In one of the petitions placed before Justice Chitkara’s Bench, the accused was seeking bail in a cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy case registered in October last year at Uklana police station in Hisar under Sections 417, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B of the IPC.The allegations against the petitioner were that he and some others ran a fake call centre and lured gullible people on the promise of jobs, installation of mobile towers etc. The petitioner was a member of the racket. Appearing before the Bench, his counsel contended that custodial investigation would serve no purpose whatsoever, and the pre-trial incarceration would cause an irreversible injustice to the petitioner and family.The state counsel, on the other hand, opposed the plea by submitting that the petitioner had criminal antecedents and bail encouraged habitual offenders. The Bench was informed about another case under the provisions of the Information Technology Act against the petitioner.After going through the documents and the rival contentions in the matter, Justice Chitkara referred to media reports to say as per the same “we might be acquiring a bad reputation worldwide because of these fake call centres”. Dismissing the petition, Justice Chitkara said the petitioner’s criminal past, coupled with the gravity of offence, did not entitle him to bail at the current stage.Petitioner ran fake call centre||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/thuggee-may-increase-if-not-sternly-dealt-with-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-374278
02-03-2022||Deepender Deswal||After six years, mustard fetches rates above MSP||Hisar/Bhiwani, March 1After nearly six years, market rates of mustard have gone higher than the minimum support price (MSP) of the Centre, indicating better prices for mustard-growing farmers in the region.Traders say that the Ukraine-Russia war is having an impact on imports, pushing up the price of oil.The mustard-growing farmers in the region are enthused. Though the procurement for the rabi season by government agencies is yet to start, private purchasers have chipped in with above-MSP offers to the farmers for their produce.The farmers said that they are being approached by arhtiyas to sell the produce to them directly.Pawan Garg, a trader in Hisar grain market and former president of the Anaj Mandi Association, said that some of the farmers had brought the mustard crop to the mandi.“Mustard is fetching a price of Rs 6,500 per quintal on an average. The market rate is likely to remain much above Rs 6,000 per quintal and it can go as high as Rs 7,000,” he said.A trader in Bhiwani grain market too maintained that one stock of mustard was sold for Rs 6,800 yesterday. Bhiwani has about 88,000 acres under mustard crop this year.Though the Central government MSP is fixed at Rs 5,200 per quintal this season, the traders maintained that government agencies are unlikely to make any purchase due to above-MSP prices.Sahib Ram, district marketing enforcement officer (DMEO), Hisar, said that some stock had arrived in the mandi but it is highly unlikely that farmers would go to government agencies for selling their produce.Dr Ram Kumar, agriculture scientist, stated that this is for the first time since 2016 that the rates of the mustard produce had crossed the MSP. “We had to put pressure on the government to purchase the mustard crop when the farmers were resorting to distress sale in 2016-17. Though the state government accepted the farmers’ demand, it was getting tough for farmers to sell the produce to government agencies due to several conditions and long queues,” he stated.Dr Kumar said that the scenario changed recently when the price of palm oil went up internationally. “India has to import 60 per cent of edible oil from other countries. However, the rise in prices bodes well for farmers who are expected to get good rates this rabi season,” he said.A farmer from Surpura village in Bhiwani district, Sajjan Lakhlan, said that traders are already contacting them even when they are yet to harvest the mustard crop. “Harvesting has been delayed by a couple of days due to the recent rain. But it will pick up in a week’s time,” he added.Imports hitTraders say that the Ukraine-Russia war is having an impact on imports, pushing up the price of oil. #Agriculture #farmers #MSP||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-six-years-mustard-fetches-rates-above-msp-374277
02-03-2022||---||10-year-old diesel autos can’t ply in Gurugram: Haryana CM Khattar||Karnal, March 1Giving respite to the vehicle-owners of the National Capital Region (NCR) who are under the fear of losing their vehicles having age of 15 years (petrol) and 10 years (diesel), the Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar here today made it clear that only the auto-rickshaws would be banned and that, too, in Gurugram.“So far, the ban on the use of 15-year-old petrol and 10-year-old diesel auto-rickshaws is being implemented in Gurugram after a meeting with the auto union there. There would be no effect of this decision on other districts in the state,” said the CM while reacting to a question asked by mediapersons.On the age of tractors due to which farmers were also protesting, the CM said the government had given extension on age on the notification of the NGT, which would also be extended.The CM was in his constituency on Tuesday to attend several programmes. He laid the foundation stones of two projects worth Rs 34 crore, including the second phase of the Western bypass and a road between Shergarh Tapu and Modipur from Dr Mangal Sen Auditorium. Khattar also flagged off 30 CNG-operated mini-tippers for door-to-door garbage collection.The CM also listened to the grievances of the public at the PWD Rest House. He also attended a shobha yatra on the occasion of Mahashivratri. He also interacted with traders in the market. Khattar also went to the residences of former councillor Sudesh Gulati and BJP leader Narinder Pandit to express condolences on the death of both – Gulati and Pandit.About the upcoming budget, the CM said it would be beneficial for all sections of the society. On the exclusion of Karnal from the NCR, the CM said due to the inclusion of Karnal in the NCR, rice-millers, owners of brick-kilns and others have to face restrictions of the NGT. “There was no major change in Karnal after inclusion in the NCR, but the residents have to face a lot. The area of the NCR would be 100 km from earlier 125 km,” said the CM, adding that they would ensure metro project to Karnal. On UP elections, he said that the BJP will win there. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-year-old-diesel-autos-cant-ply-in-gurugram-haryana-cm-374276
02-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||For connections without proper infra, notice to 24 power officials||Chandigarh, March 1The Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) has issued show-cause notices to 24 officials, including four executive engineers, five sub-divisional officers (SDOs), nine junior engineers and six consumer clerks in a case of the release of power connections in Gurugram without adequate infrastructure provided by builders.Director (Operations) DHBVN RK Sodha gave this information at a hearing before the Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) on a suo motu petition regarding the issuance of regular electricity bills.The builders are required to create electrical infrastructure and seek approval for an electrification plan from discom or submit a bank guarantee in the case of the phase-wise development of electrical infrastructure in the area to be developed. Despite inadequate infrastructure, a total of 1,019 connections were issued in this case. In Gurugram’s case, show-cause notices against five SDOs have already been decided with the stoppage of two increments, submitted the DHBVN.The Commission directed the Director (Operations), DHBVN, to submit the action taken report by March 15.Regarding wrong billing in a case of Jaspreet Singh, a resident of Panchkula, Chief Engineer (Operations), Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN), Panchkula, RK Khanna, submitted that SDO RK Rohila and commercial assistant Sunita had been warned to be more careful in future and the services of lineman Dinesh Kumar had been censured.In the case of wrong billing of National Fertilisers Employees Cooperative House Building Society Ltd Panipat, charge-sheets to nine officials were issued on October 31, 2021, and an officer was appointed to conduct inquiry in the matter. The Commission, in its order dated February 25, directed the officials to expedite the process and intimate the outcome of the action taken within 15 days.The commission inquired about the proposal of discoms to bring down the losses of all urban feeders below 25 per cent and rural feeders below 50 per cent. Director (Operations), DHBVN, submitted that there were 72 urban feeders having losses in more than 25 per cent category in January 2021, which had come down to 41 per cent in January 2022.Nod needed for electrification planBuilders are required to create electrical infrastructure and seek approval for an electrification plan from discom or submit a bank guarantee in the case of the phase-wise development of electrical infrastructure in the area to be developed. Despite inadequate infrastructure, a total of 1,019 connections were issued in this case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/for-connections-without-proper-infra-notice-to-24-power-officials-374275
02-03-2022||---||Proposal of setting up micro-ATMs at all ration depots in pipeline in Faridabad district||Faridabad, March 1The Food and Supplies Department is likely to install micro-ATMs at all ration depots in the city and district. Around 1.93 lakh ration card holders are expected to get benefited.Dept yet to get directionsThough such a plan is reported to be in the pipeline, the department is yet to get necessary directions and orders. An official, food and supplies departmentSources in the district administration said that a plan to this effect had been in the pipeline and the authorities of the Civil Supplies Department have launched a scheme in this connection on pilot basis in some of the districts in the first phase. The micro-ATM facility at the ration depots will not only provide easy and safe facility of withdrawal and depositing of the money by the ration card holders but also for the general public, who will be able to use it at their convenience, it is claimed. Faridabad is among those districts which have been chosen for the initiative, it is reported.At present, the district has around 1.93 lakh ration card holding beneficiaries said the district officials. These include card holders of OPH category- Khaki coloured cards (other priority households) whose number is around 1.45 lakh in the district. Besides these, 31,092 beneficiaries of yellow card- SBPL (state below poverty line and 11,400- CBPL (central below poverty line) are to be benefitted.“The matter came up at a meeting of the Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department headed by the Deputy CM recently, in which the decision regarding micro- ATMs at the ration depots in five districts, including Faridabad, Gurugram, Hisar, Karnal and Panchkula on the pilot basis was announced,” said the sources.The consumers drawing ration will be able to deposit money and withdraw from these points and the facility will be provided by the banks with the help of the ration card depot holders. The depot holders might also be offered a commission for operating this facility, for which a formal training will also be provided, it is added. The facility will also be open for other residents, it is revealed.“Though such a plan is reported to be in the pipeline, the department is yet to get necessary directions and orders,” said an official of the Food and Supply Department here.To also help general publicThe micro-ATM facility at the ration depots will not only provide easy and safe facility of withdrawal and depositing of the money by the ration card holders but also for the general public, who will be able to use it at their convenience.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/proposal-of-setting-up-micro-atms-at-all-ration-depots-in-pipeline-in-faridabad-district-374274
02-03-2022||---||IVF technology to make cow rearing lucrative for farmers||Hisar, March 1Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (LUVAS), Hisar, has increased the quality germplasm of indigenous breed of cow (Sahiwal and Hariana) through in-vitro fertilisation and embryo transfer technology (IVF-ETT).Scientists claimed that the technology would promote cattle rearing among farmers as it would improve milk yield of the cow breeds and also ensure higher chances of female progeny. Haryana has been struggling to deal with the menace of stray cattle as the male calves/oxen are no longer useful for the farmers. The low-milk yield in cows too is proving a major damper for the farmers. Dr Parveen Goel, director of research, said five cows had calved successfully with this technique and five more are in different stages of pregnancy. The pregnant animals belong to different gaushalas of Hisar, Jind, Sirsa and Sonepat districts.Dr Vinod Verma, Vice-Chancellor, LUVAS, Hisar, said that with this technique, the number of quality female animals could be increased in a short time which would help increase the farmer’s income by having female calves of superior genetic quality with higher milk production potential. Dr Verma said this technique would be a boon in reducing stray cattle population. The farmers are no longer interested in keeping ox/bull at home as these have already been phased out from the agriculture work with the arrival of technology.“This technique will also help make gaushalas self-sustainable. In the state, livestock rearing is a major source of livelihood for many farmers, the poor and marginal farmers in the state are rearing low-milk yielding cows. With this technique, the farmers can replace their animal/herd with high-milk yielding indigenous cows”, Dr Varma said.Dr Goel also said LUVAS was working with propagation of Sahiwal breed and later planned to work with Hariana breed. IVF-ETT is being undertaken as a routine breeding programme in Brazil and the US. Brazil is a pioneer in this field. Implementation of IVF-ETT programme will surely revolutionise the Indian dairy industry. The university has established an IVF laboratory under the project “Implementation of embryo transfer and in-vitro fertilisation techniques for bovine breeding” of the centre which is being undertaken in coordination with the Haryana Livestock Development Board.In this project, oocytes are aspirated from elite donors, which are high-milk yielders and reproductively sound, and are incubated with sexed semen of elite bulls. There are 80 per cent to 85 per cent chances of getting a female calf. The excellent grade of embryos is transplanted to the surrogate mother — a low-milk yielding cow. #farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ivf-technology-to-make-cow-rearing-lucrative-for-farmers-374273
02-03-2022||Nitish Sharma||Miffed at working of Ambala Municipal Corporation officials, Mayor warns them of stern action||Ambala, March 1Miffed at the functioning of the Ambala Municipal Corporation officials, Mayor Shakti Rani Sharma has warned them of action. She said she would take up the matter with the government if the details regarding different projects and issues she had been seeking for the past one year was not provided, within a week.Meetings called off as officials unpreparedA review meeting was held with the officials on Monday but they again came unprepared. They had no reply to the pending letters. Even earlier, two meetings were called but these had to be postponed. If the officials don’t reply to the Mayor’s letters, then one can understand what problems the general public will be facing. Shakti Rani Sharma, MayorAccording to the Mayor, she has written nearly 190 letters to the corporation officials seeking information about various projects, properties, encroachments, tenders and pending cases related to the MC, over the past one year.Shakti Rani Sharma said, “Several irregularities in issuing tenders have come to the notice and other public issues that I have been raising with the officials. I have written nearly 190 letters to the officials regarding irregularities observed in the door-to-door garbage collection tender, details related to AMRUT scheme, court cases related to the MC, encroached and vacant land of the MC over the past one year and I am yet to get a reply to around137 letters by the officials concerned.”“A review meeting was held with the officials on Monday but they again came unprepared. They had no reply to the pending letters. Even earlier, two meetings were called but these had to be postponed. If the officials don’t reply to the Mayor’s letters, then one can understand what problems the general public will be facing. Deputy Municipal Commissioner Aman Dhanda has assured me that all pending information will be provided to me in a week, but if the information is not provided, I will take up the matter with the higher authorities and action will be taken against the officials concerned”, the Mayor said.She said, “It has been more than one year since the Ambala Municipal Corporation elections were held, but the Senior Deputy Mayor and Deputy Mayor are yet to be elected. With these two key posts lying vacant, important sub-committees cannot be constituted and due to which we have been facing hindrance in the functioning. We have also asked the officials to get the election conducted at the earliest.”To a query, the Mayor, who belongs to the Haryana Jan Chetna Party, said, “I agree that there is BJP government but as the Mayor, I feel that once the elections are over, we all should work as a team for the welfare of the public. As the Mayor I belong to everyone and not to a particular party.”Mayor assured on info within weekThe Mayor said the Deputy Municipal Commissioner Aman Dhanda had assured her that all pending information would be provided to her in a week, but if the information was not provided, she would take up the matter with the higher authorities and action would be taken against the officials concerned.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/miffed-at-working-of-ambala-municipal-corporation-officials-mayor-warns-them-of-stern-action-374271
02-03-2022||---||For first time, 8 panels to be formed for giving suggestions on Haryana Budget||Chandigarh, March 1For the first time, committees of MLAs will discuss budget proposals and submit their recommendations to the Chief Minister (CM).Holding a press conference, Speaker, Haryana Legislative Assembly, Gian Chand Gupta, said, “After the presentation of the budget on March 8, eight ad-hoc committees comprising 73 MLAs will discuss budget proposals. These committees will be formed sector-wise. They will submit their suggestions in form of reports after discussions. This will be a unique experiment and is on the lines of the Lok Sabha.”“Haryana’s budget session is starting on March 2 and will run till March 22. A total of 10 meetings will be held during this period. Governor will address the Assembly on March 2. Thereafter, discussions will be held on March 3, 4 and March 7. The CM will reply to the discussions on March 7,” Gupta added.“There will be a session holiday from March 9 to March 13. During this time, the MLAs’ committees will discuss budget proposals.This doesn’t mean that discussion will not take place on the budget in the House. A comprehensive discussion will be held on the budget from March 14 to 16. There will be a session holiday on March 17. There is a state holiday from March 18 to 20. Also, March 21 and 22 have been fixed for legislative business,” said Gupta.These decisions were taken at the meeting of the business advisory committee (BAC) held at the Legislative Assembly Secretariat today.State govt to protest amended bbmb rulesAfter coming out of BAC meeting, CM Manohar Lal Khattar told mediapersons, “The Haryana Government will register its protest with the Centre on amended Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) rules.” He said they would demand for returning to old system #haryana budget||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/for-first-time-8-panels-to-be-formed-for-giving-suggestions-on-haryana-budget-374269
02-03-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad: Repair work of flats in Khori starts||Faridabad, March 1The Faridabad Municipal Corporation has started the repair work of around 2,445 EWS flats lying vacant here for allotment to the oustees of the Khori village colony in Surajkund area.The illegally developed colony located on the forest land was demolished on the directions of the Supreme Court in June last year.“The work on the tender allotted for the repair of flats has begun,” a senior official of the MC said, adding that it was expected to be completed within the deadline of April 30 this year.The cost of the repair project is around Rs 10.5 crore.It is claimed that the condition of all EWS flats built several years ago in Dabua colony and Bapu Nagar localities was dilapidated as they remained vacant after allotment. Though some of the flats were occupied in an unauthorised manner, these were vacated prior to the launch of the repair work.It is claimed that the delay in the clearance and budget of the repair work is the primary reason for the delay in allotment to the oustees.“Nine months have gone since 9,500 houses were demolished in Khori and the process of alternative housing is running behind schedule as the flats could not be made fit for occupation,” an official said.Describing the move as half-hearted, Nirmal Gorana of Awas Sangharsh Samiti, an NGO, said the move would turn out to be a fail if all 10,000 ousted families were not rehabilitated soon.“A total of 6,200 applications have been received so far, of which 1,027 have been found eligible as per the norms during the verification process, which is still going on,’’ Bhupender Singh Dhillon, a senior official of the MC, said.Claiming that while all eligible applications would be entertained, he said the allotment would be started as soon as the repair work got.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/repair-work-of-flats-in-khori-starts-374268
02-03-2022||Parveen Arora||Rural areas of Haryana hit by shortage of doctors, paramedical staff||Karnal, March 1Most of the government-run-hospitals in rural areas, including community health centres (CHCs) and primary health centres (PHCs), are facing a shortage of medical resources due to which residents have to face a lot of problems and rush to the district headquarters for healthcare services.Raised issue at various platformsWe have raised the issue of fulfilling the posts of doctor at various platforms, but no action has been taken. Due to this, residents have to go to the district headquarters or nearby districts for treatment. Subhash Chand, Nigdhu residentRecruitment of 1,200 mos underwayThe staff position was regularly told to the higher authorities and the recruitment of around 1,200 medical officers is under way. After recruitment, most of the vacant posts will be filled. Dr Yogesh Sharma, Civil SurgeonAn official said doctors and paramedical staff avoided their postings in rural areas, and if anyone was transferred there, he/she tried to get the orders cancelled. Villagers blamed the government for not recruiting the required staff even after their raising the issue at various platforms.Data gathered by The Tribune revealed that there were 188 sanctioned posts of medical officer (MO) in the district – both in rural and urban areas. Of these, 103 were yet to be filled and 11 out of 38 pots of dental surgeon, 147 out of 248 of staff nurse were lying vacant in the district. As per the data, most of the posts were lying vacant in rural PHCs and CHCs. In several hospitals, there were no doctors at all.Nine out of the11 posts of the MO, 11 out of the 17 of staff nurse were lying vacant in the Assandh sub-divisional hospital, seven out of the 11 sanctioned posts of medical officer (MO) and 12 out of the 17 posts of nursing sister were yet to be filled in the sub-divisional Civil Hospital in Indri.Single sanctioned post of medical officer (female each) in Ramba PHC, and Biana PHC were yet to be filled. Four out of seven posts of medical officer, single sanctioned post of nursing sister in the CHC Taraori, all the five sanctioned posts of MO and five out of six posts of nursing sister in Ballah CHC, both sanctioned posts of the MO, single sanctioned post of pharmacist, all four posts of MPHW (F) in Salwan PHC, and both sanctioned posts of MO (male and female), both posts of nursing sister in Munak PHC, were lying vacant.Shamsher Singh Gogi, Assandh MLA, said that he has raised the issue with Health Minister Anil Vij.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rural-areas-of-haryana-hit-by-shortage-of-doctors-paramedical-staff-374267
02-03-2022||Ravinder Saini||15K farmers claim relief for crop loss in Haryana||Rewari, March 1As many as 15,655 farmers in four districts — Rewari, Mahendragarh, Charkhi Dadri and Bhiwani — have sought compensation for their crop loss due to hailstorm and inundation owing to unseasonal rain last week.Survey to be heldA joint team of the Agriculture Department and insurance company will soon conduct survey in affected villages to assess actual loss for providing compensation to insured farmers. Aatma Ram Godara, Deputy Director Agriculture, BhiwaniThey have filed claim applications with local offices of the Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Department. All of them are enrolled in the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana (PMFBY).Sources claim the number of distressed farmers is much more as merely one-third farmers get insurance cover under the PMFBY every year.Rewari has topped the figure with 5,949 farmers lodging complaints about extensive damage to their standing wheat and mustard crops due to the hailstorm. It is followed by Charkhi Dadri with 3,706, Mahendragarh with 3,500 and Bhiwani with 2500 complaints.Under the PMFBY, the farmers are bound to file applications within 72 hours of the crop loss to get compensation from the insurance company. “Wheat and mustard crops under all five blocks of Rewari district have been affected by hailstorm. Hence, we deputed officials in every block so that farmers do not have to face any issue in moving claim applications. Jatusana is a badly-affected block where a total 2,183 farmers have sought compensation followed by Rewari with 1,792 and Khol with 1,317 complaints. As many as 345 farmers in Nahar and 312 farmers in Bawal block have approached us for relief,” said Balwant, Deputy Director Agriculture (DDA), Rewari.He maintained hailstorm and inundation had also caused damage to crops in 48 villages of Charkhi Dadri district. “Badhda is the worst-affected block there. The highest number of complaints has been received from there,” he added.Aatma Ram Godara, DDA, Bhiwani, informed over 30 villagers under Loharu and Bahal blocks in the district had suffered crop loss due to hailstorm. “A joint team of our department and insurance company will soon conduct survey in affected villages to assess actual loss for providing compensation to insured farmers,” he added.Similarly, over 30 villages in three blocks — Kanina, Mahendragarh and Satnali — in Mahendragarh district have recorded considerable loss to wheat and mustard crops. Preliminary survey conducted by the local office of the Agriculture Department found damage to crops spread over 9,000 hectares in the district , said sources. #farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/15k-farmers-claim-relief-for-crop-loss-in-haryana-374264
02-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Panel confirms multi-crore scam in Haryana Forest Department||Chandigarh, March 1A probe panel has confirmed a multi-crore “ghost plants” scam in the Haryana Forest Department’s Research Division of Pinjore. Bogus bills, maintenance of “non-existent” plants and extension of pacts of contractors without the approval of target and finances have come to the fore in the scam.The Tribune broke the story about the scam on January 14. Forest Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar formed a panel to conduct an inquiry on January 18. The panel was headed by IFS officer Vineet Kumar Garg, Chairman, Haryana State Biodiversity Board; while IFS officer Pankaj Goel and Haryana Forest Service officer Yash Pal were the other members. “We have submitted our report on February 7 based on facts and record. The inquiry was against only one officer,” said Garg. However, Gujjar told The Tribune that he was “yet to see the report”.The report revealed that then Deputy Conservator of Forests (Research), Pinjore, Jitender Ahlawat was to get 16.85 lakh seedlings planted while the detailed account reflected only 9.6 lakh plants till March 31, 2021. It implied that about 7 lakh less plants were grown, but the entire allotted amount was spent.It came out that on January 27, 2021, the day Ahlawat joined in Pinjore, he issued a letter to former contractors, extending their contract for a month. The target and finances for growing new plants was received on February 3, 2021. These contractors executed works of Rs 1.87 crore in violation of a standing order on tenders.For polythene bags, an amount of Rs 2.21 crore was got released in February 2021 and Rs 5.61 lakh in March 2021. But bags were used for only 3.22 lakh plants in February and 6.96 lakh plants in March. The panel concluded that for February 2021, more filled polythene bags were shown than the actual number. During the inquiry, Ahlawat had denied all allegations, vide his reply on February 3. #haryana forest department scam||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-confirms-multi-crore-scam-in-haryana-forest-department-374218
