03-03-2022||---||5 killed as car rams into truck in Haryana's Gurugram||Gurugram, March 3Five men were killed in a road accident near Binaula village on the Delhi-Jaipur highway after their car rammed into a truck in the early hours of Thursday, police said.The car was registered in Rajasthan.According to the police, it was around 2 am that the accident took place in front of Hotel Highway King on the highway. A speeding Celerio car rammed into a truck from behind. All five passengers of the car died on the spot.Bilaspur police investigating officer Gajender Singh said they were trying to identify the deceased.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-men-killed-as-car-rams-into-truck-on-delhi-jaipur-highway-374732
03-03-2022||Chandigarh||Naresh Kaushal is Editor of Dainik Tribune||Senior journalist Naresh Kaushal today took over as Editor of Dainik Tribune. This is his second stint as the paper’s Editor.Kaushal started his career with Dainik Tribune as a sub-editor in 1979 and served the paper in various capacities and positions — at the desk and in the field. He has served as correspondent, News Editor and Assistant Editor in the paper. He was earlier Editor from 2004 to 2012. A veteran, he has been associated with live TV debates and has also worked as a consultant in various organisations. An expert panellist for news analysis on political and social subjects, he has been a regular feature writer. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/naresh-kaushal-is-editor-of-dainik-tribune-374660
03-03-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana Vidhan Sabha pays tributes to Lata Mangeshkar, martyrs||On the first day of the Budget Session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha, obituary resolutions were passed to pay tributes to those prominent personalities who died between the period from the end of the previous session and the beginning of the current session.Leader of the House and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar paid tributes to several prominent personalities, including Nightingale of India Lata Mangeshkar. Besides, tributes were paid to freedom fighter Umrao Singh Yadav of Nigana (Rohtak) village, 17 martyrs and relatives of the MLAs.Speaker Gian Chand Gupta and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda also read out the obituary resolutions. #lata mangeshkar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/house-pays-tributes-to-lata-martyrs-374662
03-03-2022||Karnal||Waited at Ukraine border for five hours: Karnal girl||Surbhi, a third-year MBBS student, returned to her residence in Karnal two days back. She shared the nightmare that she experienced in Ukraine. She said, “I, along with other students, had to wait for five hours on the Ukraine border. It was so crowded that we could not even move.“As we had to keep on standing, our feet developed swelling. The students of Ukraine were given priority to cross the border to Romania. We were forced to return time and again. It takes two days for anyone to cross the border. Still, several students are in bunkers,” she said. — #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/waited-at-border-for-five-hours-374663
03-03-2022||---||Five-member SIT to probe Faridabad Class X pupil's suicide||Faridabad, March 2A special investigation team (SIT) has been set up to investigate the alleged suicide by a Class X student of a private school here recently.A spokesperson of the Police Department said the five member SIT would be headed by Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP, Central), who would monitor the day-to-day progress in the matter.“Keeping in view of the sensitivity of the case, the SIT has been formed to ensure a fair and speedy investigation in the matter,” said Sube Singh, PRO Police.The victim, Aarvey Malhotra, had allegedly committed suicide by jumping from the top floor of his residential society, located in Sector 81 here, on the night of February 24. He had charged the school authorities with ignoring his complaints regarding his bullying by some of the students and the alleged insulting behaviour by one of the teachers in the suicide note.Aarti, mother of the victim, who is a teacher in the school, said her son had been dyslexic and went into depression after being insulted and denied help during the pre-board exam, which made him take the extreme step. A case under Section 396 of the IPC had been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-member-sit-to-probe-pupils-suicide-374665
03-03-2022||---||Pollution board order on random inspections||Panipat, March 2The Chairman, Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), today directed officials of all districts to conduct random inspection across the state to eliminate the identified single-use-plastics (SUPs) items and strictly implement the Plastic Waste Management Rule, 2016.The Chairman, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), has directed all state pollution control boards and pollution control committees to completely eliminate the SUPs in the country from July 1 across the states in its orders on February 1. #Pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pollution-board-order-on-random-inspections-374666
03-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Murder probe not handled in proper way: Sirsa police||Chandigarh, March 2Less than a fortnight after the Haryana Police was rapped for apparently not carrying out probe in a murder case in a pragmatic and meaningful manner, the Sirsa police have conceded that the investigation in the matter was not handled in a proper manner.The declaration came more than a year after a woman specifically named her husband in her dying declaration. But he was declared innocent, while his mother was sent to face trial in accordance with the final investigation report dated March 5, 2021.Shielding the petitionerPrima facie, the probe in the present case, related to the dying declaration by a woman naming her husband, does not seem to be done properly and the background clearly gives an impression that the police officers have tried to shield the petitioner specifically named in the dying declaration by the victim. —Justice Manoj Bajaj, Punjab & Haryana HCAs the case came up for resumed hearing before Justice Manoj Bajaj, Sirsa Superintendent of Police Dr Arpit Jain and Ellenabad Deputy Superintendent of Police Jagat Singh appeared before the court pursuant to the order dated February 24.Jain “fairly” stated that the investigation was not handled in a proper manner, and the services of DSP Sanjay Kumar — who approved the final report under Section 173(2) of the CrPC — was placed under suspension for misconduct in relation to some other case. Though the officer had been reinstated, he was not presently posted in Sirsa police district, it was added. Jain also prayed for a short accommodation to file his affidavit relating to the investigation and the steps proposed to be taken against the erring police officials.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/murder-probe-not-handled-in-proper-way-sirsa-police-374667
03-03-2022||Sonepat||Organic research lab set up in Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University for Science and Technology||Modern library practicesFaridabad: Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay Central Library of the JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, organised a week-long short-term training programme (STTP) on "Research excellence and academic development: Modern library practices in present scenario". The programme is being sponsored by the AICTE, New Delhi, and participants from 12 states across the country are taking part in this programme. Vice Chancellor Prof Sushil Kumar Tomar emphasised on the importance of research and team work for enhancing quality of the research. He said while the library played a vital role in enhancing research and supporting its academic programmes, emphasis should be on the quality of research work. Chief guest, Dr. Dharam Veer Singh said in the current scenario, the role of the libraries was not limited to providing documents on demand. The university libraries should think on providing selective dissemination of information (SDI) services to its users and should help the research community by providing various research support services.Indira Gandhi Varsity to execute NEPRewari: A meeting of the Academic Council at Indira Gandhi University (IGU) unanimously decided to execute the new education policy (NEP) in the university from the next session. Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar said the meeting also resolved to approve student-friendly standard operating procedures for the UG and PG exams. Various colleges affiliated with this university were given consent to increase the seats of various new courses. Permission was also given to plan the syllabus of examinations of various teaching departments of the university. Registrar Prof Parmod Kumar said approval of new colleges, new courses, and an increase in seats would prove beneficial for the students who were deprived of admission.Power point presentationKarnal: The chemistry department of the KVA DAV College for Women organised a national-level power point presentation on the occasion of National Science Day. As many as 48 students participated from various states of the country. Top 10 entries were granted best presentation award. On this occasion, principal Renu Mehta congratulated winners and threw light on the importance of science in everyday life. Convener of the event Dr Manju Singh, HoD, department of chemistry, appreciated the students for their active participation and encouraged them to boost their performance for their all-round development. Rajni, Latika and Manju contributed to make the event successful.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/organic-research-lab-set-up-374669
03-03-2022||---||Flower festival on MDU campus||Rohtak, March 2A spring festival featuring fascinating flowers, titled ‘Rang Bahaar’ was celebrated on the campus of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) in Rohtak on Wednesday.The MDU Vice-Chancellor, Prof Rajbir Singh, and the Vice-Chancellor of Maharana Pratap Horticulture University, Karnal, Prof Samar Singh, inaugurated the festival.Folk musicians, including a traditional ‘been’ party of Haryana, mesmerised the spectators during the event.Various competitions related to flower arrangements, display of flower items, selfie and rangoli contests were organised.Prof Samar Singh underlined the importance of floriculture as a career option. The convener of the programme, Prof Vineeta Hooda, head of the department of botany, proposed the vote of thanks.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/flower-festival-on-mdu-campus-374671
03-03-2022||---||Retired DEO booked for cheating||Yamunanagar, March 2A retired District Education Officer (DEO) was booked on charge of cheating.On the complaint of present District Education Officer of Yamunanagar district, Satpal Kaushik, a case was registered against retired District Education Officer Jagjeet Kaur under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the IPC at the city police station, Yamunanagar, on March 1.According to information, the government had issued fund for the construction of a stadium.But, the then District Education Officer, Jagjeet Kaur of Yamunanagar district, allegedly spent Rs 15,56745 to purchase sports goods for Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School, Bilaspur, instead of spending that amount on the construction of the stadium.According to information, the said amount was spent by the then District Education Officer without taking prior approval from the competent authorities of the Finance Department. “The then District Education Officer spent Rs 15,56745 to purchase sports goods between 2007 to 2013,” said Satpal Kaushik, DEO Yamunanagar district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retired-deo-booked-for-cheating-374672
03-03-2022||---||Two booked for molesting woman||Gurugram, March 2A woman from Assam working with a Sector 34-based bakery has accused two of her colleagues for allegedly molesting her. The woman claimed that they not only threatened to kill her but also get her fired her from the job. An FIR has been registered at the Sadar police station against both accused who are absconding now.According to the complaint filed by a woman from Assam that she was working with a bakery and two accused identified as Sanjay Chauhan and Satish Sharma allegedly harassed her.“It was on February, 28 when they started fighting with me and then sexually harassed me but I was shocked when they not only threatened to kill me but also claimed to get me fired from the job. Finally, I moved to the police and sought action against them”, said woman in her complaint.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the accused under Section 354 (molestation) of the IPC at the Sadar police station yesterday.“We are looking into the matter and verifying the facts. Action will be taken as per the law”, said inspector Dinesh Yadav, Station House Officer of the Sadar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-booked-for-molesting-woman-374673
03-03-2022||Panipat||SP honours cops||Superintendent of Police (SP) Shashank Kumar Sawan on Wednesday felicitated the team of police officials and forensic expert, who played a key role in getting the death penalty to two convicts for rape and murder of 12-years-old girl in Urlana Kalan village of the district.SP Sawan today gave commendable certificates to the officials. DSP Sandeep, the then SHO of Madlauda police station, Dr Neelam Arya, FSL team in-charge, retired Inspector Rameshwar Dutt, the then Urlana police post in-charge, SI Rakam Singh, HC Satish and constable Amit for their work. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sp-honours-cops-374675
03-03-2022||Kurukshetra||NIT Kurukshetra, UNESCO sign  pact on  soft skills||The National Institute of Technology, Kurukshetra, has signed an agreement with the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organisation, Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Education for Peace and Sustainable Development (UNESCO MGIEP) that aspires to revolutionise how essential soft skills are perceived and taught at educational institutes in India.This agreement aims to empower the youth while embarking on a journey towards social and emotional well-being through online lectures and disquisitions. The aim is to become fully digital, self-paced 40 hours SEEK (Self-directed emotional learning for empathy and kindness) programme that teaches valuable interpersonal skills that are indispensable in the corporate world.The agreement was signed in the presence of Prof BV Ramana Reddy, Director, NIT Kurukshetra, who informed that NIT-Kurukshetra was the first among all NITs to offer the SEEK course to their students and staff. In partnership with UNESCO MGIEP, the course will be offered to 6,000 students in the initial phase. — #unesco||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nit-kurukshetra-unesco-sign-pact-on-soft-skills-374677
03-03-2022||---||Haryana CM Khattar  meets Singapore High Commissioner||Chandigarh, March 2Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar met a delegation led by Singapore’s High Commissioner to India Simon Wong here today.The delegation had an extensive dialogue with Khattar regarding lucrative opportunities in Haryana for Singapore companies to invest in the state. The Singapore High Commissioner said these companies were keen on collaborating with Haryana due to its industrial-friendly policies.Wong had detailed discussions on various projects and collaborations with the Chief Minister regarding the upcoming sectors like solar energy and was impressed by skill-training institutes in the state.The Chief Minister also gave various suggestions to Simon Wong like setting up of an inter-disciplinary centre for research purpose in Haryana. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-meets-singapore-high-commissioner-374678
03-03-2022||Sirsa||Sirsa district gets award for anti-drug drive||Sirsa has been adjudged as the best performing district on roll out of the joint action plan for the prevention of drugs and substance abuse among children and illicit trafficking during July to December 2021. Deputy Commissioner Ajay Singh Tomar was felicitated with the award of the best performing district at Vigyan Bhawan in Delhi today.The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) had jointly launched the action plan to prevent the drugs and substance abuse in February 2021.The panel and the bureau selected 262 districts under the action plan to wean away children from drug abuse and stop selling of intoxicants in surrounding areas of schools/educational and child care institutions.The NCPCR and the NCB selected 20 best performing districts, including Sirsa of Haryana out of 262 districts, on the basis of indicators of the joint action plan. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sirsa-district-gets-award-for-anti-drug-drive-374680
03-03-2022||Gurugram||Bihar man gets 5-year RI for rape bid||A local court today sentenced a Bihar man to five years rigorous imprisonment (RI) and imposed a fine of Rs7,000 for attempting to rape a woman. As per orders, if convict failed to pay fine his tenure of imprisonment would be increased.According to the police on December 13, 2018, a woman from Bihar filed a complaint with the DLF Phase III police station in which she accused her neighbour for allegedly attempting to rape her.“I lived with my family in a rented house at Nathupur village. My husband is taxi driver. He was on duty that night and I was sleeping with my children. In the late night, I went to ease herself. In the meantime, our neighbour Amit forcibly grabbed me from behind and tried to rape me. When I raised an alarm the accused fled from the spot,” the woman stated in her complaint. The accused was nabbed by the police and sent to judicial custody. Today, the court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Raj Gupta sentenced Amit, a native of Bihar, to five years RI. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bihar-man-gets-5-year-ri-for-rape-bid-374682
03-03-2022||Chandigarh||Best MLA award for Gannaur's Nirmal Rani, NIT Faridabad's Neeraj Sharma||Haryana Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta awarded the best MLA award to Gannaur MLA Nirmal Rani and NIT Faridabad MLA Neeraj Sharma for the year 2021 during the Budget session of the Haryana Assembly today.Gupta bestowed the awards on the two MLAs, along with a cheque worth Rs 1 lakh, shawl, shield and citation, in the presence of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/best-mla-award-for-2-legislators-374684
03-03-2022||---||Six Railways staff felicitated||Ambala, March 2To encourage safe and accident-free train operation, Gurinder Mohan Singh, Divisional Railway Manager (DRM), Ambala Division, awarded monthly GM Safety Award to six employees. The employees were felicitated for preventing train accidents by showing awareness and alertness while on duty in various sections of the division.The DRM awarded Sukhwinder Singh, gateman of Mianpur, Sanjay Gupta, station master of Morinda, Amit Kumar, assistant traffic of Ambala, Ramesh Pointsman of Pilkhani, Anil Saini, station master of Darazpur and Manoj Kumar, gateman of Ambala, with a certificate, a medal and Rs2000 in cash for outstanding safety work in their respective fields.The DRM said, “An alert person is the best means of safety. All employees should encourage their counterparts to adopt safe working practices at their respective headquarters.”Meanwhile, the Ambala Division has collected over Rs4.74 crore fine from unauthorised passengers and for different violations, including littering, smoking, not wearing mask, and carrying unbooked luggage, in February.A total of 608 checks were conducted in February across the division during which 81,922 cases of illegal travel and other violations were detected and a fine of Rs4.74 crore was recovered.The DRM said, “To ensure Covid norms are followed by all, 187 persons have been fined for not wearing face mask. Regular checks are conducted at main stations of the division during which 224 passengers have been apprehended under the Anti-Littering Act and Rs39,170 recovered fine from them.” — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-railways-staff-felicitated-374686
03-03-2022||Sluggish pace of work on the development projects and failure of the authorities to implement the norms for curbing the growing pollution has led to a dismal situation on the ground in a majority of the parts of this industrial city. While traffic jams at peak hours in morning and evening have become common in most parts||Residents victims of Traffic jams, air pollution||Govt must carry out repair work on Narwana roadIn the absence of proper road repair, one of the busiest road here has developed big potholes which has made commuting on a tedious affair. To invite the attention of the government, residents have adopted the Gandhian way by planting saplings of lotus flowers in the big potholes filled with stagnant water which is ideal for the lotus saplings. The administration must carry out the patch work repair at the earliest. —Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaRepairing of stretch good move by GMDAIt is a matter of great satisfication that the Gurugram Metroplitan Development Authority (GMDA) has started reconstructing of 4.6-km stretch comprising National Highway 48, highway at the Vatika flyover to the Pataudi road near Sector 89.This will help Delhi-bound commuters avoid congestion at Kheri Daulta within next six months. It is really a good move. —Subhash C Taneja, GurugramWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/residents-victims-of-traffic-jams-air-pollution-374690
03-03-2022||Sanjay Yadav||No leads in Gurugram arms recovery, police to contact ordnance units||Gurugram, March 2Getting no major leads after a day of recovery of ammunition from a closed house in Sector 31 here, the police have decided to trace the buyer of these. Following a high-level meeting to decide the future course of investigation, the police decided to contact ordnance factories across the country to identify the buyer. “We will be writing to ordnance factories in Khagaria (Madhya Pradesh), Muradnagar and Sivakasi Fire Factory, Tamil Nadu, who manufacture these kinds of ammunition to identify the probable buyer” read the official statement of the police. So far, investigation has revealed that the said plot was registered in the name of Parasram Holdings Company and there were three directors of this company, identified as Ravindra Agarwal, Vivek Agarwal and Anshu Agarwal. Company directors Ravindra Agarwal and Vivek Agarwal joined the investigation, while Anshu Agarwal was not available. “They had bought the plot in the year 2006/07 and under the rules of HUDA, construction was done in 25 per cent of the area. They visited the plot only one-two times after construction. They had also kept a guard for six years for care, but no guard was here for the past six years and not even cleaned the plot after 2019,” added the police. Meanwhile, the police, even after three days, have made no major headway in the investigation of the triple murder at the CNG gas station and announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh for credible information in the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-leads-in-gurugram-arms-recovery-police-to-contact-ordnance-units-374658
03-03-2022||---||10 hurt in vehicle pile-up on Hisar-Sirsa highway||Hisar, March 2Six vehicles collided with each other near the BSF camp on the Hisar-Sirsa highway today morning. Ten people suffered injuries in the accident. According to information, seven injured persons were taken to nearby hospitals and Agroha Medical College.The mishap resulted in a traffic jam on the highway.According to the information, there was a blanket of dense fog on the Delhi-Hisar National Highway today morning, which reduced visibility to around 50 to 60 metres. The mishap occurred when a car collided with a truck in front of the BSF camp. After this accident, seven vehicles rammed into the car and truck from behind.The national highway was blocked after the pile up of vehicles. The police reached the spot and removed the truck and other vehicles.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-hurt-in-vehicle-pile-up-on-hisar-sirsa-highway-374656
03-03-2022||Chandigarh||Welfare-driven budget to be welcomed: Bhupinder Hooda||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today said that the party wouldn’t allow the government to run away from discussions.He chaired the meeting of the Congress Legislative Party today, while HPCC president Kumari Selja also attended it.Addressing mediapersons, Hooda said the party would raise the issues of Anganwari and Asha workers, old pension scheme, old-age pension cut under the guise of family ID, cut in many welfare schemes, abolishing the reservation of backward classes, changing the rules of domicile, demand for formation of Sanitation Workers Commission, demands of guest teachers, extension lecturer, property ID, discrepancies of lal dora and evacuation of Haryana students trapped in Ukraine during the session.Reacting to the Governor’s address, Hooda said the address normally defines the direction of the government policies and future plans, but it had no roadmap for the development of the state or the problems facing the people.Hooda said the Congress would also keep an eye on the Budget to be presented by the government. “We will welcome the budget, if it is developmental and welfare-driven, otherwise Congress will oppose it,” he said. — #bhupinder hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/welfare-driven-budget-to-be-welcomed-hooda-374653
03-03-2022||Parveen Arora||No proper data on mobile towers available with Karnal MC: RTI reply||Karnal, March 2A number of mobile towers have been set up in the city by various telecom companies, but surprisingly, the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) does not have any proper official record of the number of telecom towers established in its limits. It also has no record of the illegal or towers with permission.A reply of the RTI query filed by a Karnal-based RTI activist, Rajesh Sharma, and information gathered by The Tribune that there is no data regarding the number of towers in the city as no specific survey has been conducted on it in the city limits.The reply further stated that it had received 81 applications so far from July 14, 2015, of them, 35 had been given permission to set up towers. The MC had no record that how many had been given requisite permission to set up the towers till date since its inception in 2010.Sharma blamed that hundreds of towers of various telecom companies were being operated from the city limits, but the KMC did not have any record which exposed the working style of the authorities here.“I request the authorities to conduct a survey to determine the status of various mobile towers and seal those that were being operated without any permission,” demanded Sharma.Gagandeep Singh, Joint Municipal Commissioner (JMC) of the KMC, said the KMC would conduct a survey to determine the status of the mobile towers. “The issue came to my notice recently and I have directed the officials concerned to conduct a ward-wise survey to determine the status of mobile towers. Based on the report, notices will be issued to the violators and they will be sealed,” said Singh.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-proper-data-on-mobile-towers-available-with-mc-rti-reply-374651
03-03-2022||Nitish Sharma||Political parties gear up for civic body poll in Ambala||Ambala, March 2With workers’ meetings, closed-door discussions with leaders and approaching dissatisfied workers, political parties have started gearing up for the forthcoming Municipal Council elections in the Ambala Sadar Zone.While the BJP has already started holding meetings and is banking on development measures taken in the home constituency of Home Minister Anil Vij and the issue of nationalism, the opposition parties are ready to counter the BJP leaders with the issues of corruption in the council, sanitation and registration of properties.Claim on development projectsThe BJP government has brought many development projects in Ambala and we are confident that the people will elect the BJP candidates in the upcoming poll. Dhuman Singh, BJP leaderParty to contest on its symbolThe party will contest on its symbol and raise the issues related to wrong policies of the government and problems being faced by the people due to corrupt practices in the MC office. Onkar Singh, INLD leaderobservers to be appointed soonWard and zone-wise observers will be soon appointed and the party leadership will also soon decide whether the election will be contested on the party symbol or not. —Rohit Jain, Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee TreasurerThe tenure of the previous House got completed in July 2018. There are 31 wards in the council this time against nine wards when it was part of the corporation.BJP leader Dhuman Singh, who is the in-charge of the Sadar Zone election, said, “The BJP government has brought many development projects in Ambala and we are confident that the people will elect the BJP candidates in the upcoming poll. Meetings are being held with the party workers and from March 5 the party will launch its ‘Nav Matdata Abhiyan’ in which the Yuva Morcha of the party will identify and approach the first-time voters and apprise them of the achievements of the party.” JJP state spokesman Vivek Chaudhary, said, “We have been holding meetings with the party workers and the party has sought names of candidates in all 31 wards and a state executive body meeting will be held on March 5 in Ambala to chalk out a strategy for the upcoming polls.”Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee treasurer Rohit Jain said, “Ward and zone-wise observers will be soon appointed and the party leadership will also soon decide whether the election will be contested on the party symbol or not.”Haryana Democratic Front general secretary Chitra Sarwara said, “We will raise the issue of sanitation conditions, property registration, misutilisation of public funds, and poor condition of streets. There should be more focus on development and less on decoration.” INLD leader Onkar Singh, who has announced the candidature of his son Damanpreet for the post of chairman in the MC election, said, “The party will contest on its symbol and raise the issues related to wrong policies of the government and problems being faced by the people due to corrupt practices in the MC office.” AAP’s district sangathan mantri, Gagandeep Kapoor said the party had decided to introduce its candidates in the MC poll.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/political-parties-gear-up-for-civic-body-poll-in-ambala-374650
03-03-2022||Ravinder Saini||Sans draw of lots, brick kilns start operation in Rohtak dist||Rohtak, March 2The district authorities have yet to conduct draw of lots to finalise one-third of brick kilns that can remain operational this year in view of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directive regarding air quality index in the National Capital Region (NCR). Many brick kilns in Rohtak and Jhajjar districts have already started operations without waiting for the draw while owners of others are waiting due to ‘uncertainty’ over authorities’ decision.Interestingly, the District Food and Supply Controller office also seems to be confused on the matter. Hence, it has sought guidance from the headquarters regarding the prevailing situation.Case pending in courtWe scheduled meetings to conduct the draw of lots three to four times in the past two months, but representatives of the kiln owners association did not turn up, citing the case was pending before the Supreme Court. We have now sought directions from headquarters on what should be done in the prevailing situation. —Apaar Tiwari, district food and supply controller, RohtakThe brick production season starts on March 1 and concludes on June 30. There are 368 licenced brick kilns in Jhajjar while their number is 114 in Rohtak. So, 123 brick kilns in Jhajjar and 38 in Rohtak are to be finalised for operations this year.“Brick kiln owners are bound to suffer hefty financial losses in case they don’t start operations. Hence, many brick kilns have started production. Though the number of such brick kilns is minimal, it will rise in the coming days as every owner has already invested a huge amount,” said a kiln owner in Jhajjar.Apaar Tiwari, District Food and Supply Controller, Rohtak, said the draw system had not yet been finalised in any district of the state as brick-kiln owners had filed a petition in the Supreme Court in this regard.“We scheduled meetings to conduct the draw of lots three to four times in the past two months, but representatives of the kiln owners association did not turn up citing the case pending before the Supreme Court. We have now sought directions from the headquarters on what should be done in the prevailing situation,” he added.Rajender Singh Takkar, president, the Rohtak District Brick-Kiln Owners Association, said, “A few brick kilns have begun operations in Rohtak. Majority of brick kiln owners are waiting for the Supreme Court verdict. The next date of hearing in the case is March 7.”“We are hopeful of getting relief from the Supreme Court. A meeting of all kiln owners will be called after March 7,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sans-draw-of-lots-brick-kilns-start-operation-in-rohtak-dist-374648
03-03-2022||Parveen Arora||3 of Kaithal family stuck in Kharkiv||Kaithal/Karnal, March 2Members of a joint family of two brothers in Kalayat of Kaithal district are glued to the television and mobile phones to get updates about the war situation in Ukraine for the past week.Three of their children are pursuing MBBS (second year) and have been stranded in Kharkiv since the first day of the war.The fresh guidelines for Indian students to vacate Kharkiv have made the family members anxious as they are unable to comprehend how their children would cross the border amid bombardment by Russia.“My son Abhay Singh, nephew Sourav Singh and niece Vanshika Parmar have spent a week in a basement of the hostel amid fear. Sometime, they were given food twice a day. At other times, they remained without food. The situation is getting worse with each passing day, increasing our tension too. We are not able to contact the embassy. We are in touch with our wards who told us that somehow, they have managed to reach the railway station. But still, they do not know how they would cross the border of Ukraine which is far away,” said Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Kalayat.His wife Shalu, brother Dr Madan Singh and sister-in-law Neelam along with other family members have been waiting eagerly for their return.Data collected by The Tribune from the Kaithal administration reveals that 93 students of the district went to Ukraine. So far, 34 have returned. It has not been possible to contact 17 of them, increasing the tension of family members.The data of Karnal administration shows that as many as 138 students went to Ukraine for studies. Of them, 49 have returned, 51 are in neighbouring countries and eight are on their way back to India. As many as 17 students are stranded in Ukraine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-of-kaithal-family-stuck-in-kharkiv-374646
03-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Medical institutions in Ukraine  ranked below Indian colleges||Chandigarh, March 2Thousands of Indian students are studying in Ukraine and frantic efforts are now being made to rescue them. But when it comes to international rankings, the institutions in Ukraine are much behind Indian ones.A look at Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2022 in the subject of medicine and dentistry shows that except for Sumy State University, whose ranking bracket is 501-600, the ranking of the rest of Ukraine’s institutions are beyond 1,200.Government must increase seatsGoing to Ukraine for medical education is like a backdoor entry into medical profession. The standard there is much poorer. The Indian Got should increase medical seats and course fee should be lesser. —Prof Digambar Behra who retired from PGIMER, ChandigarhIndian universities like JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research fall in the ranking bracket of 351-400 and Banaras Hindu University (BHU) in 601-800. Also, Jamia Millia Islamia (601-800), Saveetha University (601-800) and Aligarh Muslim University (801-1,000) are also ahead of Ukraine’s institutions.Dr Punita Hasija, President, Indian Medical Association (Haryana chapter), said, “Our medical colleges both in the government as well as private sector are much better than those in Ukraine, which take in students without entrance test. On their return, such students have to clear a screening test of National Medical Commission (NMC). Many of them take years to pass it.”She added, “The education is cheaper in Ukraine which drives less meritorious students there. The government must think about lowering MBBS fee here so that students don’t have to go overseas like Ukraine or former USSR states.”Prof Digambar Behra, who retired from Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, said, “Going to Ukraine for medical education is like a backdoor entry into the medical profession. The standard there is much poorer. The Indian Government should increase medical seats and course fee should be lesser.” Behra is a renowned expert in pulmonary medicine.However, Somi Anwar, who passed out from Dnipro State Medical University in 2020, differed. “I agree that Ukraine’s institutions are lower in international rankings. But my institution and those in Kiev and Kharkiv are the good ones.”She added, “I cleared NMC’s test within six months. But my seniors have not been able to clear the test for the past six to eight years. So, it depends on the quality of students too.” Anwar practises in Delhi.Vice-Chancellor of Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences, Prof Anita Saxena, said, “I taught at AIIMS Delhi all my life. I hardly come across students who passed out from Ukraine, Russia or other breakaway states of the USSR as these students wither away at the post-graduate level and are hardly able to compete with Indian medical students.”“Some colleges in Ukraine and breakaway states of former USSR are good, but many are like shops. They hardly come in contact with patients,” said Dr Paramjit Maan, President, IMA (Punjab chapter).Former PGIMER Director Prof Jagat Ram, who had once worked as a member of the Medical Council of India which is now known as NMC, said, “Many foreign students clear the screening test of NMC, but some could not. Our medical education system is one of the best. The colleges in Ukraine are not on a par with Indian colleges,” he said. #indians in ukraine #MBBS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/medical-institutions-in-ukraine-ranked-below-indian-colleges-374644
03-03-2022||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana Governor: Raising happiness index, equitable growth government target||Chandigarh, March 2Underlining the state government’s attempt to “rise above regionalism and nepotism” to carry out equitable development in the state, Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatraya said the government’s target was to increase the happiness index and to provide ease of living.Delivering his address on the first day of the Budget Session of the 14th Haryana Vidhan Sabha which commenced here today, Dattatraya lauded the government and frontline workers for their role during Covid while indicating that Haryana was back on track when it came to setting and realising development goals.In the backdrop of the year-long farmers’ agitation, the Governor, in his speech, explained at lenth how the “government believes that if the farmer becomes prosperous, prosperity and happiness will prevail in the state”. He listed out the various schemes rolled out by the BJP-JJP government with the economic uplift of the farmer in mind and emphasised that rice-wheat rotation was a “losing proposition”.“Be it procurement of crops on minimum support price (MSP) or giving compensation for crop damage due to natural calamity, my government is with each farmer,” he said in his speech.While his speech reiterated the government’s commitment to getting “the legitimate share of water from the rivers of Ravi and Beas through the completion of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link canal, he said a multi-disciplinary university would be established at Nuh (Mewat), three new centres of excellence are being established in Bhiwani, Nuh and Jhajjar to promote horticulture.The Governor said that a 500-bed ESI hospital was coming up at the IMT-Manesar, while five new ESI dispensaries had been approved for the IMT Rohtak and Karnal.The Governor said to immortalise and honour the bravery of those unsung heroes who had played a pivotal role during the First War of Independence, an international level “Shahid Smarak” (martyrs’ memorial) was being built by the state government in Ambala.Dattatraya said pioneering innovations made by the state government were being adopted not only by other states but also by the Central Government.Copy of address not gotLeader of Opposition Bhupinder Hooda, after the conclusion of the Governor’s address, pointed out that though the members had not received a copy of the address on the pretext of some rule, a few officials in the gallery and a leader of the treasury benches had a copy of the same beforehand. Hooda protested the “inequality”, after which the Speaker, Haryana Vidhan Sabha, Gian Chand Gupta, apologised.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/governor-raising-happiness-index-equitable-growth-government-target-374556
03-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Under Haryana Bill, 'ghar wapsi' not conversion||Chandigarh, March 2The Haryana Prevention of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Bill, 2022, will come up for discussion during the Budget session that began today. Under the Bill, “the burden of proof shall lie on the accused in case of violation of any of the provisions of the Act”. It implies the accused will have to prove his innocence once a case has been filed against him under the Act.For bringing this Bill, the BJP government has reasoned that several instances have come to notice that with an agenda to increase the strength of their religion, people marry girls from other religions by misrepresentation and later force them for conversion. According to the Bill, “conversion doesn’t include return of any person to the religion professed or being professed by anyone or both parents or grandparents of a person”.The definition of “allurement” for conversion under the Bill includes education in schools run by any religious body. Abetting or conspiring for conversion through digital means is also an offence.The Bill prescribes that any marriage solemnised by concealing one’s religion shall be “null and void”. Though any child born out of such marriage will be legitimate and could get property from father and mother, as per their respective inheritance laws.Congress’ chief whip BB Batra said they would oppose the Bill. Deputy Leader of the CLP Aftab Ahmed said the government had no data on concealment of religion in interfaith marriages.For conversion, one has to submit a declaration to the District Magistrate (DM) stating his intention to convert out of free will. The DM has to affix the copy of such declaration or notice on the notice board outside his office and any person can file objection to that in 30 days.Then DM has to pass a reasoned order, if conversion is declined. If he is satisfied that conversion is based on free will, then he will issue a certificate. He shall decide the issue within three months, but not later than six months. The appeal against DM’s order can be filed before the Divisional Commissioner.The conversion through misrepresentation, force, undue influence, and allurement attracts imprisonment from one to three years and also a fine of not less than Rs 1 lakh. The same punishment is there for conversion by marriage or for marriage.Concealing one’s religion for marriage attracts punishment of three to 10 years and a fine of Rs 3 lakh. In case of mass conversions, the imprisonment will be for five to 10 years with a fine of Rs 4 lakh.If an institution or organisation is found guilty, its registration will be cancelled.PenaltyConversion through misrepresentation, force, undue influence and allurement attracts one to three years in jail and Rs 1 lakh as fine.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/under-haryana-bill-ghar-wapsi-not-conversion-374552
