04-03-2022||Ravi S Singh||AAP wades into preparations for municipal bodies election in Haryana||New Delhi, March 4Fresh from its hectic campaign for the just concluded Assembly elections in Punjab, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has decided to contest the forthcoming elections for all the Municipal bodies in Haryana.The Haryana government has tentatively made it known that the much delayed elections would be held in April.“AAP will contest for all the 41 municipal bodies for which the elections are likely to be held next month,” Rajya Sabya MP and party in charge for Haryana Sushil Gupta said on Friday.“AAP will contest the elections under its own symbol,” Gupta added, which is seen as the party adopting a front foot approach in the matter.Wading into preparations for the poll battle, the AAP has already appointed observers for 31 municipal bodies. Observers for the remaining ten bodies are expected to be completed before the end of this month.Sources said that AAP has planned to use these local electionsin Haryana as the sounding board for itspolitically big intention in the state, and to assess its organization strength at the grass root level in time.Exposing the organisation on a large scale across the state would help the party to take corrective and invigorating measures before the next Lok Sabha and assembly elections, which will be held in 2024.The thinking among large sections in AAP is that the party’s campaign in Haryana will get a boost after theMarch 10 results of the assembly election to the five States, especially Punjab.AAP has emerged as the principal challenger to the ruling Congress in Punjab. Its leaders are optimistic that the party has a real shot at forming government in the State. Even in the worst case scenario it would emerge as the single largest party in the Vidhan Sabha.A good performance in Punjab will help the party to concentrate in Haryana on real time basis.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-wades-into-preparations-for-municipal-bodies-election-in-haryana-375054
04-03-2022||Stray cattle have become a big problem for commuters in the twin cities Yamunanagar and Jagadhri. A number of animals can be seen wandering in the streets of colonies||Stray animals pose risk to residents, commuters||Water contaminated as tank not cleaned, residents harried lotResidents of the MC colony are upset due to the lack of cleaning of the booster tank of the Public Health Department which supplies drinking water to about half a dozen colonies of the city. The water stored in the tank is unclean and gets contaminated due to the silt gathered in the tank. The tank needs to be desilted, but the authorities are ignoring the request of the residents. —Padam Singh Chauhan, BhiwaniWhat Our Readers SayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-animals-pose-risk-to-residents-commuters-374989
04-03-2022||---||Six months' rent paid to society evacuees||Gurugram, March 3The Gurugram administration has provided six months’ rent at the rate of Rs 22,000 per month to 25 families of the NBCC Green View. The society that has been declared unfit by the IIT is to be vacated by tomorrow. While 20 families out of 25 have already shifted out, five have cited medical reasons and asked for a day or two more.It is however the rehabilitation of 49 EWS families which has left the local administration harried. The EWS wings of the society do not have the original allottees as residents as many have reportedly rented these which has made their rehabilitation an issue.“In majority of flats, either relatives of allottees are living or they have been rented out. We are working on shifting out 49 families and the rent shifting cost will be worked out by tonight. Hopefully the society will be vacated this week,” said District Town Planner (DTP) RS Bhath.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/six-months-rent-paid-to-society-evacuees-374986
04-03-2022||Yamunanagar||Three rob jewellery shop in Yamunanagar||Three persons robbed a jewellery shop near Lakshmi Cinema in Yamunanagar today. The shop owner, Vinod Kumar, tried to chase the robbers, but sustained injuries on his forehead after a robber opened fire on him.The incident took place at about 12.15 pm. Three masked men entered the shop and allegedly pointed a gun at Kumar while another looted jewellery. The third robber was standing at the shop entrance.While fleeing, the motorcycle of the robbers didn’t start. They left their vehicle and snatched a bike to flee. A case was registered against three unknown persons at City police station. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-rob-jewellery-shop-in-yamunanagar-374984
04-03-2022||Yamunanagar||1 held with 310-gm smack||The anti-narcotics cell of the Yamunanagar police has arrested a man and recovered 310 gm smack from his possession. The accused has been identified as Amir Khan of Bareilly district in UP.A case under Section 21B, 61 and 85 of the NDPS Act has been registered against at Sadar police station.Khan was wanted in connection with a case of 60 gm smack in the district.The anti-narcotics cell received information on Thursday that Khan was coming to the district from UP to sell smack.Upon receiving information, the police laid a naka near Kalanaur village situated on the Haryana-Uttar Pradesh border and arrested Khan with drugs. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-held-with-310-gm-smack-374983
04-03-2022||---||Granthi gets 25-yr RI for raping minors||Kaithal, March 3A “crime against women court” of the Additional Sessions Judge, Poonam Suneja, today sentenced Jasbir Singh (50), a granthi at a gurdwara in Baupur village in Cheeka in Kaithal district, to 25 years’ rigorous imprisonment (RI) and a fine of Rs 1 lakh for raping two minor girls.The imprisonment will run concurrently.Besides, the court directed the legal services authority to ensure a compensation of Rs 5.50 lakh to each victim.Advocate JB Goel, public prosecutor for the state, was assisted by advocate KL Bhardwaj in the case from the victim’s side.The case was registered on February 6, 2019, on the complaint of the father of a girl under Section 376 AB of the IPC and Section 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at the Cheeka police station against the granthi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/granthi-gets-25-yr-ri-for-raping-minors-374979
04-03-2022||Hisar||Hisar SP suspends two cops, orders inquiry against SHO||Hisar Superintendent of Police (SP) Lokendra Singh has suspended Sub-Inspector Satbir Singh and Head Constable Vikrant posted at the Hisar Sadar police station and also issued orders for departmental inquiry against SHO Inspector Kaptan Singh after finding irregularities in investigation of a case registered under the Copyright Act.The police spokesperson said the police had registered a case on the complaint of a TV company on February 24. During investigation, the police took away four LEDs from a shop in Hisar. But the police officials returned only two LEDs to the company.The spokesperson informed that during investigation, it came to light that the police had recovered four LEDs. The SP taking action under the policy of zero tolerance against corruption, suspended the two cops in the case on the charges of not discharging their duties properly and tarnishing the image of the police and also started departmental inquiry against the SHO who was found negligent while holding a responsible post. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sp-suspends-two-cops-orders-inquiry-against-sho-374975
04-03-2022||Karnal||Groom  held for  demanding SUV, Rs20 lakh||A groom and his brother were arrested by the Karnal police for allegedly demanding an SUV and Rs 20 lakh in dowry. They were booked on the complaint of the father of the bride on January 24.The marriage was to be solemnised on February 11, but before the marriage, as per the father, Variyam Singh, of Kulvehri village, the groom and his brother demanded dowry.The accused groom was identified as Salinder of Sonepat, posted as a clerk in the power corporation.Rakesh Kumar, investigation officer, said the police had arrested the groom Salinder and his brother Yashwant. The investigation was in progress, he added. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/groom-held-for-demanding-suv-20-lakh-374971
04-03-2022||---||Employee dupes shop owner of Rs 2.5 lakh through online apps||Karnal, March 3The Cyber Crime Police Station of Karnal Range arrested an employee of tailoring material shop for allegedly cheating the shop owner by transferring Rs 2.5 lakh online through various apps. The accused identified as Ajay, a resident of Newal, was an addict of playing online games.On the complaint of Bharmeshwar Das Gupta, a resident of the city, alleged that his wife was a government school teacher and she had a salary account in the main branch of the SBI. He told the police that he operated the account of his wife. On February 14, he got suspicious after checking the balance of the account. His wife also told him that she did not withdraw money or purchase anything online. After enquiring he found that purchases worth Rs 2.5 lakh were made through various apps such as cashfree, flipkart, amazon, paytm and others. The cyber police station registered a case on February 21 under Section 420 of the IPC and 43, 66, 66C of the IT Act, said the police.Himandri Kaushik, ASP, Indri, constituted a team led by Roshan Lal, SHO, Cyber Crime police station. The team members arrested Ajay, who said he got addicted to playing online games on the mobile, for which he required money. He had seen passwords of various online transaction apps from the mobile phone of the shop owner, which use to lie in the shop. The accused had filled his address at the shopping sites. #cyber crime||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/employee-dupes-shop-owner-of-2-5-lakh-through-online-apps-374969
04-03-2022||Sunit Dhawan||'Nest man' trains MDU-Rohtak students at spring fest||Rohtak, March 3Students, faculty members and other staffers of Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) in Rohtak got an opportunity to learn nest making from noted environmentalist Rakesh Khatri, popularly known as the “nest man” of India. Khatri, who was especially invited for the “Rang Bahaar” spring flower festival organised on the MDU campus, trained the university students, teachers and employees in the art of nest making.Concerned with the decrease in sparrow population in urban India, Khatri established Eco Roots Foundation for teaching people how to make and install sparrow-nests at their homes. Khatri has made more than 2.5 lakh nests so far. A Limca Book record-holder for the maximum numbers of handmade nests and workshops, Khatri is also a proud recipient of the International Green Apple Award in the House of Commons for best practice on sparrow conservation, London, and a national award for best performance with children through innovative and traditional methods.A resident of Mayur Vihar in Delhi, Khatri says he makes nests with jute, wood and empty tetra-packs of fruit juices etc. He also trains the students of different states in nest making. “It feels good when sparrows adopt nests made by us as their home. Getting feedback from students about the nests made by them being inhabited by birds is very satisfying and keeps me going,” he states. “He has not only provided shelter to many sparrows, but also trains students in nest making. We look forward to making nests and taking his mission of sparrow conservation ahead,” said Krishan, a student of MA (Yoga) at the MDU.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nest-man-trains-mdu-students-at-spring-fest-374966
04-03-2022||Karnal||CSSRI celebrates 54th Foundation Day||Rohtak student's Yeoman serviceRohtak:  Devina Badhwar, a research scholar at the department of English and foreign languages at Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU) in Rohtak, has been serving self-cooked food to footpath dwellers for several years. She served food to the needy during the pandemic-induced lockdown. Rohtak district administration has felicitated Devina for her yeoman service. Devina also gives free-of-cost cooking classes to underprivileged youngsters so that they can earn their livelihood by working at a cafe or restaurant. She also gives free English tuitions to the needy students.Sportspersons felicitated Faridabad: The authorities of Aggarwal College felicitated the college archery team which won medals at the All-India University Archery Championship held recently at Chandigarh. Principal Dr Krishan Kant who congratulated the team for its superb performance said that it was another proud moment for the college which had been doing better each year in sports. He said the student players who represented MD University, Rohtak, won bronze medal in both the individual and recover round of the championship. Vikas Rajput (MA previous), Tarun Dixit (BA final) and Vikas Dagar (MA previous course), have been the university team members from the college here. These have been selected to play in the Khelo India national-level games to be organised by the Department Of Sports, Government of India, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cssri-celebrates-54th-foundation-day-374962
04-03-2022||---||Nine die in road mishaps in Gurugram||Gurugram, March 3Four men working at a restaurant died when a speeding Skoda car rammed into their bikes on the Golf Course road here in the early hours of Thursday.The driver of the car, Harsh Singh, who was allegedly drunk, has been nabbed.The deceased have been identified as Govind Pratap Kurmi (29), a native of Madhya Pradesh, Gopal (27) of Uttarakhand, and Jitender Mondal (35) and Rajnish Mondal (21), both residents of Sitamadhi district in Bihar.All four worked at Chacha Restaurant situated in the Qutub Plaza market.According to the complaint filed by Kumar, the four men left the restaurant to head to their at 12:30 am.“I was behind them in my car. Driving at the Golf Course road, a speeding black Skoda Rapid came from Sikanderpur side and rammed into the two bikes from behind,” the hotel owner said.Kurmi died on the spot, Jitender and Rajnish died on the way to the hospital and Gopal succumbed to his injuries during treatment. Following the complaint an FIR was registered against the car driver.Meanwhile, five friends returning from a birthday party died after their rammed into a canter in Bilaspur on the Delhi-Jaipur Highway in the wee hours of Thursday.The five worked at a private logistic company and were heading to Bhiwadi after celebrating the birthday of one of the deceased.The canter driver fled the spot after the accident.The deceased are Ashish (22) of Aligarh, Bharat Bhushan (25) of Delhi, Chander Mohan (24) of Hisar, Sandeep (25) of Kaithal and Praveen Sharma of Deoria in UP.According to the police, the mishap took place at around 3 am in front of Highway King Hotel on the Delhi-Jaipur Highway. The five men were returning after celebrating Chander Mohan’s birthday. All five died on the spot.Following the complaint by the company’s hub manager, an FIR was registered against an unidentified person at Bilaspur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nine-die-in-road-mishaps-in-gurugram-374958
04-03-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Sanitation: Questions raised on Panipat MC tender||Panipat, March 3There is a cloud of uncertainty over the plans of cleanliness in the city, as the ruling party councillors have raised questions over the opening of sanitation tender by the Municipal Corporation (MC), Panipat.Senior Deputy Mayor and ruling party councillor Dushyant Bhatt on Thursday spoke against the allotment of tenders and raised questions over the process of tender allotment and claimed that this tender would be cancelled at any cost. Bhatt alleged that several anomolies were adopted in the allotment of sanitation tenders.Tenders allotted ‘secretly’The tenders have been allotted secretly as no information was given to the councillors and to the House before the allotment of cleanliness tenders. The MC Commissioner will have to put all tender-related documents before the House to maintain transparency. —Dushyant Bhatt, Senior Deputy MayorThe MC allotted two tenders of Rs 3.53 crore per month for sanitation after dividing the city into two zones on February 28. As per the record, the MC has allotted the tender of Rs 1.87 crore per month for zone-1 (from ward 1 to 14) and another tender of Rs 1.65 crore for zone-2 (from ward 15 to 26).But, soon after the opening of the cleanliness tenders, the ruling party councillors started raising questions over the allotment process of the tenders.The tenders have been allotted secretly as no information was given to the councillors and to the House before the allotment of cleanliness tenders, he said. Smelling corruption in the tender allotment, BJP district vice-president Bhatt said these tenders were linked to the the sweeping machine tender, which was cancelled on January 17 this year, while the tenure of this tender had ended in July last year.As many as five firms participated in the tender process but three weredisqualified while one of them was ready to clean the city within just Rs 1.60 crore while these tenders have been allotted for Rs 3.53 crore per month for five years, the Senior Deputy Mayor added.If this tender is regularised then the MC will have to bear a loss of over Rs 100 crore in the next five years and it will be enhanced 10% annually in the next five years, Bhatt said.Demanding cancellation of the cleanliness tender, the Senior Deputy Mayor claimed that no one would be allowed to loot the city and the MC for their vested interests.Bhatt said the tenders would be cancelled soon by the government as he had sent all documents to the higher authorities andhe would try to save the city every time when things would go wrong.Demanding to call the General House Meeting, Bhatt said the MC Commissioner would have to put all tender-related documents before the House to maintain transparency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/sanitation-questions-raised-on-mc-tender-374956
04-03-2022||Ravinder Saini||62 autorickshaw stops earmarked in Rohtak city||Rohtak, March 3Having successfully implemented odd-even system for autorickshaws to ease out traffic congestion, the district traffic police have now earmarked 62 points in the city for them to curb traffic jams and road mishaps.It has also urged the Municipal Corporation (MC) authorities to draw white line and install boards at all such points so that local residents can not only know about these but also reach there to board autorickshaws.The MC authorities have also sanctioned the budget to execute the plan and are also gearing up to float tenders in this respect. More than 7,000 auto-rickshaws are in the city, which are plying on the even-odd basis.“A study has revealed that autorickshaws are one of the major causes of traffic jams and minor mishaps in the city as the drivers stop the autorickshaws at any point on main roads without following traffic rules as soon as they spot people standing there. It leads not only to traffic jams but also road mishaps. Since there are no stoppage points for auto-rickshaws in the city hence people stand anywhere on road to board an autorickshaw,” said Dr Ravinder Singh, DSP (Traffic).He maintained a meeting of autorickshaw drivers would be called to make them aware of the points as soon as the corporation installed the boards and white line there. Those autos found halting at points other than those designated would be challaned. The points have been identified in such a manner so that people do not have to face any inconvenience in boarding autorickshaws, he added.The DSP said such points would be established at Sukhpura Chowk, Bhiwani Chungi, Jind Bypass, Mata Darwaja Chowk, Gohana Adda, General Hospital, Chhotu Ram Chowk, HUDA Complex, Jhajjar Road T Point, Quilla road, Bhiwani Stand, Durga Bhawan, Kachha Beri Road, Old Bus stand, Hisar Bypass Chowk, Ambedkar Chowk, Government Women College, Sonepat Stand, Subhash Chowk, Ashoka Turn, Bajrang Bhawan, Bapu Park, Medical Mor, Power House Chowk, Jat College, MDU Gate, Delhi Bypass, Sheela Bypass, Vishal Mega Mart and Shri Ram Rangshala.Manmohan Goyal, Mayor, Municipal Corporation, said a proposal for setting up autorickshaw stop points in the city had been passed by the General House of the corporation. Hence, tenders to install the boards would be floated soon so that the plan could be executed at the earliest.Defaulters to be challanedAutos found halting at points other than those designated will be challaned. The points have been identified in such a manner that people do not have to face any inconvenience in boarding autorickshaws. —Dr Ravinder Singh, dsp (Traffic)Proposal passed by HouseA proposal for setting up autorickshaw stop points in the city has been passed by the General House. Hence, tenders to install the boards will be floated soon so that the plan can be executed at the earliest. —Manmohan Goyal, Mayor, Municipal Corporation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/62-autorickshaw-stops-earmarked-in-rohtak-city-374954
04-03-2022||---||More than 1K students still in Ukraine: Haryana CM Khattar||Chandigarh, March 3More than 1,000 Haryana students are still stranded in Ukraine and its neighbouring countries.Talking to mediapersons today, CM Manohar Lal Khattar said, “The list of 1,784 youths of Haryana was received from the Ministry of External Affairs, out of which 83 are not from our state. So far, out of 1,701 Haryana youths, 683 have been brought back. Nearly 150 students remaining in Ukraine have been asked to come on the border.”Today, nine students from Haryana reached the Mumbai airport. “Arrangements have been made to give air travel tickets from Mumbai to Delhi to these students along with a cash amount of Rs 1,000 on behalf of the Haryana Government. Besides, help desks have been set up in Mumbai, Delhi, Chandigarh, Faridabad,” he added.The CM said all deputy commissioners had been directed to contact the families of such students at personal level. Faridabad Divisional Commissioner had been made the nodal officer. #indians in ukraine #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/more-than-1k-students-still-in-ukraine-cm-374952
04-03-2022||---||Kurukshetra DC meets parents of students starnded in Ukraine, assures help||Kurukshetra, March 3Mukul Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, Kurukshetra, today informed that of the 116 students belonging to Kurukshetra who were in Ukraine, so far 34 have reached home safely. The administration is in touch with the remaining students.The DC today met the parents of a few students who are yet to return.DC Mukul Kumar said, “While 34 students have arrived here, many others have been shifted to other neighbouring countries safely from Ukraine. They will be reaching India in the coming days. We have met the parents of some students who are yet to arrive and assured them that their children will be brought back safely. The SDMs have been directed to interact with the students twice a day and also coordinate with their parents here.”The Kurukshetra DC also interacted with a few students over the phone and inquired about the situation.In Ambala, DC Vikram Singh also held a meeting with the district officials. The DC said that a total of 76 students from Ambala were stuck in Ukraine. Of them, 22 have returned and the remaining will be arriving in the coming days. #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-dc-meets-parents-assures-help-374950
04-03-2022||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram administration reaches out to families of students stranded in Ukraine||Gurugram, March 3As around 100 families of the district wait with bated breath for their children to return, the Gurugram administration is reaching out to anxious parents.The administration has so far identified families of 91 students who have been stranded in Ukraine and have started meeting their family members.Officials of the administration are not just updating them on helplines etc but also counselling and providing support to parents in distress. The visits are crucial for parents who are not that tech savvy.“It’s not just children but even the parents back home who are in distress. They are continuously reaching out to us and we stand by them,” said DC Nishant Yadav.“My son left Kharkiv in a train and I have not been able to speak to him for the past two days. We had lost all hope but then, the administration got in touch with some other student who was on that train and we could get to know about his well-being. We just hope to get him back,” said Poonam, mother of a youth stuck in Ukraine. #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/administration-reaches-out-to-families-374949
04-03-2022||Parveen Arora||Ukraine crisis: Staring at food, money scarcity, students turn to each other||Karnal, March 3“We were 33 students stuck in a basement for six days in a war-torn Kharkiv and had to survive on limited food and water supply. After a relaxation in the curfew on March 1, we decided to walk to the railway station so that we could move to the border. Amid chilling weather, we had to walk for eight kilometres to reach the railway station,” said Suraksha, a resident of Nigdhu village in Karnal.Suraksha is fourth-year MBBS student in Kharkiv, who landed in Delhi today along with Subham of the same village and a fourth-year medical student in Kharkiv.Trains packed, no place to sitWe were afraid after witnessing the devastation there. Ukrainians were not allowing Indians to board trains. The train was full with no place to sit. We stood for 24 hours to reach to the western part of Ukraine. — Suraksha, MBBS studentStudents travelling sans food, waterAfter getting no response, we decided to move to the border at our own risk. Most students did not have food and money, but all helped each other to reach Moldova border. We had to travel for 10 kms. — Harpreet, MBBS student“We were afraid after witnessing the devastation there. Ukrainians were not allowing Indians to board trains, but we managed somehow. The train was full with no place to sit. We stood for 24 hours to reach to the western part of Ukraine,” she said, adding that they somehow managed to hire a taxi to reach Poland border, where the Indian Government has made arrangements for evacuation.Subham, who is still traumatised, narrates the same story. He said it was a second birth for all who have returned safely to India.Harpreet, a fifth-year MBBS student and a resident of Basant Vihar, said he was in Odressa and had spent days in constant fear as they were not getting any response from the Indian Embassy.“After getting no response, we decided to move to the border at our own risk. Most students did not have food and money, but all helped each other to reach Moldova border. We had to travel for 10 kilometres as there was a long queue on the border,” he added.“Students were afraid of the constant bombardment. We had to pay extra to reach Maldova,” said Saurabh, a third-year MBBS student, who returned on March 1. He is a resident of Sector 6 here.Meanwhile, Karnal DC Anish Yadav said of the 138 students stuck in Ukraine, 75 have returned, 39 had reached to neigbouring countries, two were on the way and 11 were still stuck in Ukraine.“We are in touch with the family members of all students and have established a control room at the mini secretariat,” the DC added. #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ukraine-crisis-staring-at-food-money-scarcity-students-turn-to-each-other-374946
04-03-2022||---||Datesheet out for Class X, XII exams||Hisar, March 3The Board of School Education, Haryana Bhiwani, has announced the datesheet for the examinations of matriculation and Class XII classes this season.The Chairman of the Board, Dr Jagbir Singh, said examinations would be held offline from March 30 to April 29. He said a total of 6.68 lakh students would take the exams in all categories of regular and private students.A total of 1,700 exam centres were being set up across the state and 250 flying squads were being formed to prevent copying and the use of unfair means.He said that 40 per cent marks would be subjective and 40 per cent marks objective. Thus, a total of 80 marks would be in the examination and 20 per cent would be from internal assessment. #BSEH||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/datesheet-out-for-class-x-xii-exams-374944
04-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Human rights panel suggests Rs 21 lakh relief for kin of six diarrhoea victims||Chandigarh, March 3Haryana Human Rights Commission (HHRC) today recommended a total compensation of Rs 21 lakh to the next of kin of six labourers of the Karnal grain market, who died of diarrhoea in 2018.The commission had taken congnisance of The Tribune’s report dated September 28, 2018, that six labourers who had consumed contaminated water from the taps provided by the Market Committee, Karnal, had died within five days of contracting diarrhoea.Lack of amenitiesIt is clear that due to the lack of basic amenities such as potable water, sanitation and hygienic living conditions, six deaths had occurred. — Haryana Human Rights CommissionThe Secretary-cum-Executive Officer, Market Committee, Karnal, submitted before the commission that the six labourers had died due to “some unknown reasons” between September 23 and September 30 of 2018. It was claimed that the water tanks had been cleaned, vacant plots had been cleared and the Health Department had fogged the grain market area. It was added that on the demand of the labour union, a financial assistance of Rs 1 lakh from Haryana CM’s Relief Fund and Rs 50,000 from panchayat, Ananj Mandi, was provided to the dependents of the deceased labourers.The District Surveillance Unit Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme, Karnal, under the Civil Surgeon, pointed out that out of 1,036 patients examined between September 25 and October 4 of 2018, 269 suffered from diarrhoea. However, it claimed that no particular cause of diarrhoea could be ascertained. It was claimed that the migrant labourers from Bihar and UP were living in unhygienic conditions.However, Professor and Head Department of Medicine, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College, Karnal, Amandeep Singh, submitted in his report that the most probable cause of the outbreak was “toxin-induced diarrhoea”.The commission observed, “...As the basic amenities of life were not provided by the authorities, poor labourers and their family members had to suffer from various diseases, which may prove fatal, thereby violating their human rights.”The commission observed that the primary function of market committees was to render basic services like power and water and for that, market fee was also charged.The labourers who died were Shambhu Mehto, Rijvi Rai, Gomti Devi, Kamal Kumari, Chotu Paswan and Ashok Mehto.The commission questioned that if water was not contaminated in or around the Market Committee, Karnal, as being argued on the behalf of Haryana State Agriculture Marketing Board (HSAMB), and the same was fit for human consumption, then how such a large number of persons (269) had suffered from diarrhoea. It added that corrective measures like cleaning of water tanks, fogging and cleaning of vacant plots happened after the deaths. #human rights||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panel-suggests-21l-relief-for-kin-of-six-diarrhoea-victims-374943
04-03-2022||Chandigarh||Will build gaushalas for all stray cattle: Minister JP Dalal||State Animal Husbandry and Dairying Minister JP Dalal said stray cattle, especially cows, would not be left roaming on roads. “Our aim is to build gaushalas for all destitute cows,” he said.Dalal was giving his statement regarding a non-official resolution brought by Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal regarding stray animals during the session here today. He said farmers were facing various problems due to stray animals.Dalal said 600 gaushalas were functional in the state with 4.5 lakh cow and efforts were being made to keep one lakh more cows in gaushalas. Dalal said the budget of gaushalas had been doubled between 2014 and 2022. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-build-gaushalas-for-all-stray-cattle-minister-374942
04-03-2022||Chandigarh||Maximum rape cases registered in Gurugram||Gurugram tops in the number of rape cases registered every year at 212 while Mewat with 20 has the highest number of gang rape cases registered in 2021.This government was replying to an unstarred question by Independent MLA Balraj Kundu on the total number of rapes and gang rapes registered between 2014 and 2021.The reply by Home Minister Anil Vij mentioned that rapes had increased from 944 to 1,548 while gang rapes had decreased from 206 to 176.Against 944 rape cases in which probes were completed in 2014, probes were completed in 1,348 cases in 2021. The number stands at 206 and 152, respectively, in the gangrape cases. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/maximum-rape-cases-registered-in-gurugram-374941
04-03-2022||Chandigarh||Special girdawari on to assess damage from hailstorm: Haryana CM||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced that the work of special girdawari for the rabi 2021-22 crop, damaged due to a recent hailstorm in some districts, had started on March 1.He was responding to a question raised by MLA Balraj Kundu at the Vidhan Sabha here today. He apprised the House of the work of the general girdawari of rabi crops in the state done till February 28.He said the crop damage caused due to the hailstrom across the state was reported on February 25-26, therefore a special girdawari was being done in March.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala said for the improvement of the dilapidated road from Panchgaon village to Mohammadpur-Tauru under the Sohna Assembly seat, which falls under the provisions of the Central Government, if funds were not received from the Centre within 15 days, the state Government would repair the said road.Chautala, in response to another question regarding building a road from Chamrori to Sili village under Radaur Assembly, said the contractor had failed to construct the road. A notice to terminate the agreement had been issued by the Executive Engineer of Yamunanagar. He said if the contractor did not give a satisfactory reply, a new tender would be issued in 30 days and the construction would be done in six months. — #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/special-girdawari-on-to-assess-damage-from-hailstorm-cm-374940
04-03-2022||Pradeep Sharma||Set up panel to probe 'scams' during BJP rule in Haryana: Ex-Speaker||Chandigarh, March 3The Opposition Congress today batted for the setting up of a select committee of the Assembly to probe alleged scams during over seven years of the BJP rule.Participating in the discussion on the Governor’s Address during the Budget Session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha, former Speaker and Congress MLA Raghubir Kadian tried to put the Khattar government on the mat, alleging 40 scams across different departments in the past seven years. “The committee can only bring out the truth about various acts of omission and commission of the state government,” he said.Take action on baseless chargesI urge the Speaker to initiate action against any legislator who levels baseless allegations against the government. —Manohar Lal Khattar, CMKadian flayed the government on issues like high unemployment rate, rising crime, drug menace and “raw deal” to all sections, including farmers, employees and traders.Meanwhile, Kadian entered into a verbal dual with Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala over allegations of corruption against a Deputy Commissioner (DC) and Chief Minister’s Good Governance Associate (CMGGA). At this, Chautala dared Kadian to name the DC and CMGGA if the allegations were true. Kadian said he could name the officials if the government assured a CBI inquiry into the matter.Earlier, initiating the discussion on the Governor’s Address, BJP’s Panipat (Rural) MLA Mahipal Dhanda appreciated the development under the BJP, saying the government was working towards “Sab ka saath, sab ka vikas”. Ishwar Singh, JJP MLA, said the record of the state government, especially for the welfare of Scheduled Castes, had been exemplary.`||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/set-up-panel-to-probe-scams-during-bjp-rule-ex-speaker-374939
04-03-2022||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana Vidhan Sabha: Now, draw to decide speakers in zero hour||Chandigarh, March 3The Haryana Vidhan Sabha will resort to the “draw of lots” model to decide the names of members who will be allowed to speak during the zero hour, beginning tomorrow.With a tug of war always on between the treasury benches and those of the Opposition on the time given to members to speak during the zero hour, it was decided that a draw was a fair way to choose the speakers for any given day.Right after the question hour concluded during the ongoing Budget Session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha, here today, Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the three-minute time that is fixed for each member to speak during the zero hour was just not enough and the allotted time should be increased.SidelightsHe found support from the Opposition benches even as Speaker Gian Chand Gupta said the time limit could not be extended since all members had to be accommodated. He suggested that a draw of lots be held every morning to decide the names of members who would speak in the zero hour.Amid strong protests by Health Minister Anil Vij who advocated disallowing the zero hour since it does not find mention anywhere, the Speaker said it was up to the present dispensation to change for the better.However, an unconvinced Vij continued to insist. Pointing out at Congress MLAs, he said, “When they were in the government, they would throw me out of the House even when I had not uttered a word and was occupying my seat. We were in the Opposition then. Now, they are in the Opposition and they are suddenly remembering conventions. Where is the provision of a zero hour mentioned? Don’t be taken in by their sweet talk.”INLD’s Abhay Chautala seconded Vij’s statement and said they would come to his rescue and did not allow marshals to take him away.While Congress MLA Kiran Choudhary said any member who had spoken once should not be allowed to participate in the draw, Independent MLA Balraj Kundu suggested that for every one MLA from the treasury benches, two MLAs from the Opposition should be allowed to speak.Finally, the Speaker said a draw of lots would be conducted every morning while the session was on. “Ten slips will be drawn and those members can speak on anything for six minutes allotted to them,” he announced.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-draw-to-decide-speakers-in-zero-hour-374938
04-03-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Four restaurant workers killed in Gurugram after car rams into their motorcycles||Gurugram, March 3Four workers of a restaurant in DLF phase-1 were killed when a speeding Skoda car rammed into their bikes on the Golf Course road here in the early hours of Thursday.The incident took place when the four men were returning home after work.The driver of the car, who was allegedly drunk, has been nabbed and an FIR has been registered against the driver at DLF phase-1 police station. Harsh Singh, a resident of Sector 43, who was behind the wheel was produced in a city court today and was sent to judicial custody. Singh was working as sales manager with a private company, police said.The deceased have been identified as Govind Pratap Kurmi (29), a native of Madhya Pradesh, Gopal (27) from Uttarakhand, and Jitender Mondal (35) and Rajnish Mondal (21), both natives of Sitamadhi district in Bihar. All four were working at Chacha Restaurant, located in the market of Qutub plaza in DLF phase-1. Restaurant owner Manoj Kumar said all were working at his place since December last year. Jitender Mondal was head cook, Rajnish Mondal was dish cleaner and Gopal was working as waiter, he said.According to the complaint filed by Manoj Kumar, the incident occurred around 12.30 am today when he closed the restaurant. Jitender and Rajnish, Gopal and Govind were on two motorbikes and headed towards Chakkarpur where they lived as tenants.“They came on Golf Course road from DLF gate 11 and I was behind them in my car. As they took the Golf Course road a speeding black Skoda Rapid car came from Sikanderpur side and rammed into the two bikes from behind. Bikes were hurled into the air and the car driver dragged Govind Kurmi for some metre. Kurmi died on the spot while Jitender and Rajnish breathed their last on the way to hospital. Later, Gopal succumbed to his injuries at a private hospital. The police were called who nabbed the driver of the car who was in an inebriated state,” Manoj Kumar said in his complaint.The families of deceased have been informed and police handed over bodies to them after postmortem. Following the complaint an FIR has been registered against the car driver under Sections 304 (culpable homicide), 308 (attempt to culpable homicide) of IPC and Section 185 of Motor Vehicles Act.Station House Officer of DLF phase-1 police station inspector Naresh Kumar said, “We have arrested the car driver and taken his blood sample also. The driver was produced in a city court today and sent into judicial custody. We are investigating and action will be taken as per the law.” The police have also taken the damaged car and bikes in custody, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/4-delivery-boys-killed-in-gurugram-as-car-rams-into-their-motorcycles-374750
