05-03-2022||One feels bad at the ugly site as one cycles through villages. Roadsides have turned into garbage throwing areas. This is the site in Tundla village where one can see garbage dumps||Stagnant water, garbage dumps dot villages||Damaged, potholed stretches bane of Rohtak residentsResidents of Rohtak have been facing inconvenience due to the badly damaged roads, but the authorities concerned seem to be completely indifferent to their plight. Apart from the potholed roads, the unfinished flyover on the Sheela Bypass Chowk has been causing difficulties to the residents, shopkeepers and commuters for a long time. The state government and district administration should take concrete steps to expedite the pace of development/construction works. —Sunil Sharma, RohtakWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stagnant-water-garbage-dumps-dot-villages-375249
05-03-2022||Chandigarh||Ferozepur Jhirka MLA protests outside House||||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ferozepur-jhirka-mla-protests-outside-house-375247
05-03-2022||Sumedha Sharma||EWS residents get no rental support from NBCC society||Gurugram, March 4While the deadline to evacuate NBCC Greenview Society ended today, over 50 EWS families continue to stay put. Majority of the house owners are tenants who have not moved out as the building authority has not provided any rental or shifting support to the families.“I work as nanny in houses. My husband lost his job two years ago. This flat is of a relative who gave it to us on minimal rent. The district administration says that the building will fall anytime and have asked us to relocate, but I have no money for rent or security. Where will I take my family?” Sunita, a residence of the society said.Around 55 EWS families residing in NBCC Greenview have the same story to tell.“The building authority of NBCC Greenview Society has not provided any rental relief to the EWS occupants to date. In the capacity of the duty magistrate for the implementation of the said orders, I direct you to work out modality to provide advance rent of six months plus one-time shifting charges,” an order issued by the DTP reads.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ews-residents-get-no-rental-support-from-nbcc-society-375246
05-03-2022||Panchkula||Judicial remand for two linked to Khalistan outfits||Two of the four accused associated with pro-Khalistan outfits, who were arrested from Sonepat, were produced in a special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court of Haryana in Panchkula on Friday. They were arrested by the police from a village in Sonepat district.The police claimed to have recovered one AK-47, five foreign pistols and other forged documents. The CIA-1 of the Sonepat police produced the two accused, Sagar and Sunil, in the special NIA court, after which they were sent to judicial custody. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/judicial-remand-for-two-linked-to-khalistan-outfits-375243
05-03-2022||Gurugram||Man nabbed for murder||The Gurugram police have nabbed a man for allegedly killing his live-in partner.He has also confessed to killing the husband of his live-in partner, Mahesh, after he came to know of their affair in June 2018. The victim has been identified as Kamla while the accused has been identified as Surender, resident of Delhi, and was arrested from near Gold Souk on Thursday night. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-nabbed-for-murder-375241
05-03-2022||---||Faridabad: Clerk caught taking bribe of Rs 5,000||Faridabad, March 4The State Vigilance Bureau team has arrested a Clerk working in the Office of the Food and Drug Administration Department here for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000.Revealing this a spokesperson of the Bureau said the accused identified as Manjeet posted as a Clerk in the Food and Drug Administration Department in Faridabad had demanded the bribe for issuing a food safety licence to complainant Varun hailing from the Greater Faridabad area. Varun wanted to start a tiffin service for which the Clerk sought the money, it is alleged. As the application fee for the job is reported to be Rs 100 only, the complainant who did not wish to pay the bribe, informed the Vigilance officials who laid a trap and arrested the accused Clerk red-handed accepting Rs 5,000 in cash on Friday.A case under the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against the accused . Further investigation is underway, it is claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/clerk-caught-taking-bribe-of-5-000-375239
05-03-2022||---||Accused of rape, Panipat cop jumps before train, dies||Panipat, March 4A head constable in the district police, who was booked for raping a woman on the pretext of marriage on January 12, reportedly died by suicide by jumping before a running train near Sector 6 in the wee hours today.The deceased has been identified as Sandeep of Kaimla village of Karnal.Inspector Rajkumar, SHO, GRP, said that Sandeep had sent a message to his family members before ending his life in which he had alleged that some people, including a woman, were responsible for him taking the extreme step.A case has been registered under Section 306 of the IPC against the woman and others on the complaint of the deceased’s wife, the SHO added. The body has been handed over to the victim’s kin after the post-mortem examination.The police had booked Sandeep for raping a woman on her complaint. She had alleged that Sandeep had raped her by making promises to marry her. She also got pregnant. But when she asked him about marriage, he refused, she claimed. Following her complaint, the police registered a case against the accused and his brother.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/accused-of-rape-cop-jumps-before-train-dies-375238
05-03-2022||Gurugram||Police: Crime registration better in Gurugram||With Home Minister Anil Vij announcing Gurugram to be topping state charts in rape cases, the city has yet again grabbed attention for being unsafest for women in Haryana.Cops, however, have a different take, as they hold increased awareness and convenience of registering complaints as the key reason behind the same. While Commissioner of Police Kala Ramchandran was unavailable for comments, an ACP said, “There is ease and approachability in Gurugram and that is what ensures that nobody faces any problem in registering complaints. Women here voice their complaints easily here compared to other districts.”Another senior official said the city should not be judged just with mere numbers.“Many cases in the city turn out to be fake and are quashed. In a majority of the cases, the accused is acquaintance of the victim and these cases end up in compromise. We need to decide safety of woman on the basis of merits of a case,” he added.“The city is cosmopolitan and we do face issues in terms of women’s safety. Not just rapes, issues like eve-teasing and molestation are common. Women don’t feel safe venturing out at night even at public places like Metro stations. We need dedicated efforts to make city safe for woman,” said Preeti Saluja, a women rights activist. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/police-crime-registration-better-in-gurugram-375237
05-03-2022||Chandigarh||Over 38K vacancies of teachers in Haryana government schools||As many as 38,476 vacancies of teachers exist in government schools of Haryana against a requirement of 1,22,798. This was stated by the Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar during the Budget session of the Vidhan Sabha here today.While stating that Haryana had 24,951 schools, of which 14,491 were government ones, the minister, in his reply, said that against 1,20,966 sanctioned posts, 72,188 regular teachers were working. As many as 12,134 guest teachers were also employed, taking the teacher availability to 84,322.The reply added that 15,265 vacancies existed at the PGT level, 18,236 at the TCT level, 1,046 posts of head teacher were vacant, while the department was short of 3,929 JBT/PRT. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-38k-vacancies-of-teachers-in-government-schools-375233
05-03-2022||---||AAP to contest Haryana municipal poll on party symbol||New Delhi, March 4The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has decided to contest the forthcoming elections for all municipal bodies in Haryana.The tentative plan of the Haryana Government is to hold the much-delayed elections in April.“AAP will contest for all 41 municipal bodies. The elections are likely to be held next month,” Rajya Sabha MP and party in-charge for Haryana Sushil Gupta said on Friday.Elections likely to be held next monthAAP will contest for all 41 municipal bodies. The elections are likely to be held next month. The party will fight the poll under its own symbol. —Sushil Gupta, Rajya Sabha MP and Party in-charge for Haryana“AAP will fight the poll under its own symbol,” Gupta added, which was seen as the party adopting a front-foot approach in the matter.Wading into preparations for the poll battle, AAP has already appointed observers for 31 municipal bodies. The observers for the remaining 10 bodies are expected to be appointed before the end of this month.Sources said AAP had planned to use these local elections in Haryana as the sounding board for its politically big intention in the state and to assess its organisation strength at the grassroots level in time. Exposing the organisation on a large-scale across the state will help the party in taking corrective and invigorating measures before the next Lok Sabha and Assembly elections, which will be held in 2024, said the sources. The thinking among large sections of AAP is that the party’s campaign in Haryana will get a boost after the March 10 results of the Assembly election to the five states, especially Punjab. AAP has emerged as the principal challenger to ruling Congress in Punjab. Its leaders are optimistic that the party will have real shot at forming the government in the state. The party sources hope that it will emerge as the single largest party in the Vidhan Sabha.Observers appointed for 31 civic bodiesFor the poll battle, AAP has already appointed observers for 31 civic bodies. The observers for the remaining 10 bodies are expected to be appointed before the end of this month.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-to-contest-municipal-poll-on-party-symbol-375231
05-03-2022||Hisar||Skills development programme at Guru Jambheshwar University||Dr Archana Mishra is VC of DBRANLUPanipat: Dr Archana Mishra has been appointed as the new  Vice-Chancellor of Dr BR Ambedkar National Law University (DBRANLU). Dr Mishra is likely to join on March 10, as the tenure of Professor Viney Kapoor Mehra will end on March 9. At present, Dr Mishra is the principal of Government PG College, Panchkula. “It is a national law university and I will strive to take it to the top position,” said Dr Mishra.Scholarship to outstanding studentsKaithal: Sushil Bansal, director, Bansal Forest Products, and an old student of the RKSD College, provided an annual scholarship of Rs 5 lakh to the outstanding students. He announced that every year under the guidance of his father Kailash Bansal and uncle Ramesh Bansal, this scholarship would be provided to academically outstanding and talented students. Keeping this in mind, principal Dr Sanjay Goel set up an incubation centre, which will arrange training for students for various competitions and will set the benchmark of excellent academic achievements. This centre will also distribute this scholarship in collaboration with the Students Welfare Committee and Puran Students Committee. On this occasion, president Saket Mangal and other office-bearers distributed scholarships to 56 talented students.Teachers & artificial intelligence Kurukshetra: To motivate and equip teachers to encourage and foster learning in students, Acharya Dakshta Varg was organised in Gita Niketan Awasiya Vidyalaya. Yoga session taken up by Shivam and Rajiv today filled everyone with energy. The programme started with the lighting of ceremonial lamp by principal Narayan Singh. A patriotic poem was recited by Harsha. The whole day was dedicated to IT. In Baudhik session, Vipin acquainted the teachers with artificial intelligence and how it had made the life of human beings easy. Journal on computer engineering Faridabad: The JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad ,will soon start its research journal on computer engineering and technology to promote quality research work and bring together the latest research and development in various fields of science and technology related to computer engineering. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the computer engineering department held under the chairmanship of Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Tomar. Emphasising on improving the quality of research work, Prof Tomar asked senior faculty members to ensure the quality parameters being adopted by their scholars for researchwas being maintain ed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/skills-development-programme-375228
05-03-2022||---||Congress workers protest against ‘immoral activities’ at spa centres in Karnal||Karnal, March 4Infuriated over the news of alleged immoral activities in some of the spa centres in the city, scores of Congress workers led by national secretary Virender Rathore today protested in Sector 12 outside spa centres.They alleged that immoral activities were going on without any check by the police, but the Congress would not allow anyone to do so in the city. Rathore warned the administration and spa centre owners to stop these activities otherwise they would continue to conduct such raids in the spa centres. “Party workers will keep a vigil on such activities in future and will take action,” said Rathore.He said due to one of the spa centres, a youth had committed suicide last week as he was thrashed by some girls in a spa centre and his belongings were snatched.Rathore alleged that these spa centres were being operated just near the Mini Secretariat, where top officials of the police and the district administration functioned. He questioned the CM, who is also the MLA from Karnal city, that on whose behest such illegal activities were flourishing in the city.Rathore also highlighted the issue of drugs in the district and said that Karnal was among 272 districts of the country where drugs intake was rampant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-workers-protest-against-immoral-activities-at-spa-centres-375227
05-03-2022||---||Haryana CM’s flying squad raids dairies in  districts to check adulterated milk||Chandigarh, March 4The Chief Minister’s flying squad conducted raids in several districts of Haryana after receiving complaints of adulterated milk and destroyed 20,000 litres of milk which was not fit for human use.An official spokesperson said raids were conducted on milk dairies in Bhiwani, Fatehabad, Palwal and Yamunanagar districts, while these were on in milk dairies in Sonepat, Panchkula, Yamunanagar, Faridabad, Hisar, Narnaul, Bhiwani Ambala, Panipat, Rewari, Fatehabad, Karnal and Jhajjar districts.He said during the raids, sampling and testing was also being done on the spot by the Food Safety Officer at the FSO Mobile Lab.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cms-flying-squad-raids-dairies-in-districts-375224
05-03-2022||Parveen Arora||Four key Karnal Smart City projects likely to begin in April||Karnal, March 4Four key projects of the Karnal Smart City programme are likely to begin in April as the tenders for these projects worth around Rs 215 crores have been floated by the Karnal Smart City Ltd. (KSCL), a company looking after the project.Major projects“We have floated tenders of four projects including — construction of elevated corridors at a cost of Rs 157.39 crore on single pillar technology (one on railway road and the second from Committee Chowk to Karan Park), hockey stadium in Kailash Colony at a cost of Rs 15 crore, development of Gappuwala park phase-II at a cost of Rs 3.5 crore, and construction of commercial space in the old grain market at a cost of Rs 40 crore have been floated and work orders will be allotted by the end of March or in the beginning of April,” said Anish Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO, KSCL.To speed up workI have reviewed all projects and asked all agencies to speed up the work, so that we can achieve the target in the stipulated time. More projects will be taken up in the Smart City project. —Anish Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-ceo, LSCL“I have reviewed all projects and pushed all agencies to speed up the work, so that we can achieve the target in the stipulated time. In coming days, more projects will also be taken up in the Smart City project,” said DC Yadav.Karnal was included in the list of Smart Cities on June 23, 2017, which gave high hopes of development to residents. A sum of Rs 1,121 crores was to be incurred on various IT and civil infrastructural projects. The starting years of this programme were full of hurdles and projects could not be started at full pace, which led to resentment among the residents. As per sources, the development projects under this programme were also hit due to Covid-19-induced lockdown during the first wave. However, the second and third wave did not have adverse effect on the progress.The sources said some of the projects took some shape in the one year. Out of total 57 approved projects, 25 projects have been completed, including smart education in eight schools, open air gyms in 74 parks, cultural corridor, rainwater harvesting in 30 sites, integrated command and control centre (ICCC) and others, while the work on projects including Canal Front on Western Yamuna Canal, redevelopment of Sector 6 and 14 markets, redevelopment of Karna Lake, beautification of parks and green belt, digital library in Budha Khera and Ram Nagar, open air theatre in Atal Park and others are underway. The work on these ongoing projects is also likely to complete soon, which will also boost the motive of the programme, said an official.The tendering process has kindled hopes of speedy implementation of projects in the CM’s City. “The starting of this programme was slow, but in the past one year, this programme got shape as some projects were completed. We are hopeful the tendering process of new projects will boost the infrastructural growth of the city,” said Rajiv Arora, a social activist. #smart city||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-key-karnal-smart-city-projects-likely-to-begin-in-april-375222
05-03-2022||---||File specific reply on Haryana job quota, HC tells Centre||Chandigarh, March 4The Punjab and Haryana High Court today asked the Union of India to file a specific reply on the issue of providing 75 per cent reservation in Haryana industries for the domiciles of the state. The Bench of Justice Ajay Tewari and Justice Pankaj Jain also fixed March 9 for further hearing in matter.As the case came up for resumed hearing, Additional Solicitor-General of India Satya Pal Jain informed the Bench that the Union of India did not want to comment on the statute, as it was enacted by the state government. Taking a note of the submissions, the Bench made it clear that the court wanted it to take a definite stand and file a paragraph-wise reply on the petition challenging Haryana’s act.The High Court had on the previous date of hearing asserted that it did not deem it appropriate to absolve the Union of India of its responsibility to appear and file reply on a bunch of petitions challenging the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, providing 75 per cent reservation in Haryana industries for the domiciles of the state. #Reservation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/file-specific-reply-on-job-quota-hc-tells-centre-375217
05-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||High Court: Expedite trial in Rohtak ‘honour killing’ case||Chandigarh, March 4More than three years after a juvenile and a police official were shot by assailants outside the Rohtak court complex, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed the trial court to expedite the proceedings in the alleged honour killing case. The direction came as Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill dismissed the bail plea of the victim’s mother.Justice Gill asserted that the petitioner-biological mother had allegedly conspired to get her daughter killed through professional killers on account of “compromising of their honour”. In the process, one more person was killed. It certainly did not leave any room for leniency.No room for leniencyThe petitioner-biological mother had allegedly conspired to get her daughter killed through professional killers in Rohtak on account of ‘compromising of their honour’. In the process, one more person was killed. Justice Gurvinder Singh Gill, —Punjab and Haryana HC“Although the petitioner has been behind bars for three and a half years and the prosecution has not been able to conclude its evidence inasmuch as only 14 out of the 44 prosecution witnesses have been examined, the delay can also be attributed to the recent circumstances — the spread of pandemic,” Justice Gill observed.The mother, Savita, was seeking regular bail in an FIR registered on August 8, 2018, for murder, attempt to murder, criminal conspiracy and other offences under Sections 186, 333, 353, 302, 307, 120-B and 34 of the IPC and the provisions of the Arms Act and the SC/ST Act at the Arya Nagar police station in Rohtak district.The Bench was told that the FIR pertaining to the juvenile’s “honour killing” and sub-inspector Narender was lodged at a constable’s instance. It was alleged that she, along with SI Narender, came to the Rohtak courts from Karnal Nari Niketan for producing the juvenile before the Juvenile Justice Board. When the complainant and others were at a short distance from the courts after coming out, a person sitting pillion on a motorcycle started indiscriminate firing at the victim. The complainant and SI Narender tried to rescue her, but the assailants fired at them as well. The police official succumbed to his injuries.Dismissing the plea, Justice Gill directed that the trial court would take “all such necessary steps as may be possible under the present circumstances of the spread of the pandemic for expediting the conclusion of the trial”. The prosecution, too, would ensure the presence of its witnesses on the dates fixed by the trial court for recording their statements to prevent further delay.Justice Gill added that the trial court might make a schedule in advance for summoning the prosecution witnesses and fix short dates for them to be summoned. Directions were also issued for deputing special messengers for securing their presence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-expedite-trial-in-honour-killing-case-375216
05-03-2022||Parveen Arora||Ukraine crisis: Parents say won’t send wards back even after normalcy returns||Karnal, March 4MBBS students who have returned homes from war-torn Ukraine are now worried about their future.Students say they are clueless about the course of their studies. Family members of majority of returned students are not willing to send them back.“I am in the fifth year of my MBBS degree student and have just a year left for the completion of the degree, but the ongoing war has cast a shadow of uncertainty over my future. Even if the situation gets normal in the coming days, my family will not send me back to Ukraine,” said Harpreet Singh, a student who returned three days ago.My family won’t send me backI have a year left for the completion of my degree, but with the attacks going on, I am uncertain of my future. Even if the situation gets normal, my family will not send me back. —Harpreet Singh, 4th-year MBBS studentWill appear for NEEt in juneMy family and I are worried about my future. We have no idea when the situation will get normal. I am planning to appear for the NEET in June, so that I can get admission in India. —Bhavay Jain, 1st-year MBBS studentSome students have also started exploring other alternatives, including preparing for NEET to secure their future.“My family and I are worried about my future. We have no idea when the situation will get normal. I am planning to appear for NEET in June so that I can get admission in India,” said Bhavay Jain, a first-year MBBS student, who returned home last week.A student on the condition of anonymity said less expenses and lesser tough competition invited students to pursue MBBS in Ukraine.“In India, the expenditure is high and competition is tough. That is why students immigrate to Ukraine and other countries to pursue MBBS. I am a third-year student. The war has instilled fear in the hearts of students and family members. My family members are also not ready to send me back,” he added.Suraksha, a fourth-year MBBS student at Kharkiv National Medical University, is hopeful that the war would end soon. She wishes to go back to university when the situation gets normal.“I am hopeful that the situation will get normal. I want to continue my studies in Ukraine. If the situation remains the same, I will immigrate to another country to finish my degree after I get the transfer certificate. I request the Union Government to adjust all students in our country,” she said.Parveen Kumar, a resident of Karan Vihar, is waiting for her daughter Aakanksha, a first-year student who is still stuck in Kharkiv.“During the lockdown, I had arranged Rs 15 lakh for my daughter to pursue MBBS in Ukraine and sent her to Ukraine. The war has given us sleepless nights. I request the Indian Government to bring my daughter back,” said Kumar.As per the data updated by the district administration, the count of residents stuck in Ukraine was raised to 150 from 138. Of these, 92 have returned, 40 have reached neighbouring countries, five are in transit and nine are still stuck. #indians in ukraine #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ukraine-crisis-parents-say-wont-send-wards-back-even-after-normalcy-returns-375214
05-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana former Speaker Raghuvir Singh Kadian tears copy of conversion Bill, suspended||Chandigarh, March 4Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta today suspended ex-Speaker and six-time MLA Dr Raghuvir Singh Kadian (77) from the House for the rest of the session over the tearing a copy of the Haryana Prevention of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Bill, 2022.Marshals had to be called for taking him out of the House, while Congress MLAs staged a walkout amidst the pandemonium which lasted for more than an hour.Provisions of BillAfter Home Minister Anil Vij moved the Bill in the House, Kadian said the Partition in 1947 was painful and the country was being pushed into a similar direction. “A wall is being created between Ram and Rahim. The country is going towards a divisive direction for political benefits,” he said and demanded sending the Bill to a select committee.On divisive pathA wall is being created between Ram and Rahim. The country is going towards a divisive direction for political benefits. —Dr Raghuvir Singh Kadian, Ex-Speaker & Six-time MLACongress divided nationThe country was divided in 1947 on religious lines by the Congress. It had hand in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. Communalism is in their intellect. —Anil Vij, Home MinisterVij replied, “The country was divided in 1947 on religious lines by the Congress party,” and mentioned about the party’s hand in the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. “Communalism is in their intellect. This Bill doesn’t mention Hindu, Muslim, Sikh and Christian. Anyone can profess his religion, but can’t convert one’s religion through misrepresentation, force, threat, coercion, allurement or by fraudulent means.”By this time, most of the Congress MLAs had stood up in response to Vij’s allegations. Deputy Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Aftab Ahmed questioned how many complaints of conversion had come up, while Geeta Bhukkal said, “You build varsities, hospitals, but don’t divide people on the basis of religion.”CM Manohar Lal Khattar intervened in the matter, saying “the Bill doesn’t mention the name of any religion and read Section 3 of the Bill which prohibits conversion, including “by marriage or for marriage” and also the concealment of one’s religion with the intention to marry.He added that the Bill provided procedure for conversion and if the Opposition wanted, they all could get converted. The Congress MLAs reacted to the CM’s utterances and started protesting loudly. The BJP replied with “Bharat Mata ki Jai”. The CM soon took his words back.Meanwhile, Kadian tore the Bill, to which Speaker reacted and said he would expel him. The Congress MLAs rushed to the well of the House. “You have to apologise. It is irresponsible and against the dignity of the House,” the Speaker told Kadian.But he replied that it was not a legal document. “I had torn the farm laws too…I had torn the Bill which is divisive,” he said. He added that he respected the Speaker’s views, but didn’t apologise.Congress chief whip BB Batra demanded that the matter should be sent to the privileges committee.Then, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar moved a resolution for suspending Kadian for the entire session, which was passed by a voice vote.Meanwhile, marshals came to take Kadian out of the House. The Congress MLAs, while walking out along with Kadian, raised slogans “Tanashahi Nahin Chalegi (dictatorship will not work)”. The BJP MLAs responded with “Bharat Mata ki Jai”.Kadian was Speaker during the Congress regime from 2006 to 2009.When the House resumed after lunch, the Congress MLAs again protested and staged a walkout. #raghuvir singh kadian||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-speaker-kadian-tears-copy-of-conversion-bill-suspended-375212
05-03-2022||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana got Rs 318 cr as Covid donations: Khattar||Chandigarh, March 4The Haryana Corona Relief Fund (HCRF) received Rs 318.91 crore in donations during the three waves of Covid-19 while Rs 142.79 crore was spent out of it.This information was provided by Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar in response to an un-starred question by Indian National Lok Dal MLA Abhay Chautala during the ongoing Budget session today.ExpenditureThe CM’s reply mentioned that the maximum amount of Rs 41 crore was spent on procurement of medical equipment among other things, while Rs 35 crore was spent on providing assistance to the workers in the unorganised sector.While Rs 20 crore was paid to the Haryana Tourism Corporation for board and lodging of doctors and paramedical staff, Rs 5.5 crore was spent on the purchase of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) and Rs 5.5 crore on arranging and hiring of cryogenic tankers.The State Ayush Society purchased ayurvedic medicine Coronil for Rs 5.23 crore and ration worth Rs 6.53 crore was distributed to the public. The government spent Rs 8.22 crore on facilitating movement of stranded persons via trains. A sum of Rs 3.47 crore was spent on 6,938 beneficiaries who underwent home isolation (BPL families).The remaining amount was spent on ex gratia to BPL families, treatment of Covid patients (BPL families) in private hospitals and ex gratia to safai karamcharis among others.The CM said the balance amount would be spent on strengthening health infrastructure to combat challenges of any new variants of Covid and other eventualities of the pandemic. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-got-318-cr-as-covid-donations-khattar-375147
