06-03-2022||Panipat||Haryana: Teenager accused of raping 6-year-old in Panipat||Panipat Police are currently looking for a 14-year-old boy in connection with the rape of a 6-year-old girl in Deshraj Colony, sources said on Sunday.The incident occurred while the child was playing on the roof of a factory quarter where the child’s parents work, sources said. The suspect, believed to be a neighbour, allegedly fled soon after the incident.Police have registered a case under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, sources said.The victim is currently being treated at a general hospital, where her condition was reported to be stable, sources added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-teenager-accused-of-raping-6-year-old-in-panipat-375594
06-03-2022||---||Khattar launches self-employment scheme for needy||Karnal/Ambala, March 5Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday launched the ‘Mukhyamantri Shato Udyami Sarathi Yojana’ to help youth become self-employed.WON'T LET THEM FAILJust giving the loan won’t serve the purpose. The govt will also ensure that the money being given to people is safe and the beneficiaries are successful. We will not let them fail. — Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief ministerUnder the scheme, five experienced persons of the society will be appointed as guides for 100 families and will make them aware of the benefits and take them forward. “The guides with the spirit of social work will be known as ‘sarthis’ (mentors). People wishing to serve the society will have to register themselves on the Samarpan portal,” the CM said while addressing a gathering at the Mukhyamantri Antyodaya Parivar Utthan Mela on the premises of the SDM office in Gharaunda.Accompanied by Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan, the CM said, “We have launched this scheme to help the needy persons become self-employed by taking loans.”Khattar further said no person in the state would live below the monthly income of Rs 15,000 and for this, melas were being organised in all districts. He said 11 lakh such families were identified whose annual income is less than Rs 1.80 lakh and 160 such melas were organised in December last year. So far, 3.5 lakh people had benefitted from the scheme so far. Now, the second phase of these melas has started from March 2. At least, 250 melas will be organised till March 17.Khattar said the beneficiary should start a business by taking a loan under the self-employment scheme. “Families applying for loans through these melas should use the amount to start a new business or expand the existing one. Such loans being provided at lower interest rates should not be used to buy houses or any luxury items.”The CM further said the Parivar Pehchan Patra was being made to identify the families that require economic uplift. “The data of eligible persons have also been linked to the Mukhyamantri Parivar Samridhi Yojana. Under the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana and Jan Suraksha Bima, the premium amount is being paid by the state only,” he said, adding that the melas would prove to be a boon for the future generations.Meanwhile, the CM handed over loan approval letters of Rs 23.88 lakh to five beneficiaries.In Naraingarh, Khattar said: “The government has been working to increase the income of the poor families and bring them above poverty line from the below poverty line category.”“There are many people who may not be educated but have a rich experience in different fields and can train youngsters. The government will certify the persons getting trained and also give remuneration to the trainers.”As many as 20 departments and six banks had set up stalls and guided the families for their queries regarding loans and steps to be self-employed. Around 954 eligible families were counselled today. Also, 15 beneficiaries received approval letters and cheques.Later, the CM also met six Ukraine returnees, including Abhishek Verma, Harsh, Abhinav, Nidhi, Aman and Ashish, and assured them all possible help.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-launches-self-employment-scheme-for-needy-375465
06-03-2022||---||JJP's membership drive from March 13||Ambala, March 5The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) will start its month-long general membership drive from March 13, with a target to add 4.50 lakh new members in Haryana.The JJP held its national and state executive body meeting in Ambala Cantonment on Saturday. During the meeting, the party workers were given a target of making 5,000 members in each Assembly constituency between March 13 and April 13.JJP national president Ajay Chautala said: “From March 13 to April 13, a general membership drive will be run in the state. Senior party leaders and I will visit all 90 constituencies. The party is already strong in the rural areas and now it has to be strengthened in urban areas. For this, the municipal election is a golden opportunity.”He also called upon the workers to strengthen the party in cities and increase the vote bank from 17% to 51%.Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala called upon the party workers to focus on the urban areas, especially the cities where the municipal elections were due.Dushyant said: “During the membership drive, you have to approach all the sections of the society and meet people in the field. Apprise the public about the welfare schemes being run by the government. Rumours regarding old-age pension are being spread in the state. If any elderly person is facing difficulty in getting pension, then the workers should go to the Atal Seva Kendras of the village or nearby town to update their identity cards.”Later speaking to mediapersons, Ajay said: “The JJP and the BJP are running a government in alliance in the state. We had contested the previous election in alliance and will do so in the forthcoming polls too. The core committees of both the parties will take the final call regarding the forthcoming MC election and the seat-sharing arrangements.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jjps-membership-drive-from-march-13-375468
06-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Hit by pandemic, industrial investment lowest in 8 years||Chandigarh, March 5In reply to INLD’s MLA Abhay Singh Chautala’s question on new industrial investment under the BJP in the Assembly today, the Haryana Government submitted that in 2018, the state witnessed the setting up of 22,665 new units with an investment of Rs 4,835.15 crore.Supply disruptedThe data presented is only of registered units. The dip during the Covid period is due to the poor demand of consumer durables, disruption in the supply chain and movement of labour to native states.— Prof Satish Verma, RBI Chair Prof, CRRID, ChandigarhThe data revealed that industrial investment dipped to the lowest during the Covid pandemic in Haryana in the period 2014-21.In 2019, industrial development fell by 17 per cent to Rs 4,012.89 crore, while the new units that were set up in the state amounted to 17,109.The year 2020, marred by the pandemic, saw a dip of 46.4 per cent (close to half) as only Rs 2,149.68 crore was invested in 20,393 new units.The dip continued further in 2021 as well as the new investments fell by 23.8 per cent, with only Rs 1,637.52 crore being invested in 22,806 new units.The industry portfolio is with Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala.Prof Satish Verma, RBI Chair Professor, Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Chandigarh, said: “The data presented is only of registered units. The dip during the Covid period is due to poor demand, particularly of consumer durables; disruption in the supply chain; movement of labour to native states and adverse expectation effects.”He added there was also a low demand for credit from banks during the pandemic.“In 2022, the investment is expected to bounce,” he added. In 2022 so far, an investment of Rs 423 crore has already been made in two units in the state.District-wise, from 2014-21, Rewari attracted the maximum new industrial investment of Rs 4,299.54 crore for 5,028 units, followed by Faridabad, where Rs 3,041.50 crore was invested in 13,120 units. Sonepat is at the third place with Rs 2,873.04 crore being pumped in 4,773 units.Karnal saw the investment of Rs 2,434.90 crore, Rs 2,362.63 crore was devoted to Bahadurgarh and Gurugram recorded an investment of Rs 2073.89 crore.During the pandemic, Faridabad saw new investment of Rs 248.44 crore in 2020 and Rs 130.74 crore in 2021. Rajiv Chawla, chairman, Integrated Association of Micro Small and Medium Enterprises of India, said he was hopeful for the revival of the industry.“The Haryana Government’s industrial policies have helped in the past. The state has also benefitted from industrial model townships (IMTs). From the upcoming Budget, we are expecting a good share for local bodies for the maintenance of industrial areas and reduction in VAT on PNG. The industry has to shift from fossil fuels to PNG by September 30 in the NCR region.”“Sonepat is going to cross all districts in the matters of new investment in the coming years. We suffered during the farmers’ movement, but with Maruti brand coming to Kharkhoda, the picture looks quite hopeful,” said Rakesh Chhabra, president, Rai Industries Association.In 2020, Sonepat saw new investment of Rs 405.13 crore, the highest among all districts, but it dipped to just Rs 50.84 crore in 2021, largely due to the farmers’ protests.Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala said: “No big units have closed in the state. The micro and small industry was affected due to Covid as orders got cancelled. But now with Maruti investing Rs 18,000 crore, Flipkart Rs 1,300 crore, and Birla’s paint unit and Coke coming to the state, the investment is set to rise.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hit-by-pandemic-industrial-investment-lowest-in-8-years-375471
06-03-2022||Sunit Dhawan||Centre, state offer help to girl supporting house owner's kids in war-torn nation||Rohtak, March 5A Haryana girl student had refused to return to India as she wanted to take care of the wife and three children of her house owner who had joined the army. She has now moved to Poland along with the family.The girl’s family has been receiving calls from the Chief Minister’s Office and the Union Government, offering help and support.“Neha’s mother and I have got calls from the Chief Minister’s Office and the Union Government. The officials concerned offered all possible help and support. They also stated that they would honour Neha upon her return,” said Savita Jakhar, a family friend of the girl.She said Neha had now moved to Poland, along with the Ukrainian family. Talking to The Tribune from Copenhagen in Denmark on Saturday, the Indian-origin educator, Savita, said the girl and the family were staying at a refugee camp in the Capital of Poland.Neha, who belongs to Charkhi Dadri district, was studying medicine in Ukraine. She had refused to leave the war-torn country even though she got an opportunity to get evacuated.The reason behind her refusal was that the owner of the house, where she had been staying as a paying guest, had voluntarily joined the Ukrainian Army and she stayed there to support his wife in taking care of his children.The 17-year-old MBBS student had lost her father, who was serving in the Indian Army, a couple of years ago. Last year, she got admitted to a medical college in Ukraine.“She got attached to the children of the house owner. She got advisories to leave the country as the war seemed imminent. Her mother made frantic efforts to arrange for her evacuation. Finally, the girl got an opportunity to cross over to Romania, but she refused to abandon the family she has been staying with at this critical juncture,” said Savita.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/centre-state-offer-help-to-girl-supporting-house-owners-kids-in-war-torn-nation-375472
06-03-2022||---||Minister: Smart meters being installed in 5 dists||Hisar, March 5Stating that Haryana ranks highest in the country in providing solar-based tubewell connections under Kusum Yojana, Power and Jails Minister Ranjit Singh said that 15,000 farmers have been issued solar tubewell connections in the state and the process is on for 7,000 farmers.“The government has aimed to provide 25,000 connections in the third phase,” the minister said, adding that solar tubewells are proving to be very effective for small and marginal farmers.He said that the corporation is taking effective steps to reduce line losses. During the previous governments, there was 31 per cent line loss in the state. It has now reduced to about 14 per cent. It has resulted in increase in revenue of about Rs 5,000 crore.Ranjit Singh said that the ‘Mahara Gaon, Jagmag Gaon’ scheme has been implemented effectively with the objective of supplying adequate quantity of electricity to consumers in rural areas.“Twentyfour-hour power is being supplied to 85 villages of the district and work is in progress to provide 24-hour electricity in 60 villages,” he said. The Power Minister said that smart meters being installed by the Haryana Power Nigams will permanently solve the grievances of power consumers related to meter reading and electricity bill in Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minister-smart-meters-being-installed-in-5-dists-375473
06-03-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram JE booked for vandalism||The Gurugram police have booked a Junior Engineer (JE) of the Gurugram Municipal Corporation for allegedly getting a local salon vandalised on account of poor service to his wife. The incident was captured in the CCTV footage of the salon.Rs5K bill not paidThe Junior Engineer’s wife complained that she was not satisfied with the service. They left without paying the bill of over Rs5,000. Sandeep Kumar, ManagerThe complainant, Sandeep Kumar, manager of Cut and Salon located in Sector 38, in his complaint said that on Friday around 11.30 am, Rakesh Kumar, JE, Gurugram MC, came to the salon with his wife. Services were provided to the JE, his wife and the woman who had come along with them.“Kumar’s wife complained that she was not satisfied with the service. They left without paying the bill of over Rs 5,000. After sometime, he came to the salon with his colleagues, threatened us and vandalised the sign board of the salon. They also assaulted an employee,” the manager told the police.An FIR has been registered against Kumar under Sections 323 (causing hurt), 427 (causing damage) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at Sadar police station.When contacted, the JE he had nothing to do with the incident and was falsely accused. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-je-booked-for-vandalism-375475
06-03-2022||Nitish Sharma||Tardy work, PWD told to hand over project to tourism corpn||Kurukshetra, March 5Even after a delay of a year, the construction of the Mahabharata-themed buildings at Jyotisar Tirtha in Kurukshetra is yet to be completed.Five buildings are being constructed at a cost of Rs 50 crore. Construction began in 2018 and was to be completed by March 2021. Besides, a budget of around Rs 205 crore is to be spent on the theme work.Will use augmented reality, artificial intelligenceWe are hopeful that the construction of the buildings will end soon so that the theme work could be initiated. Different themes, including Shrimad Bhagavad Gita, Vedic Civilisation etc., will be depicted here. Augmented reality, artificial intelligence and other latest technologies will be used. Madan Mohan Chhabra, honorary secretary, Kurukshetra Development BoardFollowing the delay, the state government asked the Public Works Department (Buildings and Roads) to hand back the project to the Haryana Tourism Corporation. Now, the Tourism Corporation will complete the pending work.According to the information available, Union Tourism Minister G Kishan Reddy — during his visit to Kurukshetra on the occasion of International Gita Mahotsav – had visited the site and expressed concern over the delay.After the visit of the Union Minister, the Centre had informed that no funding would be available for this project beyond March-end this year.A terminal audit of the construction was ordered and PWD (B&R) was directed to complete this terminal audit with Haryana Tourism Corporation officials and hand back the site.An official said that despite repeated reminders and inspections, no progress was observed. The PWD had been demanding funds even as the project cost has nearly doubled.A senior official PWD (B&R) official said, “Earlier, the work was being executed by the department. But due to different issues including Covid pandemic, waterlogging due to rain, delay in the hiring of theme consultant and issue related to funds deposition, the project got delayed.”Meanwhile, Gautam Kumar, Executive Engineer, Tourism Department, said, “The decision has been taken at the government level. About 60- 70 per cent work has been completed so far. The project should have been completed by March-end last year. We want to complete the project at the earliest. A couple of buildings are in the final stage. Tender for the balance work will be floated soon. Delay in the completion has resulted in an increase of the budget too.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tardy-work-pwd-told-to-hand-over-project-to-tourism-corpn-375477
06-03-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Russian artisans to give Surajkund Mela a miss||Faridabad, March 5The ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine has impacted the participation of foreign nation troupes in the upcoming 35th edition of the International Crafts Mela at Surajkund here. The fair was rescheduled and will be held from March 19 to April 4 against the earlier schedule of February 2 to 17, due to the third wave of Covid.Invitation extended to several nationsRevealing that there will be no artisans from Russia this time, sources in the Department of Haryana Tourism said though invitations were extended to all nations of Asia, Europe and Africa, but only 24 have have confirmed their participation so far.Revealing that there will be no artisans from Russia this time, sources in the Department of Haryana Tourism said though invitations were extended to all nations of Asia, Europe and Africa, only 24 nations have confirmed their participation so far.It is claimed that while Russia, which had been taking part in the fair in the past few years, has not responded perhaps due to its engagement in the war with Ukraine, the latter has not been given an invitation in view of the crisis. Though according to officials, invitations had been extended to several European countries, none of them have confirmed the participation in the international-level event of art and culture.“While Uzbekistan has agreed to be a partner nation this time, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan have confirmed to be here among the foreign nations,” said Rajesh Joon, a senior official of the Haryana Tourism and the main organiser of the event.Announcing that as majority of the countries that have agreed to take part are from Africa, he said Jammu and Kashmir would be the theme state after a gap of 22 years.Adding that Uzbekistan has replaced Britain as a partner nation, an official on the condition of anonymity said participation of many nations, including from Europe and Asia, is expected to be nil perhaps due to the Ukraine crisis and Covid situation.With the participation of over 1,200 artisans of national and international fame, craftspersons from various states are also expected to display their skills during the fair.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/russian-artisans-to-give-surajkund-mela-a-miss-375478
06-03-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Jagadhri-Paonta Sahib NH cries for repairs, commuters harried||Yamunanagar, March 5Many stretches of the Jagadhri-Paonta Sahib national highway in Yamunanagar district are teeming with potholes.This highway witnesses voluminous traffic due to mining zone situated in the Pratap Nagar area of the district.The bad condition of the highway is causing accidents and inconveniencing commuters. This busy highway connects Haryana with Himachal Pradesh and Uttrakhand through Yamunanagar district.According to information, several stretches of the national highway are in pathetic shape. A one-and-a-half kilometre stretch of this national highway outside the Manakpur Industrial Area, Phase II, is completely broken as the bitumen surface has almost worn out resulting in formation of large craters.“This stretch is virtually without a road for the last one year. Potholes on this stretch are causing lots of accidents and loss of lives,” said Anil Garg, a daily commuter and an industrialist.He further said potholes were also a source of air pollution in the area.“Recently, a sign board has been installed on this highway stating therein that road is damaged, go slow. Is it enough? Has the problem of commuters been solved by installing a sign board?” said Anil Garg.According to information, this completely worn-out stretch had been affecting smooth vehicular movement. Vehicles piled up due to the slow moving traffic on this particular stretch.Several other stretches of this highway are also dotted with potholes threatening road users.“Besides other goods carriers, this national highway caters to thousands of vehicles loaded with construction/mining material to and fro from the mining area every day. But, the commuting is becoming a nightmare along several stretches on the highway due to potholes. Motorists are meeting with fatal accidents after falling into potholes,” said Joginder Singh, a commuter.Naresh Kumar, Junior Engineer of Public Works Department said the patch work, except the stretch of this national highway outside the Manakpur Industrial Area, Phase-II, would be started soon.“The stretch of the national highway outside the Manakpur Industrial Area, Phase-II, has to be reconstructed. It is yet to be decided whether the National Highway Authority of India or the PWD will reconstruct this stretch,” said JE Naresh Kumar, who is looking after the repair work of this national highway in Yamunanagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jagadhri-paonta-sahib-nh-cries-for-repairs-commuters-harried-375480
06-03-2022||Yamunanagar||In 3 days, 16 shopkeepers fined in twin cities||The Yamunanagar-Jagadhri MC has started an anti-encroachment drive to make the roads of twin cities free from congestion.The drive was launched on Thursday and in three days, the MC has removed encroachments from several areas in the twin cities.A total of 16 shopkeepers were challaned. Of them, 11 were fined for encroachment, four for littering and one for using banned single-use plastic bags in three days.A team of the MC, headed by Chief Sanitary Inspector Anil Nain, carried out the drive from Shahid Bhagat Singh Chowk to Railway Station Chowk and from Shahid Bhagat Singh Chowk to ITI, Yamunanagar, today.On Thursday and Friday, the drive was carried at Civil Lines Road, PWD Rest House Road, Bus Stand Road, Jagadhri, Railway road and Workshop Road among others. Flex banners, signboards and other ad material placed outside the shops on roads were seized by the MC. The teams also removed concrete structures allegedly constructed by shopkeepers outside their shops.The Chief Sanitary Inspector said owners of several shops had occupied much of the road space for commercial activities, which was resulting in traffic jams. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-3-days-16-shopkeepers-fined-in-twin-cities-375483
06-03-2022||Jhajjar||Outgoing sarpanch, three others booked for embezzling funds||Four persons, including an outgoing sarpanch and two panchayat secretaries, have been booked on the charges of committing embezzlement of funds and irregularities in the development works in Bhadani village here.A case has been registered on the complaint of Ramphal Singh, Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO). In his complaint, the BDPO said the Bhadani gram panchayat received a total grant of Rs 28 lakh for the construction of streets in the village in 2020 but the outgoing sarpanch, Sombir, along with panchayat secretaries Gajendra and Praveen, and a private firm misused the government funds.They did not present bills/vouchers for the construction works. A case under Sections 406, 409 and 420 of the IPC and Section 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act-1988 have been filed against the four accused. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/outgoing-sarpanch-three-others-booked-for-embezzling-funds-375488
06-03-2022||Ambala||ITI principal suspended||The Skill Development and Industrial Training Department, Haryana, has suspended the principal of Government Industrial Training Institute (Women), Ambala City, Bhupender Pal Singh, for his alleged misbehaviour and harassment of female staff members.An order issued by the department read that Bhupender Pal Singh was placed under suspension with immediate effect. On Friday, students of the ITI staged a protest, accusing the principal of harassing the female staff members. They had locked the main gate of the institute and didn’t allow the principal to enter.The female staff has refused to work with the principal, stating that they had complained against him to Skill Development and Industrial Training Minister Mool Chand Sharma. “The principal has been suspended. An enquiry has been ordered to take further action,” the minister said.However, the principal has denied all allegations. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/iti-principal-suspended-375489
06-03-2022||Palwal||Newlywed woman shot dead in Palwal||The police have registered a murder case in connection with the death of a 19-year-old newlywed woman at Kithwari colony here.According to an FIR lodged with the police, the deceased — Rajni — was found dead in her in-laws’ house on Friday. She had gunshot wounds in her head. It is alleged that the woman was shot dead by her husband over some dispute.The accused identified as Griting Nohwar has also been admitted to a local hospital with gunshot injuries in his hand, as he allegedly shot himself after killing his wife.SHO Ram Chander said a case under the IPC had been registered against the victim’s husband and in-laws in connection with the incident. He said accused were likely to be arrested soon. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/newlywed-woman-shot-dead-in-palwal-375490
06-03-2022||Panipat||Three killed in Panipat mishaps||A total of eight people have lost their lives in the district of which three people died in separate accidents, two women reportedly died by suicide and three unidentified bodies were found in the district.Sudesh (41), wife of Subhash of Adhmi village, reportedly died by suicide by consuming some poisonous substance. ASI Karamvir said the woman was upset due to long ailment.Meanwhile, a 16-year-old girl Namrta Singh of Azaad Nagar reportedly died by suicide. Rajesh of Ganjbar was killed in an accident on NH-44 on Friday.Vijay (50) of Delhi, died in an accident on Samalkha-Pattikalyana road.Another accident was reported on Jatal road in Model Town area in which Harsh Sharma (33) was killed. The police have registered a case. Besides, bodies of two unidentified persons were found on the railway track in Panipat area. Efforts are being made to identify them. The Sector 13/17 police found the body of a 50-year-old unidentified person on NH-44 near Sector 6 on Saturday. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-killed-in-panipat-mishaps-375491
06-03-2022||---||Now, apply online for assistance from CM's Relief Fund||Chandigarh, March 5Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday launched a portal for the convenience of the applicants seeking financial assistance on medical grounds under the CM’s Relief Fund.The objectiveOur government wants to ensure good governance across the state. The aim is to provide benefits to the applicants within the stipulated time frame.Manohar Lal Khattar, CMDuring the launch, Khattar said after re-examining the earlier procedure, directions were given to digitalise the process through the Saral portal for the convenience of the general public seeking financial assistance.He further said now the applicants could simply apply on the Saral portal through their Parivar Pehchan Patra ID, upload relevant documents like medical bills and OPD bills to seek financial assistance on medical grounds under the CM’s Relief Fund.As per the information given by the department’s spokesperson, the application is further marked to the login of public representatives of the area concerned (MP, MLA, Chairman Zila Parishad, Chairman Block Samiti, Mayor/President of MCs) for which they may recommend the case within five days.Thereafter, the application will be pushed to the user of the Deputy Commissioner, who in turn will simultaneously forward the application to Tehsildar and Civil Surgeon concerned for the verification of land details and medical documents, respectively. He added that a district-level committee would meet fortnightly and recommend the cases for the grant of financial assistance on medical grounds to the CM’s office. The amount shall be transferred directly in the account of the applicant or beneficiary.The spokesperson further said a decision was takento include 22 more chronic diseases under the CM’s Relief Fund.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/now-apply-online-for-assistance-from-cms-relief-fund-375493
06-03-2022||Gurugram||Retd Army man ends life||A retired Army man died by suicide by jumping from the 18th floor of a residential society in Sector 103 on Saturday.The deceased has been identified as Saheb Singh (62).He and his wife were visiting their daughter at India Bulls residential society. The family of the deceased told the police that he was mentally ill.No suicide note was recovered from the spot. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retd-army-man-ends-life-375494
06-03-2022||Chandigarh||Dy CM: Finish consolidation work soon||Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala on Saturday directed the Deputy Commissioners and District Revenue Officers to complete the pending work of consolidation in their respective areas at the earliest so that people do not face any inconvenience.He said if additional manpower was required in the disposal of the work, then complete cooperation could be taken from the state government. Dushyant was presiding over a meeting of the Deputy Commissioners and District Revenue officers at Chandigarh.Revenue and Disaster and Consolidation Departments Additional Chief Secretary PK Das was also present on the occasion. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dy-cm-finish-consolidation-work-soon-375496
06-03-2022||---||Judge to juniors: Explain why gunmen misused||Sanjay YadavGurugram, March 5Gurugram District and Sessions Judge has sought comments from all judicial officers in the district on the alleged misuse of gunmen as drivers and for other personal works.The direction by Justice Surya Partap Singh came on a complaint filed by a Gurugram resident. Around four years ago, a judicial officer’s wife and son were shot by his gunman. The District and Sessions Judge has sought comments from all judicial officers on the allegations within a week.The Sector 15 resident had filed the complaint with the Punjab and Haryana High Court Chief Justice on February 24. It was also sent to the Haryana Chief Minister, Director General of Police (DGP), Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Police, Inspector General (IG) of Police, Home Secretary and the Gurugram District and Sessions Judge.“On October 13, 2018, the gunman of Additional Sessions Judge Krishan Kant had shot dead the latter’s wife Ritu and 18-year-old son Dhruv at a Gurugram market. The reason behind the incident was not ascertained. It could be that the official and his family were harassing the gunman. After this, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had ordered that no judicial officer can engage gunmen as drivers or for other personal works and they can deploy drivers for their vehicles at DC rate.“But, the judicial officers haven’t learnt any lesson and continue to engage gunmen as drivers and for other personal chores. It is requested on the behalf of gunmen of judges to look into the matter and resolve the issue,” said the complainant. In February 2020, a local court had sentenced to death gunman Mahipal, who had shot dead the wife and the son of the Additional Sessions Judge.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/judge-to-juniors-explain-why-gunmen-misused-375405
06-03-2022||Sunit Dhawan||Medical student from Haryana moves to Poland along with Kyiv house-owner's family||Rohtak, March 5The girl student from Haryana who had refused to return to India as she wanted to take care of wife and three small children of her house-owner has now moved to Poland along with the house-owner’s family.Read also:Medical student from Haryana refuses to leave Ukraine, says will take care of house owner’s kids as he joins warFollowing the publication of a report in The Tribune, the girl’s family got calls from officials of Haryana Chief Minister as well as the Union Government, offering help and support.Savita Jakhar, a family friend of the girl, said, “Neha’s mother and I have got calls from the Haryana Chief Minister’s office and officials from the Union Government. The officials concerned offered all possible help and support. They also stated that they would honour Neha upon her return.”Savita told Tribune that Neha has now moved to Poland along with the wife and children of the owner of the house where she was staying in Ukraine.Talking to Tribune from Copenhagen in Denmark on Saturday, Savita, an educator of Indian-origin, said the girl and the family of her house-owner were staying at a refugee camp set up by the Municipality of Warsaw, the capital of Poland.Neha, who belongs to Charkhi Dadri district in Haryana and was studying medicine in Ukraine, had refused to leave the war-torn country even though she got an opportunity to get evacuated.The reason behind her refusal was that the owner of the house where she has been staying as a paying guest had voluntarily joined the Ukrainian Army to serve his country during the ongoing war with Russia and the girl was supporting his wife in taking care of his three small children.The 17-year-old Haryana girl lost her father, who was with the Indian Army, a couple of years ago. Last year, she got admitted to a medical college in Ukraine.A student of MBBS course, Neha rented a room at the home of a construction engineer in Kyiv, the capital of Ukraine, as she could not get hostel accommodation.“She got attached to the children of the house-owner. She got advisories to leave the country as the war seemed imminent. Her mother made frantic efforts to arrange for her daughter’s evacuation. Finally, the girl got an opportunity to cross over to Romania, but she refused to leave the family she was staying with,” said Savita.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/medical-student-from-haryana-moves-to-poland-along-with-kyiv-house-owners-family-375395
