07-03-2022||---||Unidentified persons attack school bus in Fatehabad||Fatehabad, March 7A group of persons attacked a school bus with sticks and iron pipes when it was on way to drop children home after school hours.The police registered an FIR on the basis of the complaint of the bus driver against unknown persons and started investigation. The reason behind the incident could not be known so far.The incident occurred in Maturam Colony when 5-6 youths forcibly stopped the school bus and entered into an argument with the driver. When asked about the reason behind their action, the assailants smashed rear windowpane of the bus and fled.The driver took the bus to school after which the school authorities informed the police about the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unidentified-persons-attack-school-bus-in-fatehabad-375876
07-03-2022||New Delhi||JSW Energy signs PPA with Haryana Power Purchase Centre to supply 240-megawatt hydro power||JSW Energy on Monday announced signing a power purchase agreement (PPA) with Haryana Power Purchase Centre (HPPC) for the supply of 240-megawatt hydro power.The agreement is valid for 35 years (with further extension at mutually agreed terms), and signed at a levelized ceiling tariff of Rs 4.50 per kWh (kilowatt-hour), JSW Energy said in statement.The JSW Group company said, "Its Kutehr project has signed a PPA with HPPC for supply of 240 MW hydro power. The PPA capacity was selected through competitive bidding under expression of interest invited by HPPC on July 3, 2018." JSW Energy through its wholly-owned step-down subsidiary JSW Energy Kutehr Limited (JSWEKL) is currently constructing the 240 MW (3x80 MW) hydro-electric plant located in Kutehr, Chamba district of Himachal Pradesh.The project construction is progressing well ahead of its schedule; with 65 per cent tunneling work completed by February 2022 and is expected to be commissioned by September 2024.Haryana Power Purchase Centre will purchase the power on behalf of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN).With the board approval for corporate re-organisation in place, the renewable energy businesses, including hydro assets, is to be housed under a wholly-owned subsidiary, JSW Neo Energy Limited, the company statement said.JSW Energy Joint MD and CEO Prashant Jain said, "Being the largest private sector operator of hydro power plants in India and having over two decades of experience of safely building and operating power projects, we continue to contribute meaningfully towards India's hydro power and COP-26 commitments." JSW Energy has set a target for 50 per cent reduction in carbon footprint by 2030 and achieving carbon neutrality by 2050 by transitioning towards renewable energy.The company aims to reach 20 gigawatt (GW) capacity by 2030, with the share of renewable energy increasing to 85 per cent of total.Around 2.5 GW of renewable projects are currently under-construction: 2.2 GW wind and solar projects, tied with SECI and JSW Group, are expected be commissioned in the next 12 months, while the 240 MW Kutehr hydro project is expected to be commissioned in the next 30 months.With the commissioning of these projects, the company's total generation capacity will increase to seven GW, with renewable energy contributing to about 55 per cent.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jsw-energy-signs-ppa-with-haryana-power-purchase-centre-to-supply-240-megawatt-hydro-power-375808
07-03-2022||Pathetic civic conditions greet those who enter or exit the Indira Colony located adjacent to the YMCA Metro station on the national highway passing through the city. Though this colony is more than 40 years old and has a population of around 50||Faridabad: Poor civic conditions in front of school||Kailash Sharma, FaridabadOverflowing nullah bane of residentsThe overflowing nullah in the Babyal area of the Ambala Sadar zone has become a regular feature due to which residents are inconvenienced and nobody pays heed to the demands related to proper sanitation conditions. The sanitation workers don't come regularly and the drains are hardly cleaned properly by them. Despite raising the matter with the officials concerned, the situation remains the same.Brijendra Malhotra, AmbalaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-civic-conditions-in-front-of-school-375794
07-03-2022||Kurukshetra||Haryana Diary: Minister Sandeep Singh surprises fan with cake||Ticket seekers invite ‘big shots’ to teaJhajjar: Though elections for Jhajjar Municipal Council are yet to be announced, aspirants have started lobbying to get ticket or garner support of their party concerned. They are not only inviting influential leaders to tea at their homes, but are also leaving no stone unturned to prove themselves to be more “effective” than their competitors. The leaders are also liking the attention they are getting. “Those who left no opportunity in the past to criticise us are now appreciating us without hesitation. Even, they are now inviting us to tea as they know our recommendation is crucial to fulfil their desire,” commented a local leader.Shopkeepers heave sigh of reliefKarnal: Congress workers’ action of raiding spa centres allegedly against “immoral activities” has attracted the attention of public. Congress workers led by national secretary Virender Rathore had alleged that immoral activities could not have happened without the involvement of the police. The businessmen who have shops near to these spa centres in Sector-12 also took a sigh of relief. They said that this action should have been taken by the police. Political analysts say the action of the Congress has charged up the cadre.Dy CM’s visit leads to road repairYamunanagar: A visit by Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala to Yamunanagar district this week has brought some relief to commuters. His helicopter landed at a college in Jagadhri from where he went to a hotel to attend a meeting of businessmen and to the mini secretariat, Jagadhri, to hold a meeting with officers of the local administration. The condition of several roads of twin cities Yamunanagar and Jagadhri and the district is very bad. However, the route that was finalised for the Deputy CM was repaired before his arrival. The people of the district say that the Deputy CM should visit the district regularly so that maximum roads could be repaired.Leaders spar over UkraineRohtak: Leaders of the ruling as well as Opposition parties are trading charges and firing salvos at one another over the evacuation of Indian nationals, especially students, from battle-torn Ukraine. The Opposition leaders are decrying the delay in bringing back the students stranded in Ukraine and its neighbouring countries. On the other hand, those owing allegiance to the ruling party are going gaga over the government’s initiatives regarding the safe return of students. The Haryana Government’s Department of Information and Public Relations is also in overdrive. A recent press release titled “Students say ‘Thank You, Modiji’ on return from Ukraine” gives an idea of the department’s proactive stance in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-diary-minister-sandeep-singh-surprises-fan-with-cake-375793
07-03-2022||Kaithal||RKSD College, Kaithal, organises online review writing contest||Web talk on women safetyYamunanagar: In the context of International Women Day, a web talk was organised online and offline on the topic "Women safety and nutrition" at Guru Nanak Khalsa College. College principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said the programme was sponsored by the CSR Cell of Jamna Auto Industries. He said legal expert and Supreme Court advocate Manpreet Khurana gave information about the laws related to women safety in the programme. He further said that in the second session, Professor Dr Sanjeev Arora, department of chemistry, Kurukshetra University, discussed the role of nutrients in daily life.Auditorium inaugurated at IGURewari: Mahamandaleshwar Swami Dharamdev Maharaj inaugurated newly constructed Kalpana Chawla auditorium and performed 'Bhumi Pujan' of academic block at Indira Gandhi University (IGU) in a function. Plants were also sown on the occasion. Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar said the auditorium had a seating capacity of about 500 persons in the UIET building.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/online-review-writing-contest-375792
07-03-2022||Chandigarh||Fill posts in Haryana Education Department,  says Congress||Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala has demanded immediate filling of 38,476 vacant posts in the Education Department. In a tweet, he alleged that 15,265 posts of postgraduate teachers and 18,236 posts of trained graduate teachers are vacant. Similarly, 3,929 posts of junior basic teachers are vacant. Besides, 1,046 posts of headmasters are also vacant, affecting studies adversely, he alleged. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fill-posts-in-haryana-education-department-says-congress-375791
07-03-2022||Faridabad||Man dead, 8 hurt in Faridabad accident||A 40-year-old man was killed, while eight persons were injured, three of them seriously, in an accident involving a car, an auto-rickshaw and a scooter on the NH passing through the city this morning.As per the police, Jahid Hussain of Dalal Nagar locality died on the spot. The mishap took place when the speeding car rammed into the three-wheeler and the scooter near Goodyear Chowk at 7 am. Three of the seriously injured were shifted to a hospital. They were travelling in the three-wheeler that overturned after the collision. A case has been registered. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-dead-8-hurt-in-faridabad-accident-375790
07-03-2022||Panipat||Panipat: Teenager held for minor's rape||A 14-year-old boy has been arrested for allegedly raping a 6-year-old girl in Des Raj colony here on Sunday.ASP Pooja Vashishth said they received the information at 10.45 am that a minor girl was sexually assaulted, who was bleeding.The victim’s father and mother are labourers and they shifted here from Chhattisgarh three months ago, while the accused hailed from West Bengal. Both the families were living on the factory premises. The girl was playing on the roof and her mother was taking a bath, when the accused took her away and allegedly raped her. The girl narrated the incident to her father. She has been admitted to the General Hospital here.A case was filed under Section 6 of the POCSO Act. SP Shashank Sawan said the accused was arrested. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-teenager-held-for-minors-rape-375789
07-03-2022||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar: Finance firm manager booked for Rs 38K fraud||The police have booked the branch manager of a private finance company after cash was allegedly found missing from the office.On the complainant of Sanjay Sharma, territory manager of the finance company, a case was registered against Karan Singh, manager of the Yamunanagar branch, under Sections 408 and 420 of the IPC at the Gandhi Nagar police station on March 4.In his police complaint, Sanjay said during regular audit conducted on February 25, it was found that Rs 38,000 cash was missing from the Yamunanagar office of the company.He further alleged that it had also come to their notice that Karan had collected the cash from various customers and had not deposited the said amount into the company’s gold loan account. He said the finance company was a corporate functioning under the RBI guidelines. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-finance-firm-manager-booked-for-38k-fraud-375788
07-03-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Face-recognition attendance in Yamunanagar MC offices||Yamunanagar, March 6Adapting to new technology, Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ) has installed face-recognition attendance marking systems at its all three offices in Yamunanagar and Jagadhri.The data of the regular and outsourced employees of the MCYJ is being uploaded and the face-recognition-based attendance will be started, soon. As per the authorities of the MCYJ, this move will help in making the staff members punctual and curb absenteeism at the offices.According to information, there are 70 regular employees and 240 outsourced employees posted at three offices of the MCYJ.Two offices of the MCYJ are situated in Yamunanagar — one near Shahid Bhagat Singh Chowk and the other close to Kanhaiya Sahib Chowk. The third office is situated in Jagadhri city.Ashok Kumar, Deputy Municipal Commissioner of the MCYJ, said all staff members, on office duty would have to file attendance using facial-recognition system.He said Mayor Madan Chauhan and Municipal Commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata wanted that habit of absenteeism should be curbed in the offices of the MCYJ and staff members should be punctual about their duty.“We have installed face-recognition attendance marking systems at all three offices situated close to Shahid Bhagat Singh Chowk, Kanhaiya Sahib Chowk and in Jagadhri. The new system will be used to mark the attendance of the staff posted in the offices,” said Ashok Kumar.However, he said the manual way of marking attendance would continue for the field staff. He added that the new attendance system would help to follow Covid guidelines as the attendance would be taken without touching the machine.“All employees need to ensure that their face comes within the camera’s frame to mark their attendance as it is based on facial recognition,” said Ashok Kumar, Deputy Municipal Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/face-recognition-attendance-in-yamunanagar-mc-offices-375787
07-03-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad: Hurt in train mishap, 3-yr-old stray dog finds home in UK||Faridabad, March 6Meet Mohini — a three-year-old female stray dog who lost two of her paws in a rail accident. She has beaten the odds and is ready to take off to England, UK, following her adoption.Mohini is the second stray dog to be adopted by a foreign-based NGO in the past about one-and-a-half years.This mixed breed dog, who was injured in an accident on the railway tracks near Neelam flyover here in July last year, was rescued and lodged in the care of the People For Animals Trust (PFA), an NGO here. Mohini’s front and rear paws got crushed under a speeding train and were bleeding profusely. She was then immediately shifted to a veterinary hospital run by the PFA, the doctor had to amputate the damaged part of the paws.“The dog responded well to the treatment and slowly, learnt to use her legs without the paws,” Ravi Dubey, PFA founder said, adding that the incident was shared on the social media platforms just like the case of another three-year-old female dog named as Rocky in 2020. Dubey said while Rocky was the first stray dog with disability from the state to be adopted by a UK-based NGO, Mohini also proved lucky enough.He further said the adoption of both the dogs had proved to be a morale booster for the persons engaged in the welfare of animals. “Mohini will take a KLM flight from the Delhi airport to London in the wee hours of Monday,” Dubey added.All expenses, including the travel cost amounting to Rs 2.50 lakh, have been borne by Gillian Dashistani from the Wolfies Legacy, an NGO.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-hurt-in-train-mishap-3-yr-old-stray-dog-finds-home-in-uk-375786
07-03-2022||Kaithal||3,600 MT wheat found damaged in godown at Pundri||Around 3,600 MT of wheat was found damaged at Pundri where it was stored in open plinth at a godown of the Food Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department in 2019-20.Negligence on part of the employees, delay in lifting, rain and long storage are being considered main reasons behind this loss to the government, said an official of the department.The categorisation of the damaged wheat will be done after which the auctioning process will start to ascertain the loss, which will be recovered from five employees and officials who were deployed at that time here, said Parmod Kumar Sharma, DFSC.The issue came to the fore in January when the rotten wheat started stinking badly.“Soon after the issue came to my notice, I send a report to the higher authorities. The loss will be recovered from the five employees and officials appointed at that time including inspector, sub-inspector, assistant food supply officer (AFSO), DFSO and DFSC,” said DFSC Sharma.He further stated that this wheat was procured under the relaxed specification (URS) during the rabi season 2019-20. It was supposed to be lifted early, but long storage and delay in lifting by the FCI are the main reasons for the damage, the DFSC added. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-600-mt-wheat-found-damaged-in-godown-at-pundri-375784
07-03-2022||Nitish Sharma||Ex-elected members seek early poll for Ambala Cantt Board||Ambala, March 6As it has been more than a year since the extended term of elected members of the Cantonment Board ended, the former elected members demand that the elections be conducted at the earliest so that local issues could be raised effectively.The polls of the Cantonment Board were due in February 2020, but citing administrative reasons, the Ministry of Defence had postponed the elections and the tenure was extended twice for six months each. As per the rules, it couldn’t be stretched further and the board got varied in February last year and currently, a three-member board has been managing the Cantonment Board. Surinder Tiwari, a former elected member, said, “Elections should be conducted at the earliest so that the local issues can be raised effectively by the elected members. The amended Cantonment Act is yet to be tabled in Parliament, we are hopeful that it will be tabled in the coming session and then there should be no further delay in the elections.” Virender Gandhi, former elected from Ward 6, said, “Residents have been facing issues in getting work done. They are not being able to approach the Cantonment Board officials through the elected members and they have to wait for several days for getting petty work done. Already, It has been more than one year and there should not be more delay in the elections. In the absence of adequate funds, the board is also facing issues in carrying out public work in the wards.” Ambala Cantonment Board member Ajay Baweja said, “Till previous elections, the vice-president used to be elected by the elected members but in the next election the voters will directly elect the vice-president too and the number of civilian members will increase to nine from eight, and similarly, the number of nominated members will increase to nine. Currently, a three-member board has been managing the work, we have all powers to take decisions and carry out development projects”, said Baweja, who was the vice-president in the previous term.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-elected-members-seek-early-poll-for-ambala-cantt-board-375782
07-03-2022||Ravinder Saini||60 sensitive points identified to install 180 CCTVs in Rohtak||Rohtak, March 6As many as 60 sensitive points have been identified in the city, where high-resolution close circuit television (CCTV) cameras are required not only to keep surveillance on the movement of public but also to penalise traffic rules violators. A majority of the points are located on the outer roads of the city, which are used bycriminals to flee after perpetrating crime.The Municipal Corporation has moved a proposal to the Haryana Police Housing Corporation requesting it to install 180 cameras at all such points while it had, earlier, installed 250 such cameras in the city in two phases on their own.These cameras are proving helpful in identifying the people involved in chain snatching, burglary, loot and other criminal cases. Even, several cases have also been cracked on getting information about perpetrators through the cameras’ footage, claimed a police official.Dr Ravinder Singh, DSP (Traffic), said CCTV cameras were the need of the hour not only to keep a tab on public movement at sensitive points but also to execute traffic rules effectively. Hence a survey was carried out to ascertain such points in the city so that these could be brought under the close watch of the third eye.“Since all these points fall under the jurisdiction of the Municipal Corporation, Rohtak, hence a list of these was sent to the corporation authorities for installation of high resolution cameras there for multiple purposes,” said the DSP.Manmohan Goyal, Mayor, Municipal Corporation, said as per directives issued by the Director General, Urban Local Bodies, Haryana, the work for installation of new 180 CCTV cameras in urban areas were to be executed by the Department of Police hence a proposal had been sent to the Haryana Police Housing Corporation in this respect.“The entire city will be under close observation of the third eye after installation of the CCTV cameras at all sensitive points. In all 250 such cameras are already working in the city. We are hopeful that the police authorities will install new cameras soon,” he added.Kulbir Singh, SHO (Traffic), said already installed cameras were being operated from the control room located in the SP office and these were also proving helpful in issuing challan to traffic rules violators.“Around 20 challans of driving without helmet and vehicles plying without registration number plates are being challaned daily on the basis of footage of the CCTV cameras. Number of challans will also rise on installation of more cameras in the city,” he added.Entire city under observationThe entire city will be under close observation of the third eye after the installation of CCTV cameras at all sensitive points. In all, 250 such cameras are already working in the city. — Manmohan Goyal, Mayor, Municipal CorporationTo execute traffic rules wellCCTV cameras are the need of the hour not only to keep a tab on public movement at sensitive points but also to execute the traffic rules effectively. — Dr Ravinder Singh, DSP (Traffic)||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/60-sensitive-points-identified-to-install-180-cctvs-in-rohtak-375780
07-03-2022||---||Drone-mapping to help solve border disputes: Haryana Dy CM Dushyant Chautala||Sirsa, March 6Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said Haryana’s borders with Rajasthan, Punjab, Delhi had been defined in a trouble-free manner and efforts were being made to draw boundaries with Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh by drone mapping of the state.Addressing a press conference in Sirsa today, Dushyant stated that the state boundary disputes would be completely solved soon, as the government had got the drone mapping of the entire state done under the Swamitva scheme.“The government is trying to complete the work in 2022-23. After land mapping, pillars will be installed through the GPS technology,” he said.The Deputy CM further said that the state government had signed a memorandum of understanding with the Uttar Pradesh Government to install about 400 pillars in Panipat, around the Yamuna river and for land mapping in Yamuna. It may be added that there has been dispute over the land ownership between the bordering farmers of Haryana and UP in Yamuna, especially in Sonepat and Panipat districts.Dushyant laid the foundation stone of eight road projects of 63.70 km length, costing Rs 4653.26 lakh, in Sirsa district today.Takes PhD entrance testDushyant Chautala on Sunday appeared in the entrance exam for admission to the PhD in the mass communication department in Chaudhary Devi Lal University, Sirsa. He said he had completed the master of journalism and mass communication from the Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, when he was an MP. Besides, he has done LLM from Delhi University. #dushyant chautala||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/drone-mapping-to-help-solve-border-disputes-haryana-dy-cm-dushyant-chautala-375779
07-03-2022||---||Jhajjar: CM Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurates projects worth Rs 78 cr||Jhajjar, March 6Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of several development works worth Rs 78.47 crore in the district and performed the “bhoomi pujan” of Swami Omanand Saraswati Museum at Sector 6 here today.Accompanied by state BJP chief Om Prakash Dhankar and Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma, he said the museum would be built at a cost ofRs 100 crore and would be a centre boasting a collection of historical artefacts. The museum is dedicated to the life of Swami Omanand Saraswati.“The projects will ensure further development of Jhajjar district. The museum will also be helpful to researchers in archeological research work, while the new bus stand, built in Bahadurgarh, will not only benefit people of the district but also those coming from other states.”Earlier, Khattar was the chief guest at the 106th annual function of Gurukul Mahavidyalaya. Speaking on the occasion, he announced to implement a solar plant scheme to solve the issues pertaining to electricity bills in gurukuls across the state.“Now instead of Rs 1.5 lakh to the Gurukul with up to 100 students, Rs 3 lakh will be given, to the Gurukul with up to 200 students, instead of Rs 2.5 lakh, Rs 5 lakh will be given and in Gurukul with up to 300 students, instead of Rs 3.5 lakh, Rs 7 lakh will be given.”He also announced to rename Jahanara Bagh Stadium, located in Jhajjar, as Maharishi Dayanand Saraswati Stadium. Besides, he announced widening the of the Jhajjar-Rewari road to Gurukul Mahavidyalaya to 18 feet and the opening of sports nursery for kabaddi and wrestling in Jhajjar Gurukul.Earlier, the CM inaugurated the new bus stand in Bahadurgarh, Revenue Colony in Sector 13, Bahadurgarh, Government Senior Secondary School’s building in Kasar village and that of Government High School. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-inaugurates-projects-worth-78-cr-375778
07-03-2022||---||Natural Farming Department in Haryana on cards says Agriculture Minister JP Dalal||Kurukshetra, March 6Agriculture Minister JP Dalal said the state government had been making efforts to boost natural farming in Haryana and was planning to come up with a department dedicated to it.Speaking to mediapersons in Kurukshetra on Sunday, he said: “The government is working with an aim to connect farmers in every village across the state with natural farming. The work has been started on the plan to create a Natural Farming Department. During the Budget session, the government will try to get separate funds for natural farming.”“In today’s modern era, poison-rich farming is being done. It is not only deteriorating the public health, but also of the soil, hence decreasing the farmers’ income. Two years ago, farmers were made aware of the situation and they were exhorted to adopt natural farming but the campaign couldn’t be taken forward due to Covid. Now after the pandemic subsided, an agriculture workshop is being organised to again connect the farmers with natural farming,” Dalal added.Dalal further said at present, medicines and fertilisers were being used indiscriminately in fields to produce the crops, due to which the health of the people was getting affected and the agricultural products were also not getting fair price in the local and international markets. “Therefore, keeping the demand of the time in mind, the government has decided to make the farmers aware of natural farming by focusing on the quality of agricultural products.”“The government will first focus on setting up labs, methods of testing the products, certifying the farmers doing natural farming and opening training centres. An organic market will also be established in Gurugram,” the minister added.AGRI WORKSHOP IN KU TOMORROW #Agriculture #jp dalal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/natural-farming-department-in-haryana-on-cards-says-agriculture-minister-jp-dalal-375777
07-03-2022||Ravinder Saini||Trying to make our son's pet feel at home: Kin of Rohtak lad stranded in Ukraine's Kiev||Rohtak, March 6The family of stranded student Sahil Doon, who is pursuing MBBS from a university in Kiev, is trying their best to make his 10-month-old Ukrainian pet dog Sundu, an Alaskan Malamute, feel at home. The vegeterian family is going out of their comfort zone and feeding chicken and eggs to Sundu for the past three days so that he can adapt to the Indian weather.Sahil is so attached to Sundu that he preferred sending him home first to ensure his safety. Though he too was to return with Sundu but had to cancel at the eleventh hour following some health issue of the infant of his close friend.“Their bond of love can be seen when Sahil talks to Sundu on video call daily. Sundu too responds to Sahil by barking and shaking his neck and tail. His impressions are worth watching,” said SI Narendra Singh, Sahil’s father.Narendra, a resident of Azad Garh locality, said Sahil bought Sundu in Ukraine last year and since then they had been living together. “Sundu has even visited several countries with Sahil. He first came to India with Sahil last year and spent almost two months here. It’s the lone reason that he is comfortable here.”“When the situation worsened, we had asked Sahil to leave Sundu at the house of an acquaintance in Ukraine, citing temperature issue in India as such dogs need cold conditions to survive. But Sahil denied saying that he can’t leave him at the mercy of God in a situation when the life of every citizen is at a high risk,” Narendra said, adding that Sahil and his friends took Sundu with them to Romania.He further said Sahil bought sufficient quantity of special feed for Sundu before sending him home. #indians in ukraine||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/trying-to-make-our-sons-pet-feel-at-home-kin-of-rohtak-lad-375776
07-03-2022||Gurugram||80 from Haryana still stuck in war-torn cities of Ukraine||“Our priority is to get students in Ukraine out safely and then we will speak to the Centre about their future and degrees,” said Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar while speaking to some students who have come back from the war-torn country.Students, many of whom were just a months away from getting their degrees, are worried about their future. The CM assured them that the state was with them and would ensure that they did not lose anything.Khattar, who was in the city today, said there were about 18,000 to 19,000 Indian students stuck there. “Of them, there are about 1,800 students from the state. Of these, 1,234 have returned till yesterday. Some are on the border, they are being brought and have reached Delhi and Mumbai. Around 80 students, belonging to the state, are still stuck in the cities of Ukraine. The government is in touch with them and is worried about them,” said Khattar.He said after the war broke out, the first task and priority of the government was to ensure the safe return of these students. Arrangements in this regard had been made by the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India. Our senior ministers have gone to neighbouring countries of Ukraine. From there, special flights are being run. Most of the people have returned from there, yet some are still stuck in cities of Ukraine.Manohar Lal said degrees would be given by those medical colleges in which these students were studying. Also, with regard to the degrees of those students on the verge of completing their course, he said the matter would be discussed only after the situation normalised in Ukraine.Meanwhile, the CM was impressed with the spirit of the students and wished everyone good luck.Will take up degrees’ issueWe will speak to the Centre on students’ degrees and their future. The state is with them and will ensure that they do not lose anything. — Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief Minister #indians in ukraine #Khattar #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ukraine-crisis-80-from-haryana-still-stuck-in-war-torn-cities-375775
07-03-2022||Deepender Deswal||Unite, change govt: Meghalaya Governor Satya Pal Malik to farmers||Hisar, March 6Targeting PM Narendra Modi on farmers’ issues, Meghalaya Governor Satya Pal Malik today said the law to guarantee Minimum Support Price (MSP) did not materialise as “a friend of the PM wants to buy grain at cheaper rates”.Addressing a meeting organised by the Kandela Khap Panchayat in Jind, Malik claimed, “A friend of the PM had set up a godown in Panipat before the enactment of the three farm laws. He wanted to earn huge profits at farmers’ cost.”“This is the time to change the government. Get united and form your own government,” he told farmers.Malik said, “I will soon tour the northern states to unite the farmers and urge them to form their own government in Delhi. Though the PM accepted some of their demands, many issues remain unaddressed.”He even defended the Republic Day fiasco during the farmers’ agitation, saying he kept a close watch on the developments. The Kandela Khap felicitated Malik for his stand in favour of the farmers. It also honoured families of the farmers who died during the year-long agitation. #farmers #MSP #satya pal malik||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unite-change-govt-meghalaya-governor-satya-pal-malik-to-farmers-375744
07-03-2022||Deepender Deswal||Change government at Centre in next polls, Meghalaya guv Satya Pal Malik urges farmers||Hisar, March 6Targeting the Prime Minister Narendra Modi on farmers’ issues, Meghalaya Governor Satya Pal Malik claimed that the law to guarantee Minimum Support Price (MSP) did not materialise as a friend of the PM want to purchase the grain from farmers at cheaper rates to sell it at higher prices in the market.Addressing a meeting organised by the Kandela Khap Panchayat in Kandela village of Jind district today, Malik stated that the prices of the farmers produce are decided by those (market forces). “But why is the MSP not implemented? A friend of the Prime Minister has set up godown in Panipat on 50 acres before implantation of the three farm laws. He needs grain at cheaper prices, and will sell at higher prices,” Malik said.He added that this is time to get united and “form your own government”. “I have six months tenure of governorship. Soon after, I will tour the entire north India to unite the farmers and urge them to form their own government in Delhi. This is time to change the government,” he stated.The Meghalaya governor said the farmers need to stay united, and vote en bloc in the general elections two years later. “These people will run away from Delhi if you vote en bloc. Then you will have your own government in Delhi,” he stated.Launching a scathing attack on the BJP, Malik stated that he had visited western UP areas during the polls and found that not a single minister could enter any villages in western UP for canvassing. People issued stern warnings not to enter their villages.The Governor said some persons tried to make him understand not to speak against the government as he (Malik) could get the post of Vice President or President, but he rejected these talks.He said former Prime Minister Chaudhary Charan Singh had given a lesson to him that he should not compromise on the interest of the communities. “I had said during the farmers’ agitation that the farmers will scare away those governing today and even the Prime Minister will not be visible in the next general elections. Though, the PM accepted some of the farmers’ demands but there are many questions staring at the farmers,” he said.Malik also defended the unfurling of the Nishan Sahib flag on the Red Fort during the farmers agitation stating that there was nothing objectionable in it. He stated that he had talked to the Union Home Minister the day when the BKU leader Rakesh Tikait broke down on the stage and the movement of farmers began moving from Haryana and other parts of the region.The Kandela Khap which has been at the forefront of the farmers agitation had honoured Satya Pal Malik for his stand in favour of the farmers. The khap panchayat also honoured the families of the farmers who had died during the agitation at the Delhi borders.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/change-government-at-centre-in-next-polls-meghalaya-guv-satya-pal-malik-urges-farmers-375618
