08-03-2022||Sumedha SharmaGurugram||Chintels collapse: Gurugram administration orders builders to draw up new rehabilitation plan after residents reject first offer||The Gurugram administration has ordered the builder of Chintels Paradiso to redraw its rehabilitation plan for residents of the society a month after a tower collapse in the housing society killed two people.The builder has until March 11 to resubmit their proposal, a new order from the district administration said.The administration has embargoed the sale of flats in any of the builder’s projects and drawn up new rent rates after society residents rejected the builder’s previous offer as being insufficient.    “District Administration is having regular discussions with the residents of Chintels Paradiso Society, Sector 109, Gurugram wherein DTP(E), Gurugram Member of the Committee referred above, had discussed the proposals (submitted by you with the residents of society,” the order submitted to the builders reads. “However the residents have made many observations stating that the proposals are not rational. Further you have already been directed to submit the rational proposal after going through the various representations received from residents of Tower D-4 and the proposal shall be submitted by 11.03.2022.”The builder must now pay Rs 25,000 a month for flats that are per 1,785 sq. ft.; Rs 30,000 a month for 2,050 sq. ft and Rs 37,000 a month for 2,630 sq. ft. The new figure is to help cover the rent of society residents until the builders complete their structural audit and repairs.In addition to this, the order says the company must pay owners currently living in the towers a one-time lump sum of Rs 40,000, engage movers to help residents move to their rented homes, and must bear moving charges. “We have worked out a temporary rehabilitation plan for residents. The structural audit has begun and we’ll resolve the issue as per residents’ welfare soon,” Deputy Commissioner Nishant Yadav said.  #chintels||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chintels-collapse-gurugram-administration-orders-builders-to-draw-up-new-rehabilitation-plan-after-residents-reject-first-offer-376159
08-03-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Class-12 Gurugram boy ‘abducted’ by schoolmates for denying free entry to bash||Gurugram, March 8A class-12 student along with his four friends allegedly abducted and thrashed another student for denying them a free entry to a party.An FIR has been registered against five persons at Sector 56 police station.The accused allegedly took the student to a deserted place near Ghata village after kidnapping him in their Honda City car and then beat him up. The victim fled the spot and confided with his family who moved police.According to a complaint filed by the victim student, a resident of Sushant Lok-3, he and some friends were planning a party and had booked a restaurant in Sector 29 for March 12. It was decided that all will pool in money for the purpose. One of the accused allegedly called him up and said he wants 4-5 free passes for himself and friends. On refusal, the caller asked the victim to cancel the party.“After his call, I cancelled the booking and booked another place. Due to this he and another boy started quarrelling with me. On Monday evening, he called up again and asked to meet me. I called him near ‘Hong Kong Bazaar’ in Sector 57, where he came with others in a Honda city car. After talking with for some time, they slapped me and then kidnapped me in their car. They then took me to a deserted place near Ghata village and again thrashed me and even threatened to kill me. They asked me to sit in a room. While they were busy talking to each other, I managed to escape and informed my uncle over phone,” the victim student told police.His uncle informed police and when police reached the complainant was present with his family members.Following his complaint, an FIR has been registered against five accused under Sections 365 (kidnap), 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of IPC at Sector 56 police station.“In these accused three are students of a private school in Sector 57, while two others are outsiders. We are verifying the facts and action will be taken as per the law,” said ASI Vinod Kumar, the investigating officer.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/class-12-gurugram-boy-abducted-by-schoolmates-for-denying-free-entry-to-bash-376131
08-03-2022||Vijay C Roy ||Haryana Chief Minister proposes over Rs 1.77 lakh crore tax-free Budget||Chandigarh, March 8 Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who also holds the finance portfolio, proposed a Budget of Rs 1,77,256 crore for the year 2022-23, a rise of 15.6 per cent over 2021-22(RE) of Rs 1,53,384 crore.Thanks to robust revenue growth, no new tax was introduced the budget.The chief minister announced Tablets to all students from classes 10th 12th, a scheme to provide soft loans to women entrepreneurs, besides setting up three dedicated funds to accelerate growth in various sectors.  The Budget outlay comprises 34.4 per cent as capital expenditure of Rs  61,057.36 crore and 65.6 per cent as revenue expenditure of Rs 1,16,198.63 crore.  Presenting the budget, the chief minister said that the state has laid special emphasis on increasing capital infrastructure investment to boost demand, which holds a key role in speedy economic revival with multiplier effect.  The chief minister said that I take this budget as an opportunity for Haryana to be at the forefront of the journey for India to contribute in the achievement of the vision for a five-trillion dollar economy given by the Prime Minister, with an increased contribution of the state to the national economy from 3.4 per cent.  According to the chief minister, the state would adopt the “Vajra Model” of growth for Haryana, in which, the state have envisioned five developmental forces for enhanced economic growth and human development, ease of living for citizens, lifting the poor and disadvantaged from all socio-economic groups, leveraging productivity through increased adoption of technology accompanied by employment and entrepreneurship. The five forces include, reforms using technology, the upliftment of the poorest of the poor, sustainable development, environmental sustainability and government community participation (GCP). Announced three funds The chief minister proposed to introduce schemes to provide soft loans to women entrepreneurs, besides setting up three dedicated funds to accelerate growth in various sectors. A Climate & Sustainable Development Fund to achieve green development objectives, Research & Innovation Fund to promote scientific activity and scholarship in universities, other educational institutions, economic enterprises in public, private sectors and Venture Capital Fund to promote entrepreneurship and support youth in establishing start-ups in terms of financial assistance as well as developing market linkages.  Award, loans for women entrepreneurs, mahila ashrams for working womenSushma Swaraj Award will be awarded to women of Haryana for making a significant contribution or for remarkable achievements in different walks of life in the national and international sphere. The award will carry a commendation with an prize money of Rs 5 lakh.Haryana Matrushakti Scheme - Women from families whose annual income is less than Rs 5 lakh based on Parivar Pehchan Patra verified data and who wish to become entrepreneurs in any enterprise, trade or business will be provided access to soft loans by financial institutions to the extent of Rs 3 lakh for which interest subvention of 7 per cent will be provided for three years through the Haryana Women Development Corporation.Sahbhagita scheme will be implemented for women in Faridabad, Gurgaon and Panchkula in 2022-23 for working women in large cities who face a problem of safe and affordable housing. Three Mahila Ashrams will be explored through this scheme. To support 10K self help groups The state has set a target of setting up and supporting 10,000 Self Help Groups in 2022-23. In addition to the support provided by the central government, the state government will bear the entire interest cost for SHGs where more than half of the members of the SHGs belong to families whose income is less than or equal to Rs 1.80 lakhs.  Agriculture and Allied sectors He proposed to allocate Rs 5,988.76 crore to the agriculture and allied sectors in the Budget for FY 2022-23, which is an increase of 27.7% over the revised estimates of the current year. A three-year output-based incentive programme to promote natural and organic farming shall be started in 100 clusters of at least 25 acres each with financial incentives to be provided on certification, branding and packaging and for compensation for loss of yield in the first three years.  The government will support the establishment of 100 pack houses in 2022-23. Cooperation HAFED is setting up a new oil mill of 150 ton per day capacity at Rampura (Rewari), a Mega Food Project at Rohtak, turmeric powder plant, turmeric oil extraction plant and 500 MT cold storage at Radaur (Yamunanagar) and a flour mill at Jatusana (Rewari). To promote the use of jaggery, HAFED will support the establishment of jaggery units in the state.  Education sector For the education sector, Rs 20,250.57 crore have been allocated for 2022-23. Among other announcements, the government has proposed to start subject wise Olympiads for Class 8 to 12. Students securing the highest ranks shall be sent to NASA and ISRO on exposure visits. Awards in the form of scholarships will also be provided to the winners of Olympiads. Moreover, tablets will be provided to students of Class 10 to 12 in government schools. 50 STEM labs on the lines of Atal Tinkering Labs (ATL) will be established where training shall in imparted in 3D printing, drone technologies, Artificial Intelligence, Augmented Reality, Virtual Reality, Block-Chain Management, etc.SATHI initiative for girl students Safe and secure transport facilities for girl students (SATHI - Safe and Accessible Transport: Haryana initiative) to be notified beyond April 2022. The facilities will be provided to all girl students of government institutions including senior secondary schools, colleges, ITIs, polytechnics, medical, paramedical and nursing institutions. Specialist doctor cadre CM announces specialist doctor cadre. 40 per cent PG seats in government colleges will be reserved for doctors in government service. Vishram Sarais having rooms and dormitories will be set up in all civil hospitals and medical colleges for patients' attendants Environment, forests and climate changeA total of Rs 530.94 crore have been allocated for Environment, Forests and Climate Change for the year 2022-23 -- an increase of 16.05 per cent over Budget estimates of 2021-22. Darshan Lal Jain awards will be given to two persons, carrying an award amount of Rs 3 lakh and Rs 1 lakh, respectively. These awards shall be given in the name of prominent environmentalist Late Darshan Lal Jain for recognising excellence in efforts towards environment conservation and promotion. An eco-tourism policy to promote and develop eco tourism facilities in the state will also be initiated.Nature trailA 150-km long nature trail from Kalka to Kalesar will also be established. A total of Rs 530.94 crore have been allocated for Environment, Forests and Climate Change.Revenue receipts For Budget Estimates (BE) 2022-23, total revenue receipts are projected to be Rs 1,06,424.70 crore comprising tax revenues of Rs 73,727.50 crore and non-tax revenue of Rs 12,205.36 crore. The share of central taxes is expected to be at Rs 8,925.98 crore and grant-in-aid at Rs 11,565.86 crore. Capital receipts are projected to be at Rs 5,393.89 crore, CM Khattar said. For current year, revenue deficit remains at 1.40 per cent as per RE 2021-22.  Revenue Deficit For the fiscal year, 2022-23, the revenue deficit is pegged at 9773.93 crore compared to Rs 12523 crore in revised estimate of 2021-22. For the current year, the Revenue Deficit remains at 1.40 per cent as per RE 2021-22 and has been projected to further decrease to 0.98 per cent of the GSDP in BE 2022-23 Fiscal management With prudent fiscal management, we were able to restrict the market borrowing to about Rs 30,820 crore against the permissible limit of Rs 40,872 crore and fiscal deficit is estimated to be 2.99 percent of GSDP (Gross State Domestic Product) in the RE (Revised Estimate) of 2021-22. For financial year 2022-23, fiscal deficit is expected to be within prescribed limit of 3.5 per cent by the 15th Finance Commission, at 2.98 per cent of GSDP, as per the BE (Budget Estimate) of 2022-23”, Khattar said. Budget allocations for different sectors Transport - Rs 2,821.83 crore for 2022-23, an increase of 12.2% over RE (Revised Estimate) of current yearCIvil Aviation - Rs 886.37 crore for 2022-23, an increase of 380.8% over BE (Budget Estimate) of current yearTourism - Rs 310.24 crore for 2022-23, an increase of 55.1% over RE of current year Irrigation and Water resources - Rs 6,136.36 crore for 2022-23, an increase of 51% over RE (Revised Estimate) of current yearPower and Renewable Energy - Rs 7,203.31 crore for 2022-23, which includes Rs 5,983 crore as subsidy for agricultural pump setsIndustries - Rs 598.20 for 2022-23, an increase of 31.1 over RE (Revised Estimate) of current yearPWD (B&R) - Rs 4,752.02 crore to road and rail infrastructure for 2022-23, an increase of 59.2 % over BE of 2021-22Public Health Engineering - Rs 4,554.39 crore for 2022-23, an increase of 33.9% over BE of the current year Skill Development and Industrial Training and Employment - Rs 1,671.37 crore for 2022-23, an increase of 23% over RE (Revised Estimate) of current yearLabour - Rs 221.97 crore for 2022-24, an increase of 240.1% over RE of current yearSocial Justice and Empowerment - Rs 10,229.93 crore for 2022-23, an increase of 22.47% over BE (Budget Estimate) of 2021-22Housing - Rs 383.11 crore for 2022-23, an increase of 104.7% over RE of current yearSports and Youth Affairs - Rs 540.50 crore for 2022-23, an increase of 37.2% over BE of 2021-22 Health -Rs 8,925.52 crore has been allocated for 2022-23 -- an increase of 21.65% over BE (Budget Estimate) of 2021-22.Women and Child Development -Rs 2,017.24 crore has been allocated for Women and Child Development for 2022-23 -- an increase of 33.7% over the Revised Estimate of the current year.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-budget-2022-live-updates-chief-minister-manohar-lal-khattar-presents-rs-1-77-lakh-crore-budget-376077
08-03-2022||Is a civic issue bothering you?||Poor road maintenance in Panchkula||Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Poor road maintenance in PanchkulaThe accompanying photograph was taken near Sector 9, Panchkula. The damaged/potholed portion of the road, enroute this sector's residential areas inconvenience commuters and residents. But sadly, such a worrisome scenario has failed to attract the attention of the city's civic body. One earnestly hopes that its wing concerned will soon take the necessary remedial steps to rebuild the road. Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaStray animal menace continues in KarnalStray animals are roaming freely on road, posing accident threat to commuters. Be it Sector12, Mughal Canal, Nyaypuri, Sector13, Dyal Singh Colony, Sector 6,7,8,9, 4. 5 and any other areas, these animals can be seen everywhere. Even after raising this issue with the different authorities, no action has been taken to eradicate this menace. Animal shelters should be developed and they should be shifted there. The administration should keep a vigil on those who leave these animals on road. Kabir, Karnal||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/poor-road-maintenance-in-panchkula-375980
08-03-2022||Karnal||'B' certificate exam of NCC Airwing||Bagalkote varsity VC visits MHUKarnal: Dr KM Indiresh, Vice-Chancellor of University of Horticulture Sciences, Bagalkote, and Director of Farmers Production Organisation Dr Ashok Alur visited Maharana Pratap Horticulture University (MHU), Karnal. Prof Samar Singh Vice- Chancellor of the MHU with his scientist team welcomed VC Dr Indresh and his team. While emphasising on the new areas of research and developments in horticulture, Prof Samar Singh, talked about the marketing process of horticultural crops and products. Dr Indiresh exhorted that the MHU and the Horticulture University Bagalkote should exchange good germplasm.CUH figures among 30 institutionsMahendragarh: The Union Ministry of Culture has included the department of history and archaeology at Central University of Haryana (CUH) among 30 such institutions that engages in various activities related to archeology and heritage. The institutions will contribute in the promotion of archeology and heritage. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeswar Kumar said it was a great achievement for the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/b-certificate-exam-of-ncc-airwing-375978
08-03-2022||Gurugram||Security officer of bizman shoots self in Gurugram||A personal security officer (PSO) of a businessman committed suicide after shooting himself with his licensed revolver in a society at Sector 84 where he lived as a tenant. The brother of the deceased alleged that a man and a woman were harassing his brother and held them responsible for his death. An FIR of abatement to suicide has been registered against the duo at the Kherki Daula police station.The police said the deceased was identified as Ravi Kumar (28), a resident of district Jhajjar, who at present lived as a tenant in Antriksh Height society in sector 84. He was working as PSO with a businessman. It was this morning when he went to the deserted area of the society and shot himself with his licensed revolver. After getting information, a police team reached the spot and took the body and revolver in custody. The police took the body and informed the family. An FIR has been registered against the duo. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/security-officer-of-bizman-shoots-self-in-gurugram-375975
08-03-2022||Fatehabad||Two children hurt in Fatehabad as school bus attacked||A group of assailants attacked a school bus with sticks and iron pipes when it was going to drop the children to their homes after school hours. Two children suffered minor injuries in the incident.The police lodged an FIR in this regard and started investigation. The reason behind the incident could not be known till the filing of this report. The incident took place in Maturam Colony when five-six youths forcibly stopped the bus and entered into an argument with the driver. The assailants smashed the rear windowpane of the bus and fled from the scene. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-children-hurt-as-school-bus-attacked-375972
08-03-2022||---||2 of family die in accident in Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra, March 7A woman and her son were killed while her husband suffered injuries after the vehicle they were travelling in met with an accident on the Ambala-Delhi NH in Kurukshetra on Monday. The deceased were identified as Afsana (29), and Saad (10). The injured was identified as Ranu. The family was on its way to Delhi from HP.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-of-family-die-in-accident-in-kurukshetra-375970
08-03-2022||---||Bus operator shot dead in Rohtak village||Rohtak, March 7Hansraj, alias Hansey, a bus operator of Ritoli village in the district, was shot near his village while he was driving a private society bus today.The assailant(s) reportedly boarded the bus as passengers, shot at Hansraj and fled away from the scene. Some old enmity was stated to be the reason behind the killing.Hansraj was rushed to the Rohtak PGIMS where he was declared dead by doctors. His body was sent for the post-mortem examination.In a complaint lodged with the police, Hansraj’s younger brother Jai Singh said his brother had been shot by Himanshu, alias Bhau, Jogender, Bijender and Jaisingh, alias Boda.The police have registered a case and investigation was on.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bus-operator-shot-dead-in-rohtak-village-375968
08-03-2022||---||Bus runs over youth in Panipat village||Panipat, March 7A 21-year-old youth was killed in an accident near Ugrakheri village on the Panipat-Haridwar highway on Monday here. The deceased has been identified as Mohit of Nimbri village.Surender, a cousin of the deceased, in a complaint to the Chandnibagh police, said he along with Mohit were on the way to Panipat in the morning. He alleged that as they reached near Ugrakheri village turn, a speeding Haryana Roadways bus coming from Sanoli side hit their bike from the rear side.Due to the impact, Mohit fell down on the road and was mowed down by the bus. The driver fled from the spot with the bus.Passersby rushed them to the general hospital, but the doctors declared Mohit as brought dead.Following his complaint, the police have registered a case against the bus driver under Sections 279, 337 and 304A of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bus-runs-over-youth-in-panipat-village-375964
08-03-2022||---||Hisar: 2 get 4-year jail for framing people in assault cases by fabricating injuries||Hisar, March 7The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Ved Prakash Sirohi has awarded four-year jail term to two convicts — Balwinder and Kuldeep — who were caught extorting money from an advocate in Hisar district.The court has acquitted Dr Sanjeev Verma who was also one of the accused in the case of fabricating injuries to implicate rival parties in assault cases. The convicted persons had accepted Rs 50,000 extortion money from the complainant. The court had now ordered that the amount be returned to the complainant.Advocate Hardeep Singh, a resident of Dhanoti village in Churu district of Rajasthan, had lodged a complaint with the Hisar police on March 23, 2010, in which he statedthat he and his family members were being falsely implicated in an attempt-to-murder and assault case.He said in his complaint that some persons were involved in a racket of fabricating head injuries to lodge false cases of attempt to murder against their rivals.He told the police that some doctors and paramedical staff were also involved.The Hisar police carried out a raid and caught Balwinder and Kuldeep red-handed when they were demanding Rs 1.5 lakh from a man. They were employed with a private hospital and used to work as conduits in this racket.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-get-4-year-jail-for-fabricating-injuries-375962
08-03-2022||Chandigarh||5 lakh students in Haryana to get tablets in next session||Haryana Urban Local Bodies Minister Kamal Gupta apprised the House during the Budget Session that the state government has decided to regularise 845 colonies falling within the limits of municipalities with less civic amenities and infrastructure.For this, applications were invited from Resident Welfare Associations and developers on the portal by the Town and Country Planning Department.Gupta was replying to a question during Question Hour today.Haryana Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said that tablets with preloaded content along with Personalised and Adaptive Learning (PAL) software and free internet data would be provided to more than five lakh students of secondary classes studying in government schools during the next academic session.Tablets will be provided to the students by May 2022, he said in reply to another question. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-lakh-students-in-haryana-to-get-tablets-in-next-session-375959
08-03-2022||Chandigarh||12K not admitted in Haryana private schools||Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar today submitted before the Assembly that private schools denied admission to 12,006 students under Rule 134-A of Haryana School Education Rules.Replying to Calling Attention notices on the issue, he said the state government had issued notices to such schools, but couldn’t take action as the case was pending before the Punjab and Haryana High Court.Under Rule 134-A, 10 per cent of the seats in recognised private schools were reserved for meritorious students belonging to the economically weaker sections (EWSs) from the poor and below poverty line categories.For 2021-22, 66,495 students had applied under Rule 134-A. After the exam, 45,289 students were allotted schools. Out of these, 21,577 were enrolled in private schools, while 11,706 refused admission or were disqualified.Private schools denied admission to a total of 12,006 students. For those who had taken the school-leaving certificates from the previous schools, the Education Department had extended the last date of admission thrice. However, to save their year, the government passed an order on February 7 to re-admit the student in their former private school or government school if a school leaving certificate had been issued in their case. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12k-not-admitted-in-haryana-private-schools-375956
08-03-2022||Chandigarh||Hisar, Gurugram reported max Covid deaths||A total of 10,568 people died due to Covid in Haryana, while Hisar and Gurugram reported the maximum number of 1,170 and 1,004 deaths, respectively. The least number of deaths (134) were reported from Nuh. The number of deaths in other districts remained between 134 and 736.Giving this information in response to an unstarred question by INLD’s Abhay Chautala, during the ongoing session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha, the Health Minister stated that the government received 10,967 applications for financial assistance. Of these, payment had been made in 6,925 cases, while 3,145 were pending and 897 had been rejected.In reply to another question by Jagbir Singh Malik, the Education Minister said there were 46 colleges in the state which had no building of their own, 127 colleges were running without regular principals and there were 16 colleges which had less than 200 students.In response to a question by Congress MLA Chiranjeev Rao, Home Minister Anil Vij dismissed the contention that law and order was out of control in Haryana.However, the number of cases of rape, kidnapping, theft and extortion have shown a sharp rise according to the data provided by the government in its reply.Against 1,113 rapes in 2014, 1,762 cases were reported while kidnapping rose from 2,736 to 3,154 in the same period. Theft cases increased from 20,570 to 26,178 and extortion cases from 218 to 363, while road robbery increased from 602 in 2014 to 828 in 2021.Providing data for January, the reply said 131 cases of rape, 227 of kidnapping, 54 murders, 1,982 cases of theft, 29 of extortion and 68 of road robbery had been reported. Vij stated awareness campaigns were being held on Mahila helpline and self-defence training was being given. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-gurugram-reported-max-covid-deaths-375953
08-03-2022||Parveen Arora||Karnal: Anganwari workers’ strike hits children’s schemes||Karnal, March 7The strike by anganwari workers and helpers for the past three months has affected the implementation of various government programmes as they play a significant role in the Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS) by providing nutrition supplements and other help to children under six years, besides pregnant and lactating mothers.The anganwari workers and helpers have been on strike since December 8 last year to press their demands like increment in their monthly remuneration and status of skilled and semi-skilled workers.As many as 1,24,738 children and 21,925 women (10685 pregnant women and 11240 lactating women) are registered with 1,479 anganwari centres in the district.Under the ICDS, the anganwari centres provide non-formal pre-school education to children from three to six years. These workers and helpers provide supplementary nutrition to these children at these centres, besides providing the take-home ration facility for children between six months and three years. They assist the Health Department in the immunisation of 0-6 age group children, supplementary nutrition to pregnant women for nine months and take-home ration to lactating women etc, said an official. The anganwari workers and helpers are also involved in Pradhan Mantri Matritva Vandana Yojana, under which Rs 5000 is provided as financial assistance to pregnant and lactating women in three installments.Due to this strike, the parents, pregnant women and lactating mothers are suffering a lot. “My son started going to anganwari centres after lots of convincing, but it has been three months, the centres are not operational. Now, I will have to again convince him to go to the centre,” said Pooja, a mother of a three-year-old child of Uchana village.Sarla Devi of the same village said her grandson was provided nutritious food at the centre, but in the past three months due to the strike, their children are not getting a good diet.The Women and Child Development Department has started terminating the services of workers and helpers, but the workers are not ready to backtrack. “We will not end our strike till our demands are fulfilled,” said Rupa Rana, district president, Anganwari Workers and Helpers Association.Raj Bala, District Programme Office Women and Child Development, said they have served three notices to each worker and helper. So far, the services of 15 workers out of 1,421 and 159 helpers out of 1,192 have been terminated. “During personal hearing, we motivate them to join duty. So far, 194 centres have started,” she added. #anganwari workers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/anganwari-workers-strike-hits-childrens-schemes-375950
08-03-2022||Kaithal||Kaithal: Patwari suspended for illegal re-sale of plots||Kaithal Deputy Commissioner Pradeep Dahiya on Monday suspended a patwari of Batta village revenue circle and issued a show-cause notice to a kanungo, allegedly for the mutation of a land without visiting the site. The land was allotted to 90 beneficiaries of Indira Awaas Yojana after acquiring from the original owner in Batta village.Meanwhile, Kaithal Superintendent of Police Maqsood Ahmed has sent the SHO, Kalayat, to Police Lines for allegedly ignoring the orders of the District Magistrate, in which he was told to register a case against five people – one seller and four buyers. The SHO has registered a case against only the seller.DC Dahiya said patwari Dilbag Singh had been suspended for doing wrong mutation without visiting the site as a colony was in existence at that site for the past over 30 years. He never updated the record of girdawari. Kanungo Hemant Kumar has been served a show-cause notice for approving without verifying the actual position of the land and documents. “It was his duty to check the status of land and the document before verifying the mutation,” said the DC, adding that they will now get this mutation cancelled and will get the mutation done in the name of Haryana Government. The SP said the SHO had registered a case against one person, when it was required to be registered against five persons. “I have sent him to Police Lines and an inquiry has been initiated against him,” he said.A 17 kanal and four marla land, which was acquired for the Indira Awaas Yojana in Batta village in Kaithal district was allegedly resold frequently by the previous owner, from whom the government had acquired this land in 1984. Interestingly, the families to whom plots of 100 yards were allotted have been living there for the past over 30 years. The issue came to the fore after a report filed by the Kaithal CTM Gulzar Ahmed, who initiated an inquiry on the directions of the Kaithal DC, following a complaint of the residents. The inquiry indicated that the land was acquired by the government, but the mutation was not done on the name of the beneficiaries. The DC had ordered an FIR against five persons, including buyers and sellers. — TNSNotice to Kanungo||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/patwari-suspended-for-illegal-re-sale-of-plots-375948
08-03-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Delhi man gets 10-year jail for raping, duping woman||A local court today sentenced a Delhi man to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 for allegedly raping a Pune woman on the pretext of marriage and duping her of Rs 5 lakh. If the convict failed to pay, his imprisonment would be increased.According to the police it was in September, 2020 when a woman from Pune filed a complaint against Rajiv, a resident of Delhi, that he had been raping her on the pretext of marriage after she got in touch with him through matrimonial site jeevansathi.com. As per the FIR registered on September 3 in 2020 at the Sadar police station the woman claimed that she got in touch with Delhi resident Rajiv through jeevansathi.com.“In his profile he claimed to be a divorcee and I replied that I was interested in marriage. It was in March, 2020, I came to Gurugram where Rajiv met me and we lived together for some days. He also met my mother and promised to marry me. I trusted him and he took advantage as he first developed physical relationswith me and then started blackmailing me. He told me that he ran a tea business and demanded money and I believed him and transferred Rs 5,17,366 in his brother, Pankaj’s account. After this, he began to ignore me and when I visited his home I was shocked to find him with his wife and children. Later, he also exploited me sexually but finally I complained to the police”, the woman said in her complaint. An FIR was registered and the police nabbed Rajiv who was sent to judicial custody. Today, the court of Additional District And Sessions Judge Raj Gupta sentenced the accused.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-gets-10-year-jail-for-raping-duping-woman-375945
08-03-2022||---||Jhajjar: Firm told to pay insurance claim in vehicle theft case||Jhajjar, March 7Adjudicating a dispute over the claim of compensation in a case of vehicle theft, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed Universal Sompo General Insurance Company Limited to pay Rs 50,000 to the complainant as compensation for causing harassment, mental agony and wrongly repudiating the claim of relief after a period of 141 days from the receipt of the investigator’s report.Complainant legally entitledAfter hearing both parties and going through the record, the commission found that the complainant is legally entitled for a theft claim of stolen vehicle from the insurance company. AK Sardana, president, district consumer disputes redressal commissionIt has also directed the company to pay a sum of Rs 31 lakh as the insured declared value of the stolen truck mentioned in the insurance policy after making statutory deductions. As per orders, the company will firstly clear the loan of the complainant with the bank for the vehicle and then will pay the remaining amount to the complainant along with an interest of 9 per cent per annum within 15 days.AK Sardana, president, District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, said Raju of Nauganwa village, complainant, had filed a complaint that his vehicle was stolen from the parking place of Samta Filling Station in Sunderheti village here on October 8, 2019, but the police registered the complaint next day due to some technical reasons. He also intimated the insurance company about the theft with all documents but it repudiated the claim of complainant on July 7, 2020.In its reply, the insurance company said the complaint is not maintainable and is time-barred. The FIR lodged by the complainant is false and manipulated in order to grab the insurance claim. “After hearing both parties and going through the record, the commission found that the complainant is legally entitled for a theft claim of stolen vehicle from the insurance company. The documents by the complainant are sufficient for release of the claim of stolen vehicle in view of laws laid down by the Punjab and Haryana High Court,” said Sardana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/firm-told-to-pay-insurance-claim-in-vehicle-theft-case-375943
08-03-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad wards increased to 45, but civic amenities remain poor||Faridabad, March 7The number of the civic wards in the city have gone upto 45 following the recent delimitation process. This has also attracted criticism from certain quarters pointing out certain lacunae.Newly set up ward very bigThe newly set up Ward 45 is so huge that it consists of 11 villages and three sectors having several high- rise residential societies, which is unjustified. AK Gaur, a resident of sector 85While a draft notification issued on March 4 has made public the details of the proposal, the number of wards has gone up by 87.6 per cent in the past 28 years when the Municipal Corporation was formed in 1994. While the city had just 24 wards at that time, it rose to 35 in 2001 and 40 in 2015 after delimitation carried out by the Urban Local Bodies Department. “A notice is hereby given that the proposal will be taken into consideration by the government after the expiry of the period of 10 days from the date of publication of this order, together with the objections and suggestions, if any, which may be received by the Urban Local Bodies Department from any person in respect of the proposal,” says the order. While details of the physical and geographical boundaries of the wards have been provided, five new wards have been added.Pointing out the lacunae, AK Gaur, a resident of Sector 85, said the newly set up Ward 45 is so huge that it consists of 11 villages and three sectors having several high- rise residential societies, which he claimed was unjustified. Apprehending the poor state of civic affairs, he said the condition of the villages already into the fold of civic limits had been pathetic. The financially frail MunicipalCorporation Faridabad may not be able to provide the amenities to the 24 villages which had been incorporated into the civic limits last year, he claims.Describing it as a kind of a joke, Yogesh Dhingra, a former Municipal Councillor, alleged that the draft was politically motivated as it had divided various sectors, colonies into several wards, which he said would result in harassment of the residents. Demanding changes, he said the time given for objections needed to be increased by at least a month. Neeraj Sharma MLA, NIT Assembly segment, has also demanded amendments in the draft proposal claiming that it was full of errors.Yashpal Yadav, MunicipalCorporation Faridabad Commissioner, said the objections regarding the order would be dealt with as per the rules and regulations.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-wards-increased-to-45-but-civic-amenities-remain-poor-375941
08-03-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Panipat roads, streetlights cry for repairs for past 3 years||Panipat, March 7The damaged roads, non-functional streetlights in Sector 25 have been crying for maintenance for the past three years. The Municipal Corporation (MC), Panipat, allotted the tender of Rs 2.5 crore for the construction of roads around three months ago but the work has not started so far. Residents were forced to face a lot of problems in their day to day life.Tender allottedA tender was allotted for the maintenance of internal roads in December but still the work has not started. Bhupinder Singh, former mayorConcerned with maintenance We are common people and we have no interest whether the tender was allotted or not. We want only concerned with maintenance of the road. Abhishek, residentWork to start soonTenders have been sent to the Urban Local Bodies headquarters for approval. After getting the approval , the work will start soon. Pradeep Kalyan, XEn, MCAs many as 1,250 houses are situated in the residential part of Sector 25 which lies in Ward 14 of the MC while hundreds of people are working in the industrial part of Sector 25 part-1 and 2 who use the roads to go to industries daily.As per sources, the MC has allotted the tender of Rs 2.5 crore for the maintenance of internal roads of Sector 25, including behind the Mittal Mega Mall, infront and side of the Gymkhana Club and other roads in December last year.The work order has also been issued to the contractor, the sources said. As per the tender’s conditions, the time limit to complete the maintenance work was fixed to three months, the sources said.However, three months are almost complete but the residents here are still waiting for the work to start. Even former Mayor Bhupinder Singh, father of Mayor Avneet Kaur had protested against the poor conditions of the roads.“We have been facing these problems for the past 2-3 years. All internal roads in the sectors are in pathetic condition and streetlights are lying non-functional,” said Himanshu Arya, a resident of Sector 25.There are some streetlights that are functional but these are on the main road where the former Mayor and father of the present Mayor resides and other streets are also lying in the dark for a long time, he said.Abhishek, another resident, said the condition of their sector is the worst. Potholed roads become the identity of the sectors. Residents were facing a lot of problems in their daily life due to these broken roads, he added.“We are common people and we have no interest whether the tender was allotted or not. We want only maintenance of the road,” he said. Former Mayor Bhupinder Singh said a tender was allotted for the maintenance of internal roads in December but still the work has not started. We have been hoping that the maintenance work of roads would begin soon, the former Mayor added.Pradeep Kalyan, Executive Engineer (XEn), Municipal Corporation, said tenders had been sent to the Urban Local Bodies (ULB) headquarters for approval. After getting the approval from the headquarters the work will start soon, he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-roads-streetlights-cry-for-repairs-for-past-3-years-375935
08-03-2022||Deepender Deswal||3 villages of Sirsa district step up campaign against drugs||Sirsa/Hisar, March 7After eight deaths in nearly four months reportedly due to drug abuse, residents of Ganga village in Dabwali subdivision of Sirsa district have taken up cudgels against drug menace in their village.“Drug menace has been growing at an alarming rate in the younger generation in the village. Obviously, narcotics are being supplied and made available easily to youngsters. As per an estimate, there are about 150 villagers of different age groups who are addicted to drugs including ‘chitta’ and smack,” said Pawan Sharma, sarpanch of the village having a population of about 15,000.The sarpanch informed that the village is 10 km from Rajasthan border and 15 km from Punjab border, making it easy for drug suppliers.Kulwinder Kaur, a villager, stated that some villagers are supplying syringes and are even indulging in drug trade. “We know the source of narcotics being supplied to our village,” she said.At a meeting yesterday, the villagers formed a team of 100 volunteers by selecting five persons each from the 20 wards of the village. They will not only keep track on those who are indulging in supply of drugs but will also help the victims who are addicted to drugs.Dabwali police station SHO Devi Lal Punia who was also present at the meeting said that collective effort with the rural society would be much more effective in curbing drug menace in the village.In Ratta Khera village of Fatehabad district, villagers have started ‘thikri pehra’ (night vigil) on the borders of the village to check the supply of narcotics in the village.“Unfortunately, some villagers are indulging in smuggling and supplying banned substances,” said Subhash, a villager. He said that villagers recently formed a 51-member committee for launching a full-scale campaign in the village.Virender Sandwa, a leader of the Kaliraman khap, said that they had started an awareness campaign in villages of Hisar and Bhiwani districts against drugs.In a meeting held at Sisay village of Hisar district, the khap set up committees in several villages under its influence in Hisar and Bhiwani districts.Similar drives #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-villages-of-sirsa-district-step-up-campaign-against-drugs-375929
08-03-2022||Pradeep Sharma||Congress picks holes in Haryana govt’s claims in Vidhan Sabha||Chandigarh, March 7The Opposition Congress picked up holes in the BJP-JJP government’s oft-repeated claims of “sab ka saath, sab ka vikas” during the debate on the Governor’s Address in the Haryana Vidhan Sabha today.MLAs engage in war of words Governor's Address is a bundle of lies. The factual position on ground portrays the Khattar government in bad light. Charanjiv Rao, Cong MLAThe state is making rapid progress in all fields under the leadership of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar. Pramod Vij, BJP MLA Congress’ Dabwali MLA Amit Sihag alleged that all sections of society, including farmers, employees, youth and women, “were at the receiving end of the lopsided policies of the state government”.“In the 2019 Assembly elections, the BJP failed win on a majority of the seats. Even after forming government with the help of the JJP, the coalition government has failed to win the trust of even one section of society giving lie to its slogan of ‘sab ka saath, sab ka vika’,” Sihag alleged.Echoing similar sentiments, Congress’ Assandh MLA Shamsher Gogi alleged that while the BJP claimed to have built the Ram Temple at Ayodhya, its senior functionaries did not believe in the ideals of Lord Rama.Alleging that the law and order had gone for a toss, Congress’ Rewari MLA Charanjiv Rao alleged that murder, rape and kidnapping cases were on the rise since 2014.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-picks-holes-in-haryana-govts-claims-375925
08-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Will oppose amended BBMB rules, says Haryana CM||Chandigarh, March 7Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today hit back at the Opposition while replying to various issues point-wise in a speech punctuated with couplets.Also read: Revisit BBMB rules, Punjab CM Charanjit Channi urges Amit Shah“Jo udne ki chhah rakhte hain, vo girne se nahin darte (Those who wish to fly are not scared of falling down),” taking a shot at the Congress. “The Opposition never says what is right,” he said, accusing them of being arrogant during a discussion on the Governor’s address.He and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda entered into arguments multiple times.On the amended Bharat Beas Management Board (BBMB) rules, Khattar said he had written to Union Home Minister that both Punjab and Haryana had objections to these and had called for restoring the earlier system. Hooda said an all-party meeting should have been called on the issue. He stressed that Haryana’s membership should have been assured, to which the CM also agreed.On the domicile issue, where a five-year stay in Haryana is now required instead of 15 years, the CM said when the issue of 75 per cent reservation for local youths in the industry came up for discussion with industrialists, it was one of their demands. “They pointed out that a number of their employees come from outside…We couldn’t impose the reservation forcefully,” he added. He justified the reduction in the period, citing it was three years in Delhi and UP and five years in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan.Congress chief whip BB Batra stood up and said it would also hamper the chances of Haryana natives in the reservation of SCs and BCs in government jobs.Lambasting the reports of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy as untrue, Khattar said, “For a month in 2017, it reflected two per cent unemployment in the state. Since then, it has been showing a rising trend. The unemployment figure was 34.1 per cent in December 2021. Just a month later, in January 2022, unemployment was shown at 23.4 per cent. How come there has been a drop of 11 per cent in just one month?”At this, Hooda questioned him that UP CM Yogi Adityanath had been celebrating CMIE figures of unemployment in his state. “How can there be two standards,” he asked.Five-year stay for domicile justifiedOn the domicile issue, in which a five-year stay in Haryana is now required instead of 15 years, the CM justified it, citing it was three years in Delhi and Uttar Pradesh and five years in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. He said industrialists said most of their workers came from outside. #bbmb #bhupinder hooda #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-oppose-amended-bbmb-rules-says-haryana-cm-375922
08-03-2022||Geetanjali Gayatri||Assembly in Session: Haryana ex-Speaker Raghuvir Singh Kadian’s suspension revoked||Chandigarh, March 7Former Speaker Raghuvir Kadian’s suspension for the remaining session was revoked by the Haryana Vidhan Sabha after Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda effectively advocated the argument that it was “sudden provocation” that prompted the former to tear up the anti-conversion bill.Hooda raised the issue of Kadian’s suspension right after the question hour during the ongoing session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha, urging the Speaker, Gian Chand Gupta, to explain the reason for the “unprecedented action” against the senior Congress leader.Stating that the Speaker should show the video recording to ascertain whether there was any provocation from the treasury benches to invite such action, Hooda repeatedly asserted that, under no circumstances, he approved the tearing of the Bill.As the Speaker read out an instance where the Congress, while in the government, had suspended Opposition MLAs for the remaining session, Hooda emphasised that suspensions happen all the time. “Kadian only tore the Bill after being provoked by the treasury benches and the Leader of the House exhibited tremendous grace when he regretted what he had said. Also, Kadian did not tear it and throw it at the treasury benches or the Speaker,” the Leader of the Opposition stated.To this, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said it should be seen whether Kadian tore the Bill before or after the former spoke even as Hooda seconded this, adding, “If the suspended MLA tore the Bill before he was provoked, I will call him to the House and ask him to express his regret.”The Speaker, however, insisted that the before or after did not matterwhen the dignity of the House had been compromised because the MLA tore the Bill, which was a legal document.After much deliberation, Khattar suggested that the House be adjourned and the Speaker call for the video recording to see whether the Bill was torn before or after he spoke in the presence of Hooda.Though the Speaker resisted this suggestion initially, he agreed to ascertain the timing of the tearing of the Bill. When the House met after the adjournment, Hooda urged the Speaker to call back Kadian. Khattar also stated that he was under the impression that the Bill was torn before he spoke. On his return to the House, Kadian also expressed regret and said that he got carried away after being provoked by the treasury benches.Got carried awayLeader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda asserted that under no circumstances, he approved the tearing of the Bill. Later, Kadian expressed regret and said he got carried away after being provoked by the treasury benches #raghuvir singh kadian||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/assembly-in-session-ex-speaker-raghuvir-singh-kadians-suspension-revoked-375920
