09-03-2022||Vijay C Roy||Over Rs 1.77 lakh cr Budget proposed for Haryana||Chandigarh, March 8Encouraged by an uptick in revenues, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who also holds the Finance portfolio, proposed a Budget of Rs 1,77,256 crore for the year 2022-23,with a focus on agriculture, rural development, women empowerment, health and education by increasing allocation.Further, special emphasis has been given on capital expenditure to give impetus to the state’s economy. Presenting the Budget estimates, which have no fresh tax proposals, Khattar proposed a budget of Rs 1,77,256 crore for the year 2022-23, a rise of 15.6 percent over 2021-22 (RE) of Rs 1,53,384 crore. The Budget outlay comprises 34.4 per cent as capital expenditure of Rs 61,057 crore and 65.6 per cent as revenue expenditure of Rs 1,16,199 crore. “We have laid a special emphasis on increasing capital infrastructure investment to boost demand, which holds a key role in speedy economic revival with multiplier effect, “he said. “I take this Budget as an opportunity for Haryana to be at the forefront of the journey for India to contribute in the achievement of the vision for a five trillion dollar economy given by the Prime Minister, with an increased contribution of the state to the national economy from 3.4 per cent presently to 4 per cent,” he added.Khattar said this Budget represents the hopes, aspirations and opportunities for a new Haryana emerging from the global issues in the last two years.New fundsHe also announced to set up three dedicated funds namely, a Climate & Sustainable Development Fund to achieve green development objectives, Research & Innovation Fund and Venture Capital Fund would to promote entrepreneurship.Phased monetisation of identified assetsThe government will launch a major drive to collate asset registers and develop a roadmap for the phased monetisation of identified assets. Additionally, the government is planning to clean up the balance-sheets of public sector enterprises and transfer non-performing assets (NPAs) to an asset recovery company.Revenue deficitFor the fiscal year, 2022-23, the revenue deficit is pegged at 9,773.93 crore compared to Rs 12,523 crore in revised estimate of 2021-22. For the current year, the revenue deficit remains at 1.40 per cent as per RE 2021-22 and has been projected to further decrease to 0.98 per cent of the GSDP in BE 2022-23Fiscal managementFor financial year 2022-23, the fiscal deficit is expected to be within prescribed limit of 3.5 per cent by the 15th Finance Commission, at 2.98 per cent (Rs 29,618 crore) of the GSDP, as per the BE (Budget Estimate) of 2022-23”, Khattar said.Debt liability set to go upThe debt liability is likely to go up to Rs 2,43,779 as on March 2023 from Rs 2,23,768 crore as on March 2022, constituting 24.52 % of the GSDP. It is well within the prescribed limit of 33.3% in 2022-23 as per the Central Finance Commission’s recommendations.OTS for farmersOne-time settlement scheme (OTS) announced for farmers, which will provide waiver for the entire amount of interest, including penal interest, if the principal amount of crop loan or other loan is paid by November 30, 2022. The settlement scheme will be applicable to loans of PACS and the District Central Cooperative Boards (DCCBs).More power to womenTo empower women, the govt announced awards & loans for women entrepreneurs and hostel for working women. The state had set a target of setting up and supporting 10,000 self-help groups .Safe Transport for girlsThe government proposed to provide safer transportation facilities for girl students. Tablets will be given to all students from Classes X to XII studying in government schoolsSpecialist cadre of doctorsProposal for specialist cadre of doctors who will perform only clinical duties. 40 pc seats in postgraduate medical courses in govt medical colleges to be reserved for docts in govt service.IN NUMBERSBudget estimates for 2022-23LEADER SPEAKFigures exaggeratedThe Budget has always been presented with exaggerated figures and later, the allocations are reduced. The allocation to education sector has been reduced. — Bhupinder Singh Hooda, leader of oppositionNo relief for common manThis Budget will not provide any relief to the common man. A lot of noise has been generated about the Budget but in reality, mostly old schemes have been presented as new ones. — Kumari Selja, HPCC PresidentHigh on loanFrom 1966 to 2014-15, total loan of Rs70,931 crore was taken. But from 2015 to 2022 — in seven years — Rs1.53 lakh crore was taken. Where has this money gone? — Randeep Surjewala, Congress general secretaryNot a penny spentTo pay off debt, the govt is taking new loans. In last seven years, the govt has taken a loan of about Rs1.4L cr but not even a single penny has been spent on any new building, university or stadium. — Abhay Singh Chautala, INLD MLAWill attract investmentSpecial emphasis has been laid on employment, industry, public works, rural development and civil aviation that will open employment opportunities and attract investment. — Dushyant Chautala, Deputy Chief MinisterMajor initiatives||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/over-1-77-l-cr-budget-proposed-for-state-376244
09-03-2022||Pradeep Sharma||Three funds announced to boost post-Covid economy of Haryana||Chandigarh, March 8Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced the setting up of three dedicated funds, besides a slew of initiatives, to boost the post-Covid economy of Haryana.While Climate and Sustainable Development Fund is aimed at achieving green development objectives, the Research and Innovation Fund will endeavour to promote scientific activity and scholarship. The Venture Capital Fund will promote entrepreneurship.Khattar claimed that the strategy for a resilient Haryana was crafted on the prioritisation of three key objectives of the welfare of the poorest of the poor in the spirit of Antyodaya, increased productivity with effective income redistribution strategies and the creation of opportunities for employment and entrepreneurship. Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) TVSN Prasad said the funds were aimed at avoiding counter-productive fiscal profligacy,Besides, Haryana Financial Services Limited has been set up as a non-banking financial institution for portfolio management and to meet low cost working capital requirements of government entities. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-funds-announced-to-boost-post-covid-economy-376248
09-03-2022||Chandigarh||Three new govt women's colleges to be built in Haryana||Khattar announced the “Haryana Matrishakti Udyamiti’ Scheme for women entrepreneurs to “celebrate and support the steps taken for economic advancement”. He announced new housing for working women in Faridabad, Gurugram and Panchkula and three new government women’s colleges in Kudal and Chhapar in Bhiwani district and Gannaur in Sonepat district. He said that the government would bear the entire interest amount of loans of those self-help groups whose annual income of more than half of the members’ families is less than Rs 1.8 lakh. — #Khattar #women||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-new-govt-womens-colleges-to-be-built-in-state-376249
09-03-2022||Chandigarh||Rs 5,989 crore proposed for agriculture, allied sectors in Haryana||To give impetus to the primary and secondary sector, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who also holds the finance portfolio, has allocated more funds to agriculture and allied activities, and industrial development.AGRICULTUREIndustryHe proposed to allocate Rs 5,989 crore to agriculture and allied sectors in the Budget for fiscal year 2022-23, which is an increase of 27.7 per cent over the revised estimates of the current year.Presenting the Budget, he proposed a three-year output-based incentive programme to promote natural and organic farming. A total of 100 clusters, of at least 25 acres each, with be provided financial incentives on certification, branding and packaging, and compensation for crop loss in the first three years.Also, the government will support the registration of 100 FPOs in 2022-23. For promotion of horticulture produce, the government will support the establishment of 100 packhouses in 2022-23 for fresh fruits and vegetables.The state will also support for the establishment of Fish Farmers’ Producer Organisation (FFPO) to enhance collective fish and shrimp farming and its marketing.An integrated aqua park and centre of excellence will also be established in Bhiwani. As far as the industries sector is concerned, the proposed allocation is Rs 598.20 crore for FY 2022-23, which is an increase of 31.1 per cent over the revised estimates of the current year.In order to promote industrial exports, the government will provide freight subsidy for industrial exports. Also, for the improvement and upgradation of infrastructure in industrial model townships, a sum of Rs 1,000 crore will be set aside by the HSIIDC.To give fillip to electronics manufacturing, including advanced robotics and nano technology, the government will come out with a sectoral-incentive policy built on the Haryana Entrepreneurship and Employment Policy (HEEP) 2020. #Agriculture #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-989-crore-proposed-for-agriculture-allied-sectors-376250
09-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Haryana’s GSDP rate rises to 9.8% this fiscal: Survey||Chandigarh, March 8Haryana’s Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), at constant prices in 2021-22, is estimated to have a growth rate of 9.8 per cent compared to -5.3 per cent in 2020-21, according to the Economic Survey of Haryana.Higher than national rateFall in vehicle registrationThe Economic Survey points out that there has been a significant fall in vehicle registrations in the first two Covid waves due to lockdown and muted travel activity. But the fall in registrations of three-wheelers has been so profound that it has not yet achieved the average 2019-20 level.The Survey was tabled today along with the Budget in the Haryana Legislative Assembly.The GSDP at constant prices is estimated to be Rs 5.88 lakh crore in 2021-22. “This implies that the level of the real GSDP in 2021-22 will surpass the pre-Covid level of Rs 5.66 lakh crore, recorded in 2019-20,” says the Survey.Haryana’s GSDP growth rate at 9.8 per cent in the current fiscal will be higher than the country’s GDP growth rate of 9.2 per cent.When it comes to the Gross State Value Added (GSVA) index, which is the value of goods and services produced in the economy, at constant prices, the growth in industry at 11.5 per cent, Services at 10.1 per cent and agriculture at 2.6 per cent is estimated to fuel the overall growth of 9.2 per cent in the current fiscal.The Survey says that the Services sector was the hardest hit during the Covid pandemic as it involves human contact. Services’ share in the GSVA reduced from 48.4 per cent in 2019-20 to 47.1 per cent in 2020-21. It has increased to 47.5 per cent in 2021-22, while the industry’s contribution is 35.6 per cent and that of Agriculture is 16.9 per cent.In sector-wise analysis, the Survey pointed out that since 2018-19, when 9 per cent growth rate was recorded in agriculture, there has been a slump as just 4.8 per cent was recorded in 2019-20, while 2020-21 witnessed negative growth of 2.5 per cent. In the current fiscal, it is estimated to grow at 2.6 per cent. “The economic growth of the state has become more dependent on the growth in Industry and Services sectors during the past few years. However, the recent experience suggests that high GSVA growth without sustained and rapid agricultural growth is likely to accelerate inflation in the state, jeopardising the larger growth process. Therefore, the growth of agriculture and allied sectors continues to be a critical factor in the overall performance of the state’s economy,” says the Survey.There was a 13 per cent growth rate in the GSVA in the industry in 2018-19 which fell to 7.5 per cent in 2019-20 and further to -1.7 per cent in 2020-21 under the Covid impact. But it has rebound and is estimated to grow at 11.5 per cent in the current fiscal, on the back of manufacturing which is estimated to grow at 11.8 per cent; construction at 10.7 per cent; electricity, gas, water supply and other utility services at 10.9 per cent and mining and quarrying at 9.7 per cent.The GSVA from the Services reflected a growth rate of 8.1 per cent in 2018-19, which fell to 5.4 per cent in 2019-20 and further to -6.8 per cent in 2020-21. But it is estimated to grow at 10.1 per cent in the current fiscal, fuelled by 13.2 per cent growth in transport, storage, communication and Services related to broadcasting; 11.8 per cent in hotels, restaurants, repair and trade; 11.6 per cent in public administration and Defence, and 7.9 per cent in real estate, financial and professional services.The Economic Survey points out that there has been a significant fall in the vehicle registrations in the first two Covid waves due to lockdown and muted travel activity. But the fall in registrations of three-wheelers has been so profound that it has not yet achieved the average 2019-20 level.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gsdp-rate-rises-to-9-8-this-fiscal-survey-376252
09-03-2022||Geetanjali Gayatri||Haryana Govt, Opposition differ on rising debt burden||Chandigarh, March 8The government and the Opposition rarely see eye to eye on anything and the growing debt borrowings of the state are something they never agree on.While CM Manohar Lal Khattar who is also the Finance Minister sees the increase in debt liability as a healthy sign, the Congress seems unimpressed by the growing “burden”.In Haryana, the state’s debt liability has grown from Rs 1,01,709 crore in 2015-16 to Rs 2,43,779 crore for 2022-23. It is likely to increase by nearly Rs 20,000 crore over last year. However, the state debt liability to GSDP ratio, at 24.52 per cent, continues to be well within the prescribed limit of 33.3 per cent in 2022-23, as per the Central Finance Commission’s recommendation.Stating that they had tried to bring a Budget for the common man, Khattar was completely unfazed by the risings loan. He justified the growing debt stating that a good economy should resort to loans for meeting capital expenses.“Our revenue goes towards revenue expenses. If we want to make any capital expenditure, taking loans is the only option. Without loans, no government can move forward. Also, our loan-taking capacity goes up with the increase in GSDP,” the CM said.However, Congress leader from Haryana, Randeep Singh Surjewala, took a dig at the ever-increasing borrowing. He said that Haryana’s total loan was Rs 70,931 crore in 48 years — from 1966 to 2014-15. In seven years, from 2015-2022, the loan increased by 215 per cent to Rs 2,23,768 crore. “In seven years, the Khattar government took a loan of Rs 1,52,837 crore. Where has that money gone?” he asked. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-oppn-differ-on-rising-debt-burden-376254
09-03-2022||---||Natural farming board to be set up in Haryana, says Khattar||Kurukshetra, March 8Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today said the government would promote natural farming in Haryana for which a provision of Rs 32 crore has been made in the budget.Farmers must be motivatedThere is a need to create an atmosphere in the state and motivate the farmers to adopt natural farming. They will be motivated when the cost of production will go down, production will increase and the health of the soil will also improve. — Manohar Lal Khattar, CMCancer cases on the riseThe situation is very dangerous. Cancer cases and other diseases are on the rise. There is a difference between natural and organic farming. The farmers can save the country by adopting natural farming. — Acharya Devvrat, Governor, GujaratThe CM was here in Kurukshetra to attend a one-day state-level workshop on natural farming at the auditorium of Kurukshetra University.Manohar Lal said the state government was emphasising on adopting natural farming for the people of the state to get rid of poisonous products, to conserve groundwater and health of the soil. Green Revolution was the need of the hour, the main objective was to increase production and farmers adopting everything to increase production but it had some negative impacts and drawback too. To increase the production, the farmers were using chemical fertilisers and pesticides. We also opted for allopathy leaving ayurveda behind. We have to make efforts on both the fronts, agriculture and medical sector, and adopt traditional techniques.”“There is a need to create an atmosphere in the state and motivate the farmers to adopt natural farming. They will be motivated when the cost of production will go down, production will increase and the health of the soil will also improve. To provide facilities to the farmers, it has been decided to constitute a natural farming board in the state. An additional director will also be appointed and a provision of Rs 32 crore has been made by the state government in the budget. A three-year output-based incentive programme to promote natural farming will be started. As many as 100 clusters covering 25-acres each will be developed. The government will also work on certification, branding and packaging, and provide compensation for the loss of yield in the first three years”, he added.Governor Gujarat Acharya Devvrat said, “The situation is very dangerous. Cancer cases and other diseases are on the rise. There is a difference between natural and organic farming. The farmers can save the country by adopting natural farming. It will also decrease the cost of production and save groundwater too.”Earlier, the CM also inaugurated three development projects — buildings of civil hospital in Shahabad, ITI in Ladwa, and government school in Kirmach village — worth Rs 37.37 croreThe Chief Minister visited the stalls set up by different departments and progressive farmers. Agriculture minister JP Dalal, Minister Sandeep Singh, MP Nayab Saini, Thanesar MLA Subhash Sudha, Shahabad MLA Ram Karan Kala, ACS Sumita Misra and several other officials were present on the occasion. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/natural-farming-board-to-be-set-up-in-state-says-khattar-376256
09-03-2022||---||Lion's share goes to Dushyant Chautala's depts||Chandigarh, March 8There has been a big rise in the Budget 2022-23 allocations to departments held by Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala.Vij’s depts also get boostDushyant’s JJP is an alliance partner in the BJP-led state government, with the support of 10 MLAs.The Civil Aviation Department, held by Dushyant, has been allocated Rs 886.37 crore for 2022-23, which is a jump of 380.8 per cent over budget estimates of 2021-22. It included the development of heliport in Gurugram for helicopter connectivity with the NCR, extending of runway length in Karnal and Bhiwani airstrips and development works at the Hisar airport.Dushyant’s Labour Department has been allocated Rs 221.97 crore. As per the previous year’s Budget speech, only Rs 71 crore was allocated. There is a rise of more than 212 per cent. The setting up of new 500-bedded hospital in Manesar and expansion of an existing hospital in Gurugram, from 163 beds to 500 beds by Employees State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) is on the cards along with the strengthening of the ESIC dispensaries. For Public Works (B&R) Department, another portfolio of Dushyant, an allocation of Rs 4,752 crore has been made which is an increase of 59.2 per cent over the previous year’s Budget estimates. The budget will be spent on the construction of 300 kms of new roads, improvement of 6,000 km roads and 22 rail over bridges (ROBs)/vehicle under passes (VUsP).The Industries and Commerce Department has seen a jump of allocation of over 81 per cent over the previous year’s Budget estimate as Rs 598.20 crore has been earmarked. #anil vij #dushyant chautala||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lions-share-goes-to-dushyants-depts-376257
09-03-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana: MSMEs to get 50 per cent VAT reimbursement||To provide relief to industries in NCR where norms require them to shift to cleaner fuels, the state government has proposed to reimburse 50% of VAT collected on natural gas purchased by MSMEs for a period of two years.“The government recognises that industries in the national capital region (NCR) are being pushed to shift to cleaner fuels, including natural gas, due to concerns arising from the severity of air pollution. The shift will increase the cost of production for industries, affecting their competitiveness,” Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said.It has been proposed in the Budget to provide 50 per cent reimbursement on VAT on natural gas (piped or compressed) for industries in the MSME sector for a period of two years. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/msmes-to-get-50-per-cent-vat-reimbursement-376258
09-03-2022||---||Emphasis on making people self-reliant: CM||Chandigarh, March 8Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said that the main goal of the government is to uplift the poorest of the poor. This time, the Budget has focused on uplifting those at the bottom of the pyramid. Using Parivar Pehchan Patra, the government is implementing new schemes.30 Lakh to benefitThis was stated by Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar while addressing a press conference after presenting the state Budget in the Haryana Vidhan Sabha today.The Chief Minister, who also holds the portfolio of Finance Minister, said that this Budget has been introduced in the direction of improving the system. “Instead of offering freebies to the eligible person, emphasis will be given on making them atma-nirbhar (self-reliant). This is in the interest of the country and the people,” he said.As per Parivar Pehchan Patra data, 29 per cent of families are from the Scheduled Caste and 34.5 per cent are from backward classes. They have income less than Rs 1.8 lakh. The percentage of SC and BC is 20 and 27 per cent respectively of the total population. At first, the government has set a target to improve the standard of living of these families.He said that now every family in the income group of less than Rs 1.8 lakh would get the benefit of the Ayushman Bharat scheme. Till now, about 15.5 lakh people used to come under this scheme, but now, 28 to 30 lakh people are likely to get the benefit.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/emphasis-on-making-people-self-reliant-cm-376260
09-03-2022||---||Palwal: Building inspector caught taking Rs 5 lakh  bribe||Palwal , March 8The Haryana State Vigilance Bureau has arrested a Building inspector red-handed while demanding and accepting Rs 5 lakh bribe from a resident here.Disclosing this here today, an official spokesperson of the bureau said the accused identified as Chaman Lal Tewatia posted as the Building inspector in the Municipal Council, Palwal, was arrested taking bribe on the complaint of Dalip Bindal, from whom the Building inspector had demanded Rs 10 lakh in lieu of passing the building plan of a showroom. It is claimed that the accused agreed to accept Rs 5 lakh in lieu of passing the building plan.It is revealed that the complainant, who did not wish to pay the bribe, approached the Vigilance Bureau. After verifying his information, the Vigilance officials laid a trap and arrested the Building inspector on the spot while accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh from the complainant in the presence of independent witnesses on Monday, it is reported. A case under Prevention of Corruption Act has been booked against the civic body official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/building-inspector-caught-taking-5-lakh-bribe-376261
09-03-2022||Tribune Reporters||Gurugram: Registration of sale of projects by Chintels developers stopped||Gurugram, March 8While the inquiry report in the Chintels Paradiso collapse is still awaited, the Gurugram administration has ordered to stop the registration of conveyance sale deed or any other property-related documents for projects relating to the developers of Chintels Paradiso.The administration has stopped the sale and purchase in seven projects, including one under construction. The projects concerned are Chintels Paradiso Group Housing in Sector 109, Chintels Serenity Group Housing in Sector 109, Chintels Corporate Parks in Sector 114, Shoba City Group Housing in Sector 108, International City Residential plotted colony in Sector 106, 108 and 109, ATS Kocoon Group Housing in Sector 109 and a commercial project in Sector 114, which is under construction.“Taking into account the incident of collapse of a building at Chintels Paradiso Society, Sector-109 on February 10 this year, prima facie, it has appeared that the developers were at fault and accordingly, an FIR has also been registered against them. In the light of this incident, it is herby directed that you should refrain from registering any documents related to the property for the projects being developed by developers/owners until further notice,” reads an order issued by DC Nishant Kumar Yadav.“We are cooperating with the authorities and residents in all aspects of the investigation” said a spokesperson of Chintels India.In addition to barring the sale of flats in any of the societies being developed by the Chintels builders, the local administration has asked the builders to rework rehabilitation proposal by March 11 after the residents rejected their initial offer.The administration has finalised rent, shifting charges and other details of temporary rehabilitation till the structural audit of the society is being completed. It has also asked the builders to enhance the rate of rent being offered for residents. #gurugram building collapse||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/registration-of-sale-of-projects-by-chintels-developers-stopped-376262
09-03-2022||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak: 'Shoddy' probe in murder case, court pulls up crime branch||Rohtak, March 8A district court has pulled up the State Crime Branch for lack of scientific investigation and attempt to mislead the court in the Rohtak quadruple murder case.The caseRohtak-based property dealer Pardeep, his wife Babli and mother-in-law Roshni were shot dead on August 27, 2021. Pradeep’s daughter Tamanna was also shot at and sustained injuries. She succumbed to her injuries a few days later. The police had arrested Pradeep’s son Abhishek for the murders, who is now facing a trial in the case.Give details of correspondence, IO toldThe court has directed the investigating officer to place on record the details of the correspondence made to the nodal officers concerned, along with the copy of all correspondence.In an order passed on an application moved by accused Abhishek’s counsel Shiv Raj Malik, Dr Gagan Geet Kaur, Additional Sessions Judge-cum-Special Judge, Rohtak, stated: “An attempt is made to mislead the court...Evidently, time is being killed by the investigating agency..”.“It is also very strange to criminal jurisprudence that when investigation has been transferred to State Crime Branch vide order dated December 10, 2021, and investigation file sent to State Crime Branch, Rohtak, on December 30, 2021, the recovered mobiles, including the mobile of deceased Pardeep, were sent on February 14, 2022, to the CFSL, Panchkula, to retrieve the data after the filing of the present application on February 4, 2022. Certainly, this act of the investigating agency creates suspicion on its working,” the order reads.The order further maintains that in the present case of murder of four people, no scientific investigation has been done regarding the mobile phones of the deceased, accused and complainant qua CDRs/CAF/tower location and other data.The court has directed the investigating officer to place on record the details of the correspondence made to the nodal officers concerned, along with the copy of all correspondence.The investigating officer has also been told to preserve the call detail records of the deceased, complainant, accused as well as the investigating officers, and procure the CCTV footage concerning the case.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/shoddy-probe-in-murder-case-court-pulls-up-crime-branch-376264
09-03-2022||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar cop sent to judicial custody for Rs 10K bribe||A team of the State Vigilance Bureau, Yamunanagar, has arrested an Exempted Assistant Sub-Inspector (EASI) of the Haryana Police for accepting a bribe of Rs 10,000. The EASI was posted at Buria police station of the district.The accused has been identified as Anil Kumar, who had allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs 20,000 to release the members of a family who had been brought to the police station in connection with a case of family dispute.According to information, there was allegedly a dispute between Krishan Lal of Buria and his family members. One of the family members called about the dispute on ‘Dial 112’, following which, the police took Krishan Lal and some family members to Buria police station.An agreement was reached between the family members in the police station, but despite the agreement, Kumar allegedly demanded Rs 20,000 to release the them.He also allegedly threatened Krishan Lal and his family that if they didn’t pay Rs 20,000, he would register a case against them and arrest them.The family gave Rs 10,000 at the time and told the EASI that they would pay the remaining Rs 10,000 later.Mandeep Singh, in charge, State Vigilance Unit, Yamunanagar, said they received a complaint from Krishan Lal against the EASI, adding that a team of the unit caught Kumar red-handed in the police station while accepting the bribe from the complainant.The EASI was produced before a court in Jagadhri on Tuesday and was sent to judicial custody. A case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act has been registered against Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cop-sent-to-judicial-custody-for-10k-bribe-376265
09-03-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram women cops spread safety awareness||Out to mark International Women’s Day, Gurugram women cops held an awareness motorbike rally. Police Commissioner Kala Ramachandaran flagged off the rally from her office this morning.Women cops taught self-defence tricks and made women aware about cyber crimes at North Campus University, Gurugram.As many as 15 motorcycles and 3 PCR police vehicles participated in the rally and all riders were women cops.“Women police officers and cops riding on motorcycles during the rally, spoke of women safety, empowerment and respect for women”, read the statement of the Gurugram police. — #women||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-women-cops-spread-safety-awareness-376266
09-03-2022||---||Sonepat: 1,100 women plant saplings in 'Oxygen Bagh'||Sonepat, March 8As many as 1,100 women planted 1,100 saplings in “Oxygen Bagh” at Bali Kutubpur village of Gannaur district on the occasion of International Women’s Day.This is the first women ‘Oxygen Bagh’ of the state where all saplings have been planted exclusively by women – government women officials, girl students of various schools, anganwadi workers — and it has been dedicated to Veerangna Amrita Devi.Surender Doon, SDM, Gannuar, congratulated the women and inaugurated the programme. Doon said even in this era of modernity, there are people who discriminate between girls and boys. There should be no discrimination of any kind. Girls should be promoted by giving special opportunities. Only daughters can bring the change in society.Block Development and Panchayat Officer Ankita Verma emphasised on hard work to establish a separate identity in society and also inspired the girls to move forward in life with full strength.Tree man Devender Soora said this was the first women “Oxygen Bagh” of the state where 1100 fruit, shade and medicinal plants were planted by 1,100 women. Briefing about the history of Verangna Amrita Devi, Soora said she had sacrificed her life to save trees and plants in her native village Khejdi in Rajasthan along with her three daughters Asu, Ratni and Bhagu in 1730. That’s why the first “Oxygen Bagh” has been dedicated to her on the occasion of International Women’s Day today. #women||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-100-women-plant-saplings-in-oxygen-bagh-376268
09-03-2022||---||12-year-old girl 'raped'||Karnal, March 8A 12-year-old girl on Monday was found nearly two months pregnant after she was admitted at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College (KCGMC) by her mother. The girl had complained of stomach ache.In the absence of the employees of the District Child Protection Society, members of the Child Welfare Committee (CMC) conducted the counselling of the girl and her mother.On the complaint of the CWC chairman, Umesh Chanana, the Karnal police registered a case against an unidentified person under the POCSO Act.Chanana said after examining the victim, the doctors found her eight weeks pregnant, after which, the pregnancy was aborted with the consent of the doctors and parents.“The issue came to my notice at around 12 pm and I had directed the District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) to conduct the counselling, but when no one reached there for counselling, I asked my members to conduct the same,” said the Chanana.“I have brought the issue of delay in counselling and negligence on the part of the DCPO into the notice of the Deputy Commissioner so that there will be no negligence in the future,” said the CWC chairman.The DCPO could not be contacted despite several attempts. Deputy Commissioner Anish Yadav said he would inquire why counselling could not be done on time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-year-old-girl-raped-376269
09-03-2022||The largest populated city which is also undergoing Smart City project worth several crores has failed to improve its civic amenities redressal system. Being the Metro city of Haryana||Launch round-the-clock helpline for civic problems||Too many poles, but streetlights not functional in NarwanaOn Canal Road in Narwana, there were too many electricity poles on both sides. Recently, countless poles have been erected, some with big transformers on them which occupy most of the road space. Streetlights don't function,so at night this area gets enveloped in the dark. The authorities should pull out all defunct poles and relocate all required poles in proper symmetry to save space on this main road. Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaSmart signals a boonIt is a matter of great pleasure that the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority has started working on a project to convert 90 traffic signals in the city into smart signals using adaptive traffic control system. This system will be able to gauge the volume of traffic from a particular side and increase the time limit of green light on its own. Subhash C Taneja, GurugramWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune  invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/launch-round-the-clock-helpline-for-civic-problems-376270
09-03-2022||Hisar||Admission portal Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology launched||International Women’s DayFaridabad: To honour womanhood and their contribution in society, JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, celebrated International Women Day on the university campus by organising some events. The programme was organised by the internal complaints committee of women cell and the office of Dean Student Welfare of the university. Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Tomar said a society could not be complete without the presence of women in it. He emphasised on the change in mindset of describing women as a weaker gender as they were already empowered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/admission-portal-launched-376271
09-03-2022||Vijay C Roy||Haryana Budget: No new tax, Khattar lays thrust on education, farm initiatives||Chandigarh, March 8Proposing no fresh taxes, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar, who also holds the Finance portfolio, on Tuesday presented a Rs 1,77,256-crore Budget for 2022-23.Editorial: Haryana BudgetRs1.7 lakh crGrowth rate upState’s GSDP in 2021-22 is estimated to have grown to Rs5.88 lakh crore, showing a growth rate of 9.8% compared to -5.3% in 2020-21, says Economic Survey reportWomen-centric stepsEmphasis has been placed on education, women empowerment, health, agriculture and rural development. Besides, there is thrust on capital expenditure to provide impetus to the state’s economy.Among major announcements are tablets for all students of Classes X-XII of government schools, safer transportation for girl students, increase in the number of Sanskriti Model Schools from 138 to 500 and setting up 50 STEM labs for integrated learning on the lines of Atal Tinkering Labs (ATL).To empower women, the Chief Minister announced an award, loans for entrepreneurs and hostels for working women. He said the state had set a target of setting up and supporting 10,000 self-help groups in 2022-23.For farmers, he announced a programme on natural farming and a one-time settlement scheme for waiver of interest if the principal loan amount is paid by November 30, 2022. The scheme will be applicable to loans of Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies and District Central Cooperative Boards.Khattar also announced setting up of three dedicated funds — Climate & Sustainable Development Fund to achieve environment objectives, Research & Innovation Fund and Venture Capital Fund to promote entrepreneurship. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-new-tax-khattar-lays-thrust-on-education-farm-initiatives-376179
