10-03-2022||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Stray animals a bane of Panchkula commuters||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Stray animals a bane of Panchkula commutersStray cattle not only cows or bulls but horses have become a big problem for commuters in Panchkula. A numbers of animals can be seen on the main roads and markets here. No MC official has been able to look into this issue. Stray dogs are another problem faced by residents. VK Garg, PanchkulaSewage blockage, smell hit business of Hisar ShopkeepersShopkeepers of the Mill Gate area are being inconvenienced for the past several days due to a sewage blockage on the Kaptan School road. The dirty water has flooded the road and the shopkeepers are suffering due to the foul smell of the stagnant sewage water. Local shopkeepers say that because of the blockage, their business has also come to a standstill. Shamsher Singh, Hisar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-animals-a-bane-of-panchkula-commuters-376521
10-03-2022||Hisar||Paralympian athlete honoured||International Women's DayGurugram: SGT University's faculty of science celebrated International Women's Day. The theme of this programme was "Gender equality- today for a sustainable tomorrow. The chairperson, SGT University, Madhupreet Kaur Chawla, executive Director, TIC Council, Gurugram, Dr Aparna Dhawan was the guest of honour, professor and HoD, department of gynecology, FMHS, SGT University, Dr Bindoo Yadav were the special invitees to the programme. Chawla said women had excelled in all fields today with their hard work and determination. Dr Aparna Dhawan presented a paper on gender equality as part of the UN Sustainable Development Goal 5. Vice-Chancellor prof OP Kalra highlighted the role of "Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao" movement in Haryana to improve the gender ratio, Pro-Chancellor Dr RC Kuhad highlighted the importance of women's education and gender equality in society.Modern library practicesFaridabad: A week-long short-term training programme (STTP) on "Research excellence and academic development: Modern library practices in present scenario" being organised by Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyay Central Library of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, concluded here. The programme was sponsored by the AICTE. Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Tomar congratulated the university library on the successful completion of the programme and emphasised on the need of quality research for the growth of an academician and university as a whole. Prof AP Singh, Director-General of Raja Rammohun Roy Library Foundation, Ministry of Culture, Kolkata, was the chief guest on the occasion. Prof. Singh said the best quality literature is one of the most important things for quality research and it could be provided by the library only. He also proposed funding and collaboration between Raja Rammohun Roy Library Foundation and J C Bose University for organising various library-related activities.Maj-Gen Tikku felicitatedKarnal: Maj-Gen Rabindranath Tikku was felicitated in the auditorium of Sainik School, Kunjpura.The opportunity was to encourage students. The chief guest and speaker, Maj Gen Tikku, spoke about building a bright future. During his lecture, the chief speaker said self-strength was the focal point of building a bright future. In today's stressful routine, how do young people face all challenges by making themselves mentally mature and stay away from negativity How to follow the motto of success was the pivotal point of the lecture. Principal Col Vijay Rana welcomed the chief guest by presenting him with a bouquet and a memento of the school and addressed the gathering and said surely students of Sainik School, Kunjpura, would be influenced by this meaningful lecture and emulate it in their own lives.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/paralympian-athlete-honoured-376519
10-03-2022||---||National Highways Authority of India speeds  up recarpeting work on National Highway-44||Karnal, March 9The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has speeded up the work of recarpeting the National Highway-44 to provide smooth journey to the commuters, with the authorities claiming that the work is currently in full swing.The NHAI started the work in November 2021 at an estimated cost of Rs 177 crore from Panipat to Jalandhar. In Haryana, a stretch of around 150 km was to be recarpeted, of which so far work on around 100 km stretch has been completed.Sources said the pace of the work was slow in initial days due to which commuters had to face a lot of inconvenience, particularly at night. Following the complaints of commuters, the NHAI speeded up the work, they added.“The work of re-carpeting is going on in full swing and we are expecting the work to be completed in a couple of months,” said Bhanu Pratap Singh, section engineer of the NHAI, Ambala.Meanwhile, many commuters had complained of having a non-functional drainage system and demanded to reconstruct the drainage system. #NHAI||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/national-highways-authority-of-india-speeds-up-recarpeting-work-on-national-highway-44-376517
10-03-2022||---||Faridabad: 3 robbers decamp with jewellery worth lakhs||Faridabad, March 9Three unidentified men held a woman hostage on the pretext of drinking water and looted jewellery worth lakhs from a house in Gurasan village in the district today.The police have booked a case, but no arrest has been made so far.According to complaint lodged by the victim, Rajkumari, two youths came to her house, asking for her son Neeraj around 11.30 am today.Revealing that she was alone in the house as her son was away, the accused asked for water to drink. She said as she went to the kitchen to get water, one of the youths followed her and held her hostage by tying her hands with her saree.While one of them made her sit with her hands and legs tied, his accomplice demanded the keys of the safe.The woman got scared and handed over the key after which the criminals fled with the jewellery and valuables worth several lakhs.Meanwhile, A team of the crime branch visited the house and had launched the hunt to nab the culprits. Soon the accused would be nabbed, said a police official.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-robbers-decamp-with-jewellery-worth-lakhs-376514
10-03-2022||---||Report sought on flaws on KMP, KGP e-ways||Karnal, March 9Rajinder Kumar Meena, SP, Traffic and Highways, conducted a meeting of police officials at his office here yesterday and sought a report on the flaws on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway and Kundli, Ghaziabad and Palwal (KGP) expressways in two days so that these could be rectified.He also asked them to prepare a list of flaws like non-functional lights, signboards, service lanes, missing of grills near petrol pumps, hotels, dhabas, missing of white lines along roads and dividers, etc.“On the directions of theIG, Traffic and Highways, Rajshree Singh, a meeting was held to ensure lane driving. The SHOs concerned for the KMP and KGP have been asked to prepare a report of flaws so that these could be corrected,” said Meena.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/report-sought-on-flaws-on-kmp-kgp-e-ways-376513
10-03-2022||---||Judge recuses self from hearing Haryana quota case plea||Chandigarh, March 9Justice Ajay Tewari of the Punjab and Haryana High Court has recused himself from hearing a petition challenging the Act providing 75 per cent reservation in Haryana industries for the domiciles of the state.The decision came just about less than a week after the Bench, headed by Justice Tewari, had observed that the Act affected the residents of other states as well and described as “very interesting” the stand taken on the Union of India’s behalf that it had nothing to say since it was a state Act.As the case came up for resumed hearing, the Bench observed: “To be listed before some other Bench of which one of us (Ajay Tewari, J) is not a member after obtaining orders from the Chief Justice.”The Registry was directed to put up the cases before the Chief Justice today itself in view of the urgency of the matter. #Reservation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/judge-recuses-self-from-hearing-quota-case-plea-376512
10-03-2022||---||Punjab and Haryana High Court grants interim anticipatory bail in Kundli ‘lynching’ case||Chandigarh, March 9Less than six months after the police registered a murder case at the Kundli police station in Sonepat after a body was found hanging from a barricade in a sacrilege-related matter, the Punjab and Haryana High Court today granted interim anticipatory bail to an accused, Aman Singh.Justice Manoj Bajaj’s Bench, during the course of the hearing, was told that the investigating agency arrested four accused after the registration of the FIR. Two other accused were arrested afterwards on the basis of the disclosure statement of an accused, who allegedly amputated the victim’s hands. “On their further disclosure statement, the present petitioner has been named in the present FIR,” it was added.Taking up the petition filed through counsel Bhanu Pratap Singh, Justice Bajaj fixed the case for July 11.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-grants-interim-anticipatory-bail-in-lynching-case-376511
10-03-2022||Two run over by train||Two run over by train in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar: Two persons were run over by train when they were crossing the track near the bridge of Western Jamuna Canal on Monday evening. The deceased are Raju and Satinder Kumar of Bihar. TNSHelpline for runaway couplesChandigarh: Complying with the orders of the Punjab and Haryana HC, the Haryana Police has displayed phone numbers 7419400112 and 112 on its website for runaway couples to submit their complaints and seek protection from the police. TNS50 MTP kits seizedKarnal: The Food and Drug Administration Department seized 50 MTP kits, prohibited medicine unlincensed medicines from two men in Kheri Sarafali in Assandh on Monday night.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-run-over-by-train-in-yamunanagar-376509
10-03-2022||Kaithal||Resale of land: Kaithal DC forms panel for land mutation||After the issue of the resale of a 17-kanal, 4-marla land, which was acquired for the Indira Awaas Yojana in Batta village in Kaithal district, Kaithal Deputy Commissioner Pradeep Dahiya has constituted a committee to ensure the mutation of the land in the name of the beneficiaries.The committee, comprising District Revenue Officer (DRO), tehsildar, naib tehsildar of Kalayat and BDPO Kalayat, has been asked to submit a report in a fortnight.Earlier, the DC had suspended a patwari in this regard and also issued a show-cause notice to the kanungo concerned. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/resale-of-land-dc-forms-panel-for-land-mutation-376508
10-03-2022||Hisar||Haryana farmers demand aid for damaged crops||Farmers staged a dharna at the Khatkar toll plaza on the Jind-Patiala highway today in support of their demand for adequate compensation for damaged crops.Farmer leaders said the state government had assured to adequately compensate farmers who had suffered crop losses, but they had not got any compensation.Farmer leader Satbir Pahalwan said the protest was a trailer for the government. Vehicles were allowed to pass without paying the toll today.“We may give a call for state-wide dharnas on toll plazas if the government fails to listen to the demand of farmers and fulfil the promises it had made regarding compensation,” protesters said. — #farmers #farmers protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/farmers-demand-aid-for-damaged-crops-376506
10-03-2022||---||Youth gets 20 years of RI for sexually assaulting minor cousin in Ambala||Ambala, March 9The court of Additional Sessions Judge, Aarti Singh, has sentenced a 20-year-old (child-in-conflict with law) to 20 years’ of rigorous imprisonment (RI) and imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on him for sexually assaulting his minor cousin.The child-in-conflict with law stated that he belonged to a poor family. His mother was a heart patient and except for his father, nobody was earning in the family. Also,he was not a previous convict.The public prosecutor for the state, assisted by counsel for the complainant, meanwhile, argued that the child-in-conflict, cousin of the minor prosecutrix aged 11, had committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon her and also threatened to kill her.He submitted that maximum punishment be imposed upon him so that it should act as a deterrent for such persons in society. The fast-track court constituted under the POCSO Act held the child-in-conflict with law guilty for the commission of the offence.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-gets-20-years-of-ri-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-cousin-in-ambala-376505
10-03-2022||Sunit Dhawan||Rohtak man shown dead in records, pension stopped||Rohtak, March 9Tola Ram (79), a resident of Lahli village in Rohtak district, has been making rounds of government offices for months to prove that he is alive.The elderly villager was shown dead in government records and his old-age pension stopped after the death of his wife last year.No help from officesI have personally visited government offices with my identity proof and other testimonials, including a written note from the village sarpanch, to prove that I am alive and get my old-age pension resumed, but to no avail. Tola Ram, resident of Lahli villageApparently, he was also considered dead along with his wife due to some clerical/procedural error, as the pension record showed that Tola Ram died on July 1, 2021.Since then, he has been trying to get his pension resumed, but to no avail. His daughter Suman lamented that her father’s pension had not been resumed even after furnishing the requisite documents and following the official procedure. The villager and his kin have appealed to the state government and district administration to consider him alive and get his pension resumed.Rohtak DC Capt Manoj Kumar said he would look into the matter.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rohtak-man-shown-dead-in-records-pension-stopped-376503
10-03-2022||---||Staffers’ demand  ignored: Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Jind, March 9Lashing out at the state government for ignoring the demands of government employees regarding the introduction of the old pension scheme (OPS) in the state, former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the JJP-BJP government had forgotten its pre-poll promise of implementing the scheme.Hooda said: “The BJP-JJP government had the chance to accept the demands of the employees in this Budget, but the coalition government completely ignored it. Even the JJP, which had promised to implement the old pension scheme in its election manifesto, did not consider it appropriate to raise its voice in favour of the employees,” he said.Hooda said the Congress would pressurise the government to accept the demand of the old pension scheme. #bhupinder hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/staffers-demand-ignored-bhupinder-singh-hooda-376501
10-03-2022||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana Govt in dilemma over old pension scheme||Chandigarh, March 9The Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP-JJP government is caught in a catch-22 situation with the chorus for the restoration of the old pension scheme growing louder with the each passing day.New scheme benefits corporatesThe government’s stand on the issue is unviable. The market-driven new scheme is tailored to benefit the corporates at the cost of employees. Balraj Kundu, Meham MLADespite Khattar virtually rejecting the demand for the restoration of the scheme yesterday, the state government is increasingly finding it difficult to defend its stand on the issue. In Haryana, about 1.5 lakh employees, recruited after January 1, 2006, are affected by the decision to introduce the new pension scheme.“In fact, the formation of a high-level committee by the BJP-led Himachal Pradesh Government to examine the feasibility of reverting to the old pension scheme seems to have made the saffron party’s position untenable in Haryana,” a senior functionary of the BJP told The Tribune today.Terming the government’s stand on the issue as “unviable”, Independent MLA from Meham Balraj Kundu alleged the market-driven new pension scheme was tailored to benefit the corporates at the cost of state employees. “When Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh can implement the old pension scheme and even Himachal is positively inclined towards it, what is stopping the Haryana Government from reverting to it in public interest?” asks Kundu, who has been flagging the issue consistently.Meanwhile, Subhash Lamba, president of the Sarv Karamchari Sangh (SKS), asserted that the re-introduction of the old pension scheme was a win-win situation for both employment and the state government.According to calculations by the SKS, the state government invested an amount of Rs 79.58 crore per month (Rs 957 crore per year) in the new pension scheme. If Rs 2.65 crore are paid to the new retiring 1,000 employees per month, the state government stood to save an amount of Rs 76.39 crore per month (Rs 916 crore per annum).The old pension scheme was scrapped by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government from April 1, 2004, and was replaced with a market-driven new plan. Haryana adopted the new pension scheme from January 1, 2006.Old scheme scrapped in 2004The old pension scheme was scrapped by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government from April 1, 2004, and was replaced with a market-driven new plan. Haryana adopted the new pension scheme from January 1, 2006.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-govt-in-dilemma-over-old-pension-scheme-376499
10-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||21K illegal mining cases across Haryana in over 7 years||Chandigarh, March 9One person had died while another was injured during a landslide at an illegal mining site at Jainpur village in Mahendragarh district on January 19. The area falls under the Aravalli forest zone. Five workers had died in a landslide at a mine site in Dadam hills in Bhiwani on January 1.Taking note of the mishaps, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had asked the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) and the Mining Department on January 18 to take remedial action against illegal mining at Dadam.According to the Economic Survey of Haryana for 2021-22, tabled before the Haryana Legislative Assembly on March 8, a total of 21,450 illegal mining cases were detected in the state, including transportation of minerals without valid documents, from 2014-15 up to September 2021.This comes to eight cases per day or a case every three hours. The penalty realised during the same period was Rs 5,094.95 lakh.In 2019-20, a total of 1,492 cases were detected and a penalty of Rs 347.12 lakh was realised. In 2020-21, a total of 4,281 cases were detected and Rs 1,076.63 lakh penalty was realised, while in 2021-22 (up to September 2021), Rs 464.87 lakh was realised in 712 cases.Former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said: “Illegal mining is a scandal running thousands of crores. I have inspected the Dadam site and a watercourse has been dug up at the site. It should be investigated by the CBI or a High Court Judge. Even the NGT took note of it.”From August 28, 2019, to January 15, 2022, a total of 7,113 vehicles found indulging in illegal mining have been seized in the state.With 1,282 vehicles, Yamunanagar tops the seizure, followed by Gurugram and Nuh (916), Mahendragarh and Narnaul (762), and Faridabad and Palwal (755).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/21k-illegal-mining-cases-across-haryana-in-over-7-years-376497
10-03-2022||Nitish Sharma||17K drop-out children identified in Haryana||Ambala, March 9As many as 17,802 out-of-school children in the age group of 7-14 have been identified in the state in a survey conducted by the Haryana School Shiksha Pariyojana Parishad.A majority of the children who were identified during the survey, conducted in January this year, are the children of migrant labourers and people belonging to economically weaker sections.Now the parishad has started making efforts to bring the identified children, who have quit studies due to different issues, back into the mainstream and directed the district elementary education officers to complete the admission process of all identified children.In an order issued by the Director, Elementary Education, Haryana, officials have been directed that the children will be admitted provisionally only in the admission withdrawal register of school under the special category “zero class”. There should be no denial of admission to any such child for want of any type of document. The data will be uploaded on the PRABANDH portal by March 15 and the data will be validated at the district level before March 17. During the next academic session, regular admission of these children will be done in their age-appropriate class by registering them on the management information system (MIS) portal.Ambala district project coordinator, Samagra Shiksha, (DPCSS) Sudhir Kalra, said “During the survey, 867 out-of-school children were identified in Ambala. The identified students will be provided training at the special training centres. Since a majority of the children belong to migrant families, their parents will be motivated to keep sending their children to schools even if they move to any other district or state for a better future.”“After completing the bridge course, the children will be enrolled in their age-appropriate class in the next academic session. Last year, 1,244 out-of-school children were trained at 50 centres in Ambala and will be admitted to age-appropriate classes in the coming session in government schools. To ensure that the children keep attending the course, educational tours and learning-by-doing activities are arranged,” he added.Max in PalwalAs per the data, Palwal district has a maximum 2,855 out-of-school children, followed by Nuh with 2,054, Gurugram with 1,829 and Hisar with 1,707 kids. With 31 children, Charkhi Dadri has the lowest such children. The children are of migrant labourers and people belonging to poor sections of society||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/17k-drop-out-children-identified-376494
10-03-2022||Yamunanagar||Municipal Corporation team issues challans to 30 shopkeepers in Yamunanagar||A team of Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ), carried out an anti-encroachment drive in Yamunanagar on Wednesday and issued challans to 30 shopkeepers.According to information, a team of the MCYJ, including Executive Officer Sushil Kumar Bhukal and Chief Sanitary Inspector Anil Nain, carried out the anti-encroachment drive on the Jagadhri Workshop road from Shahid Bhagat Singh Chowk to City police station, Yamunanagar.Action to be taken on basis of probeWe have received two complaints in this connection. We have got one complaint from the MCYJ authorities against a shopkeeper and a counter- complaint from the latter against the former. Both complaints are being probed and action will be taken on the basis of the investigation. Sukhbir Singh, SHO, city police station, YamunanagarThe team issued challans to 30 violators and also seized several items, including flex banners and signboards kept on the road by the shopkeepers. According to information, a shopkeeper allegedly misbehaved with the team, when it was about to issue him a challan against encroachment. He had reportedly kept items on the road. The authorities of the MCYJ lodged a complaint with the police against the shopkeeper in this connection.On the other hand, Sukhbir Singh, SHO, City police station, Yamunanagar, said they had received two complaints in this connection.He said one complaint was received from the MCYJ authorities against a shopkeeper and a counter-complaint from the latter against the former. “Both complaints are being probed and action will be taken on the basis of the investigation,” said Sukhbir Singh.Complaint lodged against trader||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/municipal-corporation-team-issues-challans-to-30-shopkeepers-in-yamunanagar-376492
10-03-2022||---||Construction work samples to be tested at Karnal Municipal Corporation lab only||Karnal, March 9Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) Commissioner Naresh Narwal has constituted a quality monitoring committee to ensure the quality of development work carried out. Besides, he also directed the officials to get the quality of development work tested only in the lab of the KMC. No sample will be sent to other labs. Earlier, the samples were sent to NIT Kurukshetra and other institutes for quality test.“After reviewing the work of some projects, a quality monitoring committee has been constituted which will check the quality of development work,” said Naresh Narwal. “I have also asked the officials to get the samples tested in the lab of the KMC. Strength of the paver blocks will also be tested in this lab,” said the Commissioner, adding testing in the presence of monitoring committee will help in ensuring the quality of the development work done. “A couple of days ago, I checked the ongoing work where the quality was not up to the mark,” said the Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/construction-work-samples-to-be-tested-at-kmc-lab-only-376489
10-03-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad residents’ hopes dashed as Metro project gets no funds in Budget||Faridabad, March 9The proposed Metro project between Faridabad and Gurugram getting no Budget allocation has dashed the hopes of residents from various sections of society. The project proposal was first mooted in 2016.DPR almost readyThe DPR is almost ready and work on the project is expected to be launched soon. Krishan Pal Gurjar, local MPHow can the issue be ignored?Though the CM himself had announced the proposal way back in 2016, it is surprising that such an important issue stands ignored for so long and finds no place in the Budget this time. Varun Sheokand, residentMajor setbackIt is a major setback for the two important industrial and commercial hubs of the state. The Metro connectivity has become the need of hour in the region due to the weak public transportation system. Ramneek Prabhakar, manufacturers association Faridabad“Though the CM himself had announced the proposal way back in 2016, it is surprising that such an important issue stands ignored for so long and finds no place in the Budget this time,”says Varun Sheokand, a resident. He said the delay would result in harassment of the commuters.Ramneek Prabhakar from the Manufacturers Association Faridabad (MAF) a leading industrial association, Claimed that it was a major setback for the two important industrial and commercial hubs of the state. He said as the Metro connectivity had become the need of hour in the region due to the weak public transportation system. “As thousands of commuters travel between the two cities daily in connection with work, delay in the launch of the project was a cause of concern,” says Ajay Bahl an RTI activist. “The announcement of a sustainable policy on the usage of e-vehicles was also awaited as Faridabad has already become one of the most polluted cities in the country,” he adds.Describing the delay as worrisome, Neeraj Sharma, MLA from the NIT Assembly segment said the government had disappointed the residents of the two major cities. The project may prove a lifeline for thousands of commuters in the region, he says. Sharma who had put a question in the recent budgetary session of the state Assembly was told by the government that while the project was still on, a final DPR was under preparation and would be submitted to the Union Ministry of Urban Development for approval after consent from the state Cabinet. “The state government is not in a position to reveal the Budget proposal for the project at the present juncture,” says the reply submitted on the floor of the House, recently.“The DPR is almost ready and work on the project is expected to be launched soon,” says local MP Krishan Pal Gurjar. Starting from Bata Chowk in Faridabad it proposes to connect Vatika Chowk in Gurugram, with a total of 12 stations on the 32.14 kilometers long corridor, it is revealed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-residents-hopes-dashed-as-metro-project-gets-no-funds-in-budget-376488
10-03-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Samples from Barhi industrial zone fail laboratory test||Panipat, March 9The samples collected from the storm water drain and CETP at the HSIIDC industrial zone at Barhi have failed the laboratory test. The parameters were found exceeding the prescribed limit.The members of the River Yamuna Monitoring Committee (RYMC), along with a team of the State Environment Surveillance Task Force (SESTF), had found violation of pollution norms at HSIIDC industrial zone at Barhi in Sonepat on January 4.Upon checking, the team found untreated industrial effluents being discharged directly into drain no. 6, which connects to the Yamuna at Wazirabad in Delhi.The team had collected samples of the effluents from the storm water lines and common effluent treatment plant (CETP) established by the HSIIDC.As per the report of the storm water lines, the parameters were found exceeding the prescribed limit. Besides, the reports of the CETP also failed the laboratory test.Notably, Delhi-based environmentalist Varun Gulati had filed a complaint with the authorities of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), showing how the untreated effluents were being discharged by the industries in connivance with the local pollution board and HSIIDC officials into drain no. 6 through the storm water lines by bypassing the CETP at Barhi industrial zone.“Around 700 industries are running here, of which, over 150 are dyeing units discharging their effluents daily. Around 1.6 crore litre water is discharged through the CETP daily, but the untreated effluents which were directly discharged through storm water lines were more than double of the treated discharge,” alleged Varun.In a letter to Principal Secretary, Industries, on January 14, the HSPCB had recommended action against the erring officials of the HSIIDC for their alleged connivance with industrialists in the discharge of untreated industrial effluents from storm water lines.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/samples-from-barhi-industrial-zone-fail-laboratory-test-376486
10-03-2022||Sumedha Sharma||Manohar Lal Khattar-Rao Inderjit Singh rift to fore yet again||Gurugram, March 9The ‘difference of opinion’ between CM Manohar Lal Khattar and local MP and Union Minister Rao Inderjit Singh came to fore yet again as the duo engaged in a war of words at the NHAI’s inauguration event on the Gurugram-Jaipur expressway.Speaking at the function today, Rao Inderjit said: “Wherever I go in my constituency, people question me about the pending projects. They ask is it because I don’t get along with the CM that the projects are being delayed?”The CM countered him and said: “You have enlisted what is not done or is yet to be done. I wish you also brought along a list of what we have done for the area. After going through the list, you would have found that 90% of the promises have been fulfilled.”Besides, Rao Inderjit pointed out a pending project in his father and ex-CM Rao Birender Singh’s name and the rechristening of the biodiversity park. “A sports complex was announced in 2015-16 in Wazirabad village, which never started. Villagers ask me is it because it was to be named after Chowdhary Birender Singh that it’s a non-starter?”Addressing the issue of his reported ‘difference of opinion’ with the CM, Rao Inderjit said he urged Khattar to stretch his arm halfway so that they could shake hands on the development of the area. Reacting to same, the CM shook hands with the MP.Meanwhile, Rao highlighted road infrastructural demands to Union Minister Nitin Gadkari and drew the CM’s attention towards pending issues. #Khattar #rao inderjit singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/manohar-lal-khattar-rao-inderjit-singh-rift-to-fore-yet-again-376484
10-03-2022||---||Road projects worth Rs 1,406 crore inaugurated in Haryana||Gurugram, March 9In what is going to provide a major boost to road infrastructure in Haryana, Union Minister for Road Transport and National Highways, Nitin Gadkari, here today inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of projects worth over Rs 1,406 crore. Among these include a four-lane U-turn underpass on the NH-48 near Ambience Mall.Working Towards seamless travelInfra development will ensure long-term growth. So far in our tenure, we got 17 NHs approved, of which 11 are under construction, while the work on six will start soon. Manohar Lal Khattar, CM“We are working towards making transportation seamless and hassle-free. The Centre is spending Rs 60,000 crore to make the NCR traffic jam-free and Haryana will reap the maximum benefit from these projects. We are spending Rs 36,000 crore in making three expressways in Haryana,” said Gadkari.The Ambience U-turn was long awaited and is expected to solve the permanent traffic congestion at the Sirhaul border and save residents from travelling up to Rajokri in Delhi to get to mall.According to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the underpass will be built at a cost of about Rs 103 crore near Ambience Mall in Gurugram.As Gurugram MP and Union Minister Rao Inderjeet Singh went ahead taking up the issue of the shifting of the Kherki Daula toll plaza, Gadkari said it would be done this year. “We have spent Rs 9,000 crore on the Dwaraka expressway and it will be completed this year. Once it’s completed, we will shift the toll plaza.”He also approved the construction of the Dabwali Panipat Trans-highway which would connect East and West Haryana. The demand was raised by Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala who said while north and south Haryana did have an enviable road infrastructure, east and west side needed attention.“A highway grid will take state miles ahead and we need to connect East Haryana to West Haryana to ensure uniform development,” said Chautala.Besides, he laid the stone for the construction and improvement work of the Dharuhera-Bhiwadi link road, flyover at Kapriwas Chowk and Dwarkadhish Chowk at a cost of about Rs 147.51 crore, construction of elevated highway and a small bridge in Manesar, besides a flyover in Bilaspur, bridge near Masani barrage and Dodhai, box culvert near Laduwas Gurjar and flyover at Bawal Chowk.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/road-projects-worth-rs-1-406-crore-inaugurated-in-haryana-376482
