12-03-2022||Sunit Dhawan||Oust G-23 leaders to save Congress, ex-ministers tell high command||Rohtak, March 12Former Haryana Home Minister and Congress leader Subhash Batra has asked the party’s central leadership to oust the G-23 leaders or be ready to face Punjab-like poll debacle in Haryana and other states.“Certain Congress leaders who have enjoyed plum positions like those of Chief Ministers, Union ministers and Rajya Sabha members are now damaging and weakening their own party at the behest of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Such black sheep should be expelled at the earliest,” said Batra.Addressing a news conference here on Saturday, the former minister stated that if the Congress high command still fails to pull up its socks and take some concrete action against the leaders indulging in anti-party activities, the grassroots-level workers would turn away.In a veiled attack on former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Batra accused him of opposing the party’s state presidents and ignoring senior leaders.Batra, who was flanked by former Haryana minister Krishan Murti Hooda, lamented that the top leadership of the Congress was surrounded by a handful of persons and had stopped listening to the party’s leaders and workers, which was not a good sign.“We will meet Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and apprise him of the concerns of Congressmen,” the former ministers stated.In response to a query, Batra asserted that he would contest the upcoming election to the state Assembly against Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar from Karnal constituency.“The Congress should field me from Karnal. However, if it does not, I will still contest,” he maintained.On being asked whether he could contest the election as a nominee of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the former minister implied that all options were open and no possibility could be ruled out.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/oust-g-23-leaders-to-save-congress-ex-ministers-tell-high-command-377274
12-03-2022||Is a civic issue bothering you?||Eyesore on the prime road of Panchkula||Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Eyesore on the prime road of PanchkulaWhile entering Panchkula from housing board chowk, one is welcome by a small hoarding exhibiting a name on the footpath of sector 9 and exactly opposite petrol pump of sector 16 which is an eye sore on the beauty of the city. HSVP had installed an informative display board showing position of sectors for the public a decade ago and simultaneously some miscreant defaced it with writing his name in bold red letters eclipsing the vital information. The most negligent and irritating aspect observed is that this spot is daily crossed by VIPs, MLAs and officials of HSVP and MC but since a decade, no one has bothered to object, remove, clean, change this defaced hoarding . Hope this picture will attract attention of the officials concerned. Madan Gupta Spatu, PanchkulaNo check on violation of Traffic rulesFlouting of traffic rules with ease has emerged as a menace here despite tall claims of resorting to measures aimed at maintaining discipline on the roads here. The traffic management in the city has gone for a toss these days in view of the bottlenecks created due to closing or diversion of routes due to ongoing development works in several parts of the city. One of the most affected has been the bypass road and the main roads crossing it to connect the East and West parts of the city, where huge traffic snarls and jams have become common at peak hours. Satinder Duggal, Faridabad||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eyesore-on-the-prime-road-of-panchkula-377121
12-03-2022||Rohtak||Books of Rohtak authors released||Extension lecture organisedKaithal: An extension lecture on “Mediation” was organised by the legal literacy cell and career guidance and placement cell of RKSD College. The main speaker advocate Arvind Khuraniyan gave information on various aspects related to the resolution of mutual disputes through PPT. He said subjects with punishment of less than three years can come for mediation. In this, the trained mediator involves both parties in the settlement process and the matter is settled with their will. Advocate Khuraniyan said he himself had resolved the cases of 300 families through this. He urged students that after studying law, they too could earn their livelihood by taking training for mediation from the institutions established by the Supreme Court. Earlier, principal Dr Sanjay Goel welcomed the keynote speaker and expressed happiness that Advocate Khoraniyan was an old student of the college.Skill training at OPS Vidya MandirAmbala: OPS Vidya Mandir, Ambala, was selected for the pilot phase of “Life skills training” initiative being delivered in collaboration with the CBSE under the YoungWarriorNXT programme by YuWaah, UNICEF and Udhyam Learning Foundation. The aim of this one-month long programme was to stimulate active learning and develop core life skills among students. A team of four teachers Neeru Sharma, Simmi Jindal, Rinku Sharma and Sandeep Bhatt and coordinator Kusum Lata under the guidance of school principal Neelam Sharma conducted this effective and useful life skills programme for the students of Classes IX and XI. Neelam Sharma congratulated the whole team of mentors and students for completing this programme. The director academics, Esha Bansal, congratulated and encouraged the entire team to put their learnings to practice.NSS state award for PolytechnicYamunanagar: The NSS unit of Seth Jai Parkash Polytechnic, Damla, has been declared as the best NSS unit of the state for 2019-20. The institution was honoured at a state-level function held at Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar. Kanwar Pal Gujjar, Haryana Education Minister, gave away this award. Anil Budhiraja, principal, received the award which consists of the best NSS unit trophy and a prize money of Rs 31,000. Besides, Dr Rajesh Garg, NSS programme officer, was also honoured with best NSS officer. Earlier, Seth Jai Parkash Polytechnic, Damla, had also been declared as the best polytechnic of northern India on the basis of the academics, results, placements and technical standards, maintained by the polytechnic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/books-of-rohtak-authors-released-377119
12-03-2022||Gurugram||No major leads in murder cases in Gurugram||The Gurugram police have failed to get leads in the CNG gas station triple murder case, Khod village double murder and illegal arms recovery in Sector 31. A SIT has been formed and a reward has been announced in the triple murder case but the police have failed to nab the accused so far . —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-major-leads-in-murder-cases-in-gurugram-377113
12-03-2022||Karnal||Food & Civil Supplies Department inspector booked in Karnal||An inspector of Food and Civil Supplies Department and one other person have been booked allegedly for making bogus BPL cards and siphoning of ration of the beneficiaries. The accused have been identified as Davinder Mann, an inspector of the department, and Vikas.The FIR has been registered on the complainant of the AFSO Ravinder Kumar. An inquiry was conducted by the department on a complaint. The inquiry found that as many as 110 bogus BPL cards were made.“We have registered a case against the inspector and one other,” said Gurvinder Singh, SHO of Sector 32/33. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/food-civil-supplies-department-inspector-booked-377109
12-03-2022||---||Iraqi duped by fake policemen in Gurugram||Gurugram, March 11A foreign national was allegedly duped by fake policemen in Gurugram. Two members of a gang targeted an Iraqi national and robbed him of $3,200 by posing as policemen and fled away in their car. An FIR has been registered at Sadar police station.According to a complaint filed by Rain, the Iraqi national, he and his wife are in city to get his wife treated at a private hospital. He came to India with his wife on March 6 and was staying in Sector 39. At around 8 pm on Thursday, his friend Riyadh invited him to a restaurant. “Outside the restaurant, I was stopped by two persons who came in a car. They were in civil dress but claimed they were policemen. They asked for passport and ID card. I handed the documents and they checked my bags and stole $3,200. Their car was parked nearby and they fled away in it. When I checked the bag, I found the dollars missing. Then, I called up the police,” Rain said in his complaint.An FIR has been registered against two unidentified accused under Sections 379 (theft), 420 (cheating) of the IPC at Sadar police station. The police have taken footage from a nearby CCTV camera into possession, but have no clue so far. “We are trying to identify the car and the accused,” said inspector Dinesh Yadav, SHO of Sadar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/iraqi-duped-by-fake-policemen-377108
12-03-2022||Karnal||Woman arrested for blackmailing businessman in Karnal||The Gharaunda police arrested a woman red-handed while accepting Rs 50,000 from a trader by threatening to implicate him in a case of rape and molestation. The accused has been identified as Suman of Gharaunda. She was arrested on Thursday and was produced in the court on Friday from where she was sent to judicial custody.Jitender Kumar, a resident of Gharaunda, filed a complaint with the police on March 8, in which he said occasionally, the woman to him for financial help. He gave her some money twice, but when he said a no to her for the money, she threatened to implicate him a case of fake rape and molestation, said the police. “A case has been registered and a probe started. A trap was laid and the woman arrested from the shop of the complainant where she was called to take the demanded money”, said the police spokesperson. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-arrested-for-blackmailing-businessman-377106
12-03-2022||---||Nod to HVPN’s revenue requirement of Rs 2,208 cr||Chandigarh, March 11Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission (HERC) has approved Annual Revenue Requirement (ARR) of Rs 2,208.5 crore for Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam (HVPN) Ltd for 2022-23. An amount of Rs 22.42 crore for the State Load Despatch Centre (SLDC) has also been given the nod.The commission has observed that HVPN has improved the target for intra-state transmission losses fixed for FY 2020-21 i.e. the reported actual is 2.115 per cent against the target of 2.15 per cent.The commission expects that HVPN, going forward, would go an extra mile to improve upon the benchmarks set so as to ensure that the backbone of the power system in the state is amongst the best performing power utilities in the country.At the onset, the commission observed that, as per the existing arrangement, SLDC functions have been entrusted to the state transmission utility i.e. HVPNL.The commission, from time to time, beginning with its order dated May 18, 2009, has expressed its views regarding the necessity of functional autonomy to the SLDC i.e. not only in financial terms but also in decision making.The SLDC should have independent governance structure, separate accounting, adequate number of skilled manpower having high ethical standards and driven by altruistic values and adequate logistics or infrastructure.The commission has also directed HVPN to mention the reasons for high transformer damage rate from April 1, 2021 to September 30, 2021 and measures taken to arrest the damage rate within three months. #hvpn||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nod-to-hvpns-revenue-requirement-of-rs-2-208-cr-377102
12-03-2022||---||Faridabad: 10 arrested for duping export unit of Rs 27.61 cr||Faridabad, March 11The police have arrested 10 persons for duping an export unit of Rs 27.61 crore.It is reported that the victim company is owned by the father-in-law of film actor Sonam Kapoor.The accused has been identified as Manoj, Parveen, Manish Kumar, Lalit, Manish, all residents of Delhi; Ganesh Parsuram of Raichur, Karnataka; Rahul Raghunath of Raigarh, Maharashtra; Bhushan Kishan of Mumbai; Santosh Sitaram of Pune; and Suresh Kumar of Chennai.The accused were arrested over the past three months.DCP Nitish Aggarwal said the accused transferred Rs 27.61 crore in the account of a fake company called Black Curve Incorporation, which was set up by the accused to cheat Shahi Exports, a company based here, by accessing their import codes through fraudulent means.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-arrested-for-duping-export-unit-of-rs-27-61-cr-377100
12-03-2022||---||Child in conflict with law gets 20-year rigorous imprisonment in Ambala||Ambala, March 11The Court of Aarti Singh, Additional Sessions Judge, sentenced a 17-year-old (child in conflict with law) to 20 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) and imposed a fine of 5,000 for sexually abusing a minor boy. As per the information, the child in conflict with law had sexually abused an 11-year-old boy in 2021.The child in conflict with law stated that he was a student of Class X and had no criminal record to his name. His counsel submitted that a lenient view be taken in the matter of the sentence, considering his age.However, the public prosecutor for the State argued that the child in conflict committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon a minor boy and threatened to kill him. His act has adversely affected the psyche of the minor and submitted that maximum punishment be imposed upon him.Deputy District Attorney Surjeet Singh said: “The victim was residing with his maternal aunt after the death of his mother. The boy was sexually abused and faced a horrid incident at the age of 11. The court has sentenced a child in conflict with law to 20 years for sexually abusing the minor boy. He has been sentenced under Section 6 of the POCSO Act and 506 of the IPC.”The court’s order read “…He is about 17 years old. He has not completed the age of 21 years. So, in view of Section 19 (3) of the Juvenile Justice (care and protection of children) Act, child in conflict with law would be kept in the place of safety till he attains the age of 21 and thereafter, shall be transferred to jail.”Man, woman get 20 years for sexually abusing minorSonepat: The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Surchi Atreja Singh on Friday sentenced a man and a woman to two years’ imprisonment for sexually abusing a 12-year-old girl.The woman is the mother of the victim.The case was reported on September 12, 2020. The complainant in his statement said his wife was in contact with Balraj, who was a ‘tantric’“My wife and I were living separately. On September 12, 2020, my sister-in-law called me at her home. My daughter was also present there. She told me that the ‘tantric’ had come to their home in January that year and molested her,” the complainant said.When she sounded for help, her mother supported the accused, he added.“My wife and the man sexually assaulted my daughter. They bear her and threatened to kill her,” he said. Following the complaint, a case was registered under various sections of the IPC and POCSO Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/child-in-conflict-with-law-gets-20-year-rigorous-imprisonment-377099
12-03-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Illegal mining comes to light on ED-attached land in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, March 11Illegal mining was allegedly carried out on a piece of land, attached by the Directorate of Enforcement under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.The property belongs to the company M/s Alchemist Infra Realty Limited.On the complaint of Kedar Prasad Prajapat, assistant director, Directorate of Enforcement, Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance, a case was registered against the company and its promoter Kanwar Deep Singh under Sections 188, 120-B of the IPC and under Section 21 (4) of Mines and Minerals (Regulation of Development) Act 1957 at the Bilaspur police station of Yamunanagar district on March 9.In his complaint to the police, the complainant said the Directorate of Enforcement was investigating a case against M/s Alchemist Infra Realty Limited under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002.He said during the investigation, this Directorate had provisionally attached an immovable property of the firm under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.He said M/s Alchemist Infra Realty Limited had filed an LPA in 2019 against the provisional attachment order passed by the directorate before the Delhi High Court, which was pending.“The Delhi HC in its interim order of February 13, 2019, had ordered that ‘status quo’ to be maintained in respect of the provisionally attached properties. However, complaint has been received by the directorate, mentioning that some illegal mining of sand is being carried out at the aforesaid mentioned provisionally attached property by the company and Kanwar Deep Singh, promoter of the accused company,” alleged the complainant.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-mining-comes-to-light-on-ed-attached-land-in-yamunanagar-377097
12-03-2022||Karnal||Town planner held taking Rs 5 lakh bribe in Karnal||A team of State Vigilance Bureau on Friday arrested the District Town Planner (DTP) red-handed allegedly while taking a bribe of Rs 5 lakh at his residence in Sector-6 for extending official favour in the development of an illegal colony.Besides, the team members also seized Rs 78.64 lakh in cash along with the details of moveable and immovable properties during the course of investigation from his residential premises. His driver was also arrested for taking bribe of Rs 5,000, said an official.The main accused DTP, a class-1 state government employee, has been identified as Vikram Singh (37).The team members also seized jewellery and documents pertaining to agricultural land, one flat and 12 plots during the searches. Documents detailing investments in shares, mutual funds and cryptocurrencies have also been seized.About the modus operandi of the accused official, an official said that the accused DTP facilitated development of illegal colonies and obtained protection money for not demolishing the roads and constructions in such areas.“The Vigilance Bureau had received a complaint from a person that the DTP is demanding Rs 5 lakh as protection money for not demolishing the illegal colony. So we laid a trap and arrested him red-handed with Rs 5 lakh and his driver with Rs 5,000 from the DTP’s residence in Sector-6,” said inspector Sachin, a team member.“A case has been registered against the accused official and his driver under the Prevention of Corruption Act,” said the inspector. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/town-planner-held-taking-rs-5-lakh-bribe-in-karnal-377095
12-03-2022||---||Safety audit of 27 accident-prone spots to be held in Gurugram||Gurugram, March 11Out to curtail the rising number of accidents each year in Gurugram, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) shall conduct a safety audit at 27 high-risk zones in the city.The decision was taken at a special traffic management meeting held by the authority with officials of the Gurugram police, Traffic Department and municipal corporations of Manesar and Gurugram to resolve key issues. CEO GMDA Sudhir Rajpal and Gurugram Police Commissioner Kala Ramchandran discussed various aspects of traffic control and people’s safety.Some of the major areas highlighted in the discussion were matters pertaining to traffic decongestion plans, critical road signages, road repairs, traffic signal supervision, pedestrian footpaths and cycle tracks, drunk driving, drone surveillance, green belt beautification and parking regulations, among others.“We need to focus on hotspots and high accident-prone points and install requisite safety measures to ensure that incidents of accidents decrease. In conjunction with the police and traffic teams, joint road safety audit will be taken up of 27 such identified accident-prone spots and remedial solutions will be undertaken. CCTV cameras will also be installed for increased road surveillance. Our GIS division will also explore drone surveillance possibilities to monitor traffic on highways and similar heavy traffic routes,” said Rajpal.The placement of road signages, cat’s eyes, reflectors, speed breakers, rumble strips, bollards and spring posts will also be done for increased road safety measures. Installing speed-monitoring cameras were also proposed to keep a check on high-speeding vehicles and to facilitate the issue of challans to violators.Police chief Kala Ramachandran said: “We need to encourage residents to follow regulatory parking norms and to park their vehicles at the designated parking spots. Strict action against erratic parking is important and we will be working towards organised parking spaces for the benefit of Gurugram residents,” she said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/safety-audit-of-27-accident-prone-spots-to-be-held-in-gurugram-377094
12-03-2022||Mukesh Tandon||14% rise in accidental deaths in Panipat||Panipat, March 11Panipat district witnessed 14 per cent rise in accidental deaths in 2021.As many as 561 accident cases have been registered in the district in which 310 people died and 354 people sustained injuries.The district police had recorded 309 accidental deaths in 2019, 271 deaths in 2020 and 310 deaths in 2021. While 415 people sustained injuries in 2019, 345 were injured in 2020 and 354 in 2021.CCTV cameras being installedThe work of installation of CCTV cameras on NH-44 from Kundli border to Ambala border is in full swing and almost 90 per cent work has been completed. Rajshree Singh, IG trafficOver-speeding one of main causesRash and negligent driving, over-speeding, drunken driving and use of mobile phones during driving are the main reasons behind fatal accidents. Sandeep Kumar, DSP traffic, Panipat“Rash and negligent driving, over-speeding, drunken driving and use of mobile phones during driving are the main reasons behind the fatal accidents. But a new major reason for accidents — lane-change by heavy vehicle drivers on NH-44 — has come to the fore these days. Heavy vehicle drivers change lanes and drive on the speed lanes, leaving their designated lane,” said Sandeep Kumar, DSP Traffic, Panipat.The district police have identified three hyper-sensitive black spots for accidents in the district – near the BBMB gate on NH-44, Kalkha-Luhari point on NH-73A (Panipat-Rohtak highway) and Patti Kalyana on NH-44 in the Samalkha area.Panipat is an industrial town and thousands of labourers cross the NH-44 near BBMB gate as there is no proper crossing on the highway. A foot over bridge (FOB) is there, but it is around 500 m from the spot where people cross the road. The situation becomes worse at the time of shift change in factories.As per sources, the police have recorded 94 cases in Samalkha. It is the highest number of accident cases in the district in 2021. As many as 47 people sustained injuries and 59 lost their lives.In Samalkha, 89 people got injured and 62 people died in 2019; 41 were injured and 51 died in 2020.A police official, on the condition of the anonymity, said that a meeting of road safety is being held almost every month under the chairmanship of Deputy Commissioner (DC) in which all departments including NHAI, Police Department, RTA and other departments participate and the issue of rising accidents is being taken up in every meeting. The DC pulls up NHAI and other officials in every meeting but to no avail, the official said.Sandeep Kumar, DSP Traffic, said that the police teams were regularly trying to control the number of accidents by taking strict action against traffic rule violators, by challaning violators.“Traffic awareness campaigns are being organised from time to time for heavy vehicle drivers,” said Rajshree Singh, IG Traffic.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/killer-roads-14-rise-in-accidental-deaths-in-panipat-377092
12-03-2022||New Delhi||Hisar ponzi scheme case: IT engineer held under money laundering Act||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) today said that it had arrested a software engineer Pranjil Batra under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act in a ponzi case linked to Hisar-based company M/s Future Makers Life Care private Limited and others for cheating thousands of depositors in several parts of the country through various schemes.Batra, a software engineer, who looked after the software of the company, was later sent to the ED custody for five days by a special court in Haryana, the agency said in an official statement.In the statement, the ED said that Batra had siphoned off funds worth over Rs 50 crore from the accounts of Future Makers Group by creating fake IDs and using the bank accounts of his family members, close associates and shell companies.“He (Batra) used these funds, which are proceeds of crime, for purchase of properties, jewellery and shares of high-net worth shell companies. He sold some of the immovable properties acquired from the proceeds of crime to the entities controlled by him,” it added.The ED also alleged that the man was “non-cooperative and resorted to withholding relevant information and misleading the investigation” during questioning and, therefore, the agency sleuths arrested him.The PMLA case was filed by the ED after studying multiple FIRs filed against the group by the Haryana and Telangana police. “Ponzi schemes run by the group were based on pyramidal structure where the persons at the top of the pyramid gained at the behest of the loss borne by the persons at base of the pyramid,” the ED said. — #ED||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ponzi-scheme-case-it-engineer-held-under-money-laundering-act-377090
12-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Unworkable marriage source of greater misery for couple: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, March 11The Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that preservation in law of an unworkable marriage is bound to be a source of greater misery for the parties.The Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma also made it clear that the court should seriously make an endeavour to reconcile the parties, but divorce should not be withheld if it was found that the breakdown was irreparable.Mediation failedThe appellant and the respondent were living separately since May 2011. Efforts were made to resolve the matrimonial dispute through the process of mediation. But the mediation failed. Justice Ashok Kumar Verma, Punjab & Haryana High CourtThe ruling came on an appeal filed by an army officer for setting aside the judgment and decree dated December 11, 2018, passed by the Principal Judge of a Family Court, whereby his petition for a decree of nullity and dissolution of marriage between the parties by a decree of divorce was dismissed. Speaking for the Bench, Justice Verma asserted that matrimonial issues were matters of delicate human and emotional relationship. These demanded mutual trust, regard, respect, love and affection with sufficient play for reasonable adjustments with the spouse. The relationship was required to conform to the social norms as well.The matrimonial conduct had now come to be governed by a statute framed after keeping in view such norms and changed social order. The conduct was sought to be controlled in the interest of the individuals as well as in the broader perspective for regulating matrimonial norms “for the making of a well-knit, healthy and not a disturbed and porous society”.Justice Verma added the issue for consideration in the present appeal was whether the relationship between the couple had come to an end and whether the respondent-wife’s unwillingness to give mutual divorce to the appellant-husband amounted to cruelty towards him “keeping in view the fact she was not staying with him for the last decade and there was no scope of cohabit as husband and wife again”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unworkable-marriage-source-of-greater-misery-for-couple-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-377089
12-03-2022||---||Settlement scheme for Haryana builders extended||Chandigarh, March 11The Haryana Government has extended till August 15 the one-time settlement scheme ‘Samadhan se Vikas’ for builders defaulting on the payment of dues.A government order said the scheme had been extended to enable recovery of long pending dues on account of the external development charges (EDC) and change of land use (CLU) for the real estate projects.As part of the scheme, the defaulters paying 100 per cent outstanding principal EDC amount and 25 per cent of the accumulated interest and penal interest within six months are entitled to a waiver on the rest of the 75 per cent interest.Similarly, the defaulter builders paying 50 per cent of the outstanding principal amount and 50 per cent interest and penal interest will get a waiver on 50 per cent interest. However, they’ll have to deposit the rest of the outstanding principal amount (50 per cent) through four six-monthly instalments with 8 per cent interest.However, if any amount of the balance 50 per cent principal amount and interest is not deposited within two years, the coloniser would lose all benefits under the policy and the original schedule of the EDC payment would be restored, the order stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/settlement-scheme-for-builders-extended-377087
12-03-2022||Deepender Deswal||Hisar: No more women panchayat, decide villagers||Hisar, March 11Residents of Bhiwani Rohillan village in the district which had set an example by unanimously electing an all-women panchayat five years ago are disappointed with their performance on the completion of their tenure and decided not to have such panchayat in the next election.Hurdles in the wayThe idea was to take the issue of women empowerment to the next level in Haryana. Pressing working conditions at home, lack of education and a male-dominant society hindered their activities. A village residentVillage youths had taken the initiative and mobilised youngsters to elect all women as panchayat members five years ago at the time of the elections. The entire village agreed with the idea and elected all women as panchayat members, including a sarpanch and 12 members unopposed.Surender Kumar, one of the youths who took the initiative, said they had not been able to come up to the expectations of the villagers. “The entire village supported them and backed them wholeheartedly. The idea was to take the issue of women empowerment to the next level in Haryana. Though there were some women in the panchayat who were energetic, the pressing working conditions at home came as a restriction in their activities,” he said.He stated that initially the women panchayat members tried to assert themselves. “The lack of education was another factor which came in the way of their performance. One of the panchayat members, Sushila Devi, was the most educated in the group. She was a quick learner. However, she got married off to another village,” he said.Shakuntala Jakhar, a woman activist, said there were many complexities before the women, especially in rural areas, due to the patriarchal society. “The male-dominant households restrain women even though they are holding a position in society. This mindset is a major stumbling block in the performance of the women panchayat,” she said, adding that it was a welcome initiative on part of the village. Jakhar said there should be more opportunities for the women at the grassroots level, the panchayat level. She said even the administration officials did not give weight to the women representatives as the meetings were also dominated by males.Manoj Singh, husband of the woman sarpanch Asha Rani, admitted that the panchayat was not able to perform well. “The panchayat took up the issues to set up a government college and a government hospital in the village, but most of the issues remain incomplete.” #women||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-more-women-panchayat-decide-villagers-377086
12-03-2022||---||No new tax in Karnal civic body Budget||Karnal, March 11Karnal Mayor Renu Bala Gupta presented her eighth Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) Budget on Friday. In the Budget no new tax has been imposed. The civic body will focus on more development works and eradicate the menace of stray animals from the city. It will also focus on generating new income resources.Two monitoring committees set upWe have kept an expenditure of Rs 40 crore for the proposed development works. We have constituted two monitoring committees of officials to keep a vigil on the development works. Naresh Narwal, KMC CommissionerShe estimated an income of Rs 197.18 crore, as against an expenditure of Rs 163.84 crore.For income, the KMC will depend on recovery of property tax, development charges as well as selling its shops to tenants and shifting of dairies.The Budget meeting was chaired by Mayor Gupta, while KMC Commissioner Naresh Narwal, Jonit Commissioner Gagandeep Singh, Senior Deputy Mayor Rajesh Aghi, Deputy Mayor Naveen Kumar, CM’s representative of Karnal Assembly segment Sanjay Bathla and 14 councillors were present. “The proposed income of the fiscal 2022-23 will be Rs 83,18,68,000, while the KMC will get a financial assistance of Rs 47 crore from the government and it has an opening balance of Rs 67 crore,” the Mayor told the House, adding that Rs 40,78,08,461 will be spent on establishment, Rs 123, 06, 50,000 on contingency, development works and miscellaneous items in the next fiscal year.The Budget meeting lasted for around four hours in which the House discussed increasing the income of the KMC as well transparency in development work. Naresh Narwal, told the House that they had kept an expenditure of Rs 40 crore for the proposed development works. They have constituted two monitoring committees of the officials to keep a vigil on the development works.The Commissioner said the payment of all contractors who had finished their works would be done on Monday and the payment of the contractors whose works were underway would be made only after the inspection by the monitoring committees.He said they would hold camps in all 20 wards to collect property tax and development charges. He told the House that Rs 250 crore property tax and Rs 200 crore development charges were pending at present. They will start a sealing drive from Monday against the property tax defaulters. He also sought help from the councillors for the recovery of these funds.The Commissioner also told the House that they were planning to connect water, sewerage, streetlight services with integrated command and control centre (ICCC). A survey of mobile tower and cable network will also be done for income, he told the House. About the discrepancies in the property IDs survey, the Commissioner said all objections were being removed.Reacting on the complaint of the Deputy Mayor, the Commissioner directed the XEN to fix the flaws in the works of AMRUT scheme. He also informed the House that they had imposed a fine of Rs 1 crore on the company for delay in the construction of sewage treatment plant (STP).In future, they will get the works done from the agencies on risk and cost. Notices will be issued if any flaw is found in the work. If the contractor fails to do so, 10 per cent security money will be confiscated and they will get the work done from other agencies. Earlier, the House paid tribute to former chairman of the Karnal civic body Suresh Gupta, former councillor Sudesh Gulati, and Narinder Pandit by keeping silence of two minutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-new-tax-in-karnal-civic-body-budget-377084
