13-03-2022||Gurugram||Ruckus erupts outside Gurugram movie hall over cancellation of ‘The Kashmir Files' tickets||A ruckus erupted outside the Inox multiplex here in sector 4 of the millennium city, screening the critically acclaimed film ‘The Kashmir Files', on Sunday over the cancellation of tickets of some visitors.Incensed over the denial of entry to the movie hall despite having tickets booked in advance with them, some of the audiences entered into a scuffle with the cinema hall's security personnel, necessitating intervention by police.The trouble began when some visitors were denied entry to the hall despite having tickets while the movie hall managers said they had to cancel the tickets to reissue them without tax after the Haryana government made the movie tax-free, said police.The situation was brought under control after the movie-goers and cinema hall owner reached a compromise over cancelled tickets, it added."To implement the revised tax-free pricing for the movie as per the Haryana government's order and to ensure that the benefit of the same is passed on to the maximum number of guests with immediate effect, the tickets which were already issued with the tax amount, had to be reissued,” Inox Cinema said in an official statement.“This process required reprogramming of the existing tickets and the same was communicated to guests so that they can rebook the ticket and enjoy the movie at a lower tax-free price,” the statement explained.“We are extremely heartened by the response we have received for the movie across the country and are looking forward to welcoming guests to enjoy it in coming days," it added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ruckus-erupts-outside-gurugram-movie-hall-over-cancellation-of-the-kashmir-files-tickets-377514
13-03-2022||Hisar||Dalal opens agri expo||Agriculture Minister Jai Prakash Dalal has said there has been a record increase in the production of crops due to the research being done by farm scientists and the use of modern equipment.Inaugurating the Krishi Darshan Expo at the Northern Region Farm Machinery Training and Testing Institute today, he said such events help farmers get detailed information about the latest technology-based equipment related to the agriculture sector.“A relief of Rs 561 crore has been released by the state for crops hit by waterlogging and pests last year. Besides, Rs 1,000 crore will be given to the affected farmers who have got their crops insured.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dalal-opens-agri-expo-377413
13-03-2022||Hisar||Security guard abducted  in Hisar||Unknown persons have abducted a security guard Chander Pal working with a private hospital in Hisar and demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh. The police have begun the probe after registering a case, but the accused and the victim are untraceable so far. Complainant Jagdish said his son Chander Pal was abducted by unknown personsand his motorcycle was found abandoned near a hospital on the Bagla Road. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/security-guard-abducted-in-hisar-377410
13-03-2022||Faridabad||Taxi driver arrested  for rape attempt||The crime branch cell of the local police has arrested a taxi driver on charge of attempting to rape a 20-year-old girl.The police said the incident took place on December 16, when the victim was alone and was waiting at the Surajkund Crossing here to go somewhere. The accused identified as Vinay Kumar (42), a taxi driver, who was also waiting for passengers, approached the girl posing as a policeman. The accused reportedly forced her to sit in his vehicle claiming that he will take her to the nearest police station. According to the complainant, the accused took her to a secluded spot and tried to rape her. However, the accused fled from the spot leaving her there after she protested and raised the alarm. The girl who reached the women police station later lodged a complaint. The accused who was arrested on Thursday was remanded in one-day police custody, which led to the recovery of the vehicle and a fake ID card of the Police Department. He was remanded in judicial custody today, said a police official. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/taxi-driver-arrested-for-rape-attempt-377409
13-03-2022||Faridabad||Three arrested for selling spurious salt||The crime branch team of Sector17 here has arrested three persons in connection with the trading of spurious salt under Tata brand name. As many as 1,925 packets of the salt have been recovered.A cop said the accused — Ayush of Sector 88, Udit of Old Faridabad and Mahender of Bharat Colony — had been found storing and selling salt packets (small bags) under Tata’s name in an illegal manner. He said the accused used to pack the salt in packets having fake labels of Tata and supply to retailers in the city. A raid was carried out after a complaint was lodged by a Tata representative.The trio have been remanded in judicial custody. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-arrested-for-selling-spurious-salt-377408
13-03-2022||Panipat||Man gets 20-yr RI for raping 8-year-old girl||Additional District and Sessions Judge Sumit Garg today sentenced a 27-year-old man — Sonu, alias Papri, of Gonder village in Karnal — to 20 years rigorous imprisonment (RI) for raping an 8-year-old girl. The court has also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on him.The victim’s father in his complaint to the Chandnibagh police said his daughter told her mother that she was on her way back home after attending the school on May 24, 2018, when the convict took her to a room near the pond forcibly and raped her. When she raised the alarm, he beat her up and a threatened her of dire consequences.After holding him guilty, the court today sentenced him to 20 years RI under Section 376AB, IPC, and 20 years RI under Sections 6 of the POCSO Act. Both the sentences will run concurrently. In case of non-payment of the fine, the convict would have to undergo further imprisonment of one year, the court said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-gets-20-yr-ri-for-raping-8-year-old-girl-377407
13-03-2022||Sonepat||Panipat paper leak: 3 more held||A team of the Special Task Force (STF), Sonepat, has arrested three more members of a gang involved in leaking various competitive exams for government jobs.The accused have been identified as Sushil, alias Chhota, of Assan village of Rohtak district, Satish Kumar and Amit Kumar of Mundlana village in Gohana of Sonepat district. They were on Saturday produced in a court, which sent them on three-day police remand.Accused Amit was a postman in Gohana post office. Amit and Sushil own computer labs and had shares in 22 more such labs, said Satish Deswal, STF incharge.They had been arrested in a case registered in Panipat on October 6 last year, he added.During the investigation, it was revealed that the gang was active since 2013 and kingpin Robin, a Delhi Police Constable, was already arrested. As many as 29 persons, including five aspirants who got the job through the gang, have been arrested so far.It was further revealed that the gang had links with hackers in Russia and with their support, it hacked the computer labs and got an online competitive exam leaked, Deswal said. The gang took Rs 3 lakh to rs 15 lakh from the aspirants for clearing the exam, he added.Primary probe revealed that Sushil, Amit and Sumit had connections with the gang for a long time. To look for the victims, Sushil used to live on the MDU campus, Rohtak, where he lured the aspirants to give money for getting the exams cleared. Of 300 gang members, 100 were active and 29 had been arrested while a search for others was underway, Inspector Deswal added.“We sought help from the Interpol to nab the Russian hackers, who were allegedly involved in the crime. Lookout notices will be issued after serving the red corner notices against the hackers,” the STF incharge said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-paper-leak-3-more-held-377406
13-03-2022||---||In Hansi, minor forced to marry her rapist||Hisar, March 12The police have registered a case against a Sub-inspector (SI) of the Hansi police and the victim’s husband on the charges of forcing a minor rape victim to get married to the alleged rapist in Hansi town of the district.The Hansi police have registered a case under Sections of rape under the IPC and relevant Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006 against the SI, the victim’s husband and some other family members on the husband’s side and started investigation.Police sources said that a woman lodged a complaint with the police that she and her four children, including two girls, were residing at a rented accommodation in 2020. She alleged that her daughter was raped by the son of the landlord on the night of April 22, 2020.The SI visited the house and assured of strict action against the accused. However, she alleged that after some time, the SI suggested to make the victim marry the rapist and asked the complainant not to push for registration of rape case against the accused.She further said that after some time, her daughter’s husband started harassing the girl and she was even forced to have relations with his elder brother.But she approached the Hansi Superintendent of Police (SP) after which the police registered a case against SI Karamvir and the husband of the rapevictim besides three other family members on the husband’s side.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-hansi-minor-forced-to-marry-her-rapist-377405
13-03-2022||---||Karnal District Town Planner sent to 3-day police remand||Karnal, March 12District Town Planner (DTP) Vikram Singh and his driver Balbir, who were arrested on Friday while accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh and Rs 5,000 respectively, from the DTP’s residence in Sector 6, were produced in the court by a team of State Vigilance Bureau, from where they were taken on three-day police remand.Cops to investigate involvement of othersNow, they will be produced in the court on March 15, said Inspector Sachin, a team member. “We are yet to determine the involvement of others in this nexus. We are probing where and how much property the arrested DTP has made. We are also inquiring with whom he used to share the bribe money,” he added. “We believe the arrested DTP can has share in illegal colonies. We also suspect the value of his properties is higher than his income, so we are investigating all angles. Our team is also searching his Panchkula residence,” said Inspector Sachin.After his arrest, the police also recovered Rs 78.64 lakh in cash along with the details of moveable and immovable properties from his residential premises. The team members have also recovered jewellery and documents pertaining to agricultural land, one flat and 12 plots. Documents pertaining to investments in shares, mutual funds and crypto currencies have also been recovered. “After probing the DTP, we have collected the money from his house and he has confessed to have collected this money as bribe from various people,” he said.The accused had also purchased vehicles and plots in cash, which will also be investigated, he said. He appealed the residents that whoever was harassed by the DTP and had allegedly been forced to give him money could come to the office and file a complaint.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-district-town-planner-sent-to-3-day-police-remand-377404
13-03-2022||---||7 mineral-grinding units in Mahendragarh get closure notice||Mahendragarh, March 12Several mineral-grinding units have been running at Bayal village here for the past several months without getting consent to operate (CTO).These are allegedly causing air pollution, resulting in health hazard and damage to crops. The matter came to the fore when a team of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) carried out inspection following the directives of DC Shyam Lal Punia who received a written complaint from residents of Bayal village in this respect, said sources.Sources maintained the team found seven units operational without the CTO, which is mandatory to begin operations. The units have been served closure notices.The inspection of other units is under way to find out whether they are operating as per norms or not. As many as 48 such units are located in Bayal area.“Majority of the grinding units are being operated in violation of pollution rules. Some of them are being run without obtaining consent to establish (CTE). Their illegal operations lead to worsening of the air quality index. The polluted air is not only damaging crops but also causing health issues like breathing and skin problems,” said Deepender Singh, husband of outgoing sarpanch of Bayal village.Deepender, who led a delegation of villagers that met the DC over the issue recently, said they had apprised the authorities of the issue many times. They had even approached the NGT to get such units closed as life of the villagers had become difficult due to rising pollution levels.“Some units are being run at double the prescribed capacity. As per rules, installation of filters is mandatory in such units but the majority of units are not adhering to the rules,” he claimed.Another villager on the condition of anonymity said erring units were being operated at night and caused high air pollution. “People cannot drive vehicles and walk in the open at night due to poor visibility as dust wraps the area in a black blanket,” he added.Dinesh Kumar, Regional Officer, HSPCB, while confirming the closure notices to seven units said these had obtained CTE but were not issued CTO due to prevailing negative carrying capacity of the area owing to high pollution load. However, all these had applied for the same.“A case pertaining to the units is also sub judice in the NGT which has formed a six-member committee to find out the ground reality. The committee will meet on Monday,” said Harish Kumar, SDO, HSPCB.Without ‘consent to operate’Sources say an HSPCB team found the seven units operating without the consent to operate, which is mandatory.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/7-mineral-grinding-units-in-mahendragarh-get-closure-notice-377403
13-03-2022||---||Land acquired for Palwal e-way interchange access||Palwal, March 12The process of the construction of an interchange access at the KGP Expressway (Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal) in Palwal district has been started after four years.The demand for the interchange was taken up in 2018.The interchange will come up near Pelak village and will provide first-of-a-kind access after its starting point near Antoha village.Work expected to begin in JuneThe land acquisition is almost over. The construction work is expected to begin in June. —Senior NHAI officialThe sources claimed that though the approval was provided in February 2021, the work on the ground was launched recently with the process of land acquisition.“The notice of acquisition of seven-and-a-half acre land for the project has already been issued. The financial award to land owners is likely to be given next month,” said a senior official of the NHAI.The interchange is expected to provide the much-sought after relief from the movement of the heavy and commercial vehicles in the city as this traffic will be diverted on the KGP Expressway from the outskirts of the district.The sources added that the distance for the vehicles going to Noida, Jewar, Aligarh, Delhi and Sonepat would also be shortened due to the facility.“The demand of this interchange was raised in April 2018. It has taken four years to get the work started,” former MLA Karan Dalal said, who had taken up the matter and met Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari in 2018 for the same.Around 37 km of the 135-km long KGP Expressway fall in Haryana.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/land-acquired-for-palwal-e-way-interchange-access-377402
13-03-2022||Gurugram||Adventure centre in Gurugram village soon||In a major boost to tourism, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today laid the foundation stone of Adventure Tourism Centre at Damdama village in Gurugram district and flagged off a two-day Haryana Aero Sports Carnival.This Adventure Tourism Centre will be developed on 19 acres and for its development, Haryana Tourism Department has coordinated with Aero Club of India.The CM said that infrastructure would be created for various adventure activities in which camping sites, airstrip for paramotors, aero sports activities, cafeteria and other activities will be included.‘’Both roads leading to Bhondsi and Sohna and connecting with this Adventure Tourism Centre at Damdama will be widened so that tourists can reach here easily. To promote tourism at Damdama Lake, arrangements will be made to excavate this lake and keep water in it throughout the year,” said Khattar.The CM said that continuous efforts are being made by the state government to promote tourism. “The Haryana Government has a plan to open 1,000 nurseries in the state to motivate children to play from the very beginning. These nurseries will be established in the sports departments in government and private schools so that the children become physically and mentally strong.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/adventure-centre-in-gurugram-village-soon-377401
13-03-2022||---||Oust G-23 leaders to save Cong, say ex-ministers||Rohtak, March 12Former Haryana Home Minister and Congress leader Subhash Batra has asked the party’s central leadership to oust G-23 leaders or be ready to face Punjab-like poll debacles in Haryana and other states.“Certain Congress leaders who have enjoyed plum positions like those of Chief Ministers, Union Ministers and Rajya Sabha members are now damaging and weakening their own party at the behest of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Such black sheep should be expelled at the earliest,” said Batra.Addressing a news conference at Rohtak on Saturday, the former minister stated that if the Congress high command still fails to pull up its socks and take some concrete action against the leaders indulging in anti-party activities, the grassroots level workers would turn away from it.In a veiled attack on former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Batra accused him of opposing the party’s state presidents and ignoring senior leaders.Batra, who was flanked by former Haryana minister Krishan Murti Hooda, lamented that the top leadership of the Congress was surrounded by a handful of persons and had stopped listening to party’s leaders and workers, which was not a good sign.“We will meet Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and apprise him of the concerns of Congressmen,” the former ministers stated.In response to a query, Batra asserted that he would contest the upcoming election to the state Assembly against Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar from Karnal constituency.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/oust-g-23-leaders-to-save-cong-say-ex-ministers-377400
13-03-2022||---||Stones hurled at Khattar's house||Karnal, March 12Stones and bricks were hurled at Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s residence in Prem Nagar in his Karnal city, late on Friday by seven persons.No loss to property has been reported, but the incident has highlighted lapses outside the CM’s residence.SP Ganga Ram Punia has beefed up security outside the CM’s residence and also in the area. The police also conducted a search operation in various places to arrest the accused. While the police have arrested two persons, five are still absconding.Surprisingly, there were no CCTV cameras at the CM’s residence. But the incident was captured by CCTV cameras installed in nearby houses. “The incident was captured by CCTV cameras, showing that seven persons came on two bikes and a scooter and pelted stones at the CM’s residence,” said inspector Kiran, SHO, Ram Nagar.SP Punia said they had registered a case against Shubham Khillan of Shanti Nagar, Simardeep Singh of Shiv Colony, Shivam Behal of New Prem Nagar, Gaurav of Ram Nagar, Dhruv Sachdeva, Sagar Sarbata and Singla Sarbata. “We have arrested Shivam Behal and Gaurav Kumar. The reasons behind the attack are being ascertained.”“Security has been beefed up outside the residence and area,” said the inspector.The incident took place at 10.28 pm. At that time, two police personnel — constable Sachin and Anup — were on duty at the residence.“I and police personnel Anup were on duty at that time. On hearing the noise of stone pelting, I came out by jumping over the wall. The stone-pelters managed to escape after I came out,” said constable Sachin.Darshan Pal Sehgal, BJP leader, said, “We will get CCTV cameras installed at the CM’s residence in couple of days.”Jagmohan Anand, CM’s media coordinator, also visited the residence and enquired about the incident.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stones-hurled-at-khattars-house-377399
13-03-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||28 industrial units sealed for property tax evasion in Faridabad||Faridabad, March 12Reviving the drive against property tax defaulters, the Municipal Corporation (MC), Faridabad, has sealed 28 units in the past three days.With notices to thousands of units, the civic body had warned of sealing the units as part of the legal action. The deadline to avail rebate on interest on the pending dues is March 31.“With over 20,000 notices served to major defaulters (pending amount of Rs 50,000 or more), poor response has made the authorities to take up the drive in order to speed up the recovery of dues before the end of the financial year,” said an official, who revealed that as many as 28 commercial units had been sealed in the past 72 hours.As 90% of the defaulters have been issued notices, the remaining units are expected to get these soon, said an official. According to sources, around 1.6 lakh defaulting units are yet to clear an outstanding amount of Rs 193 crore. Almost 60% of the total 2.5 lakh property tax units in the city have been on the defaulter list, it is claimed. The total tax-paying units here are expected to go up to 5.5 lakh after the integration of another three lakh units added after the recent survey, it is added. The sealing drive launched last year led to the recovery of over Rs 5 crore, according to the MC officials. With an amount of Rs 65 crore already recovered during the current financial period, the civic body expects to get a total of Rs 90 crore as property tax by March-end, claim the sources. As the civic body has announced to waive the interest on pending dues between 2011 and 2018, around 50% of the total dues stand to get waived if the entire pending amount was cleared by March 31, said an official. Besides the private residential and commercial units, the defaulters include 107 government offices that owe an amount of 63.05 crore.MC Commissioner Yashpal Yadav said defaulters face both the penalty and legal action after March 31.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/28-industrial-units-sealed-for-property-tax-evasion-in-faridabad-377398
13-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||No permanent campus for 46 govt colleges||Chandigarh, March 12There are 46 government colleges in Haryana (around 27%) that don’t have their own building, while 127 (over 74%) are functioning without regular principals.The state government had submitted the data in reply to a question of Congress MLA Jagbir Singh Malik during the Legislative Assembly session.Government College for Women, Ambala City, came up in 2012-13 while Government College, Assandh (Karnal), in 2014-15, but both the institutions are running from rented buildings. Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar submitted before the House that 46 colleges that don’t have their own buildings included six in Karnal, four each in Hisar, Gurugram and Sonepat, and three each in Faridabad, Rewari and Sirsa.Work in progressThe High Court has stayed the promotion of principals due to which the posts are vacant. Hopefully, the stay will be vacated soon. Also, we’ve got the land for a few colleges recently. The construction will start for most of the colleges soon. —Anand Mohan Sharan, ACS, Higher Education DepartmentGovernment College, Nahar (Rewari), has been without a regular principal for eight years. Also, Government College, Krishan Nagar (Mahendragarh), doesn’t have a regular principal for the past seven years. Of a total of 171 government colleges in the state, 127 are without regular principals, which comes to over 74%.Talking to The Tribune, Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Higher Education Department and Technical Education Department, Anand Mohan Sharan said, “The Punjab and Haryana High Court has stayed the promotion of principals. That is why the posts are vacant. We hope that the stay will be vacated soon.”On colleges without their own buildings, he replied, “We have got the land for a few institutions recently. The building plans are being prepared. In coming months, the construction work will start for mostly all such colleges. There are only a few cases where the land is not finalised.”Meanwhile, Congress leader Jagbir Singh Malik had also sought the list of colleges, where the number of students is less than 200. In reply, the Education Minister has submitted that there are 16 government colleges and 29 self-financed colleges where the strength of students is less than 200. These include Government College, Morni (Panchkula), with 17 students — 11 females and six males — while Shri Mata Mansa Devi Sanskrit Government College, Panchkula, with 22 students — three females and 19 males.Among the self-financed colleges, Lala CB Aggarwal Memorial College for Women, Hassanpur (Palwal), has just seven students, all females, while DPG Degree College, Gurugram, has 12, including eight females and four males. Rao Mool Chand Degree College, Mahendragarh, has a total of 15 students with four females and 11 males, while Shri Santi Sagar Jain Kanya Mahavidyalaya, Nuh, has just 20 female students.“The government keeps announcing new colleges but doesn’t provide infrastructure or fill the vacancies. How can a college function without a principal? Who will take the responsibility? Perhaps, the case is not being pursued properly in the High Court. Also, there is no point in opening colleges without providing all subjects.For instance, science subjects are not provided in rural areas,” Malik said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-permanent-campus-for-46-govt-colleges-377397
