14-03-2022||Only two parking lots has been set up in Sector 12 in Karnal along with Chaudhary Devi Lal Rose Garden in front of the Judicial Complex and Lawyers Chamber complex so that vehicles of lawyers can be parked safely. But the total area of these two parking lots is not sufficient for the vehicles of the lawyers and their clients||Insufficient parking lots||Shakti Singh, KarnalDog-bite cases on the rise in AmbalaPacks of dogs can be seen wandering in Sector 10 of Ambala city. They welcome strangers with barks. Not only the schoolgoing children, but elders are not safe. The children have to be escorted on their way to and back from school. Every now and then we here cases of dog bites. Whenever any vehicle passes, the dogs chase these to some distance. Several dogs are suffering from skin and other diseases. The administration should take stock of the situation and take immediate action.Vinod Gupta, AmbalaIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/insufficient-parking-lots-377694
14-03-2022||Gurugram||BSc aviation course||New VC of law varsity takes chargeSonepat: Dr Archana Mishra, the newly appointed Vice-Chancellor of Dr BR Ambedkar National Law University, formally took charge by offering flowers on the statue of mother Saraswati. Registrar Dr Amit Kumar welcomed the newly appointed VC with a bouquet and congratulated her. VC Dr Mishra said the interest of the university would be paramount to her. Her first priority will be to work for the all-round development of the university in the field of education.Statistician award for Prof MalikRohtak: Professor SC Malik, Department of Statistics, MD University, has been honoured with the distinguished Statistician Award 2021 instituted by the Indian Society for Probability and Statistics (ISPS).The award was bestowed on him today at an international conference in conjunction with the 41st annual convention of the ISPS held online from March 11-13 at the Department of Statistics, Osmania University, Hyderabad. He had joined as a lecturer in the MDU in 1991 and became Professor of statistics in 2008. He served as head, department of statistics, from September 2018 to September 2021 and has been working as the proctor of the university for the past six years. He has been actively engaged in research on various topics of statistics and his areas of interest include Reliability Theory & Modelling, Sampling Theory and Information Theory. Dr Malik has published 205 research papers in journals of repute and published books also.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bsc-aviation-course-377693
14-03-2022||Yamunanagar||2 held for theft in Yamunanagar||The anti-vehicle theft cell of the Yamunanagar police have arrested two persons and recovered two stolen motorcycles and 12 bottles of country liquor from their possession.The accused has been identified as Jitendra of Jawahar Nagar and Tarun of Chitta Mandir road. They allegedly supplied liquor illegally on the stolen motorcycle.They were arrested from Sector 17, Jagadhri. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-held-for-theft-in-yamunanagar-377690
14-03-2022||Rohtak||Haryana Diary: AAP upbeat at Punjab victory||Win lifts leaders’ moralePanipat: The morale of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders reached a high after the thumping win of the party in Punjab. Local AAP leaders say the morale of the party workers is on the rise and many, who were associated with other political parties, especially with the Congress and BSP, are contacting them.Few sanitation workersYamunanagar: In the twin cities of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri, sanitisation has taken a back seat has heaps of garbage can be seen on the sides of most roads. When residents of the twin cities asked the sanitisation workers why garbage wasn’t picked regularly, they were told that there wasn’t enough staff.Roads filled with greeting postersFaridabad: With Holi round the corner, political aspirants have flooded streets and roads with their posters in the name of extending festival greetings. Hundreds of posters and billboards have appeared in all localities. Majority of posters are hanging on electric poles on the dividing roads and crossings and bear photos of influential leaders of the ruling party as a calculated move to ensure that the local civic authorities do not remove these, alleges a local politician.Contributed by: Sunit Dhawan, Mukesh Tandon, Shiv Kumar Sharma, Bijendra Ahlawat||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-diary-aap-upbeat-at-punjab-victory-377688
14-03-2022||Kurukshetra||Kurukshetra: 16-year-old boy killed over petty dispute||A 16-year-old boy was killed over a petty dispute at Gamri Jattan village in Kurukshetra on Saturday night.The deceased was identified as Amit Kumar while the accused have been identified as Subhash, Sahil and Niraj.In his complaint to the police, Gurdev Singh, father of the deceased, stated that his son Amit had advised Sahil to drive his motorcycle at great speed in the street, last month. But Sahil and his father Subhash did not like what Amit said and began keeping hostility with the victim and his family.On Saturday night, they came to know that Sahil and Niraj had thrashed Amit and when the family members reached there, they found Amit lying unconscious on the road. Vishal who was standing there informed Amit’s family that he saw Sahil and Niraj beating up Amit. When he tried to save him, the accused attacked Amit with a sharp-edged weapon. Meanwhile Vishal also suffered injury. After the incident, the accused managed to flee from the spot. Amit was taken to LNJP hospital where he was declared dead.A case has been registered at the Kurukshetra University police station under Sections 302, 307, 34 and 120-b of the IPC against the three.The SHO, Kurukshetra University Police Station, Rajpal, said, “The body was handed over to the family after post-mortem examination. Further investigation is on.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-16-year-old-boy-killed-over-petty-dispute-377686
14-03-2022||Karnal||Haryana Agriculture Dept's film bags 2nd rank at festival||“Faane Nahi Jalayenge” (Won’t burn stubble), an awareness short film on crop residue management of Haryana Agricultural Management and Extension Training Institute (HAMETI), has got second prize in the first MANAGE agri-film festival 2022 at Hyderabad.A total of 20 states and institutes took part in this festival with 273 short films. Kaithal Deputy Director (DDA), Karam Chand, who is also holding additional charge of HAMETI, was honoured by Karnataka Agriculture Minister BC Patil at MANAGE.A certificate of appreciation, memento and cash prize of Rs 30,000 were given to him. The film was shot in Kaithal. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-agriculture-depts-film-bags-2nd-rank-at-festival-377684
14-03-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Faridabad youth selected for Deaflympics 2022||Faridabad, March 13Local lad Shubham Vashisth, a resident of Ballabgarh, has been selected as one of the 64 members of the Indian team for the 24th Deaflympics (Deaf Olympics) to be held in Brazil in May this year.The Deaflympics, also known as Deaflympiad (previously called World Games for the Deaf, and International Games for the Deaf), are a periodic series of multi-sport events sanctioned by the International Olympic Committee (IOC), in which deaf athletes compete at an elite level.“Shubham (23), a PG student of Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, is among the 15 players from Haryana to get selected to represent the country in the shooting event,” said KK Gupta, principal of the college.Shubham has been unable to speak or hear since birth.The principal of the college added that Shubham was the sixth student from the college to take part in international games.Shubham has been selected from India in the 10-m air pistol (Individual), 10-m pistol mixed team event and 25-m pistol games.Revealing that his son has been suffering from cent percent speaking and hearing disability since birth, Shubham’s father Dinesh Sharma said Shubham was declared fully disabled at the age of three after a medical examination at the AIIMS.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-youth-selected-for-deaflympics-2022-377680
14-03-2022||---||Haryana VB for criminal cases against 4 gazetted officers, 14 others||Chandigarh, March 13The Haryana State Vigilance Bureau (VB) has recommended criminal cases against four gazetted officers, seven non-gazetted officers and as many private persons in four inquiries conducted in February 2022.The VB has also recommended departmental action against two gazetted officers in two inquiries.An official spokesperson of the VB said it had also arrested 10 government officials, including a gazetted officer, accepting bribe ranging from Rs 1,000 to Rs 1.40 lakh during the same period.Briefing about the arrests made in February, he said Superintending Engineer Ravi Sharma and accountant Ravi Shankar both posted in the Municipal Corporation, Faridabad, were caught red-handed while receiving a bribe of Rs 1.40 lakh, while Inspector Rajbir Singh posted in the weight and measurement section of the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, Faridabad, was nabbed while receiving Rs 60,000 bribe.Similarly, Ujender Singh, branch manager of the District Central Cooperative Bank, Palwal, was arrested taking Rs 25,000 bribe. Maan Singh, DHBVN lineman posted in Faridabad was apprehended taking a bribe of Rs 26,000 and Sri Bhagwan of Najar branch in Haryana Roadways, Jind, was arrested accepting Rs 10,000. Further, Inspector Jaiveer posted as the SHO at the Cheeka police station in Kaithal and Hariom assistant lineman at Palwal DHBVN were arrested while taking Rs 5,000 each. Sub-Inspector Jai Chand posted in Central Faridabad was also nabbed while accepting Rs 10,000 whereas Anshu Prashar, surveyor for the Gurugram MC was nabbed for taking Rs 2000 bribe.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-vb-for-criminal-cases-against-4-gazetted-officers-14-others-377678
14-03-2022||---||Industrial Expo begins in Faridabad||Faridabad, March 13A three-day Industrial Expo was inaugurated by Union Minister of State for Heavy Industries Krishan Pal Gurjar on the industrial model township (IMT) premises here today.It has been organised by the IMT Industrial Association.Addressing the participants on the occasion, Gurjar claimed that holding such an event would not only promote industrial activity in the region, but also provide a kind of relief to the manufacturers who had been feeling demoralised in view of the negative impact of the pandemic for the past two years.Claiming that both the state and Union Government had been pursuing policies aimed at supporting the manufacturing sector, he said enhancement in the local production would not only boost the industrial activity but also result in more revenue and lower cost of production in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/industrial-expo-begins-in-faridabad-377677
14-03-2022||Yamunanagar||FIR against Naraingarh couple on fake job promise to 4||The police have registered an FIR against a couple of Naraingarh town of Ambala district for allegedly duping four persons on the pretext of providing them government jobs through the Haryana Staff Selection Commission.On the complaint of Kuldeep Singh, a resident of Kunjal Kamboyan village, a case was registered against Vikram Singh and his wife under several sections of the IPC at Sadar police station, Yamunanagar.The complainant said Vikram was an employee of the Haryana Police.“Vikram told me that he knew some officers in the Haryana Staff Selection Commission and could provide a government job to my children. Mewa Singh and Avtar Singh, both residents of Kunjal Kamboyan village, gave the couple Rs 16.50 lakh in instalments in 2017 for providing government jobs to their four children,” the complainant added.When Vikram and his wife failed to provide jobs to the children of the victims, they demanded their money back.“Vikram gave me two bounced cheques of Rs 10 lakh in May 2021 and Rs 16.50 lakh in September 2021,” the complainant alleged.Accused is police employeeThe complainant said accused Vikram was an employee of the Haryana Police. Vikram told him that he knew some officers in the Haryana Staff Selection Commission and could provide a government job to his children.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fir-against-naraingarh-couple-on-fake-job-promise-to-4-377675
14-03-2022||---||Demanding halt of trains, residents block rail tracks in Ambala village||Ambala, March 13Demanding the stoppage of trains, residents of several villages blocked the Ambala-Saharanpur railway track for nearly three hours at the Tandwal village railway station in Ambala on Sunday.The residents said the trains used to halt at the station before the Covid lockdown two years ago, but now these don’t. They said before the pandemic, around 10 trains used to make a halt at the Tandwal village railway station, but this was discontinued in view of the Covid restrictions. The situation has normalised, but the trains were not halting, they lamented.The residents said they had been requesting the Railways officials and the government representatives for months, but to no avail. Residents from Tandwal, Ghelri, Tandwali, Raomajra and several other villages gathered at the station, raised slogans in support of their demand and also against the government. Later, they blocked the Ambala-Saharanpur section by sitting on the tracks.Sushil, a protester, said, “Students, especially girls, labourers and other daily passengers, of around 12 villages used to travel through the passenger trains to reach their destinations, but they all are now facing inconvenience. Earlier, while their journey till Ambala City by train used to cost Rs 10-20 per person, they have to now spend around Rs 70-80 as they are forced to use other modes of transport. First, we reach Barara to get a bus for Ambala Cantonment and then we take auto to reach Ambala City.”They demanded stoppage of train No. 04523 (Saharanpur-Nangal Dam) while on its way towards Ambala, stoppage of 04501/02 (Saharanpur-Una-Saharanpur) and resumption of all about 10 trains that used to stop here before the pandemic.After getting information, senior divisional commercial manager, Ambala Division, Vivek Sharma, reached the spot and managed to pacify the protesters. He assured them that their demands would be raised before the railway board, and sought time up to March 31 for the same. They had informed the headquarters about the demands of the villagers.Meanwhile, Congress Mullana MLA Varun Chaudhry said, “While the government has been making claims of constructing railway over bridges and developing railway infrastructure, no attention is being paid towards providing service to poor people. I will raise the matter in the Haryana Assembly in the coming days.”Journey gets costlierEarlier, our journey till Ambala City by train used to cost Rs10-20 per person. Now, we have to spend around Rs70-80 as we are forced to use other modes of transport. First, we reach Barara to get a bus for Ambala Cantonment and then, we take an autorickshaw to reach Ambala City. Sushil, a protester||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/demanding-halt-of-trains-residents-block-rail-tracks-in-ambala-village-377674
14-03-2022||---||Karnal: Roadways staff threaten to go on strike from March 28||Karnal, March 13Scores of roadways employees today protested in the city to press for their demands, including reinstating the old pension scheme, implementation of already accepted demands, and their resentment against privatisation. The employees also threatened to go on a two-day strike from March 28.On the call of the Haryana Roadways Karamchari Sanjha Manch, the roadways employees assembled at Karan Park, from where they took out a protest march towards the CM camp office, but were stopped by the police near Nirankari Bhawan. They handed over a memorandum to the SDM for the Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar in support of their demands.Senior member of the Sanjha Morcha Om Prakash Grewal, along with other leaders, including Jaibir Ghanghas, Inder Singh Badhana and Sukhwinder Singh Byana, addressed the gathering. “When the public is not demanding to privatise the roadways, to why the government is doing so?” the leaders said.They also demanded the government to include 10,000 new buses in the fleet of the roadways. “We demand to reinstate the old pension of the employees. All vacant posts should be filled with regular employees and there should be the promotion of drivers on the pattern of Punjab, Himachal and DTC,” they demanded.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-roadways-staff-threaten-to-go-on-strike-from-march-28-377672
14-03-2022||---||RTI: Encroachments shrinking water bodies in Karnal civic body limits||Karnal, March 13Area of water bodies (ponds) have shrunk in the Karnal Municipal Corporation limits as most of the ponds have been encroached upon by residents. At some places, residents have made houses, roads in the pond area, while at a few places the residents have filled the pond area with garbage and cow dung.It was revealed in a reply to an RTI query filed by a Karnal-based RTI activist Rajesh Sharma, who sought information on the status of ponds in the city limits. Besides, he also sought the names of encroachers and for how long they had been encroaching upon the pond area. As per the information, people have encroached nearly 2 acres out of around 13 acres of the ponds in rural areas, while 32 acres out of around 34 acres in the urban areas.In the reply, KMC officials said they did not have the information on the name of encroachers and the duration of their encroachment but said they only the information of the area which had been encroached upon by the residents. As per the information provided by the KMC, there were 23 ponds in the KMC limits, including its rural areas. Of them, the area of most of the ponds had been reduced due to encroachment. As many as eight ponds had been encroached upon to a large extent and they were almost non-existent, said the reply.The ponds in Saidpura, Mangalpur, Dhobighat, Sector 16, Budakhera and other parts of the city have been encroached upon to a great extent due to which these ponds are almost non-existent, while the area of ponds in Jhanjhari, Uchana, Daha, Baldi, and a couple of in the city limits have been reduced due to encroachment, the reply stated.Sharma demanded that the government get the area of these water bodies vacated and restore these in their natural form. Gagandeep Singh, Joint Commissioner, KMC, said the KMC conducted anti-encroachment drive on a regular basis. Notices are also issued if any complaints come. #rti||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rti-encroachments-shrinking-water-bodies-in-karnal-civic-body-limits-377671
14-03-2022||---||HAU to set up millet research centre in Bhiwani village||Bhiwani, March 13Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (HAU) has decided to set up a nutro-cereals research station at Gokalpura village in Bhiwani district.Haryana Agriculture Minister Jai Prakash Dalal has laid the foundation stone of the project, which will be built on 63 acres at Gokalpura village.The minister said this centre would prove to be a boon for farmers of rain-fed areas as it would develop advanced technology of rain-fed crops such as millet. He said to ensure food security, the focus has been on high productivity and usable crops such as wheat and paddy. “As a result, coarse cereals which are rich in nutrients are not given prominence in research. The government has now recognised the importance of nutritious cereals and thus has included bajra (millet) as an integral part of the National Food Security Mission. Coarse cereals such as bajra, jowar, ragi etc have significantly higher amount of fat, fiber and minerals than wheat and rice.He expressed his gratitude to the gram panchayat for providing the land and said with the establishment of this research centre, the millet farmers would become prosperous. The centre will also provide new employment opportunities to the youth as a total of 93 posts of scientific and support staff have been approved by the state government for this centre. Vice-Chancellor Prof BR Kamboj said so far, 17 hybrid and four composite varieties of millet have been developed in the university. The Vice- Chancellor said with the opening of this research centre, research on nutritious cereals such as millet would get further impetus. All efforts will be farmer centric so that the income of the farmers of rain-fed areas can also be improved, he said. #Agriculture #hau||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hau-to-set-up-millet-research-centre-in-bhiwani-village-377670
14-03-2022||---||Illegal transfer of Rs 2 crore from Bhiwani MC account, case filed||Bhiwani, March 13The Bhiwani police have registered a case of cheating and forgery in regards to transfer of about Rs 2 crore from the bank account of Bhiwani Municipal Council to private firms without any documents.A former municipal councillor, Sudershan Jindal, has filed a complaint to the police alleging there has been blatant irregularities in transaction of funds of the MC. The economic cell of the Bhiwani police carried out a preliminary investigation into the charges. The police have registered a case under Sections 420 (cheating), 409, 467, 468, 471, 120-B against Vinod Goyal, Vikash, bank manager, and some officials of the Municipal Council.The police had handed over the inquiry of the case to Inspector Ravinder for further probe into the matter. A police official said the investigation had started into the complaint and some more names could crop up during the investigation.The complainant stated that an amount of about Rs 2 crore was transferred from the bank account of the Bhiwani Municipal Council from the period June 18, 2019 to October 9, 2019. He alleged that there was no entry of the details of the transaction in the account books of the MC.The case was preliminarily inquired into by the economic cell in-charge of Bhiwani police Sub-inspector Satpal after which a case was registered into the complaint and the FIR was lodged at the Bhiwani city police station.The complainant alleged that the case of cheating and embezzlement of funds could be in multiple crores as the police had started investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-transfer-of-2-crore-from-bhiwani-mc-account-case-filed-377669
14-03-2022||Parveen Arora||Two digital libraries to open for Karnal residents in April||Karnal, March 13With an aim to encourage learning among residents, Karnal Smart City Ltd. (KSCL), is set to establish two state-of-art digital libraries with the capability of hosting audio-video and multimedia content, enabling members to share common information resources and communicate easily. These are being established in Ram Nagar and Budhakhera. The work on both digital libraries is almost complete, which are likely to open for the general public in April. A sum of Rs 51 lakh has been incurred on both libraries, said an official.The library in Ram Nagar is being set up at the old building of the dispensary which was lying vacant. Senior Deputy Mayor Rajesh Aghi had raised the demand for a library in the vicinity across the railway lines for students and youth preparing for competitive exams, following which the KSCL Board of Directors approved it and the work was started in December. Similarly, another library is being established in Budhakhera, on the outskirts of the city, on the demand of residents. The civil work of this library also started in December. “Libraries have played crucial roles in learning and developing skills. Keeping this in mind and fulfilling the demands of the locals, the KSCL in coordination with multiple stakeholders is establishing two digital libraries with computers and other equipment. Each library has the seating capacity for 50 students at a time,” said Anish Yadav, DC-cum-CEO KSCL.For the security and surveillance of the libraries, CCTV cameras have been installed. The art work has been done on the walls to make the ambiance lively, the CEO Yadav added.The availability of high-end computers, up-to-date software, high-speed Internet, library furniture, ACs, uninterrupted power supply makes both libraries a-state-of-art digital libraries, he said. “Students, scholars and others can access electronic journals, multimedia content, global newspapers, electronic magazines, novels and reading materials for competitive exams. To sustain the libraries, nominal membership fee will be charged,” said DC Yadav.Narinder Singh, a youth preparing for competitive exams, said the KSCL had taken care of the needs of the youth. Rajesh Aghi, Senior Deputy Mayor, said the library in Ram Nagar would inspire youth to take to reading.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-digital-libraries-to-open-for-karnal-residents-in-april-377668
14-03-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Street vendors oppose being shifted to newly set up zone in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, March 13Citing poor location for trade, street vendors are not willing to work from the newly set up vending zone in Yamunanagar.They alleged that this vending zone had been set up at a secluded place away from the markets of Yamunanagar city, where customer turnout remained very low. They also alleged that their goods were getting spoilt as these were not being sold and they were finding it difficult to meet the expenses of their household.“We were shifted here on Monday. We are forced to sit idle throughout the day as customer turnout remains very low at this new trading site,” said a vendor.The authorities of the Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ) have set up this vending zone near the city police station, Yamunanagar.It was inaugurated by Mayor Madan Chauhan on March 7 with the shifting of 70 venders. Upset with the shifting, a number of vendors had blocked road near the Paper Mill Gate in Yamunanagar recently, alleging that they had been shifted to the new vending zone but they were getting a very few customers.A street vendor said people visiting the shops and casual visitors constituted the customer base of the street venders but no one would come here specifically in search of the small vendors.“The recently opened vending zone is not suiting us as it is secluded and inaccessible to the general public. We should be allowed to carry on with our business from our old sitess of operation,” said a vendor.However, Manoj Kumar, a tea seller, said he had been shifted here from near Geeta Bhawan market. “It is a good initiative of the Municipal Corporation, which has provided us an authorised place to run our work. I am sure we will get customers in good number in the near future,” said Manoj Kumar. According to information, the vendors, who had been working alongside roads leading from the Fountain Chowk to railway station and from Fountain Chowk to the city police station, Yamunanagar, were shifted here.Mayor Madan Chauhan said the step of shifting vendors in the vending zone had been taken to accommodate them and decongest the roads. “We are developing several vending zones in Yamunanagar and Jagadhri for the betterment of the street vendors. We will provide all basic facilities to them in these zones,” said Mayor Madan Chauhan.Blocked road near Paper Mill Gate to put forward demandUpset with the shifting, a number of vendors had blocked the road near the Paper Mill Gate in Yamunanagar recently, alleging that they had been shifted to the new vending zone, where they were getting a very few customers.Old site lucrativeThe recently opened vending zone is not suiting us as it is secluded and inaccessible to the general public. We should be allowed to carry on with our business from our old sites of operation. A vendorTo get all facilitiesWe are developing several vending zones in Yamunanagar and Jagadhri for the betterment of street vendors. We will provide them all basic facilities in these zones. — Madan Chauhan, Mayor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/street-vendors-oppose-being-shifted-to-newly-set-up-zone-in-yamunanagar-377667
14-03-2022||Nitish Sharma||To oust BJP, Bhupinder Singh Hooda targets 'GT Road belt' in Haryana||Kurukshetra, March 13Aiming to return to power, former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda is concentrating on the “GT Road belt”. He has called upon Congress workers to take a vow to throw the BJP out of the GT Road belt in Haryana.Addressing a gathering on the occasion of ‘Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh’ programme here at Thanesar grain market, Hooda said that this belt was instrumental in forming of the BJP government.“Farmers, commission agents, businessmen and representatives of different communities met me here and they told me about the problems they are facing. All sections of society are unhappy with this government. I am here to tell you how this government came to power. There was only one reason and it was that the ‘GT Road belt’ formed the government in the last Assembly election. We are here to take blessings from this land so that we can start a campaign to throw out this government from this belt,” he said.Hooda alleged, “Haryana had not seen a more corrupt government in its history. Democracy is in danger today and everyone has to fight the battle together. Every government department is facing shortage of employees today, but the government is not recruiting staff. Despite the big scams, the government is only setting up committees in the name of investigation. Earlier, in a dozen scams including liquor, registry, paddy and recruitment, the government had formed committees but no action has been taken against any person.”He raised the demand for a medical college in the name of Guru Tegh Bahadur in Kurukshetra.The former CM raised the issue of Dadupur Nalvi canal and SYL canal and added that there was no mention of SYL in the Haryana Budget.Elated to see the gathering, Deepender Hooda alleged, “The programme has turned into a rally. The gathering has boosted our confidence. The BJP-JJP government in Haryana has pushed the state to the brink of ruin and it has failed to take any action in different scams. ‘Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh’ marks the beginning of the struggle to oust the anti-people government of Haryana. Today, the entire state is looking at us. We are two years away from the next elections and I seek your support in the struggle for change.”Congress leaders Ashok Arora, Geeta Bhukkal, Mewa Singh, Varun Chaudhry and several former MLAs and ministers were also present.BJP got 22 seats in 2014The sole reasonThe ‘GT Road belt’ formed the govt in the last Assembly election. We are here to take blessings from this land so that we can throw out this govt from this belt. Bhupinder Singh Hooda, former CM #bhupinder hooda #deepender hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-oust-bjp-bhupinder-singh-hooda-targets-gt-road-belt-in-haryana-377666
14-03-2022||---||Ahead of Kejriwal's foray into Haryana, buzz back on Ashok Khemka joining AAP||New Delhi, March 13Ahead of the buoyant Aam Aadmi Party’s electoral foray into Haryana, the buzz about the entry of the whistleblower bureaucrat Ashok Khemka into the party fold is back.Khemka, the 1991-batch IAS officer, who has faced 54 transfers in his 30-year-long bureaucratic career, has long been wooed by the AAP.The AAP sources today said that Khemka, who has so far maintained a distance from electoral politics, might join the Kejriwal-led outfit and become its principal adviser in Haryana which goes to the polls in 2024.The AAP leaders and workers have even started tweeting about the issue.“Arvind Kejriwal’s college friend and IAS officer Ashok Khemka will be the AAP’s guiding force in Haryana. He will be quitting the IAS to join AAP. The AAP family is expanding,” Indu Gusain, AAP secretary, Delhi unit, tweeted.The AAP had first invited Khemka to join its ranks on the eve of the 2014 state elections, but the bureaucrat had stayed away.Sources said things might have changed since then, with the party sweeping Punjab in a massive landslide, a wave that could create ripples in bordering Haryana and Himachal Pradesh.In 2013, when the AAP invited Khemka into the party, it was widely speculated that Kejriwal wanted to project the IAS officer as the party’s CM face in Haryana.Khemka and Kejriwal go back a long way and studied together in IIT Kharagpur in the 1980s.Kejriwal’s confidant and Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia had said in 2013, “I personally want Khemka to join the AAP, lead it in Haryana and play an important role.”Khemka has had a chequered bureaucratic career and was chargesheeted for “administrative misconduct” upon cancelling the mutation of a land deal involving Congress President Sonia Gandhi’s son-in-law Robert Vadra and DLF bosses.Khemka, with his anti-corruption stand within the bureaucracy, fits into the AAP’s narrative of clean governance, said party sources.Haryana has traditionally witnessed a direct contest between the BJP and Congress.Fits into AAP’s narrativeAAP had first invited Khemka to join its ranks ahead of 2014 Haryana elections, but the bureaucrat had stayed away. Things may have changed after AAP’s Punjab sweep. Khemka, with his anti-corruption stand within the bureaucracy, fits into AAP’s narrative of clean governance #arvind kejriwal #ashok khemka||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ahead-of-kejriwals-foray-into-haryana-buzz-back-on-ashok-khemka-joining-aap-377665
14-03-2022||Pradeep Sharma||53% posts of Block Education Officer vacant in Haryana||Chandigarh, March 13As many as 53 per cent posts of Block Education Officer (BEO), the administrative officer who acts as a link between schools and district education authorities, are lying vacant across Haryana.The situation has come to such a pass that there is no permanent BEO in CM ML Khattar’s home block Karnal.Besides, all four posts in Panchkula district and both posts in Faridabad are lying vacant. However, Jhajjar is the only district where regular staff is manning all five posts. Data showed that of the 119 sanctioned posts, only 55 are manned by regular officers and 64 are being held as additional charges, mainly by already overburdened principals.Deepanshu Bansal, national convener of the RTI cell of the National Students Union of India, who sought information through RTI, alleged the data had exposed the tall claims of the BJP-JJP government about improved standards of education.While four out of six posts are lying vacant in Karnal and Ambala, two out of seven posts are vacant in Bhiwani. In Charkhi Dadri, one out of three posts is vacant.Meanwhile, the vacancy position for other districts is as: Fatehabad (total 6, vacant 5); Gurugram (total 4, vacant 3); Hisar (total 8, vacant 3); Jind (total 7, vacant 5); Kaithal (total 6, vacant 5); Kurukshetra (total 5, vacant 3); Mahendragarh (total 5, vacant 2); Nuh (total 5, vacant 4); Palwal (total 4, vacant 2); Panipat (total 5, vacant 2); Rewari (total 5, vacant 3); Rohtak (total 5, vacant 2); Sirsa (total 6, vacant 6); Sonepat (total 7, vacant 2); and Yamunanagar (total 6, vacant 3).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/53-posts-of-block-education-officer-vacant-in-haryana-377664
14-03-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Fine for information denial to be recovered from officials' pay in Haryana||Panipat, March 13Penalty amount from the state public information officers’ (SPIO) salary will be deducted automatically as the National Informatics Centre (NIC) has developed a module to recover the penalty amount.As many as 1,726 government officials designated as state public information officers (SPIOs), under the Right to Information Act, were yet to pay Rs 2.27 crore, out of the Rs 3.5 crore fine imposed on them by the SIC from 2006 to 2019.PP Kapoor, an RTI activist in his complaint filed to the Lokayukta, Haryana, on July 21, 2020, stated that the State Information Commission (SIC) had become “toothless” as the SPIOs designated by the government neither provided information within the stipulated period of 30 days nor do they pay the fine imposed on them by the commission for the delays.Kapoor informed the Lokayukta that the SIC had imposed a fine of Rs 3,50,54,740 ever since its inception in 2006 till 2019, but out of this, Rs 2.27 crore was still to be recovered as officials were ignoring to pay the fine and the commission did not have a mechanism to force them to comply with the orders.He also supplied a list of 1,726 government officials, many of them HCS officers, who had not paid their fine. Following the complaint, Lokayukta, Haryana, had given the notice to the state government.Following the notice, the state government had constituted a high power monitoring committee under the chairmanship of Chief Secretary to monitor the payment of the fine on January 18, 2021.Now, Rakesh Sandhu, Deputy Secretary from the Administrative Reforms Department, informed the Lokayukta, Haryana, during the hearing of the case on February 21 that NIC has developed a module for linking the amount of penalty in Human Resource Management System (HRMS). It would further be linked to the e-salary of SPIOs and the NIC has also handed over the password and user ID to the commission, Kapoor said.The NIC has been requested to make such linkage functional. As soon as the module is made functional by the Director, NIC, Director General, (Treasury and Accounts), Haryana, will be requested to issue instructions to all the Drawing and Disbursing Officers (DDOs) of public authorities to deduct the amount of penalty from the defaulting SPIOs.Sandhu also told the Lokayukta, Haryana, that Director, NIC, has already informed the Director General, (Accounts and Treasury), that the module software is ready. The Treasury and Accounts Department may be requested to issue standing instructions to link outstanding penalties of HRMS and e-salary to all the DDOs of public authority at an early date so that the recovery process from the defaulting SPIOs may be started. The next hearing in the matter is on April 20, Kapoor said.Rs2.27 crore pendingAs many as 1,726 government officials designated as state public information officers (SPIOs), under the Right to Information Act, are yet to pay Rs 2.27 crore, out of the Rs 3.5 crore fine imposed on them by the SIC from 2006 to 2019. #rti||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fine-for-information-denial-to-be-recovered-from-officials-pay-in-haryana-377663
14-03-2022||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram MC identifies 555 unsafe buildings||Gurugram, March 13Even as the civic administration is busy enlisting societies for structural safety audit, a survey by the Gurugram Municipal Corporation has found that 555 buildings within its jurisdiction were unauthorised and unsafe.These buildings neither have any approved plan nor any structural audit report. Fire NOCs are missing too. Taking a stern view, Municipal Commissioner Mukesh Ahuja has ordered action against the violators.“Any building that’s unauthorised, doesn’t have an approved building plan and lacks mandatory safety certificates is unsafe. The violators have been served notices and the Joint Commissioners concerned have been asked to act as per law,” said Ahuja.Officials said these buildings were both residential and commercial. Some owners had opened paying guest (PG) facilities and shops in these multi-storeyed structures, they said.It was on February 16 after the Chintel Paradiso roof collapse incident that all Joint Commissioners were asked to carry out the safety survey in their zones to identify unsafe buildings.The month-long exercise led to the identification of 555 buildings. The highest 259 are in zone-3, which primarily includes parts of New Gurugram, followed by zone-1 with 150 buildings, zone-4 with 95 and zone-2 with 51.A Joint Commissioner said there were several illegally built PG facilities that had up to seven floors. In several cases, commercial complexes and illegal flats had been built, he said. The Municipal Corporation has also roped in an external agency to review it structures in old Gurugram, which found 80 unsafe and dilapidated structures. #gurugram building collapse||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-mc-identifies-555-unsafe-buildings-377562
14-03-2022||Aditi Tandon||Ahead of Kejriwal's Haryana forays, buzz back about whistleblower IAS officer Ashok Khemka joining AAP||New Delhi, March 13Ahead of the buoyant Aam Aadmi Party’s foray into Haryana, the buzz about the entry of whistleblower bureaucrat Ashok Khemka into the party fold is back.Khemka, the 1991-batch IAS officer, who has faced 54 transfers in his 30-year long bureaucratic career, has long been wooed by the AAP.AAP sources today said Khemka, who has so far maintained a distance from electoral politics, might finally join the Arvind Kejriwal-led outfit and become its principal adviser in election-bound Haryana. The state goes to polls in 2024.The AAP had first invited Khemka to join its ranks on the eve of 2014 state elections but the bureaucrat had stayed away.Sources said things have changed hugely since then, with the party sweeping Punjab in a massive landslide—a wave that is bound to create ripples in bordering Haryana and Himachal, all part of joint Punjab before the 1966 reorganisation.In 2013 when AAP invited Khemka into the party, it was widely speculated that Kejriwal wanted to project the IAS officer as the party’s CM face in Haryana.Khemka and Kejriwal go back a long way and studied together at IIT-Kharagpur in the 1980s.Kejriwal’s confidante Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia had even said on record in 2013, “I personally want Khemka to join the AAP, lead it in Haryana and play an important role.”Khemka rose to fame when he was chargesheeted for “administrative misconduct” upon cancelling the mutation of a land deal involving Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s son in law Robert Vadra and DLF bosses.Khemka, with his anti-corruption stand within the bureaucracy, fits into AAP’s narrative of clean governance, said party sources.The buzz about Khemka’s eventual entry into the AAP became stronger with Indu Gusain, AAP secretary, Delhi unit, on Saturday tweeting: “Arvind Kejriwal’s college friend and IAS officer Ashok Khemka, who has been transferred 54 times in his 30 year career, will be AAP’s guiding force in Haryana. He will be quitting the IAS to join AAP. The AAP family is expanding.”Khemka had recently proposed changes to the Personnel MInistry’s IAS cadre rules suggesting, “The empanelment guidelines should be removed. They create an artificial barrier restricting the choice of the Central Government to choose from a larger pool of officers. More officers want to serve at the Centre, but are excluded.”Haryana has traditionally witnessed a direct contest between the BJP and Congress. AAP’s emergence could spoil the Congress applecart, with AAP leaders openly proclaiming to replace the Congress as the principal opposition to the BJP.The AAP has already announced intentions to contest Himachal, Haryana and Gujarat Assembly elections and plans to expand its membership across south India starting April 16, the birthday of Dr BR Ambedkar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ahead-of-kejriwals-haryana-forays-buzz-back-about-whistleblower-ias-officer-ashok-khemka-joining-aap-377472
