15-03-2022||New Delhi||2 die in road mishap in Yamunanagar||Two people lost their lives after the truck they were travelling in crashed into a tree near Amadalpur village of Yamunanagar district on Tuesday morning.The deceased has been identified as Vishal, a contractual employee posted at Regional Transport Office (RTO), Yamunanagar. However, the truck driver is yet to be identified.During checking, a team of RTO had caught a truck loaded with mining material. The team member, Vishal boarded the truck to check the weight of the goods.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-die-in-road-mishap-in-yamunanagar-378017
15-03-2022||New Delhi||Godrej Properties buys 50 acre land at Haryana’s Sonipat for plotted development||Realty firm Godrej Properties Limited on Tuesday said it has bought about 50 acre of land parcel at Sonipat in Haryana for plotted development as part of its plan to expand business across major cities.This project will offer about 10 lakh square of plotted residential development, offering attractive plot sizes.The Mumbai-based firm did not disclose the deal value as well as the name of the seller.This is the second major land deal by Godrej Properties in the Delhi-NCR area.In February 2020, it had acquired nearly 27 acre land parcel in the national capital for Rs 1,359 crore to develop a luxury housing project.Mohit Malhotra, MD & CEO of Godrej Properties, said, "We are pleased to announce our entry into Sonipat. The project fits well with our strategy of deepening our presence across the country's leading real estate markets".Sonipat as a micro-market has seen a lot of infrastructure developments over the past couple of years and is going to play a vital role in the NCR growth story, he added.Godrej Properties said the site is strategically located with good connectivity to the Delhi border and national highways.In addition, the site is in close proximity to the upcoming educational and industrial hub of Sonipat and offers a well-developed social infrastructure.In an interview with PTI last month, Godrej Executive Chairman Pirojsha Godrej had mentioned about the company's plans to invest around Rs 7,500 crore over the next 12-18 months on acquisition and development of new real estate projects.He was upbeat on the growth potential in the housing and commercial real estate segments, especially in four major markets: Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Delhi-NCR, Bengaluru and Pune -- where the company has a huge presence."We will invest USD 1 billion (around Rs 7,500 crore) over the next 12-18 months on the development of new projects," Pirojsha had said.Godrej Properties, the largest listed realty firm in the last fiscal in terms of sales bookings, acquires new projects through outright purchase of land parcels and also via joint ventures with land owners.Pirojsha said the company acquired three projects in the third quarter of this fiscal.The company is likely to achieve all-time high sale bookings in the 2021-22 financial year, beating the last year's record of Rs 6,725 crore.According to a report by Housing.com, the prices of residential plots across eight major Indian cities went up by an average of seven per cent annually since 2015, while rates of apartments rose by two per cent only.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/business/godrej-properties-buys-50-acre-land-at-haryanas-sonipat-for-plotted-development-377999
15-03-2022||The picture has been clicked in Sector 9||Stray cattle put commuters’ lives in danger||Rohtak HSVP sector park in pitiable conditionThe main park of the HSVP, Sector 3, Rohtak, is in a pitiable condition. The open gymnasium, swings and benches are lying broken and damaged. Proper sanitation is also not being maintained in the sector and overflowing sewage is a common sight. Residents have made numerous complaints to the Municipal Corporation authorities in this regard, but to no avail. Resentment prevails among the residents over the prevailing situation. —Satish Tyagi, RohtakCellphone Towers hazardous to healthStrong radiations from the mushrooming cellphone towers are hazardous not only for human beings but also for birds. Small rent of tower invites enormous threat to life. Such towers are a common sight in and around Zirakpur and Sectors 20 and 21, Panchkula. High- rise society dwellers are at greater risk. The authorities need to check that certain norms are followed prior to installation. —Ria Thakral, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-cattle-put-commuters-lives-in-danger-377985
15-03-2022||---||Two youths arrested in Amit murder case||Kurukshetra, March 14The Kurukshetra police have arrested two youths in connection with the murder case of Amit Kumar (16), who was killed over a petty dispute in Gamri Jattan village of Kurukshetra on Saturday night.The arrested accused have been identified as Sahil and Niraj. They were produced before a court that sent them to two-day police remand.Superintendent of Police Anshu Singla said the CIA-2 unit of the Kurukshetra police have arrested two accused. A motorcycle used in the crime has also been recovered. In his complaint to the police, Gurdev Singh, father of the deceased, had stated that his son Amit had advised Sahil not to drive his motorcycle at high speed in the street, last month. But it did not go down well with Sahil and his father Subhash. They began keeping hostility with the victim and his family. On Saturday night, Sahil and Niraj attacked Amit with a sharp-edged weapon. A case was registered at the Kurukshetra University police station under Sections 302, 307, 34 and 120-b of the IPC against Sahil, Niraj and Subhash.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-youths-arrested-in-amit-murder-case-377982
15-03-2022||---||Stolen truck loaded with ACs recovered,  one arrested||Faridabad, March 14The police have recovered a truck loaded with air-conditioners. It was stolen in the district recently. One person has been arrested in this connection.Revealing this, 270 units of ACs worth around Rs 80 lakh were also recovered from the truck, a police official said.He said one accused identified as Ajit, a resident of Palwal district, working as a driver in a transport company, had committed the crime to make quick buck. He had stolen the parked truck from Sector 58 here during the night and hidden the vehicle in the Sohna hilly area, which was recovered on Sunday after a search.The accused was trying to sell the ACs and the truck, it is claimed. The truck was stolen on March 12. Based on inputs and information, the police recovered the vehicle.A case has been registered against the accused under relevant sections of the IPC based on a complaint by a transporter. Further investigation is on, it is further said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stolen-truck-loaded-with-acs-recovered-one-arrested-377980
15-03-2022||Rohtak||Rohtak: 2 wanted criminals held for double murder||An STF team led by Inspector Haresh Kumar of Rohtak unit, arrested two most-wanted criminals, including Ankit, alias Baba, and Sunny of Ritoli village in Rohta along with their accomplices.They have been arrested in connection with the murder of two persons in Ritoli village on March 2.Ankit and Sunny were involved in several criminal cases and each of them carried a cash award of Rs 10,000 on his head.The other arrested persons include Amit, alias Meeta, Vineet, alias Vinny, and Yash, alias Gajju, of Dighal village in Jhajjar district.Two countrymade pistols and two bullets were seized from the possession of the arrested persons. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-wanted-criminals-held-for-double-murder-377979
15-03-2022||Faridabad||Faridabad: Bogie of goods train derails, car damaged||A car parked in the official parking lot at Old Faridabad railway station here got damaged after a bogie of a goods train got derailed and rammed into the parking lot on Monday evening. The authorities have launched a probe into the incident.The incident took place at around 5 pm today, sources in the Railways Department said. A bogie of a goods train carrying cement got derailed in the yard of the station during the shunting of the train this evening and rammed into the wall of the parking lot after slipping off the track in the yard.Meanwhile, AK Goel, Station Superintendent of the railway station, admitted to some lapse on the part of the employees. The speed of the train was 5 km per hour at that time. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bogie-of-goods-train-derails-car-damaged-377977
15-03-2022||Faridabad||Faridabad: Fake insurance gang busted; 6 in police net||The police have arrested six persons for cheating people in the name of life insurance policies.The gang has been found to be involved in as many as 242 cheating incidents across the country, of which eight are in Haryana, it is claimed.A senior official of the Police Department said the accused — Ashok, Shaan, Amit, Tarun, Pradeep and Ravinder — had been nabbed in connection with a case booked in the cyber cell. He said the accused had been running a call centre from Janakpuri in New Delhi, from where they used to call the clients on their mobile number offering lucrative returns on the policies. While Shan hails from Mahoba district in UP, the rest of the accused are Delhi residents.“Posing as LIC officials, the accused would talk about the pros and cons of the policies already purchased by the customers. They used to offer better alternatives if the customer agrees to close the existing policy. After the consent of the policyholder, the accused used to get deposited a certain amount in their account through online transactions and later remained inaccessible.Manoj Kumar, a local, in his complaint lodged last month has alleged that he was duped of Rs 8.5 lakh in the name of getting a new life insurance policy. A mobile phone, a SIM card, a walkie talkie and Rs 1 lakh in cash has been recovered from the accused.While the arrested accused have been sent to judicial custody, the police have launched a hunt to nab two other members of the gang, who are still absconding. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-insurance-gang-busted-6-in-police-net-377975
15-03-2022||Bhiwani||Bhiwani: Teacher nabbed on charges of sexual assault||The Bhiwani police today arrested a government school teacher on the charges of sexual assault on a minor in the school library on March 10.The police registered a case under Section 376 (rape), 354A (sexual harassment) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the relevant Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on the complaint of the victim.Villagers gathered at the school and locked its gate today. They said the victim was a student of Class VI in the school and aged 12.Later, the police and the Education Department officials rushed to the village school and assured the villagers of strict action in the incident. Surender Singh, a villager, said the incident occurred when the teacher called in two schoolgirls inside the library and tried to molest one of them.The victim girl narrated the incident to her parents after which they along with a group of villagers met the school authorities, demanding action against the accused in the matter. — #pocso||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/teacher-nabbed-on-charges-of-sexual-assault-377974
15-03-2022||Karnal||Recovery from DTP: Karnal tehsildar held||Three days after the arrest of DTP Vikram Singh, who was arrested while accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh, a team of the State Vigilance Bureau on Monday arrested Karnal Tehsildar Rajbakhsh Arora in connection with the recovery of Rs 78.16 lakh from the DTP.Team members confirmed his arrest. “During the investigation of the recovered Rs 78.6 lakh from his residence, the DTP revealed that Tehsildar Arora had given Rs 14.5 lakh to DTP for providing NOCs of various plots to several people for the registration of their land. On his statement, we have arrested the Tehsildar. We already recovered this amount earlier,” said inspector Sachin, a team member.The tehsildar will be produced in the court on Tuesday to take him on police remand, he said, adding that the DTP will also be produced again in court on Tuesday for extension of his police remand for further investigation. “Both the DTP and Tehsildar were hand in gloves,” he said.Tehsildar also gave huge money to DTP for investment, he added. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/recovery-from-dtp-karnal-tehsildar-held-377973
15-03-2022||Bhiwani||Bhiwani: Experts visit Chaudhary Bansilal University for 12B recognition||Engineering in mother tongue Faridabad: The Vice-Chancellor of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, said language should not become a barrier in teaching and learning process of students and asked the faculty members to help the students if they wanted to pursue engineering in their mother tongue. Addressing the introductory meeting of the mechanical engineering department, the VC said the National Education Policy-2020 allowed mother tongue to be used as the medium of instruction. The idea is to bridge the gap between language spoken by the student and the medium of teaching. If a student is taught in a language they do not understand, it will be difficult to achieve the target. Earlier, Prof Raj Kumar gave a brief introduction of the department and apprised the Vice-Chancellor about the progress of the newly started BTech programme in Hindi medium.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/experts-visit-varsity-for-12b-recognition-377972
15-03-2022||Gurugram||14 cops transferred in Gurugram||Almost 15 days after taking over as the police chief, Kala Ramachandran, ordered reshuffle today. As per the latest orders, 14 police personnel in the city were transferred, including six station house officers (SHOs).According to the transfer order inspector Devendra was shifted from police lines and made SHO, Bhondsi, inspector Rajendra was transferred from Rohtak and made SHO, Kherki Daula, inspector Subhash was made SHO, IMT, Manesar, inspector Poonam was shifted from women police station and made SHO, Sushant Lok, while inspector Jasveer has been posted as reader of the Police Commissioner.Inspector Aarti has been posted as SHO of women police station, Manesar, inspector Satender as SHO, traffic 2, inspector Ramphal, in-charge control room, inspector Sunder Pal as SHO cybercrime police station, inspector Sanjeev as traffic inspector West IV, inspector Ajay has been shifted to the traffic headquarters, inspector Jitendra to police lines, sub inspector Ravindra has been posted as reader of the Joint Police Commissioner. Sub inspector Naresh has been transferred as in-charge, CRO branch, Gurugram. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/14-cops-transferred-377970
15-03-2022||Hisar||Man gets death for killing lover's 2-yr-old child||A Hisar district court today awarded death sentence to a man convicted for murdering the two-and-a-half-year child of his lover in Gaibipur village of Hisar district. The court had convicted Hemraj on March 11 and pronounced the quantum of punishment today. Additional District and Sessions Judge Gurvinder Singh Wadhwa considered the murder of the child as a rarest-of-rare case.Hemraj had brutally murdered the child by drowning him, slamming him on the road and severed his head with a spade (sharp-edged farm implement) on June 16, 2018. Later, the police recovered the severed head of the child from a nullah and the body was extricated from a field in the village.A “murder reference” for confirmation of death sentence will now be made by the Additional Sessions Judge to the Punjab and Haryana High Court.The police said that the then village sarpanch, Arjun Mehta, had informed the police about finding a headless body of a child buried in the field of a villager.After registering a case, the police interrogated Hemraj who had taken the agricultural land where the body was found on lease. During interrogation, Hemraj confessed to the crime.He told the police that he met a woman from Uttar Pradesh who was living with her child after separation from her husband. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-gets-death-for-killing-2-yr-old-377969
15-03-2022||Nitish Sharma||Court to Ambala SP: Act against IO for arresting woman after sunset||Ambala, March 14The court of Duty Judicial Magistrate First Class Yachana has directed Ambala SP to take appropriate action against an investigating officer (IO) after a woman, accused in a cheating case, was arrested after sunset and before sunrise. The court also directed the SP to look into the matter and ensure that no such incident recurs.A woman was arrested by an IO from Patiala in connection with a cheating case on the evening of March 11.The court in its order, passed at 1 am, stated that the accused was produced before the duty magistrate (DM) at 12.01 am. The IO requested for a two-day remand. An application for bail of the accused was also filed.The IO submitted that the accused was arrested by him from Patiala at about 6.50 pm on March 11. He submitted that the accused was evading arrest, and therefore, it was necessary to arrest her after sunset in these exceptional circumstances. He submitted that the notice was also given to the accused to join the investigation on March 8 but she didn’t turn up.The accused joined the probe on March 11 and a notice was served upon her. Thereafter, she was arrested. The anticipatory bails of the accused were dismissed. He further submitted that before arresting the accused, the local police at Patiala was given information.On the other hand, Rajesh Sharma and Pawan Mundan, counsel for the accused, submitted that she was falsely implicated in the case. She has been arrested by violating the provisions of Section 46 (4) of CrPC, which permit the arrest of a woman between sunset and sunrise only in exceptional circumstances.They submitted that there were no exceptional circumstances existing to arrest the accused after sunset and that too by a male officer. They also submitted that no prior permission of JMIC was obtained before arresting the accused.The court’s orders said that the IO has failed to show the existence of any such exceptional circumstances to justify the arrest of the accused after sunset and before sunrise. There is nothing on record to show that the accused was absconding or evading arrest. It is not the case where the accused was absconding or hiding that necessitated the arrest after sunset as the IO was well aware of the abode of the accused as he had served notice to the accused.Furthermore, only a woman head constable is stated to be accompanying the IO whereas the arrest was supposed to be made by woman police officer. The court ordered to release the accused from custody. The court directed the SP to take appropriate action against the IO, keeping in mind if the violation of law was committed to defeat the anticipatory bail dismissal orders.Meanwhile, Ambala SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa said, “We are yet to receive the orders. We will inquire the matter and check if the due procedure was followed or not.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/court-to-sp-act-against-io-for-arresting-woman-after-sunset-377967
15-03-2022||Parveen Arora||Karnal bus depot grapples with shortage||Karnal, March 14The Karnal bus depot is running short of 50% buses with just 123 included in its fleet against the demand of 240. Of the 123, two are parked in a workshop due to breakdown.Moreover, nearly 20 more buses will be declared unfit this year. Owing to the shortage of buses, the transport service on a couple of long routes has been suspended. “The Karnal depot has suspended services on the routes to Hoshiarpur, Dharamshala and Baijnath,” said an official.“Buses that are five-year-old or more are not allowed in Delhi. At present, there are 17 buses that are five-year-old and more, so these can’t ply to Delhi. These buses have been shifted to other routes.”Long-route service suspendedOwing to the shortage of buses, the Karnal depot has suspended services on the routes to Hoshiarpur, Dharamshala and Baijnath. —An official45 New vehicles sanctionedIn all, 45 buses have been sanctioned and are likely to be part of the fleet…we’ll try to connect the long route buses of HP to Delhi. —Kuldeep Singh, GM, Haryana roadways, Karnal depotThe rural routes are also facing a shortage of buses, due to which students of various educational institutions continue to risk their lives by travelling in overcrowded buses. One of the officials said the Nilokheri-Nigdhu route, Karnal-Dhand via Sitamai, Karnal-Ramana, Karnal-Balpabana and Karnal-Jadoli route among others were facing a shortage of buses, forcing daily commuters to use private ones.Commuters say they are facing hardships and have to travel on private buses on a higher fare. “We’ve raised the issue of the shortage of buses on various rural routes, but no action has been taken,” Subhash Chand, a social activist.Meanwhile, Kuldeep Singh, general manager, Haryana Roadways, Karnal depot, said he had sent a demand of buses to the higher authorities. “As many as 45 new buses have been sanctioned and are expected to be included in the fleet.” “We try our best to provide sufficient bus services on all routes. Buses of three long routes have been suspended for now,” the GM said, adding that after the inclusion of new buses, they would try to connect the long route buses of Himachal Pradesh to Delhi.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-bus-depot-grapples-with-shortage-377965
15-03-2022||---||3 properties sealed over tax evasion in Karnal||Karnal, March 14The Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Monday sealed three properties in the city allegedly for not depositing the property tax. As per officials, each was a defaulter of Rs 10 lakh and more and they had not deposited the dues despite several reminders.Devender Narwal, Executive Officer of the KMC, led the team and sealed three properties — a hotel near Uchana, a tile factory in Uchana, and a showroom in Sector 6. “We have served notices on them. We have sealed three properties as they failed to pay the tax. Our campaign to seal property tax defaulters having dues of Rs 10 lakh or more will continue,” said Narwal.As per sources, the hotel owner deposited the dues in the evening, but till the filing of news, it was not de-sealed. “Our campaign against the property tax defaulters will continue. We have prepared lists of the property tax defaulters,” Naresh Narwal said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-properties-sealed-over-tax-evasion-377962
15-03-2022||Nitish Sharma||Kurukshetra board to set up vending zone outside Brahma Sarovar||Kurukshetra, March 14The Kurukshetra Development Board has decided to develop a vending zone in the outer area of Brahma Sarovar by introducing vending carts at a cost of Rs 50 lakh.The board will purchase 50 carts for food and souvenir- item vendors for which a budget provided by the Power Grid Corporation Limited will be used and the carts will be provided at subsidised rates to the vendors who have been setting up their stalls there for years.50 carts to be purchasedCurrently, the carts and stalls of different sizes and looks are placed by the vendors. The board’s aim is to bring uniformity and beautify the area under this project.Only for eligible beneficiariesThere will be food and souvenir carts that will be provided to eligible beneficiaries as per their occupation at subsidised rates. The Thanesar Municipal Council is working on this project and a policy is being prepared. —Anubhav Mehta, Chief executive officer, KDBUniformity to be introducedTo enhance the beauty, improve sanitation and give a new experience to visitors, uniformity will be introduced by bringing in standardised vending carts, which will be purchased. —Madan Mohan Chhabra, KDB Honorary secretaryAn official said a survey was conducted by the Thanesar Municipal Council in the Brahma Sarovar area. As per the survey, there were around 50 vendors who had been setting up their stalls and carts there. They were registered by the council as well. For the beautification and improving the sanitation condition of the outer area, the board decided to introduce stainless-steel carts and install dustbins. While Rs 50 lakh will be spent on the stainless-steel carts, a budget of Rs 30 lakh will be spent on the dustbins, under the ‘Swachh Divya Kurukshetra’ project for which a budget provided by the Power Grid Corporation Limited under the CSR will be utilised. The carts will be purchased through the Municipal Council.KDB honorary secretary Madan Mohan Chhabra said, “To enhance the beauty, improve sanitation and give a new experience to the visitors, uniformity will be introduced by bringing in standardised vending carts.” #brahma sarovar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-board-to-set-up-vending-zone-outside-brahma-sarovar-377961
15-03-2022||---||Bhagwant Mann, Arvind Kejriwal should clear stand on SYL, says Haryana Cong leader Captain Ajay Singh Yadav||Panipat, March 14Captain Ajay Singh Yadav, former minister and national chairman of the OBC cell of the Congress, said that Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is going to form a government in Punjab for which he wishes it the best. But Bhagwant Mann, who is going to become the CM of Punjab, and Arvind Kejriwal, the national convener of AAP, should first clear their stand on the Sutlej-Yamuna link canal, he said.Yadav said that in southern Haryana, water has run out at the depth of 1,000 ft. So people get drinking water with great difficulty. Entire Haryana, including southern Haryana, would benefit from the water that the SYL brings. Captain Yadav said that for bringing SYL water to Haryana, the Congress fought, went to court and Haryana won there. #arvind kejriwal #bhagwant mann #captain ajay singh yadav #syl||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhagwant-mann-arvind-kejriwal-should-clear-stand-on-syl-says-yadav-377960
15-03-2022||Panipat||Many Haryana ex-ministers, MLAs join AAP after clean sweep in Punjab||In an event held at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) headquarters in Delhi, several ex-ministers, MLAs of Haryana and their followers today joined the party, including BJP’s state executive member and former Gurugram MLA Umesh Agarwal, former minister Balbir Singh Saini, senior Congress leader and former minister Bijender Singh Kadyan, former Samalkha MLA Ravindra Machroli, Sohna assembly’s BSP candidate Javed Ahmed, Punjab in-charge of Congress’s Kisan Cell Jagat Singh, Amandeep Singh, Brahm Singh Gurjar, Parminder Singh Goldie, Karan Singh Tanwar, Khaimi Thakur, Sardar Azad Singh and Gurlal Singh.Meanwhile, after a clean sweep in Punjab, AAP seems to have set its eyes on Haryana and began expanding its base in the state.Senior AAP leader and Delhi Cabinet minister Satyendar Jain said after Delhi and Punjab, Haryana wanted AAP. People of Punjab and Delhi voted for change, Haryana will see the same fate very soon, he added. “People of Haryana are witnessing a revolution on both sides of its borders in Delhi and Punjab and are eagerly waiting for change,” said Sushil Gupta, MP, Rajya Sabha.After Punjab elections, people across the country are feeling an undercurrent of change. AAP is expanding exponentially in Haryana. A large number of former cabinet ministers and former MLAs of Haryana are joining the party, he claimed.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/many-ex-ministers-mlas-join-aap-377959
15-03-2022||Geetanjali Gayatri||Old age pension to 2.77 lakh beneficiaries discontinued in Haryana||Chandigarh, March 14Haryana has discontinued old age pension to 2.77 lakh beneficiaries since 2019 and 14,621 names have already been struck off in the first two months of this year.While around 90% of the beneficiaries are dead, nearly 32,000 are those failed to meet the income criterion or are untraceable.Replying to an unstarred question by Congress MLA Amit Sihag on the district-wise and year-wise information of beneficiaries whose old age pension has been stopped, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment OP Yadav, in his reply, said the pension for 94,857 beneficiaries was discontinued in 2019, for 68,746 in 2020 and for 99,452 in 2021.While the pension has been discontinued for a maximum of 19,211 beneficiaries in Hisar, followed by 18,251 in Karnal, the number is just over 16,000 in Ambala and Jind. Of the 22 districts, 17 have seen over 10,000 names being struck off the list of beneficiaries.Panchkula has the least number of beneficiaries (4,204) whose pension has been discontinued, while other districts with less than 10,000 names are Gurugram, Faridabad, Mewat and Charkhi Dadri.In the first two months of 2022, Ambala has the maximum beneficiaries at 1,669 whose pension has been stopped, followed by Sirsa at 1,216 and Jind at 1,010.Though the MLA didn’t ask the reasons for the discontinuation of the old age pension, sources in the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment said this was essential because of the death of the beneficiary.“While the old age pension is discontinued mostly in case of the death of the beneficiary, some are found ineligible on verification while others are not traceable when the ground check is carried out,” an officer said.Sihag, however, said he posed this particular question because he was getting many cases from his own constituency. “The government has identified a cut-off income to disburse the old age pension. However, this was just meant to be an honour for senior citizens and the idea was not to link it to the income. Since this income slab was fixed, a number of beneficiaries were denied pension,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/old-age-pension-to-2-77-lakh-beneficiaries-discontinued-377957
15-03-2022||Chandigarh||No case of organised illegal mining found, says Haryana minister||Haryana Transport and Mining Minister Mool Chand Sharma here today said that no case of organised illegal mining had been found in the state of Haryana though sporadic incidents of theft of minerals had been noticed, which were being dealt with as per the law.Sharma was replying to a question raised by Congress MLA Aftab Ahmed during the ongoing session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha. He said such incidents also included cases of the transportation of minerals from neighbouring states without valid supporting documents under various provisions of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, which are dealt with by imposing fines accordingly.The road from Chhuchhakwas village to Bahu village in Jhajjar district of Haryana would be widened from 7 to 10 m and street-lights would be installed in every village on this road. Union Minister Nitin Gadkari had also given his consent to the new proposed highway connecting to KMP via Hisar-Tosham-Badhra-Satnali-Mahendragarh-Kanina-Rewari.This information was given by the Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala in response to a question by Congress MLA Geeta Bhukkal.Chautala also said that the state government had a vision to set up five new cities on the KMP, out of which one city was proposed in Palwal.Haryana Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister, JP Dalal said there was not much shortage of manure, urea in the state and the farmers of Haryana were happy.The Agriculture Minister said this while replying to a question raised by Congress MLA Kiran Choudhary even as she insisted that women had to stand in the queue from morning till evening and still did not get urea.Dalal, however, said that during the current rabi season till March 9, as much as 10.80 lakh metric tonnes of urea fertiliser had been made available to the farmers, which was more than the consumption of last year (10.51 lakh metric tonnes of urea). Besides, a stock of 1.38 lakh metric tonnes of urea was also available in the state as of March 9, 2022.Meanwhile, Haryana Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister, JP Dalal said an amount of Rs 1,357.12 crore had been given to farmers as claims due to damage caused by pests and unseasonal rains during kharif 2020 and kharif 2021. #illegal mining||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-case-of-organised-illegal-mining-found-says-minister-377955
15-03-2022||Pradeep Sharma||Bill moved to exempt tractor from NCR ban||Chandigarh, March 14In a huge relief to the farmers, the BJP-JJP government today moved a Bill in the Haryana Assembly, exempting tractors from the purview of the ban imposed by the Central Government on the plying of diesel vehicles older than 10 years in the National Capital Region (NCR).Introducing the Haryana Laws (Special Provisions) Amendment Bill, 2022 in the ongoing Budget session of the Haryana Assembly, Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma said the Bill had been brought keeping in view the financial condition of the farmers. The Bill will be taken up during the course of the session later on.Six other Bills introduced“In view of the financial condition of the farmers and ban on the operation of 10-year-old diesel vehicles in the NCR, including specified agricultural vehicles, and in pursuance of the orders of the Supreme Court (SC) and the National Green Tribunal (NGT), it is necessary and expedient to enhance the validity of the Act up to June 30, 2025,” Sharma said.However, Sharma contended that in the period till 2025, various policy issues and support for phasing out the specified agricultural vehicles from the NCR were expected to be finalised.Earlier, the NGT had taken a stand that the plying of diesel vehicles older than 10 years would not be allowed in the NCR, spreading panic among thousands of farmers in the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bill-moved-to-exempt-tractor-from-ncr-ban-377953
15-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Mining at Dadam hills: Haryana CM Khattar says no to CBI probe, Opposition protests||Chandigarh, March 14Haryana Congress MLAs led by Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today walked out of the Assembly after CM Manohar Lal Khattar rejected their demand for a CBI probe into the alleged illegal mining at Dadam hills in Bhiwani. Five persons had died in a landslide on January 1.The government submitted that the Justice Pritam Pal panel had found that the site was part of a seasonal distributary and had got damaged due to plying of heavy vehicles. To further ascertain the damage, satellite imagery was being studied, it said. The government said illegal mining in Aravalli plantation area had been detected and at some places, pits as deep as 350 to 360 feet had been dug up, which was a violation.Congress chief whip BB Batra read out a Supreme Court order dated August 11, 2017, on the previous project proponent of Dadam mine, M/s Sunder Marketing Associates. “This is a classic case of someone (M/s Sunder Marketing Associates) apparently having influence in high places, using that influence to violate law and get a benefit that would ordinarily not be granted to anybody else,” Batra read out from the order. The mine lease was granted to M/s KJSL-Sunder Marketing (joint venture) on January 3, 2014. Batra pointed out that Sunder Marketing wrote to the CM on May 15, 2015, for the transfer of 51 per cent share of KJSL to them, which was agreed to. In view of the SC order, he asked, “Isn’t it a clear case for probe under the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act?”Khattar replied that the permission for transfer of share was granted so that the state did not lose Rs 115 crore per annum as the KJSL wasn’t ready to pay that much amount citing awarding of a mine nearby in Khanak to the HSIIDC. Following the SC order, the mine auction was held twice again, but no lessee took it for Rs 115 crore per annum. The amount was reduced and the mine awarded to M/s Goverdhan Mines and Minerals for Rs 92.10 crore on January 5, 2018, he said. “We will not tolerate any allegation,” the CM said.INLD legislator Abhay Singh Chautala asked, “Is it a private property thatyou can give to anyone? Why was it leased out to an ineligible firm?”Demanding a CBI probe, Hooda alleged that small fish were being caught while the real culprits were roaming free. The CM said an accident had taken place and there were “certain faults”. “Three committees are looking into it. We will decide once these committees submit their report. We won’t take any decision under pressure,” he said. #CBI #illegal mining #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mining-khattar-says-no-to-cbi-probe-oppn-protests-377833
