16-03-2022||---||Pledge 50% "The Kashmir Files" profit for displaced Kashmiri Pandits: Karni Sena||Chandigarh, March 16The Karni Sena today urged Zee Studios and Vivek Ranjan Agnihotri, producer and director, respectively, of the movie "The Kashmir Files" to pledge 50% profit from the movie for the welfare of the displaced Kashmiri Pandits."A majority of the states have declared the movie tax-free to enable the common man to watch it. The producer and director should come forward and donate 50% net profit from the movie for the welfare of the displaced Kashmiri to show their solidarity with the cause they have espoused in the film," national president of Karni Sena, Suraj Pal Ammu said here today.However, if they failed to contribute to displaced Kashmiris' welfare, it would presumed that they had produced the movie only to cash in on the sufferings.of the displaced people and had no genuine concern for their welfare, Ammu added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pledge-50-the-kashmir-files-profit-for-displaced-kashmiri-pandits-karni-sena-378351
16-03-2022||Aditi Tandon||AAP launches Haryana poll foray posters, goes for all 90 seats||New Delhi, March 16After sweeping Punjab, Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday launched Haryana election foray posters, setting its eyes on a Punjab like landslide.AAPs social media in-charge for Haryana Vivek Lamba unveiled the posters on Twitter saying “BJP/Congress zero, AAP ki poori 90/90 seats”.हरियाणा के माहौल देख कर राज घराने हिल गए । अब उनके बच्चो को भी नौकरी करनी पड़ेगी । बहुत हुआ तानाशाह राज ।@ArvindKejriwal @DrSushilKrGupta pic.twitter.com/mgRulh4PS6The poster features Lamba, with Haryana AAP in-charge Sushil Kumar Gupta.Gupta inducted several leaders of other parties into AAP yesterday, claiming a wave in party’s support.“AAP's Haryana cadre is doubling up each day after its Punjab triumph. AAP's good governance and the Kejriwal Model are attracting attention all over India,” Gupta said.Aam Aadmi Party's Rajya Sabha MP inducted: Congress leader and former MLA Rajkumar, Sandeep Kumar Goel, who contested Mayor's election on behalf of BSP-INLD, Sanjay Sharma, who contested assembly election from BSP, BJP leader Vijaypal Gulia, who contested from Badli assembly, Dr Kapoor Singh, who contested the Lok Sabha elections, senior Congress leaders Surendra Dahiya and Manish Khatri."Aam Aadmi Party Haryana is expanding day by day since Punjab elections took place.  Just as the people of Punjab have chosen the politics and good governance model of Arvind Kejriwal by rejecting the politics of caste and religion, the people of Haryana also want good schools, colleges, hospitals and 24 hours electricity. They want employment and crime free governance. Today, AAP is their only hope. The party is seeing expansion at the district level every day.  The influence of the Aam Aadmi Party is increasing continuously,” said Gupta.Gupta noted state ruling party's MLA Devendra Gautam’s recent remarks that Aam Aadmi Party was ready to come to Haryana if the chief minister did not work properly.“Two days ago, a statement was given by a ruling party MLA in the Himachal Assembly that Jhaadu is going to sweep Himachal. The Delhi model of the Aam Aadmi Party and the good governance of Arvind Kejriwal are being sought all over India,” said Gupta.Haryana poll is due in 2024.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-launches-haryana-poll-foray-posters-goes-for-90-90-seats-378308
16-03-2022||Pradeep Sharma||Registries sans NOC to be probed: Haryana CM Khattar||Chandigarh, March 15The BJP-JJP government has decided to hold an inquiry into all land registrations from 2010 to 2016 for which mandatory no-objection certificate (NOC) was not obtained by the Revenue Department, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar announced here today.Intervening in a debate on the calling attention motion in the Haryana Assembly on irregularities in land registrations under Section 7-A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975, Khattar asserted that all records pertaining to land registrations would be probed to find any irregularities.“The violations of 7-A in land registries in 140 tehsils and sub-tehsils will be investigated at a fast pace,” he asserted.The calling attention motion was moved by Abhay Chautala (INLD), Kiran Chaudhry (Congress) and Balraj Kundu (Independent) among others.Under Section 7-A of the Act of 1975, the sub-registrars are mandated to seek NOC from the Town and Country Planning Department in respect of land registration measuring less than two-and-a-half acres in the controlled areas in the vicinity of the municipalities in Haryana. Currently, NOC has to be sought for area less than one acre. Earlier, demanding a High Court-monitored CBI inquiry into the “mammoth registration scam”, Chaudhry alleged that officials and land mafia had enriched themselves at the cost of the public exchequer.“By the government’s own admission, over 58,000 land registration deeds have been found to be in violation of the rules between April 2017 to August 2021 and over 250 officials are under the scanner. However, whatever has been unearthed by the official agencies is the tip of the iceberg,” she alleged.Putting the government in the dock, Kundu alleged that the state government sat over the official report for nearly two years as the reports of irregularities had come in June 2020. “Either the bigwigs in the state government are not competent to take action or are in connivance with the guilty,” alleged Kundu. Abhay Chautala alleged that the state government was caught napping as large-scale irregularities in land registration had been reported from across Haryana, including Chief Minister Khattar’s home district Karnal.Meanwhile, Revenue Minister Dushyant Chautala asserted that strict action was being initiated against accused officials, including sub-registrars, joint sub-registrars, registration clerks and patwaris. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/registries-sans-noc-to-be-probed-cm-378172
16-03-2022||---||61 stone crushers in Mahendragarh adhering to green norms||Chandigarh, March 15Education Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar here today told the House that 90 stone crushers in the Nangal Choudhary Vidhan Sabha constituency of Mahendragarh district were being installed with the consent of the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB).He said of the 90 crushers, 61 were found to be adhering to environmental norms, 25 were not complying with the cited norms and emissions and the consent for the operation of four units had expired and, thus, the units were closed on their own.Meanwhile, land registration will now be done up to a distance of 100 meters from the Faridabad Air Force Station, for which the process will be started within 48 hours. Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala gave this assurance in response to a question raised by a member of the House during the Budget session of Vidhan Sabha here today.He said a few years ago, an officer banned the registration of lands here without the permission of the government. “An investigation will be launched against him to figure out the reason,” he added.In response to another question regarding the wheat stored in the godowns of the Food Corporation of India (FCI), which when comes to the public distribution system is of poor quality, Chautala, who also holds the portfolio of the Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, clarified that the entire control of the FCI godowns was under the Centre. “The state government has no role in this,” he added.Urban Local Bodies Minister Kamal Gupta said the state government had received applications from 1,300 colonies in the state for providing essential services in the municipal areas that lack civic amenities and infrastructure. Of those, 845 fall within the municipal limits. He added that to date, the maps of 27 colonies which are within the limits of Sonepat Municipal Corporation, had been received from the Town and Country Planning Department, which would be completed as per the said Act and norms.CM Manohar Lal Khattar said the SDE of the HSVP, who had verified the bills with regard to the work of shifting the sewerage line passing under the IFFCO Chowk flyover in Gurugram, had been repatriated to his parent department and stern action would be taken against him after the probe was completed.Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Minister JP Dalal, on behalf of the Chief Minister, said the work of shifting the sewerage line passing under IFFCO Chowk flyover in Gurugram was completed by the NHAI in 2017 under the supervision of the HSVP. #Environment #hspcb #Pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/61-stone-crushers-in-mahendragarh-adhering-to-green-norms-378173
16-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh ThakurChandigarh||SCs, BCs 'not mentioned' in Haryana Budget, Congress walks out||Congress MLAs staged a walkout today after alleging that there was no mention of the Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Backward Classes (BCs) in the Budget 2022-23.During the discussion on the Budget estimates, leading the attack, Kalanaur’s Congress MLA Shakuntla Khatak said nothing was mentioned for the SCs/BCs in the Budget. Mullana’s Congress MLA Varun Chaudhary said, “Nowhere SCs are mentioned. For monthly stipend to the SC students of classes IX to XII, Rs 50 crore was earmarked for 2021-22, but nothing was spent. While Rs 20 crore was earmarked under the Cash Award Scheme for the SC students of classes IX to XII, nothing was spent in this regard. Also, for financial assistance to the SCs for competitive exams, Rs 10 crore was earmarked, for post-matric scholarships to SCs, Rs 20 crore was earmarked and Rs 50 lakh was fixed under Babu Jagjivan Ram Chatravas Yojna, but not a penny was spent.”He added that similar was the situation with the schemes for micro-irrigation for the SCs, livestock insurance and loans for housing cooperatives for SCs, and called for setting up of an SC component plan authority.Congress MLA Jagbir Malik claimed corruption in ration cards and “Mera Paani Meri Virasat” scheme. He listed a number of projects mentioned in the BJP’s manifesto which he claimed didn’t see the light of the day. “You tell me in how many civil hospitals, you have cardiologists and oncologists,” he said.Jannayak Janta Party (JJP)’s MLA Ram Kumar Gautam said the Town and Country Planning Department was a “den of corruption”. “There are a number of Vikram Singhs in the department,” he alleged. Recently, the State Vigilance Bureau has arrested Karnal District Town Planner Vikram Singh for taking gratification of Rs 5 lakh, while Rs 78 lakh was recovered from his residential premises. #bhupinder hooda #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/scs-not-mentioned-in-budget-cong-walks-out-378174
16-03-2022||---||Tehsildar registered property on DTP's NOC: Haryana Vigilance Bureau probe||Karnal, March 15The state Vigilance Bureau inquiry indicates that both arrested officials -– DTP Vikram Kumar and Tehsildar Rajbakhsh Arora — were hand in glove and allegedly had a nexus for the registration of properties in illegal colonies. For that, they allegedly used to charge money from people.DTP suspendedThe state government has suspended the services of DTP Vikram Kumar. In the order, Additional Chief Secretary, Devender Singh said, “The services of DTP Vikram Kumar have been placed under suspension with effect from March 11, the day of his red-handed arrest by the State Vigilance Bureau Haryana.” During suspension, his headquarters have been fixed as the Director Town and Country Planning Department, Haryana, Chandigarh.“Both officials were hand in glove. The DTP used to provide NOC of the property, which is mandatory for the registration of land, and the Tehsildar did registration of property on that NOC,” said inspector Sachin Kumar, a member of the team investigating the case.Sources in the Revenue Department say no registration of property could be done in an illegal colony. For the registration in any colony, NOC is required from the DTP office.Sources say the DTP used to take bribe from colonisers to assist in getting the change of land use certificate (CLU).On March 11, a vigilance team had arrested DTP Vikram Kumar with Rs 5 lakh allegedly for facilitating a coloniser in developing an illegal colony in Gharaunda block. His driver was also arrested with Rs 5,000 cash. The vigilance team had also seized Rs 78.6 lakh from the residence of the DTP, along with documents of properties and investment at several places.The vigilance team later arrested Karnal Tehsildar Rajbakhsh Arora on the confession of the DTP on March 13 from his office. As per the vigilance team, the DTP has confessed that out of the recovered Rs 78.6 lakh, the Tehsildar had given him Rs 14.5 lakh for providing NOCs of various properties.“The investigation indicates that both have divided their works for registration of properties in different areas particularly in illegal colonies,” said sources.Meanwhile, the DTP and Tehsildar were produced in court on Tuesday from where the DTP was taken on three-day police remand and the Tehsildar on one-day police remand.The police are investigating the involvement of others in this case. As per the sources, several other officials, employees and private persons are said to be involved in this case. GP Singh and Saurabh Kadyan, counsels of the Tehsildar, said that their client is a heart patient. “During investigation, his advocate will remain with him,” they added.On the other hand, Rajiv Kumar, counsel of the DTP, said that police have sought 10-day police remand for the recovery of two vehicles which, as per the police, had been purchased in cash. “One vehicle has been handed over to the vigilance and the second will also be given to the vigilance,” he added. #haryana vigilance bureau||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/tehsildar-registered-property-on-dtps-noc-probe-378175
16-03-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||To boost water supply, Faridabad to get 12 new Ranneywells||Faridabad, March 15The newly set up Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority (FMDA) has announced a plan to augment water supply in the city by setting up 12 new Ranneywells near the Yamuna river bed in the district. The project will cost Rs 180 crore.About RanneywellIt is a type of radial well constructed into sand or gravel below the surface level of a river. Here wells have been constructed in the bed of the Yamuna to draw water and supply to the tubewells or boosting stations where water is treated and supplied further to residents through a supply network.To replace traditional tubewell networkThe new Ranneywells of 120 MLD capacity, which are expected to come up within two years, will not only augment the supply, but also replace the traditional tubewell network. A senior official of the FMDA“Though the city is getting around 325 MLD (millions of liter per day or mega liters) supply from the 22 Ranneywells and 1,700 tubewells operational already, it is still short of the demand of the city which has a population of over 26 lakhs,” claim sources in the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF). While each of the well was supplying 10 MLD of water daily, the supply from a large number of tubewells operated by the civic body have depleted as these have dried over the years. “The water supply crisis is witnessed in many residential areas here during summers, making residents resort to water supply through private tankers or suppliers,” claimed an official of the MCF. He said, as part of the long-term measure, the Ranneywell project was launched about 10 years ago at a cost of Rs 500 crore. The Ranneywells has now been handed over to the FMDA, which will monitor supply from the originating point to the underground tanks of the MCF. “The new Ranneywells of 120 MLD capacity, which are expected to come up within two years, will not only augment the supply, but also replace the traditional tubewell network”, said a senior official of the FMDA.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/to-boost-water-supply-fbad-to-get-12-new-ranneywells-378176
16-03-2022||---||Rs 40 lakh property tax recovered during sealing drive in Karnal||Karnal, March 15The Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) continued its sealing drive on the second day. It has sealed three properties and also recovered Rs 40.71 lakh property tax from various tax defaulters during the sealing process.Naresh Narwal, Commissioner, KMC, said their drive would continue in the coming days also. When the team members led by EO Devender Narwal reached to seal different properties as the dues were not paid, the property owners paid their dues on the spot. The Commissioner said on Meerut road, a palace owner deposited Rs 4.40 lakh, while building material supplier deposited Rs 3.79 lakh, and a cement shop owner has pending dues of Rs 6.24 lakh and another property owner has dues of Rs 5.87 lakh. Besides, a property owner who has 14 shops and has pending dues of Rs 13.68 lakh, which he deposited when the team members reached there to seal it.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/40l-property-tax-recovered-during-sealing-drive-in-karnal-378177
16-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||13-year term to man for raping daughter upheld||Chandigarh, March 15In a significant judgment that will change the way the testimony of witnesses turning hostile is treated by the trial courts, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has made it clear that the evidence has to be read and considered in its entirety to see if credence can be lent to it.Abominable actIn the present case, all parameters of fatherhood were maligned by the father when he committed the shameful and abominable act of rape upon his daughter. Justice Ritu Bahri & Justice Ashok Kumar Verma, Punjab & Haryana HCThe assertion came as the Bench of Justice Ritu Bahri and Justice Ashok Kumar Verma dismissed an appeal filed by a father sentenced to 13 years’ rigorous imprisonment by Kurukshetra Additional Sessions Judge (Exclusive Court for Heinous Crimes against Women) in June 2016. One of the arguments before the Bench was that the prosecutrix turned hostile and denied the contents of the complaint in her cross-examination.Speaking for the Bench, Justice Verma said, “The children look to their fathers to lay down the socio-moral rules and enforce these. They also look to their fathers to provide a feeling of security, both physical and emotional. But in the present case, all these parameters of fatherhood were maligned by the father when he committed the shameful and abominable act of rape upon his own daughter,” Justice Verma said.Referring to the arguments on the prosecutrix turning hostile, Justice Verma observed that she testified twice to her rape or sexual assault by her father. She did it initially before the Magistrate in her statement under Section 164 of the CrPC and then in the witness box before the trial court. A reasonable explanation behind levelling serious allegations by the daughter was not furnished by the appellant/ accused.She duly supported the prosecution’s case in her examination-in-chief, but turned hostile in cross-examination. “The court has to be very careful, as prima facie, a witness who makes different statements at different times has no regard for the truth. His evidence has to be read and considered as a whole with a view to find out whether any weight should be attached to it,” Justice Verma added.The Bench added that it was also not convinced with the arguments by the counsel for the appellant that semen, as per the FSL report, could not be detected. “Merely because semen could not be found, does not mean that offence under POCSO Act has not been committed.” #pocso||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/13-year-term-to-man-for-raping-daughter-upheld-378178
16-03-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: 6 students thrash wildlife inspector||Six students of a private university allegedly thrashed Sultanpur bird sanctuary inspector. The accused were drunk and creating ruckus outside the government housing society of the Tourism Department, Sultanpur, and the complainant had stopped them.Five students were caught and one injured while trying to flee. According to the complaint filed by Rajesh Kumar, who is a wildlife inspector in Sultanpur National Park, that it was on Monday evening when he was returning to the residential colony from the office.“When I reached the gate of the colony, some youths were drinking alcohol in the open. The youth had kept a bottle of liquor on the bonnet of the car. When I objected to them doing that they abused me and then started beating me up with sticks. They hit me with a stick on my head and I got injured. The police was then called”, as the inspector said in his complaint. After getting information a police team reached the spot and nabbed five from the spot while one of them got injured while trying to run away. He is admitted to a private hospital. Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against all six at the Farrukhnagar police station.“All five joined the probe and were released on police bail after warning while one is being treated at a hospital. Further probe is on”, said the investigating officer. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-students-thrash-wildlife-inspector-378179
16-03-2022||---||Male nurse abducted, beaten up in Gurugram||Gurugram, March 15A male nursing staff of a private hospital at Sohna was allegedly brutally thrashed after being kidnapped from a hospital in a car by three men.The victim claimed that the trio said that he was being punished for working with a female staffer. The trio snatched his mobile phone and Rs 2,000 cash. Later, they fled away after dumping him in an injured condition on the roadside.An FIR has been registered at Sohna City police station under various Sections of the IPC.According to the complaint filed by Sahil, a resident of Khedi Kankar village near Sohna, he is working as trainee nursing staff at Saini hospital, Sohna. At around 5 pm on Monday, two men came to the hospital and started thrashing him. They said their names were Naresh and Rahul.“Soon, they took me out where they pulled me into their car where a third man was already sitting. They took me to the hilly area of Raisina and brutally thrashed me with sticks and belt. When I asked, they told me that I was getting punished for working with a female staff.” Sahil said in his complaint.An FIR has been registered against three persons, including Naresh and Rahul, under Sections 323 (causing hurt), 365 (kidnap), 379-B (snatching with force), 452 (house trespassing), 506 (criminal intimidation), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/male-nurse-abducted-beaten-up-in-gurugram-378180
16-03-2022||Hisar||VC urges farmers to take to natural farming||“Natural farming is the need of the hour. Indiscriminate use of chemicals like pesticides in crops not only add pollutants to the environment but also adversely affect human health”, stated Dr Narender Singh Rathore, VC of Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology, Udaipur.While inaugurating the Krishi Mela organised by Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (HAU), Hisar, Dr Rathore said the occurrence of the serious diseases like cancer was increasing due to the food intake grown with excessive use of chemicals, pesticide and insecticide. Dr Rathore said after Independence, our main aim was to increase the production of foodgrains and provide food security to people. “The country became self-sufficient in foodgrain during the Green Revolution in 1960-70s. But as a fallout, the use of chemicals like chemical fertilisers, pesticides etc. increased in agriculture. Today, the situation has come to such a pass that due to the indiscriminate use of these toxic chemicals, they have entered the foodchain and have dissolved in land, water and environment. These are leading to serious diseases in human beings”, he said while urging the farmers to adopt natural farming. HAU VC Prof BR Kamboj expressed concern over the indiscriminate exploitation of natural resources. — #Agriculture #farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vc-urges-farmers-to-take-to-natural-farming-378181
16-03-2022||---||FIR registered  in murder case||Yamunanagar, March 15The police have registered a case of murder in the death case of Pawan Kumar (48) of Saini Majri (Damla village) of Yamunanagar district.On the complaint of Jaipal of Saini Majri, a case was registered against unknown person under Sections 201 and 302 of the IPC at the Sadar police station, Yamunanagar, on March 14 after arrival of postmortem report of the deceased.The complainant said his son Pawan Kumar had gone out of his house to undertake some work at about 9.30 pm on March 6, 2022, but he did not come back home. He said the next day his body was found lying near a company in Yamunanagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fir-registered-in-murder-case-378182
16-03-2022||Geetanjali Gayatri||Five projects proposed under job policy||Chandigarh, March 15Five mega projects have been proposed under the Haryana Enterprise and Employment Policy 2020 and are expected to generate over 31,000 jobs.This was stated by Industries Minister Dushyant Chautala in response to a question by Congress MLA Varun Chaudhry, who sought to know the outcome of the policy since its inception.The reply was tabled during the ongoing Budget session of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha today. Chautala, in his reply, said while Maruti Suzuki India Limited had proposed an investment of Rs 18,000 crores in Sonepat, which was expected to generate 10,000 jobs. “This is also the biggest project that has come in,” he added.While a proposed investment of Rs 1,389 crores is expected to come to Gurugram, expecting to generate 13,286 jobs, another project worth Rs 1,140 crores will come up in Panipat. Two projects worth nearly Rs 650 crore each are proposed to come in Palwal and Rewari and provide 7,000 and 600 jobs, respectively.The reply also mentioned that the policy had attracted Rs 21816.79 crore and the proposed employment from these projects is pegged at 31,386.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-projects-proposed-under-job-policy-378183
16-03-2022||Chandigarh||Runway lights to be installed at Bhiwani, Narnaul airstrips||Runway lights will be installed at the Bhiwani and Narnaul airstrips so that operations can be carried out even during night time. In addition, air traffic control-cum-fire station buildings will be built.This was stated here today by Haryana Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala after presiding over a meeting of officials of various departments to get the updated status of the Bhiwani and Narnaul airstrips. The Dy CM, who also holds the portfolio of Civil Aviation, directed to complete the work on time. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/runway-lights-to-be-installed-at-bhiwani-narnaul-airstrips-378184
16-03-2022||Karnal||SE, PA booked for 'taking money' in office||The Civil Lines police late last night registered a case against the Superintending Engineer of the Karnal MC, Deepak Kinger, and his PA, Vikas Sharma, after several videos of the SE office had gone viral in December last year.In many videos, the SE’s PA can be seen allegedly taking money from people and in a couple of videos, the SE can be seen taking money from his PA. Vikas Sharma has been arrested, while the SE is at large. The FIR was registered on the inquiry report of the ADC Yogesh Kumar.The SE had got registered an FIR against Subham, a computer operator of the Karnal Smart City Ltd (KSCL) office, for allegedly spying in his office and blackmailing him to make the videos of his office viral. The police had arrested Subham and his friend Sahil. They used to call the SE through WhatsApp calls from foreign numbers.Anish Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, said, “Based on the inquiry report, I have recommended action against both the SE and his PA.” —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/se-pa-booked-for-taking-money-in-office-378185
16-03-2022||Chandigarh||Covid jab for 12-14 yr group in Haryana from today||The Additional Chief Secretary of (Health), Rajeev Arora, said the registration for vaccination for the age group of 12-14 years would be launched across the state on March 16.The vaccine named Corbevax will be administrated twice at the gap of 28 days to the age group. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/covid-jab-for-12-14-yr-group-from-today-378186
16-03-2022||Karnal||Karnal: Congress seeks CBI probe into 4K registries in 2 yrs||Congress national secretary Virender Rathore on Tuesday accused the state government of not taking serious steps against the corrupt practices being adopted by officials in the constituency of CM Manohar Lal Khattar.He demanded a judicial inquiry or a probe by the CBI into the registration of around 4,000 properties in the past two years. While interacting with mediapersons at his residence in Sector-13, he displayed registries done during the period of the arrested DTP Vikram Kumar and Tehsildar Rajbakhsh Arora in the Karnal Tehsil limits. He said that fake no-dues certificates were issued by couple of departments which were later used for the registration of properties as without no-dues certificate, no property could be registered, Rathore alleged.“Issuance of fake certificates is a clear-cut case of embezzlement of government funds as no-dues certificates were issued without paying dues to the departments,” he alleged.“The investigation is going in the right direction, but we need to expose other officials involved in it. I am surprised why the CM did not take action when people had raised the corrupt practices being adopted by the DTP and Tehsildar earlier,” he alleged.Accompanied by Congress leader Dr Sunil Panwar, Basant Rana and others, the national secretary said that it was an organised nexus. #CBI #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cong-seeks-cbi-probe-into-4k-registries-in-2-yrs-378187
16-03-2022||Panipat||Five killed, four hurt in mishaps in Panipat, Yamunanagar||Three members of a family were killed and four sustained serious injuries in an accident near Ahar village on the Panipat-Assandh road this morning.The accident occurred when a brick-laden tractor-trailer collided with a van full of pilgrims, 11 members of a family of Jind district.The deceased were identified as Vikas (19) of Kalwa village, Sachin (24) and Sushil (26) of Pillukhera Mandi in Jind district. The injured were identified as Sanchi (6), Vikram (20), Rupender (16) of Pillukhera and Somdutt (25) of Kalwa village.Sandeep of Pillukhera, in his complaint to the Madlauda police, said that the pilgrims had gone to Chulkana Dham in Samalkha of Panipat on Monday.They were on their way back home on Tuesday morning. As they reached near Ahar village at around 6 am, the tractor-trailer coming from the opposite side hit their van. The collision was so strong that the van got badly damaged.RTA employee diesYamunanagar: Two persons died after a truck they were travelling in crashed into a tree near Amadalpur village in Yamunanagar district on Tuesday.The deceased has been identified as Vishal, a contractual employee posted as a computer operator at the Regional Transport Authority office in Yamunanagar. The truck driver is yet to be identified.The truck loaded with core sand (mining material) was caught by a team of the RTA office on the suspicion of overloading. A member of the RTA office team was present in the truck as it was being taken to a private weighbridge to measure the weight of the goods loaded.On the complaint of the head constable posted at the RTA office, Kuldeep Singh, a case has been registered against an unknown person under Sections 279 and 304 A of the IPC.The complainant said that a team headed by District Transport Officer Dr Subhash Chand was conducting checking on Kanalsi Road when two trucks loaded with mining material were stopped on the suspicion of overloading.According to information, the truck caught fire soon after the accident. The occupants were taken out and while the truck driver died on the spot, the RTA office employee died at a hospital.According to information, there are two electronic portable scales (weighing machines) in the RTA office, but they are seldom used to keep tabs on the overloaded vehicles. “We have two portable scales, but it is not easy to use them. The scales are heavy and thus is becomes difficult to load and unload it in a vehicle,” said Dr Chand, DTO, Yamunanagar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/five-killed-four-hurt-in-mishaps-in-panipat-ynagar-378188
16-03-2022||Faridabad||35-year-old held for rape||The police on Sunday arrested a 35-year-old man accused of rape, who had been absconding since February last year. The man has been identified as Raghav (35). He was arrested from Jammu.The police said the accused had befriended the husband of the victim in 2020. The victim visited the house of the accused alone, where he raped her and clicked compromising pictures of her.Threatening to make her photos viral, the accused raped the victim again in January 2021 and fled. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/35-year-old-held-for-rape-378189
16-03-2022||Chandigarh||Ad hoc edu panel for greater budget grant||The ad-hoc committee on education under former education minister Geeta Bhukkal has recommended that “there is a need to have more than 20% of state budget”, as the state is going to implement National Education Policy 2020 by the year 2025 and also Right to Free and Compulsory Education Act. At present, 11.12 per cent is allocated to education.Bhukkal’s committee also recommended e-scooty for girls of technical institutions, increase in honorarium for players/coaches, extra budget for youth hostels and separate allocation for Sports University in Rai. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ad-hoc-edu-panel-for-greater-budget-grant-378190
16-03-2022||Panipat||Neeraj Chopra visits DAV school in Panipat||#neeraj chopra||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/neeraj-chopra-visits-dav-school-378191
16-03-2022||People from across the city visit the Model Town park in Pehowa. The parks serve as a place to get some fresh and clean air but it is ironical that in the same parks||Garbage burning goes unabated in public parks||Tractor-trailers bane of commutersPlying of tractor- trailers in large numbers for commercial activities without proper permission on city roads has resulted in traffic chaos and risk to commuters. With no check on their movement, the number of tractor- trailers plying on the road has surged to more than 10,000 in Faridabad, as per the estimates of sources in the Transport Department. However, the movement of tractors in large numbers has not only occupied the space meant for other vehicles, but has been found to be involved in several accidents due to rash driving. No challans are being issued against such violations.Ashok Gulati, FaridabadWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you?Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/garbage-burning-goes-unabated-in-public-parks-378192
16-03-2022||Deepender Deswal||Haryana khaps change tack: From rigid customs to quality education||Hisar, March 15Haryana’s khap panchayats, known for their diktats to safeguard age-old social customs, seem to have realised the importance of education. A number of panchayats have not only demanded better educational facilities, but have also decided to launch campaigns for increasing the enrolment of students in government schools.Kandela khap panchayat, one of the most influential in Jind district, has set up teams of volunteers for conducting inspections in government schools to ensure adequate teaching staff and other facilities. The teams will also go door-to-door in villages to urge people to enrol their kids in government schools.Khap head Om Prakash Kandela alleged that private schools were fleecing parents on one pretext or the other. “The government schools have more qualified teachers and charge nominal fee... We will ensure teachers take classes regularly. We will conduct co-curricular activities on our own to instil confidence among students,” he said.Jind-based Naugama khap panchayat has called a meeting in Pokeri Kheri village on March 20. Rajesh Dhull, a representative, said they would discuss issues related to health, education, computer literacy and emerging career avenues. He said experts from various fields had been invited.Similar campaigns have been launched by Kaliraman khap in about 50 villages across Bhiwani and Hisar districts, urging people to boycott “outdated” customs and look for better educational facilities for their children. #khap panchayats||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khaps-change-tack-from-rigid-customs-to-quality-education-378127
