17-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab now has more responsibility to provide water for SYL canal: Haryana CM||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday raised the issue of Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal after the formation of new government in Punjab, saying the neighbouring state is now doubly responsible as “we have to take water from Punjab and give it to Delhi”.In such a situation, Punjab's responsibility to provide water for the SYL canal is more as now both the states are ruled by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP).The SYL canal, the major portions of which were completed in the 1990s at a cost of over Rs 750 crore, is entangled in a political and legal quagmire with Punjab and Haryana unwilling to give up their respective stands on the controversial canal issue and sharing of river water.Officials told IANS that Delhi is demanding more water from Haryana due to increasing pressure of population from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Haryana. Haryana is ready to give its share of water to Delhi, but the other states should also contribute to meet the water requirement of Delhi from the Sutlej, Beas and Ganga rivers.Responding to another question, Khattar said the Punjab government would now have to think when the budget of the state would be presented. The debit to GSDP ratio of the state is 48 per cent, which is just 24.98 per cent in Haryana.Khattar said that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal boasts of different things."Delhi cannot be compared to Haryana. There will be about 1,100 government schools in Delhi, but there are 15,000 government schools in Haryana. At the same time, the cultivated land there is very less as compared to Haryana, as we have 80 lakh acres of agricultural land."Similarly, different regions have different conditions, so Delhi cannot be compared to Haryana. But Haryana can definitely be compared to Punjab," Khattar said.Responding to a question, Khattar said the Chief Minister's Good Governance Associates (CMGGA) programme in Haryana has nothing to do with any political organisation and the government does not pay them any salary.Meanwhile, as a goodwill gesture, Punjab Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann participated in the 'Holi Milan Samaroh' at the Haryana Raj Bhavan here on Thursday.Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya welcomed Mann, who presented a bouquet to the former. Khattar and Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala also felicitated Mann with bouquets on the occasion. Punjab Governor Banwarilal Purohit also graced the occasion. IANS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-now-has-more-responsibility-to-provide-water-for-syl-canal-haryana-cm-378661
17-03-2022||Karnal Smart City is full of destitute animals. In every sector||Stray animals roam freely on Karnal roads||Shakti Singh, KarnalPosters, billboards obstruct commuters in FaridabadResidents Putting up of posters, billboards and banners at public spots such as main roads dividers, electric poles and intersections in the city, in the name of extending festival greetings, may have set a kind of poster war among political aspirants vying to become Municipal Councillors, MLAs or MP or any post in the political hierarchy, but at the same time this activity has also resulted in defacing public properties and invites legal action. While a majority of the billboards and posters have been put in an illegal manner (without any permission or payment of rent to the department concerned), these have also blocked the traffic signals and have come as an obstruction in the movement of the traffic in the city.Rakesh Kashyap, FaridabadIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-animals-roam-freely-on-karnal-roads-378515
17-03-2022||Kaithal||Extension lecture at RKSD college||Scientists visit U'khand villageKarnal: A team of scientists from the National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI) visited Haldukhal, Nainidanda block, Pouri Garhwal (Uttrakhand), under the leadership of their Director, Dr MS Chauhan. Scientists surveyed the villages of the area with an aim to improve productivity among hill cattle (Badri) conserved by the SC, ST and other communities of Uttrarakhand. The team interacted with the farmers through a Kisan Sangosthi. Around 200 farmers of the region participated in the event. NDRI distributed the general purpose veterinary medicine kit, including enzyme and calcium supplement, de-wormer, antiseptic spray, uterine tonic, mineral mixture, water purifier etc. Speaking on the occasion the Director NDRI said through basic scientific interventions and care, per animal production could be improved in livestock. Members from a local FPO, HitoPahad, along with the National Seed Corporation were also present at the event.Holi on SGT University campusGurugram: "Radha-Krishna Sang Phool Ki Holi" was celebrated with zeal on the SGT University campus. Padma Shri Ram Bahadur Rai, Chancellor, SGT University, Madhu Preet Kaur Chawla, chairperson of Dashmesh Educational Charitable Trust, Manmohan Singh Chawla, managing trustee, participated in the event. Celebrations started with the lighting of the lamp by various coordinators of the programme and the students displayed the culture of different states of India through dance and colourful programmes with full enthusiasm. Students gave dance and theatrical performances, which was lauded by everyone.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/extension-lecture-at-rksd-college-378513
17-03-2022||---||Two girls die in Hisar house fire||Hisar, March 16Two girls were burnt when a fire broke out in their house in Mohabbatpur Dhani village of the district today.The incident occurred at 3 am when four siblings, including the deceased girls Monika (18) and Rinku (14) were sleeping in the house. Khushbu (16) and Subham (12), however, escaped with the help of neighbours. Police sources said their father Chhotu Ram was missing while their mother had gone to her parental home. The sources said the police had recovered an empty bottle of diesel from the house. The police said the mobile phone of their father was also found switched off.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-girls-die-in-hisar-house-fire-378512
17-03-2022||---||Kurukshetra: Two killed in road mishap||Kurukshetra, March 16Two persons were killed while nearly 10 suffered injuries after the vehicle they were travelling in was hit by a truck on the Ambala-Delhi National Highway last night.The victims, including children and women, were on their way from Punjab to Uttar Pradesh to celebrate Holi festival. They used to work as labourers in Punjab. They had hired a pickup truck and when they reached near Masana village on the national highway, a truck hit the pickup truck from the rear side.The victims were rushed to LNJP Hospital in Kurukshetra, where two persons, including a woman, were declared dead. The deceased were identified as Rajvati and Sewa Ram.The injured included Tejpal, Sarvesh, Rina, Suresh, Vipin, Suman, Laxmi, Vikas and Anshu. A case has been registered at the Thanesar Sadar police station against the unidentified truck driver.Investigating Officer ASI Surjeet Chahal said, “Two persons were killed in the accident. After the accident, the truck driver managed to flee from the spot leaving his truck behind. The bodies have been handed over to the families and further investigation is on.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-two-killed-in-road-mishap-378511
17-03-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Provide facilities, toll plazas told||A monthly meeting of the road safety committee chaired by the DC, Gurugram, Nishant Kumar Yadav, was held today wherein special instructions were issued to toll plaza concessionaires for safe and hassle-free travel.The concessionaires are required to operate highway units to constantly patrol each stretch of 50 km of the highway. These units will be active 24x7 to help citizens in distress, clear obstructions on the highways, cordon off areas with obstructions and divert traffic. Each vehicle will also contain protective equipment and traffic management such as gas cutters, fire extinguishers, gum boots, rubber gloves, first-aid kits, signages for diversion of traffic, traffic cones and barricades. In case of emergency medical services, the DC said each toll plaza would have a medical aid post set up by the concessionaire, along with ambulance(s) well-equipped with first-aid and emergency life support services. The ambulance should have two trained and certified paramedics. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-provide-facilities-toll-plazas-told-378510
17-03-2022||---||Minister: Board to promote natural farming in Haryana soon||Hisar, March 16Agriculture Minister JP Dalal said the state government would set up a board to promote natural farming.Addressing farmers on the closing ceremony of the Krishi Mela in the Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University, Hisar, he said if the farmer suffers loss of yield due to natural farming, they would be compensated by the government for three years. “Natural farming will reduce the cost of the farmer and also improve the quality of the crop”, he stated.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minister-board-to-promote-natural-farming-in-haryana-soon-378509
17-03-2022||---||Faridabad: 3 of gold loan firm dupe people of Rs 17 lakh, held||Faridabad, March 16The police have arrested three persons for cheating people of Rs 17 lakh.The arrested have been identified as Gopal Dutt, Satyabhan and Nisha.The trio was working with a firm, Fedbank Financial Services, and had allegedly replaced real gold ornaments deposited by customers with fake ones a few months ago.The fraud was reported after a complaint was lodged by the area manager of the company. He alleged that the accused had replaced the original gold items worth Rs 17 lakh with fake one ones.“Our company provides loan against gold. The three arrested were working at the local branch of the office. The matter came to light after some customers approached to get their gold back in January this year and found that the returned gold was fake,” he said.The company, in its probe, found replacement of 33 packets of gold items deposited with it. According to the probe, 362.36 gm of real gold was replaced with fake ornaments, of which around 110.36 gm has been recovered from the trio.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/faridabad-3-of-gold-loan-firm-dupe-people-of-17-lakh-held-378508
17-03-2022||Ambala||AAP born out of deception: Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij||Home Minister Anil Vij said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) was born out of deception and time will tell what would happen in Punjab.Vij said, “AAP was born out of deception. They (AAP leaders) used Anna Hazare’s movement for their political ambitions. They don’t practice what they preach. But the people of Punjab have chosen these people and let us see what happens in future there.”The minister also targeted the Congress after watching “The Kashmir Files” movie in Ambala. He said, “An effort has been made to show the fake secularism of the Congress. Unarmed Kashmiri Pandits were killed. People should know the truth.” — #anil vij||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-born-out-of-deception-anil-vij-378507
17-03-2022||---||Karnal: Tehsildar's remand in graft case extended||Karnal, March 16Tehsildar Rajbakhsh Arora, who was arrested two days ago in connection with the recovery of Rs 78.16 lakh from District Town Planner (DTP) Vikram Kumar from his residence, was on Wednesday produced in the court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Harish Goel. The court extended his police remand for five more days.He will now be produced in the court on March 21. A State Vigilance Bureau team had sought 10-day remand of the accused to recover the money and collect the details of properties owned by Arora and his family members in different cities of the state.As per sources, the SVB team informed the court that the accused had several properties in Ratia, Fatheabad, Faridabad, Sonepat and other cities. He also has shares in different colonies.The State Vigilance Bureau team, however, didn’t speak on the outcome of the one-day police remand. DTP Kumar, who was suspended by the state government on Tuesday, is now on three-day police remand. He will be produced in the court on Friday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-tehsildars-remand-in-graft-case-extended-378506
17-03-2022||Kaithal||US-based man threatens to kill Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar||The Kaithal police have registered a sedition case against a US-based man and his family members for threatening to kill CM Manohar Lal Khattar.Sandeep, alias Mipa Bangru, a resident of Narar village in the district, has been booked under the charges of sedition, the IT Act and criminal conspiracy.As per the police, Sandeep made a video while sitting in the US, in which he can be seen using abusive language against the Haryana Police and the CM. In the same video, he also threatened to kill the CM. He even threatened the police of dire consequences if they take action against his friends.In 2020, a similar case was registered against him when he had made remarks against the members of the SC community through a video.“We have registered a case under Sections of the IPC and IT Act against Sandeep and his four family members after his video went viral on the social media. His family members have been booked as it was revealed that they were also involved in the conspiracy. The investigation is underway,” said Maqsood Ahmed, SP.He said Sandeep went to the US illegally. “We will try to get him deported from the US. We have already issued a lookout notice against him,” the SP added. — #manohar lal khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/us-based-man-threatens-to-kill-haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-378503
17-03-2022||---||Leopard enters house in Fatehabad, rescued||Hisar, March 16Panic gripped Kukdawali village of Fatehabad when a leopard was spotted in the area this morning. When the animal entered a house, the owners closed the doors and informed the co-villagers.On getting information, a team of the Wildlife Department reached the village and rescued the leopard after a nearly eight-hour operation. The male leopard was about eight years and seemed to have wandered in the region from the Shivalik ranges, officials said.Paramjit Singh, an inspector of the Wildlife Department, who was part of the rescue team, said the leopard was captured at 3 pm and would be released in the Kalesar National Park,Yamunanagar.An official of the department said they got information about the leopard in Kukdawali village this morning after which a team headed by the Divisional Forest Officer Ved Prakash rushed to the site. The wildlife personnel from Hisar, Sirsa, Bhiwani and Rohtak districts also reached the site.The wildlife inspector said during the rescue operation, the leopard reacted on seeing the crowd and tried to attack a resident, who suffered minor bruises. No casualty was reported.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/leopard-enters-house-in-fatehabad-rescued-378502
17-03-2022||---||Blood bank licence of  Faridabad hospital suspended till June 15||Faridabad, March 16The district Health Department has suspended the licence of Metro Hospital’s blood bank on charges of irregularities till June 15.Announcing this, Health Minister Anil Vij claimed that the action had come in response on the basis of a probe, which found irregularities and violations in the operation of the blood bank at the hospital.“The blood bank of the hospital shall not operate for the sale or distribution, including aphaeresis procedures for collection, storage and processing of whole human blood during the period of suspension,” says the order issued by the district Health Department.He said he has directed the State Drug Controller to investigate and inspect all blood centers in the state.A team of the officials of the Deputy Drug Controller (India), Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (North Zone), Ghaziabad and Senior Drugs Control Officer, Faridabad, conducted an inspection of the blood centre on December 21 last year and found irregularities in its operation.Earlier, a show cause was issued to the hospital by the State Drug Controller on January 28 on the basis of an inquiry by the District Drug Control Department in December last year.The notice had warned of an action under the rules if the hospital failed to submit its reply within 21 days.In his complaint lodged with the department, Tarun Chopra, a local, alleged irregularities in the blood bank of the hospital. The deficiencies noticed during the course of the investigation included operation of the blood centre without the supervision of a medical officer, non-conformity of the records and procedure, lack of quality control test of blood platelet concentrate, improper verification of stock and kit, incomplete documentation regarding the collection and expiration of platelet concentrate.“We have no doubt that the suspension of the licence is caused by unjustified allegations. This is a conspiracy to undermine the reputation of the hospital,” said Dr Vishal Sharma, general manager (Operations), Metro Heart Institute.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/blood-bank-licence-of-faridabad-hospital-suspended-till-june-15-378499
17-03-2022||Parveen Arora||RTI: Only 1% Karnal govt schools have fire safety NOC||Karnal, March 16The safety of students in government schools does not seem to be a priority as only 1 per cent of schools in the district have fire safety permits.Of the 780 government schools across the district, only eight have taken fire safety permits from the Fire Department. The situation in colleges is almost similar. The shocking figure came to the fore in a reply to an RTI query collected by The Tribune.City-based RTI activist Rajesh Sharma had filed an RTI regarding the number of educational institutes having fire NOC.The reply said only eight government schools – Government Model Sanskriti Senior Secondary School in Taraori, Nissing, Nigdhu, Gharaunda, Model Town (Karnal city), Padha village and Biana village had secured a fire NOC.The reply also gave the list of colleges that possessed a fire NOC. They are Kalpana Chawla Governmnet Medical College, DAV PG College, Shri Ram College of Pharmacy, RPIIT College of Education Trust, BRM College of Education, Guru Brahmanand ji Arya Kanya Mahavidyalaya, Anjanthali.The Fire Department also informed in the reply that they had served notices to eight colleges in the district — DAV College for Women, Railway Road; Pt Chiranjilal Sharma Government College, Sector 14; Dyal Singh College; Khalsa College; Government College for Women, Railway Road; and Government College, Jaisinghpura in Assandh — for not securing a fire NOC so far.As per the Haryana Fire Service Act, all educational institutions must have an NOC, without which, a building was not deemed fit to tackle potential fire hazard, said an official.The reply further stated that the department had not issued fire NOC to any dharamshala and temple so far.Rajpal, District Education Officer (DEO), stated that earlier, it was not mandatory for schools to obtain a fire NOC.Not mandatory earlierEarlier, it was not mandatory for schools to obtain a fire NOC. Our eight Model Sanskriti Schools have the NOC. I will check the new guidelines and accordingly, we will get the NOC if required. — Rajpal, District Education OfficerSchools to get noticeIt is mandatory for all educational institutes to have a fire safety NOC. We have served notices on colleges and will soon issue it to schools as well. Almost all private schools have fire safety NOC. — Rajiv Bhardwaj, fire station officer #rti||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rti-only-1-karnal-govt-schools-have-fire-safety-noc-378496
17-03-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Yamunanagar-Jagadhri civic body passes Budget of Rs300 crore||Yamunanagar, March 16The Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ), passed a Budget of Rs 300 crore for the financial year 2022-23 on Wednesday.Mayor Madan Chauhan and Dhirendra Khadgata, Commissioner, MCYJ, who chaired the Budget meeting, said with the passing of the Budget of Rs 300 crore, the development of the twin cities Yamunanagar and Jagadhri would accelerate. In the last financial year (2021-22), the MCYJ had passed a Budget of Rs 130.53 crore. Senior Accounts Officer NK Batra gave details of the income and the expenditure of the corporation in the meeting. He said the authorities of the MCYJ had proposed Rs 222.48 crore Budget for 2022-23, but on the suggestion of the Mayor, it was raised to Rs 300 crore. “The priority in the Budget has been given to development works and cleanliness of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri,” said the Mayor.He said toilets would be built in slum areas, populated areas and public places in the new financial year. He further said an incinerator would be set up outside the twin cities for the disposal of dead animals.He added that the twin cities would also be made free from stray cattle and dogs and pet pigs that would be found roaming in the twin cities.Under the proposed Budget, the MCYJ is expecting to collect Rs 60.58 crore through property tax, Rs 40 crore as sale of land, Rs 20 crore as stamp duty, Rs 16 crore as development charges, Rs 12.4 crore as electricity duty, Rs 7.48 crore as rent, Rs 50 lakh as advertisement fee, Rs 5.91 crore as fire tax, Rs 10.68 crore as sanitation user charges/cleaning dairy complex and Rs 41.22 crore as grant from salary and income through other resources.The Budget meeting was also attended by Senior Deputy Mayor Praveen Sharma and Deputy Mayor Rani Kalra.Incinerator for disposal of carcassesCleanliness a priorityThe priority in the Budget has been given to development works and cleanliness of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri. — Madan Chauhan, Mayor||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-jagadhri-civic-body-passes-budget-of-300-crore-378493
17-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Punjab and Haryana High Court puts Haryana judicial officer on notice||Chandigarh, March 16The Punjab and Haryana High Court has put an Additional District and Sessions Judge on notice and stayed the proceedings in an FIR registered on the basis of his letter against a DSP. The order will remain in operation at least till September 5 — the next date of hearing in the matter.The directions by Justice Jaishree Thakur of the High Court came on a petition filed against the State of Haryana, the Additional District and Sessions Judge and other respondents by DSP Dinesh Yadav through counsel Manish Soni.The matter has its genesis in observations made by the judicial officer on January 27. Justice Thakur’s Bench was told that the trial court, on the presentation of a status report in another case, observed it was apparently clear that Dinesh Yadav, DSP, CM Flying Squad, had prepared and submitted a false report to extend benefits to a person, which was punishable under Section 167 of Indian Penal Code. As such, a letter was being sent to the Commissioner of Police, Gurugram, for registration of an FIR against Yadav.Appearing before Justice Thakur’s Bench, Soni among other things contended that the FIR dated February 4 was registered under Section 167 of the IPC at the Shivaji Nagar police station in Gurugram on the basis of the letter issued by the Judge.“But the Additional District & Sessions Judge would have no jurisdiction to issue such a letter/order,” Soni added. Section 167 deals with a “public servant framing an incorrect document with intent to cause injury”.Soni further submitted that the offence under Section 167of the IPC was not made out in the present case. “It is a settled law that any false document when produced during judicial proceedings would fall under the definition of Section 192 of the IPC — fabrication of false evidence and would be punishable under 193 of the IPC. Therefore, the cognizance of any offence under Section 193 of the IPC could only be taken upon the complaint in writing under Section 340 of the CrPC and the FIR could not be registered”, he added.The notice of motion issued by Justice Thakur was accepted by Haryana State counsel Vishal Malik, on behalf of the official respondents.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-puts-haryana-judicial-officer-on-notice-378489
17-03-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Panipat co-op sugar mill's first trial ends||Panipat, March 16After a wait of eight years, the newly constructed “The Panipat Co-operative Sugar Mill” on Wednesday successfully completed the first trial. The sugar mill will be made fully functional very soon. It is a major relief for those sugarcane farmers who were forced to sell their produce at cheaper rates at jiggery units and sugar mills of adjoining districts of UP.CM Manohar Lal Khattar had announced to shift this mill from the city area to Dahar village on December 20, 2014, during his first visit to Panipat after assuming the charge of the CM in the first inning of the BJP government.The trial of the newly established sugar mill was done in the presence of Deputy Commissioner Sushil Kumar Sarwan today. DC Sarwan said this sugar mill was an ultra modern sugar mill of the state. Its capacity has been increased to 50,000 quintal per day from 18,000 quintal per day.Navdeep Singh, MD, sugar mill, said the first trial was successful and the turbines were also run successfully with the crushing of 10,000 quintal sugarcane today.The trial will be continued for around 25 days as per the protocol with daily crushing of 10,000 quintal sugar cane and the crushing in the old sugar mill will be continued parallel, the MD asserted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panipat-co-op-sugar-mills-first-trial-ends-378486
17-03-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Land deeds within 100 m of Faridabad IAF station to benefit 15,000||Faridabad, March 16The announcement to open the registration of properties and residential structures located within the 100-metre buffer zone of the Air Force station here is likely to benefit around 15,000 households.A population of around 1 lakh has been residing in the colonies that have come up in this zone in an unauthorised manner in the past 25 to 30 years, it is revealed.Relief to the residents of Saran, Ghazipur, Dabua, Odiya and Kapra colonies comes after the Deputy CM’s announcement in the Assembly recently, wherein he had said the registration of the properties located within 100 metre radius of the IAF station buffer zone would be opened shortly.The registration of properties had been closed several years ago, it is claimed. While the owner of the properties having an area of less than one acre will have to get an NOC from the local civic body, those having a size of over one acre will have to seek the permission from the Urban Local Bodies Department of the state government, it is added.“The registration ban in the area has resulted in the unavailability of the basic civic amenities for a large population, which has been working as labourers and workers in factories here,” says Neeraj Sharma, MLA from the NIT Assembly segment.Describing the move as a major relief, he said this would help in carrying out development works lying stalled for over two decades. He said he had written a demi-official letter to the CM in August last year to draw his attention towards the hardships being faced by the residents here in the wake of the ban.While the demand of regularisation of the colonies falling into the 100 m radius has been taken up from time to time, the notices of removal of the encroachments had also been issued by the district administration. However, the move was shelved due to the intervention by the local leaders and elected representatives. The state government had requested the Union Defence Minister to end the restrictions imposed under the Defence Act- 1903 in December last year. #iaf||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/land-deeds-within-100-m-of-faridabad-iaf-station-to-benefit-15-000-378484
17-03-2022||Chandigarh||Relief in 1,327 cases of atrocities against SCs pending in Haryana, says panel||There are 1,327 cases of atrocities under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act in Haryana where no compensation has been paid. The FIRs in these cases were registered between April 14, 2016, and August 31, 2021. Not just these, the compensation is awaited even in 196 cases, which were registered from June 2010 to April 13, 2014.The data comes to light in the report of the Committee on the Welfare of SCs, STs and BCs, which was tabled today.From April 14, 2016, to August 31, 2021, 5,807 cases under the SC/ST Act were registered. Of them, compensation has been fully paid in 2,397 cases. There are 997 cases where full relief is yet to be paid while in 330 cases, partial payment is done and the rest of the amount is pending.The rest of the cases are not entitled to compensation as either accused got acquitted or compromise took place.District-wise, a maximum of 241 cases of full payment are pending in Hisar, followed by Faridabad with 162 cases of full relief and 22 of partial payments are pending. A total of 136 cases of full compensation are pending in Bhiwani.From June 2010 to April 13, 2016, 2,223 cases were registered under the SC/ST Act while in 811 cases, full relief has been paid. There are 130 cases of full relief and 66 cases where partial payment has to be done are pending.Officials said the old cases were pending due to not providing of FIRs, challans, and decisions by the police headquarters. The committee took a serious view over it and said there was a shortage of District Welfare Officers, which was delaying the disbursal of compensation. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/relief-in-1-327-cases-of-atrocities-against-scs-pending-in-haryana-says-panel-378480
17-03-2022||Chandigarh||BPL card in Haryana soon after family ID verification||The state will make the BPL card as soon as the family identity card is verified. Now, the poor will not have to go anywhere to get the BPL card. This information was given by Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala in response to a question raised by a member during the Budget session today.Dushyant, who also holds the portfolio of Food Supplies and Civil Affairs, said the government had decided last year that people, whose annual income is less than Rs 1.80 lakh, would be included in the BPL category.Meanwhile, Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma said a bus stand would be built at Siwan in Guhla. The land of the city committee, which was suggested, wasn’t suitable due to encroachment. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bpl-card-in-haryana-soon-after-family-id-verification-378479
17-03-2022||Chandigarh||Oppn questions Haryana CM Khattar over hiding debt info in Budget speech||The Opposition cornered the state government during a resumed discussion on the Budget today and questioned why there was no mention of the mounting debt in the CM’s speech.Starting the discussion, Congress Chief Whip BB Batra said, “Overall, the Budget is a cleaver adjustment of figures. It is claimed that 34.4%, i.e. Rs 61,057 crore, of the Budget will be spent as capital expenditure. But in actual, out of it, Rs 35,052 crore will go for the repayment of loans alone. It will leave just over 12% for the capital investment.”The CM has presented Rs 1.77 lakh crore Budget. He questioned CM Manohar Lal Khattar over the hiding debt figures from his speech. “The state debt has reached Rs 2.43 lakh crore. When this debt will be repaid?” On the rise in revenue receipts, he said it was only due to rising prices.He said there was a dip of 26% in expenditure on economic services from the previous Budget, which included rural development, agriculture, industries and minerals, irrigation and transport.Deputy CLP leader Aftab Ahmed said, “The Budget has been hailed as tax-free. But the people are burdened with rising prices. VAT on diesel in 2014 was 8.8% while now it is 17.2%.” “The mention of the Mewat canal feeder has been repeated in Budgets. It has been inaugurated twice but nothing has happened. In information sent to the press on the Budget day, a university in Nuh has been mentioned, but it’s missing in the Budget.”He demanded the setting up of a backward classes and a minority panel in the state.Ex-Education Minister Geeta Bhukkal said the Budget was confused and didn’t touch the aspiration of the people. She cited a high number of vacancies of doctor and paramedic. “We failed in providing tablets and mobile phones to students for accessing online education. Higher education students, particularly EWS and girls, must also be given tablets.” — TNSWhen will it be repaid?Overall, the Budget is a cleaver adjustment of figures... The state debt has reached Rs2.43 lakh cr. When this debt will be repaid? — BB Batra, Congress chief whip #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/oppn-questions-haryana-cm-over-hiding-debt-info-in-budget-speech-378477
17-03-2022||Pradeep Sharma||Noted players can now be Vice Chancellor of sports varsity of Haryana||Chandigarh, March 16Sportspersons, who have brought laurels to the country, can now become the Vice Chancellor of the state’s first sports university to be set up at Rai in Sonepat.This will be possible with the Assembly today passing the Sports University of Haryana Bill 2021. “The VC will be an eminent person in the field of sports, who will either be a sportsperson of the international repute or a renowned sports administrator or eminent sports academician,” the Bill said.The Bill seeks to establish and incorporate a sports university in Haryana, a specialised university, to promote sports education in the areas of sports sciences, sports technology, sports management and sports coaching, besides functioning as a training centre for select sports disciplines by adopting the best international practices.The state government will make the appointment from a panel shortlisted by a five-member search committee comprising one person each nominated by the executive council (of university), the Haryana State Higher Education Council and the University Grants Commission and two by the state government. Sports School at Rai is proposed to be upgraded as the sports university. However, the Governor will be ex-officio Chancellor of the university.In 2019, cricket legend Kapil Dev was named as the first Chancellor of the sports university. “Kapil Dev will be the first Chancellor of Haryana Sports University at Rai,” then Sports Minister Anil Vij had said in a tweet.However, when the Bill was brought before the Assembly last year, it had be referred to a Select Committee after the Congress’ allegations that it give a “raw deal” to Haryana domicile candidates in admissions and jobs.Sports University of Haryana Bill 2021“The VC of the state’s first sport university will be an eminent person in the field of sports, who will either be a sportsperson of the international repute or a renowned sports administrator or eminent sports academician,” the BIll said.Other Bills passedReferred to Select CommitteeIntroducedDeferred||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/noted-players-can-now-be-vice-chancellor-of-sports-varsity-of-haryana-378474
17-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Rabi crop on 1.88 lakh acres damaged in Haryana||Chandigarh, March 16The state government today informed the Assembly that rabi crop on 1.88 lakh acres had been damaged due to unseasonal rain or waterlogging and hailstorms this year.In terms of area, Mahendragarh was the worst-affected where crop on 55,339 acres in 29 villages had got damaged, followed by 52,064 acres in 50 villages of Charkhi Dadri, 26,011 acres in 84 villages of Rohtak, and 24,017 acres in 12 villages of Bhiwani.The crop damage on 7,490 acres is also reported in 44 villages of Sonepat, on 96 acres in four villages of Kaithal, on 855 acres in four villages of Rewari, on 2660 acres in 24 villages of Jind and 19,067 acres in 356 villages of Yamunanagar.The crop on 23,376 acres was damaged up to 75 per cent or more across the state, while the crop on 71,300 acres up to 50-75 per cent.In reply to a Calling Attention on the crop damage, Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the charge of Revenue and Disaster Management, said no relief was provided if the crop damage was less than 25 per cent.He cited that while the Centre’s norms provided for Rs 5,466 per acre relief for 33 per cent and above damage subject to a ceiling of 5-acre per farmer, the state government was providing a compensation of Rs 15,000 per acre for 75 per cent or more, Rs 12,000 per acre for 50-75 per cent damage and Rs 9,000 per acre for 25-50 per cent.So for, the damage between 25-32 per cent and for higher norms was met from the Budget.He told the House that no damage was reported in Karnal, Nuh, Faridabad, Panchkula, Palwal, Panipat, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Gurugram, Jhajjar, and Kurukshetra.He said as per a notification dated July 30, 2019, normal girdawari was conducted from August 5 to September 5 in case of Kharif and from February 1 to March 1 for rabi crops. But on March 2, all DCs had been told to conduct a special girdawari, if any damage was reported after the completion of the normal girdawari.The Opposition contested the findings during the discussion. Congress MLA Mohd Ilyas said how it could be that not even one acre crop damage had been found in Nuh. Deputy Congress Legislative Party leader Aftab Ahmed said the crops had got damaged due to waterlogging in Nuh and farmers had even protested at the mini secretariat of the district on January 27.INLD MLA Abhay Singh Chautala said the compensation amount should be hiked to Rs 50,000 per acre and Mewat shouldn’t be ignored.Congress MLA Raghubir Singh Kadian said the girdawari was a lapse on the part of officers while MLA Kiran Choudhry said firms looted farmers in the name of crop insurance.Dushyant Chautala replied that in the future, farmers could also upload their crop damage area for verification.Meanwhile, CM Manohar Lal Khattar also intervened and said the farmers should be encouraged to enrol for the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna (PMFBY). “Our limit is Rs 15,000 per acre compensation whereas under the PMFBY, it could be from Rs 18,000 per acre to Rs 35,000 per acre,” said Khattar, and added that a portal would be created so that farmers could upload crop damage information for verification for bringing more transparency in the girdawari exercise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rabi-crop-on-1-88l-acres-damaged-in-haryana-378471
17-03-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Michael Schumacher, Maria Sharapova in Gurugram FIR||Gurugram, March 16Following a court order, the Gurugram police have registered an FIR against 13 persons in an alleged fraud with homebuyers. The names of tennis star Maria Sharapova and Formula 1 racer Michael Schumacher figure in the FIR registered on the complaint of a homebuyer in a luxury housing project.As per the FIR, “The project was publicised in the names of Sharapova and Schumacher. The accused allegedly connived with each other in promoting fraudulent activities of the company.” Shafali Agarwal of New Delhi had filed a complaint in a Gurugram court against Realtech Development and Infrastructure (India) Pvt Ltd and others developers for duping her of around Rs 80 lakh.She told the court that she and her husband had booked an apartment in the project named after Sharapova at Sector 73, Gurugram, but it failed to take off. “We were told a tennis academy and a sports store of international level would be opened. The brochure mentions that the tennis star is promoting the project, but it failed to take off for the past seven years. A tower titled Michael Schumacher World Tower was to be constructed,” the complaint read.Agarwal approached the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission in 2018. It ordered registration of an FIR, but no action was taken. She then moved the court. As per its order, an FIR was registered under Section 406, 420, 34, 120-B of the IPC at Badshahpur police station. “We are investigating the matter,” said Inspector Dinkar. #maria sharapova #michael schumacher||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/schumacher-sharapova-in-gurugram-fir-378445
17-03-2022||Gurugram||Former tennis star Sharapova, Schumacher booked for fraud on Gurugram court order||Police here booked former Russian tennis star Maria Sharapova, former Formula 1 racer Michael Schumacher and 11 others for fraud and criminal conspiracy following a court order.The FIR was registered on the complaint of a Delhi woman, who accused them of fraud.Shafali Agarwal, a resident of Chattarpur Mini Farm in New Delhi, complained that she had booked an apartment in a project named after Sharapova. A tower in the project was named after Schumacher, she said.The project was to be completed by 2016 but never took off, the complainant added.She accused the international celebrities of being part of the fraud through their association and promotion of it.Earlier, she had filed a complaint in a Gurugram court against M/S Realtech Development and Infrastructure (INDIA) Pvt Ltd, other developers, Sharapova and Schumacher for duping her of around Rs 80 lakh.The complainant stated before the court that she and her husband booked a residential apartment in the project named after Sharapova in Sector 73, Gurugram, but the developer companies cheated them by alluring them to put money into their project, which was never meant to be delivered.“We came to know about the project through advertisements and reached out to the company management after pictures of the project and a lot of false promises were made,” she said in the complaint.Sharapova and Schumacher as promoters of the project conspired with the buyers, Agarwal alleged, adding that the former tennis star had visited the site and promised the opening of a tennis academy and sports store.“It was mentioned in the brochure that she is promoting the project, and she also made false promises, had dinner parties with the buyers, and all this was done for the project, which never took off,” read the complaint.The FIR has been registered under Sections 34 (common intention), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the IPC at the Badshahpur police station.“As per the court order, the FIR has been registered and we are reviewing the matter. The probe is on,” said Inspector Dinkar, SHO of the police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/former-tennis-star-sharapova-schumacher-booked-for-fraud-on-gurugram-court-order-378391
