18-03-2022||Despite having the tag of Smart City||Slow pace of work inconveniences commuters||Poor civic amenities, stray cattle menace in Kalka-Pinjore Urban ComplexThe DLF Valley society is located in the Kalka-Pinjore Urban Complex. Pathetic civic conditions and foul smell greet residents who go for walk on the road leading to Arawali Public School. Garbage is being dumped in the open alongside river Kaushalya which attracts herds of stray cattle in the area. Kalka Pinjor Urban Complex is the most neglected area not only in Panchkula but in entire Haryana. The authorities, specially the HSVP, must take note and improve the existing poor civic and road network issues in the area. —Col KS Bidhan (retd), PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/slow-pace-of-work-inconveniences-commuters-378797
18-03-2022||Chandigarh||23 more villages to get 24-hour power supply||Power Minister Ranjit Singh has said the trend of rural consumers towards the ‘Mhara Gaon Jagmag Gaon’ scheme is increasing with each passing day.“Power corporations have given a Holi gift by including 23 more villages in the scheme. With this, round-the-clock power supply will be ensured in 5,592 villages.”On January 26 this year, 82 new villages were included in the scheme, Ranjit added.He said of these 23 villages, seven are of Sonepat, four each of Rohtak and Jhajjar, and eight villages of Panipat district. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/23-more-villages-to-get-24-hour-power-supply-378794
18-03-2022||Panipat||10 nabbed for kidnapping, looting man||With the arrest of 10 accused, the police claimed have to solved a case of kidnapping, looting and thrashing a man within a few hours of registration of the case.SP Shashank Kumar Sawan said the arrested accused had been identified as Randeep and Sunder of Kavi village, and Vikram, Jagmal, Jamjawari, Pradeep, Sunder, Baljeet, Sunil, Ashok, Vinod and Rahul of Panipat district.An illegal pistol, one licensed pistol, eight cartridges, and five sharp-edged weapons were recovered from the accused, the SP said.They were produced in a court, from where Ashok, Vinod and Rahul were sent to judicial custody, while Randeep, Vikram, Jagmal, Pradeep, Sunder, Baljeet and Sunil had been taken on six- day police remand.Complainant Balwan of Khukhrana village said he received a call on Tuesday and the caller wanted to meet him. He reached near the Shani temple on Assandh Road, where 20 to 25 youths came out from the SUVs parked there and started thrashing him. Later, after tying his mouth they threw him in a vehicle and took him to Randeep’s house in Model Town and looted Rs10,000 from him. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/10-nabbed-for-kidnapping-looting-man-378793
18-03-2022||---||Youth gets 20-year jail for rape||Hisar/Mahendragarh, March 17A district court has awarded 20 years of imprisonment to a youth in a case of kidnapping and rape of a 14-year-old girl in Hisar.The court of Additional District and Sessions Judge Seema Singal sentenced the youth, Vikas, a resident of Bhiwani district, to the jail term, besides a fine of Rs 31,500.The police said on January 17, 2020, a case was registered against the convict on the complaint of the father of the victim under Sections 363, 366-A, 376(3), 342 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.The complainant had stated that the girl had gone out of the house to answer the nature’s call around 2 am on the night of January 16, 2020. When she did not return for some time, they searched for her, and came to know that Vikas had taken his daughter somewhere by luring her.Meanwhile, a court of Additional Sessions Judge, Narnaul, Dr Abdul Majid, today awarded life imprisonment to a man, Sandeep, for killing his wife Pinki over ayear ago. It also slapped a penalty of Rs 10,000 on him, failing to pay which will make him serve an extra year of simple imprisonment.In a complaint lodged by a relative of Pinki, it was mentioned that Sandeep, in a drunken state, used to beat Pinki for money.In the FIR it was mentioned that Sandeep beat Pinki on December 11, 2020, and caused her severe injuries. Her family members, on getting information about the quarrel, reached her house. She had suffered multiple injuries and died later. Later, a case of murder was booked against Sandeep.Sandeep was arrested by the police the next day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/youth-gets-20-year-jail-for-rape-378791
18-03-2022||---||Make movie on ’84 anti-Sikh riots: Anil Vij||Ambala, March 17Home and Health Minister Anil Vij today said filmmakers should make a movie on the 1984 Sikh riots.Speaking to mediapersons, the minister said, “The film industry has brought the truth out by making ‘The Kashmir Files’. It has been shown in the film that how Kashmiri pandits faced genocide in their own country.” #anil vij||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vij-make-movie-on-84-riots-378789
18-03-2022||Gurugram||Rape accused commits suicide in Gurugram||An 88-year-old man committed suicide after being accused of raping an 11-year-old neighbour in a village under the Bilaspur police station. No suicide note was recovered and the family of the deceased accused did not blame anyone. The police handed over the body to the kin after the postmortem and said that the probe was on.According to the police, an FIR under the POCSO Act was registered against accused Lal Singh yesterday while he committed suicide this afternoon. His body was found hanging in his room at his house.According to the complaint filed by the mother of the victim girl who is a Class IV student that it was on Thursday her daughter confided her that the accused lured her daughter by giving her sweets and then raped her. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rape-accused-commits-suicide-in-gurugram-378788
18-03-2022||Hisar||E-campus internship drive||Economics to earthonomicsSonepat: Professor Sudesh, Vice-Chancellor, Bhagat Phool Singh Mahila Vishwavidyalaya, Khnapur Kalan, said women exhibited and practiced ethical behaviour in business enterprises and proved to be better entrepreneurs and wealth creators. In her presidential address during the valedictory session of international conference on "Economics to earthonomics: Shifting paradigms, policy paralysis, and worsening sustainability" organised by the university's department of economics, she spoke on the women perspective in business and underlined the importance of an interdependent world. Prof. Arvind Astha, Burgundy School of Business, Dijon, France, spoke on the dark side of business and stressed on ethical practices leading to reduction of greed. The chief guest on this occasion, Prof Dinesh Kumar, Vice-Chancellor, Gurugram University, spoke about the need to return and repay to mother earth and control unethical practices in business endeavours. He highlighted the need to earn money with ethical means.CSSRI organises Kharif Kisan MelaKarnal: The Central Soil Salinity Research Institute (CSSRI), organised a Kharif Kisan Mela in association with the district agriculture and farmers welfare department. Karnal Divisional Commissioner Sanjeev Verma was the chief guest, who appreciated the research work being carried out at the CSSRI. He emphasised on the diverse and traditional farming to fulfill the nutrition requirement of human beings as well as maintain the harmony of environment. He distributed agricultural inputs to 16 Scheduled Caste farmers.Two new vocational coursesFaridabad: The skill hub initiative of Aggarwal College, Ballabgarh, held an induction programme for two certificate courses launched this year. Principal Dr Krishan Kant Gupta said while both courses identified as "Store operation assistant" and "House keeping attendant" will be available free of cost for the enrolled students. He said these programmes had been specially designed for the dropout students of Class X and Class XII students. He said computer lab and other infrastructural facilities would be provided free to the students of these courses in the college. Industrial training will also be organized to bring their students parallel to the regular students in terms of expertise.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/e-campus-internship-drive-378787
18-03-2022||Gurugram||Surajkund fair: No entry of heavy vehicles in  Faridabad till April 4||To ensure smooth traffic movement in Faridabad during the Surajkund fair the authorities have barred entry of heavy vehicles coming from the Gurugram side. The restriction shall be in force from March 19 to April 4 from 7 am to 12 am (midnight).The Gurugram police shall be setting up check posts at Faridabad toll and Lakhuwas-Sohna stretch to enforce the no-entry order. The Gurugram traffic police have requested on social media that all heavy commercial vehicle drivers and owners to take a note of the order and support. Lakhs of visitors are expected to throng the fair as it is being held after a gap of one year on March 19. “The fair is expected to witness record footfall this year. The traffic congestion is constant on Gurugram-Faridabad routeand on the Surajkund road. We will not allow any heavy vehicle from day till midnight,” said Ravinder Singh Tomar, DCP (Traffic), Gurugram. — #surajkund fair||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-entry-of-heavy-vehicles-in-fbad-till-april-4-378785
18-03-2022||Yamunanagar||150 MDS students take part in rapid revision course||“Sameeksha”, a three-day scientific and rapid revision course for the final year MDS students in the specialty of periodontology and implantology, under the ages of Indian Society of Periodontology was inaugurated by Mayor Madhan Chauhan at DAV JN Kapoor Dental College, Yamunanagar, today.As many as 150 student deligates from different parts/colleges of India and Nepal participated in the programme. These students will interact with veterans in the field of teaching. On the occasion, Dr IK Pandit welcomed the Mayor and other dignitaries of ISP, Dr Harpreet Grover, Dr Manish, Dr Ashish, Dr Shiva, Dr Shipra, Dr Vishaka, Dr Shalu and Dr Surinder. Dr Nymphea Pandit, past president, ISP along with Dr Shalini and Dr Deepika were the force behing bringing such a programme to DAV Dental College, Yamunanagar. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/150-mds-students-take-part-in-rapid-revision-course-378784
18-03-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Using fake GPA, fraudsters get land registered in Gurugram||Gurugram, March 17A case of wrongful registration has come up in Kadipur tehsil, where the fraudster got the land registered in the names of three persons on the basis of fake general power of attorney (GPA). In the registry, the value of the land was shown as Rs 6.5 crore, while the market price of the land is about Rs 50 crore. An FIR has been registered at the Badshahpur police station. The complaint filed by a Delhi resident, Puran Manchanda (71),said he had a business till 2012 and had bought 15 canal and 2 marla land in Begumpur Khataula village around 30 years ago. He claimed that so fa,r the land had not been sold to anyone nor any GPA was given in anyone’s name and he was the only real owner of this land. “It was on February 28, when I went to Patwar Bhawan in Gurugram along with Basant Raghav to collect the land records, I came to know that the registration of all land had been done on February 24 in Kadipur tehsil. The patwari also said an application had come for getting the mutation done in the record. I was surprised so I checked the record. It was revealed that one Subhash Chand, a resident of Sushant Lok, had got a fake GPA from East-Delhi and registered the land in the name of South city-2 resident Shel Narang at Kadipur tehsil. Narang also registered the land in parts in the name of Bhim Singh and Vinod Kumar”, Manchanda said in his complaint.  It is alleged that while getting the registry done, the GPA was not checked by the tehsil. There is no pan number in the registry. “The registry has been done in a wrong way as the cost of my land is not less than Rs 50 crores where as in the sale deed, the cost has been mentioned to be a meager Rs 6,60,62,500. In the sale deed, the TDS (1%) amount has not been deposited, which is mandatory. Officials of the Sub-Registrar Tehsil Kadipur have been favouing the accused and helped him in wrongfully gaining the land”, added Manchanda.  Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against all four accused under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using forged document), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC at Badshahpur police station. “We have registered a case and are verifying the facts. Action will be taken as per the law”, said Inspector Dinkar, SHO of the Badshahpur police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/using-fake-gpa-fraudsters-get-land-registered-in-gurugram-378783
18-03-2022||Parveen Arora||Karna stadium to have more facilities||Karnal, March 17Karna stadium, built in around 11 acres in the city, is being expanded with more facilities, including four additional tennis courts, rehabilitation centre, kabaddi hall, building with a stage and spectators’ gallery. Besides, hostel facility for boys and girls, gym, canteen, conference hall and climbing wall will also be available here soon.After the approval from the board of directors of Karnal Smart City Ltd. (KSCL), a company looking after the Karnal Smart City project, a tender was floated for the allotment of work. As per the authorities, a sum of Rs 24 crore will be incurred on this project which will be completed in nine months after the start of work.Rs24 cr cost to be incurred “The existing Karna stadium is one of the best places for outdoor sports. We are going to add more facilities. Four synthetic tennis courts will be developed near the building block which is placed in a way so that referee/officials can watch the match. A spectator gallery of approximately 250 capacities on the northern side of the court will be constructed,” said Anish Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-cum-CEO, KSCL. At present, the stadium has only one tennis court and it is very difficult for the tennis enthusiast to practice at will. They have to wait for their turn. A sport and fitness equipment shop will also be set up to generate revenue to make the campus self-sustainable, he added. The existing stage building block is adjacent to the synthetic track, which will be face- lifted. A spectator gallery with a capacity of around 500 persons with ample space will be developed on the upper part of this block, while at the ground floor there will be spaces for the VIP lounge, toilets, shower areas, changing room, store area, cafeteria, to be developed to make maximum utilisation of space, said the CEO.Girls, boys hostels to come upSeparate hostels for boys and girls with a separate entry and exit, dining hall, will be constructed. Girls’ hostel will accommodate around 45 girls and boys hostel 90. —Anish Yadav, Deputy Commissioner-Cum-CEO, KSCLThe hall building will have a kabaddi hall at the ground floor with spaces such as a VIP lounge, toilet blocks, shower areas, changing room, store area and a cafeteria. The gym will be at the first floor with all premium gym equipment. The rehabilitation centre will be on the second floor with medical facilities, Yadav said.The hall campus will be connected with the tennis courts through two-meter wide pathway, he added. Separate hostels for boys and girls with separate entry and exit, dining hall, will be built, he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karna-stadium-to-have-more-facilities-378782
18-03-2022||---||6 more IAS officers for Haryana||Chandigarh, March 17The shortage of officers in the IAS cadre in Haryana is set to ease with the state getting six more officers.While two of the officers, Sonu Bhat and Vivek Arya, allotted to the Haryana cadre on the basis of the 2020-21 Civil Services examination, are from Haryana, two others, Narinder Kumar and Vishwajit Chaudhary, hail from Rajasthan. The other officers are Yash Jaluka (Jharkhand) and Nisha (Delhi).The Haryana-cadre allotment to these six officers is part of the annual exercise by the Department of Personal and Training (DoPT). The DoPT had allotted cadres to 177 IAS officers selected in the 2020-21 Civil Services examination. Out of the 10 officers from Haryana who were selected in the IAS, only two had been allotted the state cadre.The cadre allotment to the newly-recruited IAS officers is a complex process with rank, caste and domicile playing a major role.Sources said the addition of six new officers would mitigate the shortage of IAS officers in Haryana, as nine officers, including seven additional chief secretaries, are set to retire in 2022.These include VS Kundu, PK Das, Alok Nigam, Devender Singh, Amit Jha, Rajeev Arora, SN Roy, RS Verma and Pardeep Godara.There is a shortage of IAS officers in Haryana with a substantial number of officers holding charge of multiple departments. The elevation from the HCS to the IAS is also due in the state. When this happens, the shortage of officers in the IAS would be take care of to a large extent, the sources added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-more-ias-officers-for-haryana-378781
18-03-2022||---||Bonhomie at Jind mosque on Holi eve||Hisar, March 17In a show of bonhomie, people of different faiths celebrated Holi in a mosque in Jind on Thursday.The event organised by the Samajik Sadbhavna Manch has been carrying on this tradition for the past several years. It was presided over by Harikesh Kabarchha, a farmer.People present on the occasion said the biggest challenge before the progressive forces in the present era was to save the common culture of the country and cherish the heritage.They said the Indian culture and festivals represents inclusive approach and never professed the sentiments of hatred. “The Indian culture symbolises the unity of all faiths, including Hindus, Muslims, Sikh and Christians among others.”Sadbhavna manch president Ranbir Malik said they had been following the Ganga-Jamuni Tehzeeb and the common culture of the country. “Our country is full of resources. But we are ranked 140th in the list of 156 happiest countries in the world, which is a matter of concern. We organised the Holi milan ceremony in the mosque and it is our endeavour that the people of all religions live in harmony with each other and don’t fall prey to any kind of dirty politics,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bonhomie-at-jind-mosque-on-holi-eve-378780
18-03-2022||---||High Court reserves verdict in job quota case||Chandigarh, March 17The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Thursday reserved its verdict on a bunch of petitions challenging the Act providing 75 per cent reservation in Haryana industries for the domiciles of the state after hearing lengthy arguments in the matter.The High Court, during the course of the hearing, made it clear that the core issue for adjudication before it was whether a state could restrict employment even in the private sector on the basis of the domicile.The assertion came in the detailed order staying the implementation of the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, providing 75 per cent reservation in Haryana industries for the domiciles of the state.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/high-court-reserves-verdict-in-job-quota-case-378779
18-03-2022||---||AAP in saddle, Punjab must ensure water to SYL: Khattar||Chandigarh, March 17Putting the onus of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal on the newly formed Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Punjab, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said it was now doubly responsible since Haryana had to take water from Punjab and give it to Delhi.Addressing a press conference here today, Khattar said in such a situation, the responsibility of the Punjab Government to provide water for the SYL was more, because now both states were ruled by the AAP.Party also at helm in DelhiThe new Punjab Government is now doubly responsible since Haryana has to take water from Punjab and give it to Delhi... Punjab’s responsibility to provide water for the SYL is more, as now both the states are ruled by the AAP. —Manohar Lal Khattar, CMResponding to a question, he said the Punjab Government would now have to think when the Budget of the state would be presented in a few days. The debit to the GSDP ratio of the state is 48%, which is just 24.98% in Haryana.“I’m not worried about the AAP coming to Haryana. Delhi is small compared to Haryana. There are about 1,100 government schools in Delhi, but there are 15,000 government schools in Haryana. At the same time, the cultivated land there is very less compared to Haryana, as Haryana has 80 lakh acres of agricultural land. Similarly, different regions have different conditions, so Delhi cannot be compared with Haryana, but Haryana can definitely be compared with Punjab. At this moment, I’m more concerned about how they manage Punjab,” he said.Responding to a question, the CM said the Chief Minister Good Governance Associate in Haryana had nothing to do with any political organisation and the government does not pay them any salary.Khattar further said the kind of reforms the present state government had introduced to ensure “Maximum Governance-Minimum Government” was considered impossible. “We may make mistakes, but our intent is never wrong. There is a need to distinguish between bona fide and mala fide intentions,” the CM added.While launching a frontal attack on the Opposition claim over the discontinuation of the old-age pension of about 2.70 lakh beneficiaries in the state, the CM said, “The Opposition will never share the details about the number of new pension beneficiaries, they only talk about pension deductions. As many as 2.61 lakh new beneficiaries have been added in two years till March 2022,” Khattar said, adding that around 2.41 lakh people had died in these two years, their pension had been discontinued.“For the first time, our government has also started giving the pension benefit of Rs 2,500 to the people suffering from serious diseases like cancer and HIV,” the CM shared.He further said the 35th International Surajkund Handicrafts Mela would be held from March 19 and continue till April 4.This time, Jammu and Kashmir would be the partner state, while Uzbekistan was the participating country.“An e-ticketing system has been started for the convenience of the people visiting the mela. This time we have decided that two such melas would be organised in September and October month.”Meanwhile, the CM said a state-level function would be held in Panipat on April 24 to mark the 400th Parkash Purab of “Hind di Chadar” Guru Tegh Bahadur. #Khattar #syl||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-in-saddle-punjab-must-ensure-water-to-syl-khattar-378774
18-03-2022||Mukesh Tandon||Killer roads: Project in Haryana to mark black spots||Panipat, March 17In view of the rising road accidents in the district, cops have been told to upload detailed information about mishaps on an integrated road accidents database (IRAD) system, a mobile application.Though training for the app has been started in all districts, Panipat has been chosen for its rollout under a pilot project. The IRAD app will help identify black spots (mishap-prone stretches) on highways and other roads so that the department can take preventive measures to check accidents. Sandeep, DSP (Traffic), said the system, launched by the Centre, was being implemented in the state. Apart from the police, officials of the civic body, PWD, NHAI, health and Regional Transport Office had access to the app, the DSP said.Panipat chosen for rolloutAs many as 130 police personnel, mainly investigation officers, from all police stations in the district, would have to upload details of accidents soon after the occurrence, he said.The details included time of accident, date, vehicle number(s), number and identity of injured or deceased, photos and videos of the spot etc.After collecting the data, it would be easy to identify black spots so that steps could be taken with the support of other departments to prevent mishaps, the DSP said. The district saw 14 per cent rise in road accident deaths in 2021.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/project-in-haryana-to-mark-black-spots-378690
