20-03-2022||Ravi S Singh||Buoyed by Punjab success, AAP to go it alone in Haryana||New Delhi, March 20Buoyed by its success in the recent Assembly elections in Punjab, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has decided not to enter into an alliance with any political party in Haryana in future.“AAP will contest all the elections in Haryana alone,” party in-charge of Haryana and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta said here on Sunday.“The party is on its feet now and ready to face any election in Haryana.”He said about six former MLAs, Minister and MPs have joined the AAP recently and 40 more leaders are in touch for induction into the party.The joining of these leaders happened post the AAP landslide victory in Punjab in the recent Assembly elections in the state.“Leaders with non-controversial background and clean image will be allowed entry into the party,” Gupta said.The party has bitter experience of 2019 Lok Sabha elections. It allied with Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) and contested three of the 10 seats in the state, but lost badly in all of them.It contested Ambala, Karnal and Faridabad seats, and the JJP on remaining seven seats. The BJP won all the 10 seats in Haryana.AAP got about 0.93%, 1.7% and 0.84% votes in Ambala, Karnal and Faridabad, respectively.In contrast, it had polled higher percentage of votes when it contested alone at all the 10 seats in the 2014 parliamentary elections.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/buoyed-by-punjab-success-aap-to-go-it-alone-in-haryana-379222
20-03-2022||---||3 live grenades, IED found from a ground near Chandigarh-Ambala NH||Ambala, March 20Three live hand grenades and an Improvised Explosive Device were recovered from an empty ground near Chandigarh-Ambala National Highway.It is learnt that some labourers spotted the explosives and informed the police on Sunday. The police recovered the explosives, including three live grenades, and an IED weighing around 1.5 kg, from the spot.Ambala Superintendent of Police Jashandeep Singh Randhawa who reached the spot said, “We got information that some explosive substances have been recovered around 50 metre off Chandigarh-Ambala road. During checking three live grenades and an IED were recovered. The department concerned was informed and the process for disposing off the explosive was initiated.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-live-grenades-ied-found-from-a-ground-near-chandigarh-ambala-nh-379212
20-03-2022||Karnal||Gaushala chief thrashed||Residents of Jundla village blocked the Karnal-Assandh road after an attack by two persons on Gopal Swami, in-charge of the local gaushala. They were demanding the arrest of both the accused. The situation remained tense for couple of hours and commuters had to face difficulties on the Karnal-Assandh road.After assurance of the Superintendent of Police (SP), Ganga Ram Punia, they got pacified and lifted the blockade. “We have registered a case against two persons for attacking Gopal Swami. Teams have been sent to nab them. I have assured residents of their arrest,” said the SP.As per the information, two persons Bablu and Rajnish of Jundla village attacked Gopal Swami when he was collecting donation for the gaushala on Friday. After this incident, villagers called a meeting and blocked the road. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gaushala-chief-thrashed-379069
20-03-2022||---||Woman raped on pretext of marriage||Yamunanagar, March 19A man allegedly raped a woman for several years on the pretext of marrying her. The victim woman alleged that she also had a child from the accused.On the victim’s complaint, a case was registered against Paramvir for rape at the woman police station on March 16. The complainant said she used to go to a gym, where she met Paramvir.“He was living in Sector 18, Jagadhri, where he took me one day in 2018 on the pretext of showing me his house. He raped me at his house that day,” the victim alleged.She alleged that the accused raped with her several times on the pretext of marrying her.The victim further alleged that she became pregnant as the accused raped her several times and gave birth to a child.“After the child’s birth, I forced him to marry me. He took me to his village, where I came to know that he was already married.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/woman-raped-on-pretext-of-marriage-379067
20-03-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram woman dies, friend injured in accident||A 22-year-old woman died and her friend was critically injured after their bike skidded at a sharp curve in the Sector-44 area today.Deceased Divyanshi Anand is a native of Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. She was pursuing MSc from a central university at Mahendragarh.Her friend has been identified as Sparsh Jain (25), a native of Indore who works as software development engineer with Amazon. He is in the ICU, the police said.“The victim’s father has declined to file any complaint,” the police said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-woman-dies-friend-injured-in-accident-379065
20-03-2022||Karnal||Karnal DTP’s remand extended||The police remand of the District Town Planner (DTP), Vikram Kumar, has been extended for five more days. He was produced in the court on Friday.The police informed the court that for a detailed investigation and also to ascertain the involvement of others in this nexus, they need his police remand for more days. The police are not divulging the outcome of the inquiry.“We have taken the police remand of the DTP for five more days. The investigation is going on,” said Inspector Sachin Kumar, a member of the State Vigilance Bureau team. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-dtps-remand-extended-379064
20-03-2022||Palwal||Four minor boys drown in Palwal||Four minor boys drowned in a pond in Biduki village of the district last evening.The victims — Bhola (13), Harshit (14), Naman (12) and Raju (15) — had gone for a dip after the Holi celebrations at the pond located adjacent to Sidh Dass Baba temple in the village. They went deep inside the water and failed to come up, some locals who noticed them rushed to their help.After the autopsy, the police handed over the bodies to their kin. No police complaint has been lodged. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-minor-boys-drown-in-palwal-379063
20-03-2022||Three women were killed and 12 others injured when a pick-up vehicle rammed into a roadside tree after colliding with stray cattle near Narnaund town on Hansi-Jind road in the district on Saturday||3 women killed in Hisar mishap||The deceased have been identified as Birmati (57), Krishna (62) and Rani (47), all residents of Rajthal village. They were returning to Rajthal village after a trip to Sainiwas in Bhiwani district.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-women-killed-in-hisar-mishap-379062
20-03-2022||Yamunanagar||3 dupe Kurukshetra bizman of Rs 2.99 cr, booked||The police have booked three persons for allegedly duping a Kurukshetra businessman of Rs 2.99 crore on the pretext of supplying him rice on cheaper rates and later, providing him land for failing to return his money.On the complaint of Pali Ram of Kurukshetra’s Barwali village, a case under Sections 342, 365, 406, 420 and 506 of the IPC was registered against Rajbir of Bata village of Kaithal, Nitin Sharma and Dilbag Singh, both residents of Mohali (Punjab), at Chhappar police station on March 16.The complainant, who owns a rice mill in his village and a shop of arhtiya in the Pehowa grain market, said Rajbir met him in January 2021 and told him that he worked as an agent and could provide him rice on cheaper rates. “I made a deal with him for 3,000 quintal of rice at the rate of Rs 2,380,” he added. Pali said Rajbir, Nitin and Dilbag took Rs 71.40 lakh payment for 3,000 quintal of rice from him in Mohali on February 8, 2021.“However, no rice was supplied for days. When we asked them about it, they told us that the vehicles loaded with rice were caught on the way,” alleged the complainant.Pali said after a few days they further took Rs 50 lakh on the pretext of providing him extra rice at the rate of Rs 2,200 per quintal. “After failing to supply rice and return the money, Rajbir told us that he can provide us a piece of land in lieu of his payment.”He said they showed him an 8-acre land in Yamunanagar district, telling him that he would get it at the rate of Rs 1 crore per acre. “They took a total of Rs 2.99 crore from me in instalments on the pretext of supplying me rice and providing me land. But they neither supplied me the rice, nor provided the land and didn’t even return my money,” Pali alleged.He even alleged that they kidnapped him and threatened him of dire consequences if he told anyone about the incident. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-dupe-bizman-of-2-99-cr-booked-379061
20-03-2022||---||Gurugram: NSG cop shoots self with service revolver||Gurugram, March 19A head constable of the National Security Guard (NSG) allegedly shot himself dead with his service revolver on Friday evening. The police also found a suicide note, but it was not of much help as many words were not complete.The reason for the suicide is not yet known and the Manesar police is investigating the matter.The deceased has been identified as Vikram (35), a resident of Rohtak, who was posted as head constable in housekeeping staff of the Punjab Regiment. He had come to the NSG on deputation in 2020 and was living with wife and two children on the NSG campus.‘Suicide note not clear’The cause behind the head constable’s suicide is not clear. Before taking the extreme step, he had written something on a diary page, but it is not clear. We also talked to his wife, but she did not tell about any problem. No complaint has been given from her side. —Pankaj Kumar, SHO, Manesar police stationThe police said he was posted in the Housekeeping Department of the NSG. He committed suicide by shooting himself with his service pistol around 5 pm on Friday evening. After the incident, the condition of the wife of deceased also deteriorated and she was rushed to hospital.“The cause behind the head constable’s suicide is not clear. Before taking the extreme step he had written something on a diary page, but it is not clear. We also talked to his wife, but she did not tell about any problem. No complaint has been given from her side. The body has been handed over to relatives of the deceased after postmortem today and further probe is on,” said inspector Pankaj Kumar, Station House Officer, Manesar police station. #nsg||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/nsg-cop-shoots-self-with-service-revolver-379060
20-03-2022||Gurugram||Three murders in 24 hrs in Gurugram||Three murders have been reported in the city during the past 24 hours. In the first incident, the desire to take a perfect Holi selfie cost a teenage boy his life at Palra village. A friend of the victim, Rahul (19), claimed that he slipped into the village pond while clicking a selfie and drowned. However, victim’s father Naresh of Shikohpur village has accused eight persons of killing him. “My son knew how to swim. He can’t drown. He was murdered,” he stated to the police in his complaint.“An FIR has been registered against eight unidentified boys at the Badshahpur police station. We are verifying the facts and an action will be taken as per the law,” said Inspector Dinkar, SHO.In another incident, a person was killed in a clash between brothers-in-law at Kanhai village falling under the Sector 40 police station area on Friday.According to the complaint filed by Aman of Bharatpur district in Rajasthan, a fight broke out between his brother Sonu and brother-in-law Mithun. “Later, my elder brother Rajender went to Mithun’s room to talk to him, where the latter along with Ravi, Rinku, Vivek and Ashu attacked him with sticks and bricks, leaving him seriously injured. I took him to a hospital where doctors declared him brought dead,” Aman stated in his complaint to the police.An FIR has been registered against the five accused at the Sector 40 police station. Three of the five accused — Mithun (29), Vivek (21), Ashu, alias Aafis (19), all residents of Pali Padar village in UP’s Mathura, were arrested on Saturday evening.Police spokesperson Subhash Bokan said they were questioning the accused. Raids were being conducted to nab the remaining accused, who were still absconding, he added.In the third case, a man’s body was dumped on a road from a moving car near Sahrawan village. In his complaint, eyewitness and Sahrawan village sarpanch Sanjay Kumar said, “I was out for a walk, when I saw some men in a grey car passing me around 4.20 pm. Suddenly, they opened the front door of the car and dumped a body before fleeing the spot. But I couldn’t note the car number.”Later, the police took the body into custody and sent it to a mortuary for identification. An FIR has been registered against unidentified accused at the Manesar police station. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-murders-in-24-hrs-in-gurugram-379059
20-03-2022||Ravinder Saini||Two years later, Narnaul's historical monument Jal Mahal remains dry||Mahendragarh, March 19The pond of Jal Mahal, a historical monument in Narnaul, has remained dry for the past around two years, leaving locals and tourists disappointed. Water was drained out from the pond after a partition wall collapsed due to its high flow. Though the local authorities had prepared a plan to rebuild the wall over a year ago, it was yet to be executed.Built over 11 acres in 1591 during the Mughal Emperor Akbar’s regime, Jal Mahal is known for its historical milieu and wonderful architecture. It is also among those 75 historical monuments of the nation, which are being developed as ‘Adarsh Smarak’ by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) in order to upgrade the existing facilities at such tourist spots.“Our relatives from Rajasthan visited Jal Mahal, but they had to face disappointment after finding its pond dry. We, too, did not visit the monument in the past two years due to the Covid pandemic. Hence, did not know about its present condition. Jal Mahal is nothing without water. Hence the authorities concerned should pay attention towards it,” said Rajender Yadav of Mahendragarh city.Dharmendra of Narnaul said there were two ponds on the Jal Mahal campus. “The wall that has collapsed divided both the ponds. There is no need to build it again when both the ponds are to be filled with water. It is beyond understanding why the authorities want to construct the wall, which has no use,” he added.Ratan Lal Saini, district convener, the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, said, “People from many states visit Jal Mahal. They return disappointed after finding no water in the pond. So, water should be filled in the pond at the earliest.”An official on the condition of anonymity said the construction of wall would cost Rs 30 lakh. The project would likely be approved by the ASI in the next fiscal, he added.Amit Kumar, Junior Conservation Assistant, ASI, said the design of the partition wall was approved by the NIT, Kurukshetra, from technical points of view. “Now, the design and budget estimate has been sent to the headquarters for the sanction. It will take at least three months to build the wall on getting the required fund. Locals are persistently raising the demand for filling the pond,” he said.On being asked about the benefits of the wall, the JCA said since the wall was mentioned in the history hence, it was necessary to construct it so as to keep the old structure of the monument intact.“A new building with a library, canteen and modern toilets has been constructed to provide basic facilities near the monument,” he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-years-later-jal-mahal-remains-dry-379058
20-03-2022||Karnal||Groups clash at Karnal Civil Hospital, cops attacked||Tense situation prevailed for a couple of hours at the local Trauma Centre of the Civil Hospital on Friday evening after a brawl broke out between two groups over old enmity.At first, they fought in Baghpati village and then at the Trauma Centre of the Civil Hospital leading to injuries to five-six persons of both the parties. Meanwhile, members of the one group also attacked a police team, vandalised their vehicles and the Trauma Centre. Three police personnel — Sub Inspector Shamsher Singh, Head Constable Vinod Kumar and Vedpal — suffered injuries. They also tore the uniform of the police personnel.Old enmity during the Shivratri celebrations last year is believed to be the reason behind the clash.The Civil Lines police have registered a case against 21 persons, including three women, for obstructing the police in discharging duty, vandalising government vehicle and damaging the government property. So far, the police have arrested 10 accused, including two women.“Those arrested are Rohtash, Govinda, Ashok, Kuldeep, Binder, Ankit, Arjun, Anil, Rani and Sunita. They were produced in a court from where they were sent to judicial custody. Efforts are being made to arrest the remaining accused,” said Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of the Police.Another brawl turns uglyAnother brawl broke out between two persons — Maninder Singh and Deepak — in Alawla village. Soon, Deepak and his aides attacked the dera and fired outside it. When cops reached there, they even attacked them and vandalised their vehicle. So, the police had to resort to firing to disperse the mob. A case has been registered.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/groups-clash-at-civil-hospital-cops-attacked-379056
20-03-2022||Hisar||Will welcome Birender Singh if  he joins AAP, says MP Sushil Gupta||In high spirits after the party’s massive victory in Punjab, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has announced to contest the urban local bodies poll and later, the Assembly elections without any alliance with other political parties.Haryana AAP in charge and Rajya Sabha MP from Delhi, Sushil Gupta, said in Charkhi Dadri today that they would contest the Haryana urban local bodies poll on party symbol.Gupta, who inducted a retired Haryana Roadways General Manager Dhanraj Kundu at a public event for membership drive in Charkhi Dadri, claimed that they had been contacted by 40 MLAs and the party had already started a verification process to check their background.‘He is my old friend’I have been invited to a function being organised to felicitate Birender Singh on his birthday in Jind district on March 25. He is my old friend. — Sushil Gupta, Haryana AAP in-chargeAmid speculations about the political move of BJP leader and former Union Minister Birender Singh, Gupta praised him and stated that AAP would welcome him into the party fold if he wished to join it. Birender Singh, whose son Brijendra Singh is BJP MP from Hisar, will be felicitated at a public function to be held in Uchana on March 25. Birender has invited leaders from various parties, including AAP, to mark his 50 years in public life.Gupta said he had been invited to a function being held to felicitate Birender Singh on his birthday in Jind district on March 25. The AAP MP maintained, “If Birender wishes to join AAP, we should welcome him.” He ruled out rumours of association of the Hoodas or IAS officer Ashok Khemka with AAP. — #birender singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-welcome-birender-if-he-joins-aap-says-mp-379054
20-03-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Surajkund mela kicks off after 2 yrs||Faridabad, March 19The 35th Surajkund International Crafts Mela got off to a colourful start here this evening. It was jointly inaugurated by Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya and Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Over 1,100 craftsmen and 500 artisans and performers from the country and abroad are taking part in this event, which has been delayed by over one-and-a-half months due to the Covid pandemic. The event will run upto April 4. While Jammu and Kashmir is the theme state, Uzbekistan is the partner nation of the mela.Describing the mela as quintessence of cultural fusion, the Governor in his address said, “The fair has emerged as an impressive platform of the rich cultural heritage of not only the country, but has also acquired an international accreditation of an unparalleled fame due to rise of both participants and visitors.”Claiming that such occasions go a long way in promotion of the traditional and locally made products, the Chief Minister said there was a need to promote facilitation of platforms to ensure popularising of arts and crafts.He said as there was a need to connect the younger generation with heritage, the Surajkund mela had proved its worth by growing up as a platform of strong cultural growth. The chief guests went around some stalls and interacted with artisans.Earlier, the Governor and the Chief Minister arrived at the Surajkund tourist spot via helicopter around 6 pm. They were accorded a traditional welcome by officials and craftspeople.Besides the partner nation Uzbekistan, artisans from Afghanistan, Ethiopia, Mozambique, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, Uganda, Namibia, Sudan, Nigeria, Equatorial Guinea, Senegal, Angola, Ghana, Thailand, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Iran, Maldives and some Latin American countries are taking part in the mela. The fair was cancelled for the first time in 2021, in its 35 years old history, in wake of the Covid pandemic.Spread over 43 acres the mela venue has 1,183 huts for craftsperson.Special bus facility has been provided from Delhi, Gurugram and local city for visitors.100 CCTVs for surveillanceWith over 100 CCTVs, 2,500 cops have been deployed for continuous surveillance with the help of drones. While the cost of entry tickets remain unchanged at Rs 120 (weekdays) and Rs 180 (Saturday and Sunday), visitors can also book tickets online on Paytm app and official website of Haryana Tourism. #bandaru dattatreya #Khattar #surajkund mela||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/surajkund-mela-kicks-off-after-2-yrs-379051
20-03-2022||---||In 6 yrs, 423 fertiliser samples fail quality test in Haryana; 37 penalised||Chandigarh, March 19There is a rise in fertiliser samples failing quality tests in Haryana in the past three years.In 2019-20, 80 samples out of 2,494 (3.2%) were found substandard or misbranded and in 2020-21, the number rose to 88 samples out of 2,477 (3.6%).In 2021-22, till date, 125 samples have been found substandard out of 2,404 taken for testing (5.2%).In the past six years — from 2016-17 to 2021-22 (till date) — a total of 423 samples of fertilisers failed quality test and 37 persons or firms were sentenced to pay fine.The state submitted these facts in a reply to an unstarred question by Congress MLA Jagbir Singh Malik.In the case of pesticides, Agriculture Minister JP Dalal submitted that a total of 431 samples failed quality test in the past six years in the state and 46 persons or firms were sentenced to pay fine. In 2019-20, 139 samples out of 2,078 (6.7 per cent) were found substandard or misbranded while in 2020-21, the number was 119 out of 2,146 (5.5%). In 2021-22, till date, 66 samples failed the test out of 1,976 (3.3%).In the past six years, 152 samples of seeds failed the quality test while 13 persons or firms were sentenced to fine. The number was 40 samples out of 2,867 (1.4%) in 2019-20, 28 samples out of 2,670 (1%) in 2020-21 and 13 samples out of 3,218 (0.4%) in 2021-22 till date.MLA Jagbir Singh Malik said, “If we see the data provided, the sample target has not been achieved. In the case of fertilisers for 2021-22, the sample target was 3,825 but only 2,404 samples were taken. In the case of pesticides, the target was 2,625 but only 1,976 samples were lifted and in the case of seeds, the target was 3,810 but only 3,218 samples were taken.”In the past six years, a total of 1,006 samples of fertilisers, pesticides, and seeds failed quality tests. However, none was sentenced to imprisonment, but only 96 persons or firms were sentenced with fine. “This is not even 10%. How come people in 90 per cent of cases escaped? What was the government doing?” said Malik.Meanwhile, Agriculture Minister JP Dalal couldn’t be contacted for comments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-6-yrs-423-fertiliser-samples-fail-quality-test-37-penalised-379050
20-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh ThakurChandigarh||Haryana: Govt hospitals not in pink of health||The government hospitals at Nuh and Charkhi Dadri don’t have the facilities of MRI, CT scan, cathlab, dialysis and chemotherapy.The hospitals of Narnaul, Jhajjar, Fatehabad and Bahadurgarh have only the facility of dialysis. The hospitals at Ambala City and CM’s home district Karnal only have CT scan. There are no MRI, cathlab and chemotherapy facilities here too.The BJP-JJP government submitted these facts during the Vidhan Sabha’s session in a reply to an unstarred question by Mullana’s Congress MLA Varun Chaudhary on the list of government hospitals having facilities of MRI, CT scan, cathlab, dialysis and chemotherapy with adequate doctors and technicians as on January 31.In the list submitted before the House, of 24 government hospitals, 19 have no chemotherapy facility, 20 cathlab and 19 MRI, four CT scan and five dialysis facility.Only the hospitals at Ambala Cantonment, which falls in the constituency of Health Minister Anil Vij, Faridabad and Panchkula have all these facilities.Not just that, in a reply to another question by Safidon’s Congress MLA Subhash Gangoli, the state submitted that at Safidon’s Civil Hospital, there is no doctor. All sanctioned posts — two of senior medical officer, 11 of medical officers, one of dental surgeon and two of nursing sisters — are vacant. There is no dental assistant-cum-mechanic, dental hygienist, radiographer, ECG technician, operation theatre assistant, ophthalmic assistant and multipurpose health worker (female) too at the hospital.“The Civil Hospital doesn’t serve the people. I have hired two buses that take people from Pilukhera and Safidon blocks to Khanpur’s medical college for treatment,” said Gangoli.On complete lack of facilities, Charkhi Dadri’s Civil Surgeon Dr Sudarshan Panwar said, “We have told the government about the issue. We have been assured that specialists will be provided. Once specialists arrive, these facilities will start soon.”“People from Nuh go to Nalhar medical college that has some facilities,” said Nuh Civil Surgeon Dr Surender Yadav.MLA Chaudhary said, “The BJP government had promised these facilities to the people of Haryana. Even during the Covid period when these facilities were required the most, the people suffered. On the other hand, the government has spent Rs 68.05 crore from 2019-22 under Municipal Corporations, Municipal Councils and Municipal Committees on beautification projects. The government has misplaced priorities.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-hospitals-not-in-pink-of-health-379048
