21-03-2022||Kota (Rajasthan)||2 Haryana girls stuck in Ukraine; authorities urged to bring them back||Two Haryana girls are still stuck in war-torn Ukraine's Kherson city, according to a Bundi social activist, who said they are left with little food and are spending their nights in the cold.Charmesh Sharma said he had on March 10 informed the Indian authorities about the five students stranded in that country, after which three were brought back.However, Tannu Khersan (19) and Simeran Kaur (19) from Haryana's Rohtak could not be brought back as they failed to reach the spot near Kherson city from where they were to be evacuated to India.The other three students - Vadi Vivek, Milan Domadiya and Arokia Raj - succeeded to reach the destination, from where they were taken by bus to Moscow via Crimea and flown back last week, the Bundi-based activist said.Sharma has once again filed an online plea to the President, prime minister and the Union minister for external affairs for their evacuation.They are left with little food, he said.The two girls even deposited their blankets and other belongings with the caretaker of their building after the message from the Indian embassy and now they are spending their nights in the cold, Sharma said.Sharma said he is in constant touch with the two girls through WhatsApp and they needed to be evacuated immediately.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-haryana-girls-stuck-in-ukraine-authorities-urged-to-bring-them-back-379466
21-03-2022||Rewari||'The Kashmir Files' screened in the open at Rewari park; filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri objects to it||The warning issued by filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri through Twitter for not screening his latest movie ‘The Kashmir Files’ in the open notwithstanding, the film was reportedly screened by a local group at Swarn Jayanti Park here on Sunday evening.A considerable number of people saw the movie on a big screen there. Agnihotri on Sunday morning had shared a poster on his Twitter handle and requested Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar to stop the screening of ‘The Kashmir Files’ in Rewari."WARNING: Showing #TheKashmirFiles like this in open and free is a CRIMINAL OFFENCE. Dear @mlkhattar ji, I’d request you to stop this. Political leaders must respect creative business and true Nationalism and Social service means buying tickets in a legal and peaceful manner," tweeted Agnihotri.The event was reportedly organised by former MLA Randhir Singh Kaprivaas and his picture was also printed on the poster that was used to invite people to watch the movie free of cost.Kaprivaas was elected as an MLA from Rewari on a BJP ticket in 2014 but was denied the party ticket in 2019. The BJP expelled him when he jumped into the fray as an independent. He faced defeat in the polls.“The programme was planned and over 1,000 people gathered in the park to watch the movie. Since Vivek Agnihotri had raised an objection over the open screening of the film and termed it as illegal we showed only highlights instead of the entire movie. Another film based on 'surgical strikes' was screened in its place,” Kaprivaas said.The former MLA said since people had come to the park on their request they had been assured that they would be shown the film in theatre soon.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/the-kashmir-files-screened-in-the-open-at-rewari-park-filmmaker-vivek-agnihotri-objects-to-it-379438
21-03-2022||Hisar||Conductor booked for fraud in Hisar||State best in promoting sportsChandigarh: Haryana has been conferred the ‘Best state award for the promotion of sports’. An official spokesperson said Sports Minister Sandeep Singh received the award at a function held by the ACES Awards. Neeraj Chopra from Haryana bagged the ‘Sport star of the year’ and ‘Best player in track and field’ awards.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/conductor-booked-for-fraud-in-hisar-379314
21-03-2022||Karnal||AAP spreading wings in Haryana CM Khattar's home district Karnal||Rahul-Hooda meet cheers supportersRohtak: After the Congress’ dismal performance in the recently held Assembly polls of five states, the meeting of party leaders Rahul Gandhi and Bhupinder Singh Hooda has given a reason to cheer to the latter’s supporters. They are now expecting some big responsibility for their leader to strengthen the party cadre in the state where it is yet to form its organisational units at the block and district levels even after several years. On the other hand, the development has also left the political analysts guessing about the Congress’ next move in a situation when the AAP is striving to gain a foothold in the state after winning Punjab with a thumping majority.Social outfit to aid of unmarried youthHisar: The marriageable youth in Haryana, especially in rural areas, have been facing problems in finding a match due to skewed sex ratio in the state. A social outfit has demanded that the state government should intervene and take measures for the wedding of youths in the state. Stating that the number of unmarried youngsters is increasing in the state, the Jind-based social outfit alleged the government was least bothered about this growing ‘social problem’. In a press statement, it urged other social outfits to come forward to organise a “Parichaya Sammelan” to introduce young men and women for match-making.Shifting vendors cost Y’nagar MC dearYamunanagar: The move to shift the vendors to newly set up vending zone has cost the Municipal Corporation (MC) dear as a few of them are upset about it. They didn’t want to shift the vending zone, citing poor location for trade. Therefore, they met ex-MLA and INLD leader Dilbag Singh instead of the ruling party MLA for a solution. Apprehending a loss for his party’s vote bank in future, Mayor Madan Chauhan, of the ruling party, had to issue a statement that vendors associated with vegetarian and non-vegetarian food would be shifted to the new vending zone and those selling vegetables, fruits and other items would be shifted to vending zones at suitable places. Contributed by: Parveen Arora, Ravinder Saini, Deepender Deswal, and Shiv Kumar Sharma #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-spreading-wings-in-haryana-cms-home-district-379312
21-03-2022||Sirsa||Man booked for duping farmers of Rs 27 lakh||The Sirsa police have registered a case of fraud and cheating on the complaint of farmers of six villages in Sirsa district in a case of duping them of Rs 27 lakh in the name of contract farming.The police said the farmers from Darbi, Bharokhan, Dhani Rampura, Panihari, Shahpur and Beg villages alleged that a youth, Vipin Kumar, contacted them for contract farming of potato and they entered into a deal with him in 2018. The farmers produced potatoes and supplied the produce to a godown in Karnal as per the instructions of the contractor. However, they alleged that Vipin paid them Rs 6 lakh, but was still to pay them Rs 27 lakh. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-booked-for-duping-farmers-of-rs-27-lakh-379310
21-03-2022||Hisar||Fraud case: Basketball Federation of India imposes 2-year ban on Haryana team coach, manager||The Haryana State Basketball Association coach and manager have been banned for two years from participating in the activities of the Basketball Federation of India (BFI).BFI secretary general Chander Mukhi Sharma, in a order, said the technical committee, which probed the complaints had found that state team manager Shripal Singh and coach Ved Prakash were indulging in fraud and tampering of the entry forms by replacing a player in the team.Hisar resident Ajay Sheoran had levelled the allegations of wrongly changing the district units and conducting polls in an unfair manner. — #basketball||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fraud-case-bfi-imposes-2-year-ban-on-state-team-coach-manager-379309
21-03-2022||---||Kaithal murder case cracked; two arrested||Kaithal, March 20With the arrest of two persons, the Kaithal police claimed to have solved the murder case of Suresh, a resident of Kotada village, whose body was found in a pond on Holi.On Sunday, the accused— Jaswinder and Rohit, both residents of Bhana village in Kaithal — were produced in a court, which sent them on two-day police remand.DSP Ravinder Sangwan said the accused confessed that Suresh had stolen Rs 60,000 from Jaswinder’s truck in December 2021 and he didn’t return the money despite several requests. Angry over this, they kidnapped Suresh, killed him and dumped his body in a pond.On the complaint of Suman, Suresh’s sister, the Pundri police registered a case against Jaswinder, Rohit, Munish and another person for killing her brother. She told the police that her brother was Jaswinder’s driver.In December 2021, Jaswinder had accused Suresh of stealing Rs 60,000. She further alleged on March 17, Jaswinder, Rohit and Manish came to her parental house and threatened to kill her brother and his body was found in a pond the next day.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kaithal-murder-case-cracked-two-arrested-379307
21-03-2022||Yamunanagar||Man booked on rape charge in Yamunanagar||A widow was alleged raped by a man several times in a colony of Yamunanagar city.On the victim’s complaint, a case was registered against Ganja of Yamunanagar under Sections 376 (2) (n), 506, 509 of the IPC and the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act at the women police station on Saturday.The complainant said Ganja was a friend of her husband and he lived in their neighbourhood. She said after the death of her husband two years ago, Ganja started to come to her house on one pretext or the other. “I was alone at my house on July 27, 2020. Ganja came to my house andraped me.”The complainant further alleged he threatened her of dire consequences if she told anyone about the incident. “He raped me several times after that. Besides threatening me, he used casteist remarks against me,” alleged the complainant. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-booked-on-rape-charge-in-yamunanagar-379305
21-03-2022||Chandigarh||Manohar Lal Khattar to review govt schemes with DCs, SPs||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar will review the implementation of important government schemes at a meeting with the deputy commissioners (DCs) and superintendents of police (SPs) here on March 24.According to official sources, the Swamitva Scheme, the Mukhyamantri Antyodaya Utthan Scheme, Parivar Pehchan Patra and crop compensation scheme will be reviewed at the meeting. Besides, a discussion on the creation of land bank will also be the highlight of the meeting. — #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/manohar-lal-khattar-to-review-govt-schemes-with-dcs-sps-379303
21-03-2022||---||AAP's Punjab win won't impact us, says Haryana Power Minister||Jind, March 20Power Minister Ranjit Singh has ruled out any impact of the victory of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in Punjab.Addressing a press conference in Jind today, the minister, while commenting on the financial condition of Punjab, said the situation in Punjab had come to such a pass that government rest houses, hospitals, colleges and other institutions had been mortgaged in banks. Even employees had to wait for two months to get their salaries. Industries were not getting power supply for three days in a week over there.Singh stated that people would forget the results of Punjab within three months and there would not be any impact of the poll outcome in Haryana. Arvind Kejriwal was not a challenge in Haryana or in other states, he claimed.Meanwhile, AAP has decided not to enter into an electoral alliance with any political party in Haryana.“The AAP will contest all elections in the state alone,” party in charge of Haryana and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta said in New Delhi on Sunday.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aaps-punjab-win-wont-impact-us-says-minister-379301
21-03-2022||Is a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many||Panchkula MC should take remedial measures||The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Panchkula MC should take remedial measuresThe accompanying photograph has been taken near the market area in Sector 21 of Panchkula. It reveals a risk prone (wide gapped/unlevelled) median, on this ill-maintained/poorly kept road. In fact, this widely used road, which also provides a direct link with the Shimla-Zirakpur-Delhi highway, needs to be re-carpeted. But sadly, the division concerned of the Civic body seems to be looking the other way.The authorities concerned should immediate remedial measures. Kumar Gupt, PanchkulaRoads in pathetic state, no action by authoritiesI want to highlight the condition of roads of Panchkula which are in pathetic condition. No action has been taken so far, despite my repeated requests to the Panchkula MC. MS Manaktala, PanchkulaStray cattle menace continues in NarwanaAlmost in every nook and corner, including highways across the city, one can spot the stray cattle. They can be found in Nehru Park, the only place where people go for morning/evening walk. These animals can be seen in hordes which pose serious danger to the safety of people. The pedestrian walkways can be seen littered with cow dung which not only make it slippery but also emits foul smell. The administration should ensure that stray animals do not roam freely on the road. Ramesh Gupta, Narwana||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/panchkula-mc-should-take-remedial-measures-379297
21-03-2022||Rewari||Lala Lajpat Rai's statue unveiled||CUH signs pact with SSNMahendragarh: The Central University of Haryana (CUH) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the Swadeshi Swawlamban Nyas (SSN), Haryana, for working together in teaching, research and training programme in the field of tourism and hospitality. The MoU was signed by Registrar Prof Sarika Sharma on behalf of the CUH and Prof VP Luhach, on behalf of the SSN, Haryana. Vice-Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar said the MoU would promote mutual understanding, collaboration and research in exploring the ways and means to achieve the goal of self-reliant India.Alumni meet at yamunanagarYamunanagar: Mukand Lal National College, Yamunanagar, organised an alumni meet. Students, who passed out from the college in 1955 to 2000 were invited for this meet. The purpose of the alumni meet was to spark nostalgia among ex- students of the college. Dr Rahul Khanna, the officiating principal of the college, said that Dr Arun Gupta, a renowned paediatrician from Yamunanagar and also an alumni of the college was the chief guest on the occasion. Dr Ramesh Kumar, the general secretary of the college management committee also shared his past experiences and memories regarding the prominent personalities and events of the college.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/lala-lajpat-rais-statue-unveiled-379291
21-03-2022||---||Punjabi poet Dr Ramesh Kumar honoured in Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, March 20The Literary fraternity of Yamunanagar organised a get together to honour Dr Ramesh Kumar, an eminent Punjabi poet. Dr Ramesh Kumar received Haryana Gaurav Samaan from the Haryana Government, recently. He has many books of poetry to his credit.On this occasion, he spoke about his journey as a writer and shared his experiences with the audience. Dr B Madan Mohan, a Hindi writer, conducted the proceedings. Dr KN Kapoor, Dr NS Virk, ex vice-president of Punjabi Sahitya Academy, Haryana, and Dr Ritu Kamra Kumar, an English writer and poet of the region, were present on the occasion. #punjabi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjabi-poet-honoured-in-yamunanagar-379290
21-03-2022||Kurukshetra||Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni): Why link Kurukshetra mandis with Adani silo?||The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) has raised questions over linking of mandis at Pehowa and Gumthala with Adani silo at Solumajra village in Kaithal.Also read: Punjab Congress flags ‘direct’ wheat delivery to pvt silos in HaryanaThe union claimed that the move of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) would have an adverse effect on not only farmers and traders, but also on labourers and other people involved in the procurement process.The divisional office of the FCI in a letter issued to procurement agencies, including Food and Civil Supplies, Hafed, Haryana Agro Industries Corporation and State Warehousing Corporation in Kurukshetra and Kaithal, regarding direct delivery in bulk from farmers to Adani silo has stated that for the action plan for wheat procurement and storage of rabi marketing season 2022-23, it has been informed to the agencies head not to store wheat stock in CAP (covered and plinth)/open plinths from next season onwards as per the instructions of higher offices.BKU (Charuni) spokesman Prince Waraich, said, “The FCI has linked Pehowa and Gumthala grain markets with Adani silo. The FCI has also directed the procurement agencies not to supply gunny bags in these markets. Farmers will be forced to take their produce to Adani silo, which is far away from present markets.” — #BKU #gautam adani #gurnam singh charuni||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhartiya-kisan-union-charuni-why-link-kurukshetra-mandis-with-adani-silo-379289
21-03-2022||Deepender Deswal||Probe sought into bungling of MC funds in Bhiwani||Bhiwani, March 20A number of residents of Bhiwani town are up in arms overbungling of about Rs two crore in the Municipal council funds in Bhiwani town. Though the police have registered a case and started investigation, the residents led by Bhiwani Vyapar Mandal demanded a high-level probe and strict action against those found guilty.The Bhiwani police had registered a case under Section 420 and other sections of the IPC against some persons, including two persons of a private firm, a bank official and some unknown MC employees into the case of transfer of about Rs 2 crore from the bank account of the Bhiwani MC from the period June 18, 2019 to October 9, 2019. The preliminary inquiry revealed that there was no entry of the details of transaction in the account books of the MC.Opening a front on the issue, the Bhiwani Vyapar Mandal staged a demonstration and also burnt the effigy of the state government at Ghantaghar Chowk today. Bhiwani Vyapar Mandal district president JP Kaushik said there had been a scam worth several crores of rupees in the MC. “Residents are dejected with the poor functioning of the MC. Now, it has been brought to light that the MC has been a hub of corruption, the government must take strict action after a probe”, he said while demanding speedy investigation into the matter. Several other activists and traders were present in the demonstration.They alleged that a scam worth crores has been exposed now. Though the MC was meant to serve the public and ensure development of the city, it is suspected that it was a fountainhead of corruption for the last five years, they said. “It seems that the budget of crores of rupees released by the government had gone into the pockets of some corrupt employees and public representatives. We demand a high-level inquiry into the corruption, so that strict action could be taken against those who indulged in embezzlement of funds, says Priya Asija, a local activist.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/probe-sought-into-bungling-of-mc-funds-in-bhiwani-379286
21-03-2022||Saurabh MalikChandigarh||Punjab and Haryana High Court: Hard to disbelieve injured victim's account of accident||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ruled that it was extremely difficult to disbelieve an injured eyewitness’ account of an accident as he had no motive to implicate the accused. The ruling by Justice Jasjit Singh Bedi came in a fatal accident case that took almost a decade ago.No motive to implicate accusedIt would be extremely difficult to disbelieve the eye version account of the accident victim, when he has received injuries in the mishap as he can have no possible motive to falsely implicate the accused, unknown to him prior to the occurrence. Justice Jasjit Singh Bedi,Punjab and Haryana High CourtQuoting a plethora of Supreme Court judgments, Justice Bedi also reiterated that the failure of a witness to state that the accused was driving the vehicle in a rash and negligent manner was not a ground to acquit him. The circumstances of a case established whether the accused was driving in a rash and negligent manner.“In a case under Section 304-A of the IPC (causing death by negligence), it would be extremely difficult to disbelieve the eye version account of the accident victim, when he has received injuries in the occurrence because he can have no possible motive to falsely implicate an accused who is unknown to him prior to the occurrence,” Justice Bedi asserted.Referring to a judgment in the case of “Bir Chand versus the State of Haryana 2003”, Justice Bedi added that it had been clearly held that the accused could not be acquitted merely because the witness did not state the accused was driving in a rash and negligent manner. Mere parrot-like repetition of the words that he was driving in a rash and negligent manner was not required.The assertion came in a fatal accident case, where the counsel for the accused argued that he ought to be acquitted as he was not identified properly, the presence of the witnesses was doubtful and there was no evidence of the petitioner driving the vehicle in a rash and negligent manner.The matter was brought to Justice Bedi’s notice after the accused filed a revision petition. He was initially convicted and sentence to two years’ imprisonment in November 2018 by Bahadurgarh Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate. His appeal against the order was dismissed by Jhajjar Additional Sessions Judge, following which the matter was placed before Justice Bedi. The accident had taken place in December 2013.Before parting with the case, Justice Bedi added that the petitioner was a first-time offender. The occurrence was almost a decade old. As such, the sentence was modified and reduced to one-and-a half years while placing reliance on the Supreme Court and High Court judgments.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/punjab-and-haryana-high-court-hard-to-disbelieve-injured-victims-account-of-accident-379284
21-03-2022||Karnal||Karnal: Naveen Jaihind, workers protest over DTP corruption case, demand CBI probe||Former AAP state president Naveen Jaihind, along with hundreds of party workers, today protested near CM Camp Office with cow dung, cow dung cakes and currency notes of Rs 10.They were stopped by the police 100m away from the CM Camp Office after which they threw cow dung cakes and currency notes towards the camp office to express their anger over the alleged corruption in Karnal district.Jaihind demanded a high-level inquiry by the CBI over the arrest of DTP Vikram Kumar and Tehsildar Karnal Rajbakhsh Arora in a corruption case.A police personnel got injured as a cow dung cake hit his nose. As he was bleeding profusely, he was taken to hospital.Meanwhile, Rajya Sabha MP and Haryana AAP convener, Dr Sushil Gupta said that it was a not an AAP protest, but of Naveen Jaihind. “The protest held by Naveen Jaihind was not by AAP,” said Gupta to mediapersons during ward-2 councillor Balwinder Singh Brar’s AAP-joining event on Sunday.Earlier, Jaihind and supporters assembled near railway flyover and took out a protest march towards the CM Camp Office at Prem Nagar. They tried to cross the barricades installed by the police, but the police, led by DSP Vijay Deswal, did not allow them to do so.Jaihind said that the arrest of DTP and Tehsildar indicates that there is an organised nexus which is looting the public without remorse. It was not a small graft case, but of several crores.“There is a saying in Haryanvi that “garib ke paise khane ki bajay gobar kha lo” (instead of grabbing money of the poor, one should eat cow dung), so we brought cow dung and cow dung cakes here,” he said.Both the arrested officials had been deputed in CM City and were making money, but no BJP leader had objected to their working, he alleged.Not an AAP event, claims State convenerHaryana AAP convener Dr Sushil Gupta said that Naveen Jaihind is not on any post in the AAP and he is just a simple worker. The programme organised by him was not by the party. “We are not associated in any form with this programme as every event organised by anyone does not belong to the party. No consent was taken from the party organisation for this programme,” said the state convener. #naveen jaihind||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jaihind-workers-protest-over-dtp-corruption-case-demand-cbi-probe-379282
21-03-2022||---||IED, 3 grenades found near Chandigarh-Ambala National Highway||Ambala, March 20Three live hand grenades and an improvised explosive device (IED) having explosive material weighing around 1.5 kg were found from a vacant ground near a private university at Sadopur village on Chandigarh-Ambala National Highway-152 on Sunday.A labourer had first noticed the explosives last evening but the police were informed on Sunday. Soon after getting information, police officials seized the explosives including three blue-coloured live grenades and the IED and the area was cordoned off.A bomb disposal team also reached the spot and the explosive device was separated from the detonator.There are some educational institutions in the area near the Haryana-Punjab border from where the explosives were recovered. The police also carried out a search operation to ensure that there was no other explosive left in the ground. Gurpreet, a labourer, who noticed the explosives near MM University, Sadopur, said that he had noticed the explosives in the bushes and had informed a guard about those.Ambala SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa, who reached the spot, said, “We got information that some explosives have been found around 50m away from Chandigarh-Ambala road. These have now been defused.”The SP said the explosives were seen yesterday but the police were informed on Sunday. The police would check the reason behind the delay. Some sacks with addresses written on those were also recovered from the spot.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ied-3-grenades-found-near-chandigarh-ambala-national-highway-379280
21-03-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Man held with 27 illegal weapons on KMP e-way||A 20-year-old youth was arrested from the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway late on Saturday and 25 illegal pistols and two live cartridges were recovered from his possession.The accused Abhishek, alias Gabbar, alias Kalu, hails from Aligarh and is an alleged arms supplier who was active in NCR for the past year. He had come to distribute the consignment among various individuals in NCR, but was nabbed by the Gurugram police. Highly placed sources said the arms were meant for another supplier, who dealt with various gangs.It may be noted that after two years of Covid crisis with things opening up, gangs across the NCR were reportedly getting active to start their extortion business and “reclaim” their territories.ACP (Crime) Preet Pal Sangwan, speaking to The Tribune, said, “We have taken him on two-day remand and identified the buyers, but can’t say anything about their details as it may affect our operations against them.”The interrogation of the accused has revealed that he had so far supplied over 300 weapons to people in Rajasthan, Haryana and the National Capital Region (NCR) in the past one year. He used to supply weapons, such as country-made pistols, guns and 12-bore shotgun and made over Rs 2 lakh per month. He allegedly procured weapons for around Rs 15000-20,000, but sold these for as high as Rs 60,000.“He got into this after Class X and started his supply network in 2018. He fell in bad company and started consuming drugs. To earn money in a short time, he joined hands with illegal arms manufacturers in UP and started supplying illegal arms,” said Rajeev Deswal, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime).||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-held-with-27-illegal-weapons-on-kmp-e-way-379279
21-03-2022||Rohtak||Second spot for Rohtak sugar mill||Haryana Cooperative Sugar Mills Limited at Bhali Anandpur in the district has bagged the second position across the state in not only capacity utilisation but also sugar production in the ongoing crushing season that commenced on November 12.As per sources, the mill has so far produced 3.54 lakh quintals of sugar by crushing 38.55 lakh quintals of cane. The utilisation capacity of the mill has been recorded at 97.52 per cent.The Rohtak mill stood second after Shahbad Sugar Mill in Kurukshetra. Over 6,400 cane growers from 225 villages are associated with the Rohtak mill.“Our mill is the second one across the nation where sulphur-free sugar is produced by using membrane filtration technique which not only reduces the usage of chemicals but also improves the quality. Similarly, daily cane crushing capacity of mill is 35,000 quintals and 16 MW electricity is also produced every day,” said Manoj Kumar, Deputy Commissioner-cum-Chairman of the Rohtak MillHe maintained 1.7 crore electricity units worth Rs 11.25 crore had so far been produced in this crushing season. Moreover, the farmers had been paid a total of Rs 21.67 crore for the cane supplied by them from January 18 to February 5. A total payment of Rs 103.82 crore had so far been made to the cane growers this season. The payment was credited to the farmers’ bank account directly, he added.Meanwhile, Pradeep Ahlawat, Managing Director of the mill, said this was the first time when Rohtak mill got second position in terms of production and capacity utilisation. Several vital steps were taken to attain the position, he added. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/second-spot-for-rohtak-sugar-mill-379274
21-03-2022||Parveen Arora||Work on Kaithal road gains pace||Kaithal, March 20The work on 34.96 km-long stretch in Kaithal district, a part of the 227-km long Trans Haryana Greenfield project of national highway (NH)-152D has gained pace. It is claimed that the stretch in Kaithal district is likely to complete by April 15.The six-laning of NH-152D is being consrtructed under the Bharatmala Pariyojana on Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) mode between Gangheri in Ismailabad and Narnaul passing through eight districts — Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Karnal, Jind, Rohtak, Bhiwani, Charkhi Dadri and Mahendragarh. It is further connected with Narnaul Bypass and then to NH-148 B and meeting Delhi-Jaipur Expessway at Paniala mode near Kotputli, said an official.In Kaithal district, it is being constructed in two packages. One package is of 6.8km from Salimpur Mehdood to Kaul village which has been constructed, while the work on the second package of the length 28.16km between Kaul and Mandwal is going on in full swing, said Pradeep Dahiya, Deputy Commissioner, Kaithal.Earlier, the project had witnessed hurdles as residents of Pabnawa and Karoda villages demanded underpass and later they were pacified by the district administration. “An underpass has been approved near Pabnawa and residents of Karoda village have already been given access to the national highway,” said the DC.“The structure across canal crossings are being constructed with more heights so that the embankment of the canal is motorable and it will serve the purpose of crossing the highway,” said Dahiya.Recently, NHAI chairperson Alka Upadhyaya visited the stretch near Kaul village, where the NHAI has constructed Trauma Centre, restaurant, dhaba and petrol pump to facilitate the commuters. “We will take up the issue of providing doctors and paramedical staff at this trauma centre with the state government as the NHAI is willing to handover the fully equipped trauma centre to the state government,” said the DC.In Kaithal district, the NHAI had acquired 306.56 hectares for which Rs 517.9 crores had to be disbursed to the people. So far, the NHAI has disbursed Rs 493 crores. The disbursement was speedy and timely, said Dahiya.KM Sharma, project director, NHAI, Bhiwani, said in Kaithal, the work on the first package was started on January 28, 2020, and on the second on February 4, 2020.“The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways had decided to develop the six-lane access control Greenfield Highway of NH-152D between Gangheri (Ismailabad) and Narnaul which is part of the Ambala-Kotputli Economic Corridor under the Bharatmala Pariyojana. The corridor will reduce existing distance between Ambala and Kotputli by about 50 km,” he said, adding that the entire Greenfield project has been divided into eight packages for accomplishing the construction activities in targeted time frame. It will also help in decongesting traffic on the national highways.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/work-on-kaithal-road-gains-pace-379273
21-03-2022||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress flags ‘direct’ wheat delivery to pvt silos in Haryana||Punjab Congress leaders have raised concern over the reports of wheat procurement at a private godown in Haryana, pointing out that next on the agenda of the BJP-led central government could be Punjab.Also read: Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni): Why link Kurukshetra mandis with Adani silo?Take up with centreThe AAP should take up with the Centre any such move to start direct delivery of wheat to silos. —  Raja Warring, Gidderbaha MLAIt’s against mandisPM Modi promised apni mandi will not be closed. But now the opposite is happening. — Barinder Dhillon, Punjab YC presidentCiting the Food Corporation India’s (FCI) order of direct delivery of wheat from farmers to the silos of a leading business group in Haryana, state Congress leaders alleged the BJP’s anti-farmer policy was coming in the open again. “Modi promised apni mandi will not be closed. But now the opposite is happening and the first step towards closing down of mandi has been initiated. It’s happening in Haryana and the next in line could be Punjab. As the Assembly polls are over, the BJP has initiated the process in Haryana,” said Barinder Dhillon, president, Punjab Youth Congress.Amrinder Singh Raja Warring, the MLA from Gidderbaha, said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) should take up with the Central government any such move to close mandis and to start direct delivery of wheat from farmers to silos of private groups. Giving the MSP gurantee was another demand that has to be fulfilled by the Centre, the former Transport Minister added. #barinder dhillon #farmers #MSP #raja warring||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/cong-flags-direct-wheat-delivery-to-pvt-silos-379272
21-03-2022||Ravinder Saini||Soon, lodging facility for tourists at Madhogarh, Mahendragarh forts||Mahendragarh, March 20Soon, tourists will be able to stay at historical Madhogarh Fort in the district to enjoy nature’s beauty from a height of about 400 metres. A hotel with the facility of 11 rooms is being constructed at Rani Mahal, on the top of the fort. The work has reached its last stage and is likely to be completed within six months.Located at the top of the Aravalli hill on the Mahendragarh-Satnali road, the Madhogarh Fort was built over 300 years ago by Maratha emperor Madhoji Rao. Significantly, Baoli (a water tank with a well) located adjacent to Rani Mahal has also been renovated to restore its glory.Similarly, Mahendragarh Fort, another historical monument located in the city, is also being revamped. The work to restore 300 rooms inside the fort is underway to provide lodging facility to tourists.“Madhogarh Fort is one of the beautiful places in the district, which attracts tourists as it is located in the lap of nature. Many tourists or nature lovers want to spend time there but they have to return in the evening as there is no lodging facility available there,” said Devaki Nandan, a local.Nature attracts touristsMadhogarh Fort is one of the beautiful places in the district, which attracts tourists as it is located in the lap of nature. Many tourists and nature lovers want to spend time there, but they have to return in the evening as there is no staying facility available. Devaki Nandan, a localMadhogarh Fort to be ready in 6 mthsThe renovation work is going on at a fast pace hence the tourists will be able to avail the lodging facility at Madhogarh Fort within six months, while the project pertaining to Mahendragarh Fort will be completed next year. Harvinder Yadav, divisional manager, department of tourismOfficials told to finish work on timeOfficials concerned have been directed to finish all development works pertaining to historical monuments on time. Shyam Lal Punia, Deputy CommissionerHe maintained a hotel facility at the fort would not only lead to increase in the number of tourists but also provide them an opportunity to spend the night there. The demand for the same was being raised for a long time as it would also boost commercial activities there.Harvinder Yadav, Divisional Manager, Department of Tourism, told ‘The Tribune’ that both historical monuments were being spruced up not only to give boost to tourism but also to keep their glory intact.“The renovation work is going on at a fast pace hence the tourists will be able to avail the lodging facility at Madhogarh Fort within six months while the project pertaining to Mahendragarh Fort will be completed next year. Both projects will cost Rs 100 crore. The fund has been allotted by both state and the Central governments,” said he, adding that the Mahendragarh Fort project got delayed due to the Covid pandemic.Shyam Lal Punia, Deputy Commissioner, said Mahendragarh district had full potential to be developed as a tourist destination so special efforts were on to preserve the historical sites.“Officials concerned have been directed to finish all development works pertaining to historical monuments on time. A mammoth park will also be developed inside the Mahendragarh Fort,” he added. #madhogarh fort #mahendragarh fort #Tourism||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/soon-lodging-facility-for-tourists-at-madhogarh-mahendragarh-forts-379271
21-03-2022||Shiv Kumar SharmaYamunanagar||Yamunanagar: Illegal mining on Pathrala riverbed threat to ecology||Despite efforts of the district authorities to stop illegal mining, the activity is going on unabated in the Pathrala rivulet in Jaitpur and Nagli villages, close to bundhs and stone studs built by the Irrigation Department to protect residential areas and agricultural land.On the complaint of Vinod Kumar, Sub Divisional Officer (SDO), Water Services Division, Jagadhri, two separate cases have been registered against the owners of some screening plants under Section 21 (4) of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation of Development) Act and other charges at the Bilaspur police station on March 15.The complainant said he inspected the illegal mining sites along with an inspector in Jaitpur and Nagli villages on February 21, 2022. “We found that illegal mining was being carried out by the owners of some screening plants close to the bundhs and stone studs constructed by Irrigation Department in the Pathrala river in Jaitpur and Nagli villages.”“In case of damage to the stone studs (flood protection), the natural flow of the river may change its course and destroy the agricultural land and residential areas of Jaitpur and Nagli villages. Therefore, we have got two separate FIRs registered in this connection,” the complainant alleged.Earlier, on the complaint of Kedar Prasad Prajapat, Assistant Director, Directorate of Enforcement, Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance, a case was registered against M/S Alchemist Infra Realty Limited and its promoter under Sections 188 and 120B of the IPC and Section 21 (4) of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation of Development) Act at the Bilaspur police station of Yamunanagar district on March 9.The complainant said the ED was investigating a case against the firm under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002. He said during the investigation, the ED had provisionally attached an immovable property of the said firm situated in Rampur Genda village of the district.However, after getting a complaint, the officers visited Rampur Genda village and found the illegal mining activity being carried out on the said property.The district police have lodged three FIRs in the past about one week in connection with the illegal mining.2019 YAMUNA CASEIn 2019, a case of illegal mining came to light near the Yamuna. The mafia damaged the right lower downstream embankment of the Yamuna by carrying out illegal mining in Tajewala village. The illegal activity posed a breach threat in the river embankment following which the Irrigation Department had to spend crores of rupees to protect it.2 FIRs registeredOn March 15, on the complaint of Vinod Kumar, SDO, Water Services Division, Jagadhri, two separate cases have been registered against the owners of some screening plants under Section 21 (4) of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation of Development) Act and other charges at the Bilaspur police station. #Environment #illegal mining||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-mining-on-pathrala-riverbed-threat-to-ecology-379268
21-03-2022||Nitish Sharma||Depleting groundwater: Kurukshetra preparing water resources plan||Kurukshetra, March 20Kurukshetra is one of the top groundwater extractors among all districts in the state and to improve the groundwater table, the administration is preparing a district water resources plan.As per the data, of the 433 gram panchayats in the district, 422 have fallen under the overexploited zone, indicating that the groundwater level in these gram panchayats has fallen to 30 meters below the ground level.Groundwater level has depleted by up to 13 meters since 2010 in these villages.While 11 gram panchayats fall under the pink zone (where water level lies between 20 to 30 meters below the ground level), only one falls under the light green zone (water level lies between 10 to 20 meters below the ground level) in Kurukshetra.As per the district Irrigation Department, the dependence on groundwater has increased drastically over the years, leading to over-exploitation of the aquifers.There is a shortfall (water gap between availability and extraction) of about 500 million cubic meters of water per year in Kurukshetra.The state government has established the Haryana Water Resources Authority for the conservation, regulation and management of water resources in the state, under which the authorities have made district water resource planning committees across the state to prepare plans comprising block-wise and area-wise plans.An action plan with a three-year perspective will be prepared and there will be a focus on the optimal use of groundwater and surface water resources, adoption of micro-irrigation techniques and crop diversification to reduce the demand for freshwater, efficient canal water supply system for less groundwater extraction, maximum reuse of treated wastewater to reduce dependency on freshwater, groundwater recharge system and rainwater harvesting structures rejuvenation of ponds and lakes.Meanwhile, Executive Engineer of the Irrigation Department Gurvinder Singh, said: “Different departments have been involved. Interventions, including using the defunct borewells of Public Health Department as recharge structures, recharging of the borewell near the Brahma Sarovar so that the excess water could be utilized, and rejuvenation of the Saraswati channel and Bibipur lake, will be proposed in the plan for the first year.There will be a target to reduce the shortfall by 10 per cent in the first year and then, the target will be increased to 20 and 30 per cent in the next two years.The plan is likely to be prepared in two months and will be submitted to the state authorities. #groundwater||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/depleting-groundwater-kurukshetra-preparing-water-resources-plan-379264
21-03-2022||---||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar connects with 4K officers over development of villages||Chandigarh, March 20For the first time, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar organised an audio webinar with around 4,000 Class-I officers of the state government to discuss the ‘Gram Sanrakshak Yojana’, wherein each officer will be adopting a village for its holistic development.The Chief Minister gave the key points around which the development of the villages adopted by these officers would be centred.While motivating the officers to work in this sphere diligently with an intention to serving the people, Khattar said the government had coined a new term for this unique collaboration of government officials for public welfare and development of the state.Like in the private sector, it was the public private partnership (PPP), similarly this would be called government community partnership (GCP) wherein the officers would work for the development of villages, besides the routine office work of a gazetted officer. He said they had specifically chosen a non-working day for this webinar as this work would be done on a non-working day. He elaborated that it was not part of their job and it was more of a social service. They had to visit their adopted village at least once a month and monitor its development.The CM said other than ensuring the overall development of the state, the government was committed to ensuring the happiness and prosperity of the people of its state. He elaborated that the prosperity of the people could be gauged through the “Happiness Index” of the state. We need to enhance our ranking and by working on the “Gram SanrakshakYojana”, these officers would contribute majorly towards improving the “Happiness Index” of the state.The CM emphasised that the state would be on the path of progress if everyone, including serving officers and retired officers, contributed towards the development of the villages.He elaborated that the Sanrakshak could register on www.intrahry.gov.in and choose the panchayats. Retired officials and people of the state who wanted to contribute to the development of a village couldregister themselves on https://samarpan.haryana.gov.in — the Haryana Volunteer Programme website.Gram Sanrakshak Yojana #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-cm-connects-with-4k-officers-over-development-of-villages-379262
