23-03-2022||Gurugram||Protest by Sanyukt Ahir Regiment Morcha brings Gurugram-Delhi expressway to a standstill||Heavy traffic congestion was reported from Gurugram-Delhi expressway after members of the Sanyukt Ahir Regiment Morcha started marching towards Hero Honda Chowk from Kherki Daula toll plaza on National Highway-48 in support of the demand for an Ahir regiment.The morcha members have been protesting for over a month now and got support from all the Ahir leaders across party lines including BJP MP and central minister Rao Inderjeet Singh and former Congress MLA and minister Captain Ajay Singh Yadav. Accusing the central government of not fulfilling the promise made over five years ago, the protestors got Kherki Daula toll plaza to go free from 7 am on Wednesday. The traffic police are issuing constant traffic advisories and diverting the traffic. However, the march has resulted in a massive traffic congestion spilling up to Sohna road. Owing to the congestion, the Ola and Uber cab drivers are reportedly not taking bookings and cancelling, leading to a major chaos.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/delhi/protest-by-sanyukt-ahir-regiment-morcha-brings-gurugram-delhi-expressway-to-a-standstill-380046
23-03-2022||New Delhi||I-T dept raids Hero Motocorp premises in Gurugram, Delhi||The Income Tax Department is conducting raids on multiple premises of Hero Motocorp as part of a tax evasion investigation against the country's largest two-wheeler automobile company, officials said on Wednesday.Offices and residential premises of the promoters including Chairman and CEO of the group Pawan Munjal in Gurugram, Delhi and a few other locations are being covered, they said.A team of officials of the department are looking at financial documents and other business transactions of the company and the promoters, they said.A response from the company is awaited.Hero MotoCorp became the world's largest two-wheeler manufacturer in 2001, in terms of unit volume sales in a calendar year, and has maintained the title for the past 20 consecutive years.Till date, it has sold over 100 million units across domestic and international markets.Led by Pawan Munjal, the company has presence across 40 countries spanning Asia, Africa, and South and Central America.The company continues to have a leading position in the domestic two-wheeler segment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/it-department-raids-hero-motocorp-premises-380023
23-03-2022||Kurukshetra||After farmers' objection, FCI not to link mandis with private silo||Following the objection raised by the BKU (Charuni) and the Opposition parties on the linking of the mandis of Pehowa and Gumthala Garhu in Kurukshetra to Adani silo at Solumajra village in Kaithal, the Food Corporation of India (FCI) has withdrawn its orders.Also read: Punjab Congress flags ‘direct’ wheat delivery to pvt silos in HaryanaBhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni): Why link Kurukshetra mandis with Adani silo?AIM to ensure scientific storageThe objective is to ensure the maximum utilisation of scientific storage space on priority and avoid storing wheat in the open in the rabi season 2022-23. An officialEarlier, the FCI had also asked the procurement agencies not to issue any gunny bags in nearby mandis of Adani silo in Solumajra village so that the bulk direct delivery of wheat from farmers may be ensured from Dhand, Kaul, Pehowa, Pai, Pundri, Solumajra, Gumthala Garhu grain markets.Withdrawing the order, the FCI has also instructed the procurement agencies to make the necessary arrangements for gunny bags at the mandis concerned.The letter of the FCI divisional manager reads: “As per the direction received from the corporation’s regional office in Panchkula, the letter no. 1692 issued vide this office on the subject cited is hereby withdrawn, wherein it was mentioned not to issue gunny bags to nearby mandis, namely Dhand, Kaul, Pehowa,Pai, Pundri and Gumthala Garhu, etc of Solumajra silo. However, the farmers of the mandis may also deliver their wheat in bulk directly to the silo or in nearby mandis in their best interest. Necessary arrangements for gunny bags may be made by the purchase agencies concerned in the mandis.”An official said: “The farmers used to deliver their stock directly to the silo in the past too but this year, an issue has been created out of nowhere. Last year, around 20,000 farmers had delivered over 1 lakh tonnes of wheat, the stocks were procured on the MSP and all facilities are provided to the farmers at the silo. The motive is to ensure the maximum utilisation of scientific storage space on priority and avoid storage of wheat in the open/CAP (covered and plinth) in the rabi season 2022-23. To avoid any issue during procurement, we have clarified that the FCI has no motive to close the grain market.”Meanwhile, BKU (Charuni) appealed to the farmers to sell their crops in the mandis only and not take the wheat to the Adani silo. The union had claimed that the FCI move would have an adverse effect on not only farmers and traders, but also on labourers and other people involved in the procurement process. #farmers #farmers protest #fci #gautam adani #gurnam singh charuni||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-farmers-objection-fci-not-to-link-mandis-with-pvt-silo-379932
23-03-2022||Pradeep Sharma||Haryana assembly passes Bill to check forcible religious conversions||Chandigarh, March 22Walking into the footsteps of several BJP-ruled states, including Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, the Haryana Assembly today passed a Bill to prevent forcible religious conversions amidst a walkout by the Opposition Congress, which termed the law as BJP’s “political agenda”.Will instil fear among criminalsThe Bill is aimed at instilling fear among those who commit crimes. The sole purpose is to check forcible religious conversions. Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief MinisterNo need for fresh lawThe Bill is part of BJP’s divisive agenda. There is no need for a fresh law when adequate punitive provisions exist in the current law. Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Ex-CMLaunching a scathing attack on the BJP-led government for its agenda “to divide society along religious lines”, Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh contended that there was no need for a fresh law when adequate punitive provisions existed in the current law.Terming the Bill as a “black chapter” in the state’s history, Kiran Chaudhry (Congress), said it would deepen the communal divide and could have grave consequences.However, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar asserted that the Bill was aimed at instilling fear among those who committed crimes.The CM said a person could change religion as per his own free will, but it would not be allowed to happen to anyone forcibly. Action will be taken against such people if they convert religion by deceit or by giving any kind of greed. The purpose of the Bill is to check forcible religious conversions.Khattar claimed that 127 FIRs for religious conversion were registered in six districts in four years. More cases of conversion had been witnessed in Yamunanagar, Panipat, Gurugram, Palwal and Faridabad, he added.According to the Haryana Prevention of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Bill, 2022, if conversion is done by allurement, use of force, fraudulent means or coercion, there is a provision for imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of not less than Rs 1 lakh. In case of marriage in contravention of the law, the punishment would not be less than three years, which may extend to 10 years and a fine of not less than Rs 3 lakh.Besides, whoever converts or attempts to convert a minor, a woman or a person belonging to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than four years, which may extend to 10 years and is liable to a fine not less than Rs 3 lakh.Senior Congress leader Raghubir Kadian said, “There is no emergency or urgency for bringing this Bill. “I feel that this Bill smacks of divisive politics, which is not good,” he asserted.Meanwhile, Congress’ Nuh MLA Aftab Ahmed feared that the Bill would bestow unfettered discretion on state agencies, which was impermissible under the Indian Constitution. #bhupinder hooda #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/assembly-passes-bill-to-check-forcible-religious-conversions-379935
23-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Action promised in ghost plants scam in Pinjore forest dept||Chandigarh, March 22Admitting a multi-crore ghost plants scam in the Forest Department’s research division of Pinjore, the state government today told the Haryana Legislative Assembly that action would be taken as more officials could be involved.Irregularities galoreAn inquiry report revealed bogus bills, maintenance of non-existent plants, extension of contractors’ contract without approval of target and finances from the dept and showing of lakhs of polythene bags filled with soil even before their supply.The inquiry report of the panel, comprising IFS officer Vineet Kumar, IFS officer Pankaj Goyal and HFS officer Yashpal Jangra, tabled before the House during a Calling Attention on the issue, revealed bogus bills, maintenance of non-existent plants, extending the contract of contractors without the approval of target and finances from the department, and showing of lakhs of polythene bags filled with soil even before their supply.The Tribune had broken the story about the scam on January 14. Forest Minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar had formed a panel of three officials, headed by IFS officer Vineet Kumar, to conduct an inquiry on January 18. The panel submitted the report on February 7. The Tribune also reported on the findings of the report on March 2.It came out that IFS officer Jitender Ahlawat joined the research division Pinjore as Deputy Conservator of Forest on January 27, 2021. The same day, he issued a letter to former contractors for extending their contract for a month, though their contracts had already ended in 2020.The target and finances for growing new plants was received on February 3, 2021. These contractors executed works of Rs 1.87 crore in violation of a standing order on tenders.Ahlawat was to grow 16.85 lakh new plants, while detailed account reflected only 9.6 lakh plants till March 31, 2021. It implied that 7.77 lakh less plants were grown, but the entire allotted amount was spent.For polythene bags, an amount of Rs 2.21 crore was got released in February 2021 and Rs 5.61 lakh in March 2021. But bags were used for only 3.22 lakh plants in February and 6.96 lakh plants in March. The panel concluded that for February 2021, more filled polythene bags were shown than actual, which was embezzlement.It has also been pointed out that Rs 51 lakh was embezzled as it was meant for “EPF/ESI/contractor profit”, but was spent on labour or machinery. Also, Rs 37 lakh was misappropriated as it was meant for growing new plants, but was shown to be spent on the maintenance of plants, while Rs 42.44 lakh was spent on non-existent plants.Congress Chief Whip BB Batra said, “Is it a zero-tolerance against corruption? Why are you trying to protect him (accused IFS officer)? Why FIR has not been registered?” Mullana’s Congress MLA Varun Chaudhary said that the scam had taken place in the state with the lowest forest cover despite spending crores of rupees. “The department has admitted scam, but no FIR, no chargesheet.”Agriculture Minister JP Dalal said, “The government thinks that one person couldn’t do such a scam. We will get it investigated through vigilance.” Even Speaker Gian Chand Gupta intervened in the matter and was for action against whom the report had come.JJP MLA Ram Kumar Gautam said the inquiry should be given to IAS officer Ashok Khemka.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/action-promised-in-ghost-plants-scam-of-forest-dept-379936
23-03-2022||---||BJP-JJP govt makes empty promises: Ex-CM Bhupinder Hooda||Chandigarh, March 22Former CM and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda today said the BJP-JJP government believed in making only false announcements. “In every Budget, the government makes new announcements thinking that these promises do not have to be fulfilled and this includes the announcement of setting up medical colleges in every district.”Inflated budgetThis government has presented an inflated Budget to divert attention from reality so that people feel better, but the latter have understood this reality. Contrary to announcement by the government every time, the Budget allocation for different works is later reduced to a fraction of what was announced. Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Ex-CMAddressing a press conference today, Hooda said the present government had not done any work except pushing the state into a debt crisis.“The state is buried under a debt of about Rs 3 lakh crore due to the actions of this government. The situation has become such that the government has to take loans even for routine works and repaying the debt. Despite this, the government has made big announcements in the Budget. The government has neither the money nor the intention to fulfil those,” he said.“This government has presented an inflated Budget to divert attention from reality so that people feel better, but people have understood this reality. Contrary to the announcement by the government every time, the Budget allocation for different works is later reduced to a fraction of what was announced in the Budget,” he said. Giving the example of investment, he said the government has set a target of investment of Rs 1 lakh crore in the Budget, whereas last year’s figures show that only Rs 1,600 crore has been invested in the state in the whole year. In such a situation, it will take more than 50 years to achieve the target of Rs 1 lakh crore investment,” he said.Hooda said that every section, including farmers, labourers, employees, small traders, unemployed, is disappointed with this Budget. “This Budget will prove to be a failure in dealing with challenges like highest unemployment, record inflation, economic slowdown, dilapidated condition of the economy,” he said. #bhupinder hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bjp-jjp-govt-makes-empty-promises-ex-cm-379937
23-03-2022||Chandigarh||Congress protests 9 scams in Faridabad MC since 2014||Congress MLAs today protested in the Vidhan Sabha over nine scams that have surfaced in the Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) since 2014.Protest by MLAWhen Sharma returned to the House in dhoti and wrapped cloth, the CM said it was known in advance that a “namoona” (example) would be seen. “No one will be spared. It is we who have caught the people indulging in corruption,” he said. Former CM Hooda stood up and alleged that Khattar govt was completely drowned in corruption. CM hit back, saying a number of recruitments during his regime had to be cancelled.Faridabad NIT MLA Neeraj Sharma even took a pledge in the House that he would sacrifice his clothes and shoes till the action is taken.Earlier, in a reply to Neeraj Sharma’s question, Local Bodies Minister Kamal Gupta submitted that among the nine different scams in the MCF, one of the cases was related to the alleged concealing of evidence in the transferring of 8,012 sq yard government land to M/s Indian Hardware Industries and sanctioning the plans on the basis of the bogus documents. The State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) had registered the case on August 22, 2019, against 20 persons, including two tehsildars, one naib tehsildar, an Executive Engineer and officials of the MCF for cheating and forgery, which is pending investigation.The SVB registered a case on January 11, 2022, for allegedly causing loss of crores in the construction of drain and pulia in the NIT Faridabad and in making a road from Budha Vihar Chowk to Hardware Chowk. Another case was registered on February 4, 2022, for irregularities in the execution of development works in different wards of the MC. The SVB inquiry is pending but the state government has decided to chargesheet three officials, the then Chief Engineer DR Bhaskar, the then Executive Engineer Raman Sharma and Accounts Officer Vishal Kaushik.One case is related to bounced cheques. The local body has recovered Rs 1.37 crore in respect of 502 dishonoured cheques, while the recovery in the case of 680 cheques of Rs 3.12 crore was pending. The SVB had indicted then patwari Ballabhgarh Chet Ram regarding the encroachment of the land of Kalpana Chawla Park on February 18, 2022. Vigilance inquiries, registered in 2021, for the connivance of officials with land mafias, against a contractor Satbir Singh and officials of the MCF in the execution of works and against contractor Praveen Kumar and officials of the local body regarding a work of sewer line are pending.Sharma asked by what time inquiries would be completed and alleged that an accused was given a post-retirement job too. Congress MLAs Aftab Ahmed, Geeta Bhukkal and Jagbir Malik also stood up and started seeking answers from the minister.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/congress-protests-9-scams-in-fbad-mc-since-2014-379938
23-03-2022||---||Fatehabad court awards life term to 16 for honour killing||Hisar, March 22A district court in Fatehabad today sentenced 16 persons of a family to life imprisonment in a case of honour killing. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 11,500 on each of the convicts.The convicts — Sunder Lal, Sher Singh, Balwan, Vikram, Bhanwar Singh, Balram Singh, Neki Ram, Ravi, Dharampal, Dalbir, Surjeet, Sahab Ram, Ved Prakash, Veeru Ram, Vinod Kumar, Balbir Singh and Shri Ram, who died during the trial — were booked under Sections 146, 149, 285, 364, 452, 302, 201 and 120B of the IPC and Sections of the Arms Act.6 get life sentence for Minor’s abuseYamunanagar: A fast-track court in Jagadhri on Tuesday awarded life term to six persons for sexually abusing a 13-and-a-half-year-old girl of a local colony. GK Tandon, Special Public Prosecutor, said the court also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 each on convicts — Mosin, Jony, Salman, Vashil, all of the victim’s colony, while Anish and Firoz of UP. However, Latish Dua and Anuj, locals, were acquitted in the case. TNSOn March 17, Additional District and Sessions Judge Pankaj pronounced all 16 accused guilty in the case.On June 1, 2018, the Fatehabad police had registered a case on the complaint of Rai Singh of Dhingsara village, the maternal uncle of the victim, Dharambir.The victim was a resident of Dobhi village in Hisar and was working as a private bus driver. A resident of Mangali village in Hisar, Sunita was living at the house of her maternal uncle in the district’s Siswal village. Dharambir and Sunita were having an affair, but the latter’s family was unhappy as the couple belonged to different castes. However, despite the objection by Sunita’s family, the couple tied the knot in a temple and started living at Dhingsara village.Lodging a police complaint, Rai Singh alleged the family members and relatives of Sunita had abducted the couple on June 1, 2018. The police recovered the girl from Siswal village, but the whereabouts of the youth were not known. Later, the police revealed that the convicts had murdered Dharambir in Siswal village and threw his body into a canal. The body was r recovered from the Siddhmukh canal near Hanumangarh in Rajasthan.During interrogation, it was revealed that Dharambir was murdered in a barbaric manner. After his kidnapping, he was taken to a tubewell room in Siswal village and was brutally beaten up with sticks, which led to his death.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fatehabad-court-awards-life-term-to-16-for-honour-killing-379940
23-03-2022||Palwal||2 held with ganja worth Rs 1.5 cr in Palwal||In a major recovery, the district police have seized 661.45 kg of ganja patti (cannabis) worth about Rs 1.50 crore and have arrested two persons.SP Rajesh Duggal said on a tip-off, the huge cache of drugs was recovered on Monday evening after a police team intercepted a container tuck (RJ-11-GB- 5743) at a naka near Hodal town on the NH-19. The truck coming from Visakhapatnam was found to be carrying as many as 22 gunny bags of ganja, it is claimed.The SP further said on investigation, the accused — Jamshed and Arbaz from Dhauj village of Faridabad district — revealed that they had brought the drugfrom Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh for delivery in Gurugram.He said this is the second largest haul of the drug recovered in the district this year. On March 1, around 1,369 kg of ganja was recovered from a truck, in which six persons, including an ASI of the Delhi Police, was arrested. He said a case under the NDPS Act had been registered in this connection. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-held-with-ganja-worth-1-5-cr-in-palwal-379941
23-03-2022||Hisar||Man nabbed with Rs 5 lakh fake notes||A team of the special task force (STF) has arrested a person hailing from Rajasthan and recovered Rs 5 lakh fake notes from his possession.The police suspect that there might be a racket involved in printing counterfeit currency that is being used in drug trade. The police said Rs 5,14,400 — with Rs 500, Rs 200 and Rs 100 notes — was recovered from Mukesh of Hanumangarh district in Rajasthan.SIT incharge Inspector Vijender Singh said on a tip-off, they intercepted Mukesh, who was driving a vehicle and recovered the fake currency. The accused disclosed that he was handed over the notes by a man named Ravi Kumar of Chaharwala village in Sirsa district to circulate it in the market.The police sources said Ravi had been arrested in a case of circulating fake notes earlier as well. The police said Mukesh had revealed that they used to invest the money in drug trade.The police further said on the complaint of the STF at the Urban Estate police station, a case had been registered against them under Sections 489A, 489B and 489C of the IPC. The police are trying to arrest the other gang members. — #drug menace||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-nabbed-with-5l-fake-notes-379942
23-03-2022||Kaithal||US-based man apologises for threat to Haryana CM||US-based Sandeep, alias Mipa Bangru of Narar village, apologised through a video message for using abusive language and threat to the CM and Haryana Police. Sandeep and his family was booked under sedition charges and IT Act.In today’s video, he also accused the police of harassing his family by detaining them. “I apologise to the CM and the Haryana Government for my words, which I had said under the influence of liquor,” said Sandeep in the video message. “I am ready to be hanged if my family is found involved in my mistake. Their phone calls can be checked and they did not have any involvement in it. My family members have been detained by the police,” he added.Maqsood Ahmed, SP, denied the allegations of detaining any family members. “We had registered a case under Sections 124A, 294, 506, 120B of the IPC and IT Act against Sandeep and his four family members as the former’s video went viral on the social media in which he was using obscene remarks against the police and the CM. Investigation is on and the police did not detain any family members,” said SP Ahmed.“We are in correspondence with the authorities concerned for the revocation of passport and to deport him from the US,” he said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/us-based-man-apologises-for-threat-to-cm-379943
23-03-2022||Kurukshetra||Campaign launched in Kurukshetra to free water bodies of chemicals||To protect groundwater and rivers from chemicals and household waste, Neer, a non-government organisation and Haryana Saraswati Heritage Development Board have jointly come out with ‘Toxin-free life’ campaign in Haryana.Pledge conservationEvery citizen of the country needs to take a pledge on conservation on World Water Day. When each and every person will keep his thinking towards saving every single drop of water, only then the efforts of the government and institutions will be successful. Mukul Kumar, Deputy CommissionerLive ‘toxin-free life’ to save riversRivers have their own internal water cycle. We rarely talk about water pollution. Chemicals are being used in households in large quantities every month. Through this campaign, we will request the public to take a pledge to live a toxin-free life to save the ecosystem of rivers. Dhuman Singh, Vice-chairman, Saraswati boardKurukshetra Deputy Commissioner Mukul Kumar, KU Vice-Chancellor Somnath Sachdeva and Sarasvati Board’s vice-chairman Dhuman Singh launched the campaign, organised on World Water Day in Kurukshetra.The aim is to connect 1 lakh people in Haryana and motivate them to take pledge to save the ecosystem of rivers, waterbodies and canals.Dhuman Singh said, “Rivers have their own internal water cycle. We rarely talk about water pollution. Chemicals are being used in households in large quantities every month. Through this campaign, we will request the public to take a pledge to live a toxin-free life to save the ecosystem of the rivers. They will be motivated not to use chemicals for at least one day in a week whether it is in industry operations, household items, beauty products or other works. An online signature campaign has also been launched to connect the people and soon seminars will be held across the state.”DC Mukul Kumar said that development of the nation was not possible without water resources and effective water management. The Central Government is running a Catch-the-run campaign across the country, which will further strengthen rainwater management and inspire the coming generations to conserve water. Every citizen of the country needs to take a pledge to conserve water on World Water Day. When each and every person will keep his thinking towards saving every single drop of water, only then the efforts of the government and institutions will be successful. He called upon the residents of the district to take an active part in water conservation and take a pledge to stop wastage of water and save every drop of water.” #Environment #kurukshetra #Pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/campaign-launched-in-kshetra-to-free-water-bodies-of-chemicals-379945
23-03-2022||---||FIR lodged  in Gurugram MP 'fake' video clip case||Gurugram, March 22The office of Gurugram MP and Central Minister Rao Inderjit Singh has moved the Cybercrime Department, alleging spreading of fake news about the MP. An FIR has been registered at the cybercrime police station.The complaint filed by his PA Baljit Singh said a fake news video went viral on social media about a Holi party hosted by the MP with objectionable clip.“In this video, the BJP MP is being defamed along with all leaders. The Twitter account seems to be fake. The video has been posted from the Twitter handle @vini_ j26. The fake news be deleted with immediate effect,” read the complaint.Following the complaint, an FIR has been registered against unidentified accused under Sections 66, 66 C, 66 D, 67 and 67 A of the Information Technology Act and Sections 499 (makes or publishes any imputation), 501(Printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory) of the Indian Penal Code at the cybercrime police station.A senior police officer said as per the complaint, an FIR had been registered and the technical team was investigating the case. he said the accused will be arrested at the earliest.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fir-lodged-in-gurugram-mp-fake-video-clip-case-379946
23-03-2022||---||Oral hygiene important for overall health, say doctors||Rohtak, March 22The Postgraduate Institute of Dental Sciences (PGIDS) celebrated ‘World Oral Health Day’ by organising a special programme to create awareness among the people regarding oral hygiene and health.Speaking as the chief guest, Dr Anita Saxena, Vice-Chancellor, Pt BD Sharma University of Health Sciences (UHS), said, “Oral health is important for overall health. Our smile is a reflection of our psychological and emotional well-being of an individual hence World Oral Health Day should be celebrated with the theme “Be proud of your mouth for happiness and well-being”.Dr Sanjay Tiwari, Principal of the PGIDS, while highlighting the facilities being made available in the institute, said every dentist should focus on preventing diseases. He also described the achievement of the PGIDS. Dr Manjunath BC, Senior Professor at the PGIDS, spoke on the importance of good oral hygiene.UHS Registrar, Dr HK Agarwal was present as the guest of honour while Dr Ankita Piplani from the Ministry of Health and family Welfarealso expressed her views on the occasion.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/oral-hygiene-important-for-overall-health-say-doctors-379947
23-03-2022||Chandigarh||Ballabhgarh’s Kalpana Chawla City Park still in Faridabad MC's possession: CM||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today said that Ballabhgarh’s Kalpana Chawla City Park was still in the possession of Faridabad Municipal Corporation and was being used by the public.Khattar said this while responding to questions raised by MLAs Neeraj Sharma, Shamsher Singh Gogi and Mamman Khan in the Assembly today during short duration discussion regarding illegal encroachment of Ballabhgarh Kalpana Chawla City Park and connectivity of Faridabad with the International Airport, Jewar.The CM said that these land dispute issues were not new and they have been going on for years. These matters even went to the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court had given a decision to vacate the park developed on this land, added KhattarTaking a jibe at the Opposition, the CM said that Opposition should tell why this park was not vacated in its tenure.The CM said that the cases related to possession of land were going on continuously since 1980 and these cases are being vigorously advocated by the Faridabad Municipal Corporation and the state government.The CM shared that Municipal Corporation, Faridabad, had developed this park about 30 years back on the entire land measuring 10.46 acres, including the 1.04-acre land under litigation. — #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ballabhgarh-park-still-in-mcs-possession-cm-379948
23-03-2022||Chandigarh||MLAs to get Rs 20K driver allowance||Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today announced that MLAs would now get ‘driver allowance’ of Rs 20,000 in addition to the travelling allowance being given at the rate of Rs 18 per km.The Chief Minister made this announcement in the House during the ongoing Budget session today.Khattar said that as per the existing provision, a travelling allowance at the rate of Rs 18 per km is being given to the MLAs for journeys performed by road between places not connected by rail.“Now, we have made another provision. According to it, MLAs will now get ‘driver allowance’ of Rs 20,000 for journeys performed by road between places not connected by rail in addition to the travelling allowance being given at the rate of Rs 18 per km,” announced the Chief Minister. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mlas-to-get-20k-driver-allowance-379949
23-03-2022||---||Khattar: Oppn failed to understand Budget||Chandigarh, March 22Taking a jibe at the Opposition for not even properly pronouncing the budgetary terms used to describe the Antyodaya Budget being presented by the state government, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the Opposition had failed to understand the outlay of the state Budget based on achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Doing the monetisation of unused assets of the state government is also on the government’s priority list, Chief Minister Khattar said.Addressing a press conference, he said the Budget for 2022-23 was dedicated to Antyodaya and starting from those at the bottom of the pyramid was our priority.The Chief Minister said this was the first time that in the last eight years, around 12 sittings had been called and the discussion held in the House lasted 50 hours in which 15 pivotal Bills were passed. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-oppn-failed-to-understand-budget-379950
23-03-2022||Chandigarh||Budget Management, 9 other Bills passed||The Haryana Assembly today passed 10 Bills.These included the Haryana Appropriation (No 2) Bill, 2022, the Haryana Prohibition of Change of Public Utilities Bill, 2022, the Haryana Fire and Emergency Services Bill, 2022, the Haryana Kisan Kalyan Pradhikaran (Amendment) Bill, 2022, the Haryana Mechanical Vehicles (Levy of Tolls) Amendment Bill, 2022, the Haryana Water Resources (Conservation, Regulation and Management) Authority (Amendment) Bill, 2022, the Haryana Good Conduct Prisoners (Temporary Release) Bill, 2022, and the Transplantation of Human Organs (Haryana Validation) Bill, 2022. The other Bills included the Haryana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (Amendment) Bill, 2022, and the Haryana Legislative Assembly (Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members) Amendment Bill, 2022.at the Vidhan Sabha on Tuesday. tribune photo||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/budget-management-9-other-bills-passed-379951
23-03-2022||Rewari||Form Ahir regiment, JJP leader urges PM||Jannayak Janta Party’s (JJP) state vice-president Abhimanyu Rao has written to Prime Minister and Defence Minister demanding formation of Ahir regiment in the Indian Army.“People of Ahir community played a major role in all wars. A considerable number of people from Ahirwal region are still serving in the Indian Army. Hence, the demand for the formation of Ahir regiment is justified and must be fulfilled,” he said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/form-ahir-regiment-jjp-leader-urges-pm-379952
23-03-2022||Kaithal||Training programme begins||Contests held on World Water DayKaithal: World Water Day was celebrated at Government Girls College, Cheeka, by the Public Health Engineering Department, Kaithal. Various competitions such as slogan writing, poster making, speech were organised, wherein a large number of students of mass communication, tourism, BA and Bcom participated. Deepak Kumar, District IEC and Equity Consultant, Kaithal (WSSO) of the Public Health Engineering Department was the chief guest, while programme was presided over by Rajendra Arora, principal of the college. Students gave the message of water conservation. Deepak Kumar explained the importance of water to the girl students and informed them that how the groundwater level was depleting due to wastage of water. In drawing competition, Kajal Devi of BA II bagged the first position, while Neha came first in slogan-writing competition and Anjali Sharma secured first place in speech competition.Red Cross volunteers win trophyYamunanagar: The Youth Red Cross unit of Guru Nanak Khalsa College has won the trophy in the state-level Youth Red Cross camp. College principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said these volunteers gave excellent performance in the five-day state-level Youth Red Cross training camp, run by headquarters of the Indian Red Cross Haryana, Chandigarh. Randeep Singh Jauhar, president of the college management committee, praised the volunteers for their outstanding performance and YRC in-charge Prof Balkishan for grooming the volunteers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/training-programme-begins-379954
23-03-2022||Power transformers and electric meters continue to be hung or installed in the open||Transformers in open pose risk||DP Sharma, FaridabadPedestrians do not have space to walk on Golf Course roadOn Monday, a maid died after being hit by a car while she was walking on the Golf Course road. While the driver is sure to blame but so are the civic authorities. On the Golf Course road, pedestrians have no proper place to walk or cross the road. Many especially migrants, risk their lives daily to reach their places of employment. This road desperately needs, footpaths, road crossings etc to ensure safety of pedestrians and cyclists.Sonia Sinha, GurugramJind residents not able to use underpassResidents are not able to use the underpass constructed on the Jind-Patiala railway line near Devi Lal Chowk due to lack of maintenance. The underpass remains submerged with water most of the time, especially during the rainy season. The authorities should ensure that the underpass is utilised for vehicular traffic. The poor maintenance of the underpass results in jam on the Devi Lal Chowk due to heavy rush of vehicles. Pushpa Goyal, JindWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/transformers-in-open-pose-risk-379956
23-03-2022||---||Haryana CM Khattar recommends CBI probe into Chintels case||Chandigarh, March 22Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar today recommended a CBI probe into the Chintels Paradiso building collapse in Gurugram. The announcement was made during a discussion in the Vidhan Sabha on alleged corruption cases.Haryana CM, Bhupinder Hooda spar over corruptionEx-CM BS Hooda alleged corruption was rampant in present regime. ML Khattar hit back, saying a number of recruitments during the Congress rule had to be cancelled.Alleging licence to the builder was given by (former CM Bhupinder Singh) Hooda, Khattar said, “We will hand over the matter to the CBI.” Hooda replied, “Arrest me if I have done anything wrong…You can’t blame us for your faults.” Two women were killed after roof of a sixth-floor apartment at Chintels Paradiso in Sector 109 came down on February 10, triggering collapse of roofs and floors under it.The incident was brought to focus in the House after Khattar targeted the previous Congress government on some other issue leading to a heated argument between the ruling party and the Opposition.After Khattar said the Congress regime was hit by various scams, Hooda alleged, “Corruption is rampant in this regime and there has been one scam after another.” #bhupinder hooda #CBI #gurugram building collapse #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/khattar-recommends-cbi-probe-into-chintels-case-379870
