25-03-2022||Chandigarh||Vijai Vardhan administered oath as Haryana Chief Information Commissioner||Retired IAS officer Vijai Vardhan was on Friday administered the oath as the Chief Information Commissioner of Haryana.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar administered the oath of office and allegiance to Vadhan at the Haryana Niwas here, according to an official release.Also, another retired IAS officer, Satyavir Singh Phulia, was administered the oath as the state Information Commissioner.Haryana Governor Bandaru Dattatreya had recently appointed the two former IAS officers as the state CIC and state Information Commissioner.State ministers Ranjit Singh and Jai Prakash Dalal were also present during the oath-taking ceremony.Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal, Chief Principal Secretary to CM D S Dhesi and other senior officers were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vijai-vardhan-administered-oath-as-haryana-chief-information-commissioner-380683
25-03-2022||Aditi Tandon||After Himachal, Sonia, Rahul meet Haryana Congress leaders to discuss poll plan||New Delhi, March 25Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Friday afternoon drove to her son Rahul Gandhi’s residence to meet Haryana Congress leaders on the way forward and on the measures to be taken to prepare the party for the 2024 state elections.Haryana Congress Chief Kumari Selja, state AICC in-charge Vivek Bansal, former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, AICC general Secretary Randeep Surjewala, former state chief Kiran Chowdhary and senior party MLAs are attending the meeting.The meeting is along the lines of a similar exercise Sonia had with Himachal Congress leaders earlier this week to take stock of the necessary steps to win the next elections.The party does not want a repeat of 2019 poll scenario where Hooda was given the overall election charge and Selja brought in as state chief at the last minute barely two months to go for election.The Congress had lost the race to BJP-JJP by few seats at the time.Sources said the Congress is equally aware of the challenges posed by AAP in Haryana, the home state of party convener Arvind Kejriwal.The AAP has just announced a proper poll set up in the state with Delhi Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj as election in-charge and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta as state in-charge.The Congress leaders feel AAP’s landslide win in Punjab requires tweaking of Congress strategy in the bordering states of Himachal and Haryana, each going to polls later this year and in 2024 respectively.Senior Congress leaders feel Kejriwal’s potential appeal among Haryana’s non-Jats cannot be overemphasised.Further AAP has already extended an olive branch to Hooda’s former rival in state Congress and ex NDA minister Birender Singh, a prominent Jat leader.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-himachal-sonia-rahul-meet-haryana-congress-leaders-to-discuss-poll-plan-380661
25-03-2022||Sumedha Sharma ||Chintel aged faster, needs detailed structural, quality testing : IIT Delhi preliminary report||Gurugram, March 25 The three-member IIT team that conducted spot inspection of Chintel Paradiso collpased tower has found the project aged faster than expected. The revelation which has yet again emphasised poor quality of construction has got administration on toes. An urgent meeting of its enquiry committee headed by ADC Vishram Meena has been called.The team shall review report, speak to builder and resident representatives, and decide on further course of action. The residents, meanwhile, have demanded arrest of builder claiming that initial report has found structural lapses. "It is felt that there is a possibility of the presence of issues related to the structural design, material quality, and construction quality in the structures. Each of these possibilities needs to be investigated through a detailed survey, testing, assessment on-and-off the site, and analysis programme,” read the report. The team also found significant corrosion of steel reinforcements in the debris of the tower where the ceilings of six floors collapsed on February 10 and observed rust marks during visual inspection."For this purpose, a recognised structural designer of the choice of the authorities, who would be available to work under the guidance of the Committee from IIT Delhi, may be engaged.“In order to assess the possibility of deficiencies in material and construction quality in the structures, it is recommended that a detailed survey and testing programme be carried out. For this purpose, a structural survey and testing agency of the choice of the authorities, who would be available to work under the guidance of the Committee from IIT Delhi, may be engaged.“Since the repair work that was in progress could also have had a role to play in the collapses, it is requested that the detailed repair procedure being followed in the buildings be informed in writing to the committee,” read the recommendations in the report.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/chintel-aged-faster-needs-detailed-structural-quality-testing-iit-delhi-preliminary-report-380651
25-03-2022||Gurugram||Hoax bomb call at Gurugram hospital; police lodge FIR||Police are looking for a hoax caller, who rang up the Medanta hospital here and said a bomb has been planted at the facility.The call came at around 12.15 pm on Thursday, but the police said no bomb was found in a search at the hospital. An FIR was registered late in the day on the basis of a complaint filed by the medical director of Medanta – The Medicity.According to the complaint by Dr Sanjeev Gupta, the hoax call triggered scare and panic at the hospital. The police have put the phone number on surveillance."The caller said there might be a terror attack at the hospital and that a bomb had been planted there, and disconnected the call," Gupta said in the complaint.An FIR was registered against the unidentified caller under Sections 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at the Sadar police station, and all angles were being investigated, SHO Dinesh Kumar said."We have put the number on surveillance, and the accused will be arrested soon," he added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hoax-bomb-call-at-gurugram-hospital-police-lodge-fir-380628
25-03-2022||---||Haryana CM Khattar announces high-powered panel on graft, VB expansion||Chandigarh, March 24Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar today announced the formation of a new high powered committee (HPC) against corruption and expansion of the Vigilance Bureau (VB) at the divisional-level.Six units at divisional levelIt has been decided to decentralise the Haryana State Vigilance Bureau and set up six independent units at the divisional level. Manohar Lal Khattar, Chief MinisterAddressing the press after holding a meeting of SPs and DCs, Khattar said while decentralising the Haryana State Vigilance Bureau, it had been decided to set up six independent units at the divisional level. Prosecution sanction of these units at the divisional level would be with the Divisional Commissioner. The main task of these units would be the responsibility of investigating complaints received against Group B, C and D category government employees up to an amount of Rs 1 crore.The State Vigilance Bureau would continue to investigate the complaints of the Group-A category employees and an amount exceeding Rs 1 crore or more. Apart from this, the District Vigilance Team was already functioning under the chairmanship of the additional district deputy commissioners by the Vigilance Department. The government had equally strengthened them as well. In the last two months, 98 complaints had also come to them, whose investigation was under review.He said for the first time, the government had constituted an HPC to check corruption more effectively. It would be headed by the Chief Secretary, Haryana. Apart from this, it would include Financial Commissioner Revenue, Additional Chief Secretary Home, Director General of Police, Additional Director General of Police (CID) and Director State Vigilance Bureau as its members. This committee would meet every month to redress the complaints of corruption at the earliest.He said the state government had also decided to form a Human Resource (HR) Department, a new department for government employees. Under this department, the records related to the employees, their transfer, the cases and the pension record related matters after retirement would be kept. This department would remain with the Chief Minister himself. At present, Special Secretary, Human Resources Department, Chander Shekhar Khare, has been given the charge. The CM said two phases of the Antyodaya Rojgar Melas had been completed that had started to increase the income of the families having annual income of less than Rs 1 lakh. The phase of providing loans to the beneficiaries would start from March 30. So far, 1.42 lakh families had visited these fairs, out of which applications of 82,000 families had been verified. This process would continue in future.The third phase of Antyodaya Melas will start in May. #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/cm-announces-high-powered-panel-on-graft-vb-expansion-380488
25-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Land not leased out, CAG detects Rs 100 crore loss in Haryana||Chandigarh, March 24Finding mismanagement in Panchayati Raj Institutions (PRIs), the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has found Rs 100.77 crore loss in 18 gram panchayats (GPs) as cultivable land was not leased out.Panchkula, Gurugram advances not settledIt was found that advances amounting to Rs 342.91 crore sanctioned for development activities were pending for adjustment in MC Panchkula and MC Gurugram.It also cited how earth filling was carried out in Sirsa with vehicles whose registration numbers either didn’t exist or turned out to be of scooter/motorcycle.The CAG, in its report, tabled before the Haryana Vidhan Sabha on March 22, test-checked 10 zila parishads out of 21, 68 panchayat samitis out of 126, and 621 gram panchayats (GPs) out of 6,197 from 2017-18 to 2018-19.The GPs are expected to lease out their land for generating revenue. Eighteen GPs out of 32 test-checked revealed they had not leased out the entire cultivable land, some portion of land was not leased out for intermediate periods and in some villages, the land was not given on lease for periods up to five years. Due to this, the GPs lost revenue of Rs 100.77 crore during the period 2013-19.Buildings and shops of Zila Parishad, Karnal, were not given on rent from 2013-19, resulting in loss of Rs 33.38 lakh. The efforts for the recovery of the rent of shops and building were lacking, as Rs 76.48 lakh was outstanding against lessees in the case of nine panchayat samitis and Zila Parishad, Karnal.A sum of Rs 18.86 lakh remained unrecovered from 93 ex-sarpanches/panches. These cases are prior to April 2016.In a test-check of records of Block Development Panchayat Officers (BDPOs) in 10 districts, it was found that the dues of house tax worth Rs 2.15 crore prior to 2018-19 were outstanding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/land-not-leased-out-cag-detects-100-crore-loss-380489
25-03-2022||Deepender Deswal||Birender Singh to hold show of strength on home turf||Hisar, March 24After remaining “quiet” for nearly three years, the BJP leader and former Union minister Birender Singh, 76, is holding a public meeting in his home seat Uchana Kalan in Jind district on Friday.Had left Congress in 2014Though the programme is being organised to mark his 50 years in public life, it is likely to be a show of strength to send signals to the BJP leadership and also to his rivals in the Uchana segment. His son IAS-turned-politician Brijendra Singh, who is BJP MP from Hisar, has been working hard for weeks to make it a success.Interestingly, leaders cutting across political lines have been invited to attend the programme and leaders, including the INLD MLA Abhay Singh Chautala, AAP Haryana in charge and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Gupta, besides some leaders from the Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), could also turn up in the event.Political observers stated that Birender’s event was apparently a show of strength on his home turf. Birender wants to get two issues resolved in the BJP. Firstly, he had announced to quit “electoral politics” before the previous Lok Sabha polls to hand over the political baton to his son Brijendra in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Brijendra also won from Hisar. But he was not inducted in the second Modi cabinet. It, apparently, did not go down well with Birender.Secondly, the Uchana Assembly seat is likely to be a bone of contention between Birender and his party leadership ie BJP in the next Assembly polls. JJP leader Dushyant Chautala, who is now Deputy CM after having a post poll alliance with the BJP, had won the last Assembly poll from the Uchana segment by defeating Birender’s wife Prem Lata by a massive margin.“Now, the question is who will contest from the Uchana segment which is the home turf of Birender Singh, who had represented the seat five times (four times as Congress leader and once as Congress Tiwari candidate), while his wife got elected in 2014 as BJP candidate,” remarked a local political activist associated with Birender.Meanwhile, Dushyant who organised a big event yesterday in Uchana had won the previous poll by a huge margin of around 50,000 votes is leaving no stone unturned to nurture his political turf. “Thus Dushyant and Birender are rivals who are eyeing the same seat of Uchana. The dilemma remains as to who of the two will contest from Uchana if the JJP stays in alliance with the BJP,” said a political observer.“It is not surprising if Birender opts for alternatives ahead of the next poll. He has connections in the Congress. AAP leader Sushil Gupta, too, had announced to welcome Birender in the party,” said a political expert. #birender singh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/birender-to-hold-show-of-strength-on-home-turf-380494
25-03-2022||Nitish Sharma||Despite good prices, Haryana mustard farmers fail to reap any profit||Ambala, March 24Despite good prices offered by private players in the market, mustard farmers failed to reap profits.Farmers rued that owing to unwanted rain, the yield was poor this year.War impacted importThe Ukraine-Russia war has impacted import and pushed the price of oil. A drop in the yield further affected the prices. Arrivals have started to decrease and prices are unlikely to drop. Ajay Kumar, TraderPvt players offer higher than MSPMustard growers have been selling their crop to private players as they are offering higher price than the MSP, following which there has been no procurement by the agency. VP Malik, District manager, HafedMustard farmers are getting Rs 6,200-Rs 6,500 a quintal for black mustard and Rs 7,200-Rs 7,500 a quintal for yellow mustard. The MSP for the rabi season is Rs 5,050 a quintal.Farmers said though it turned out to be a poor season in respect of yield, especially in low-lying areas, they would continue to grow oilseed crop due to higher prices being offered by private players.As against the usual seven to nine quintals, the yield dropped to three to five quintal per acre this year.After mustard, farmers have sown sunflower and are expecting that the crop will also fetch good prices owing to the current market conditions and help them in recovering their losses. However, farmers claimed that shortage of good quality sunflower seeds had been a major issue that they faced in the market.Pradeep Chauhan, a farmer from Sambhalkha village, said: “I had sown mustard in 11 acres this year, but unwanted rain affected the crop. The yield dropped by around 40 per cent. The only relief this year was that prices for the oilseed have been good. Otherwise, it would have been a disastrous year for us.”“I have sold my crop for Rs 6,800 a quintal. Now, I have sown sunflower in six acres against two acre acres last year, but lower availability of seed had been an issue,” he added.Deputy Director (Agriculture) Girish Nagpal said: “Farmers are showing interest in oilseed crops. Last year, 5,128 hectares were under sunflower and this year, the area is expected to increase.” #Agriculture #farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/despite-good-prices-mustard-farmers-fail-to-reap-any-profit-380495
25-03-2022||Ravinder Saini||Commuters continue to flout traffic norms in Rohtak district||Rohtak, March 24People seem to be least bothered about driving vehicles on their own side, wearing helmets while riding two-wheeler and keeping their vehicles within speed limits despite the efforts being made by the traffic police to ensure the compliance of traffic rules to check road mishaps in the district.Mishaps due to jumping red lightsJumping red lights is one of the reasons behind road accidents. Hence, the traffic police has been asked to keep a close watch on those jumping red lights so that they can be challaned. Mahendra Pal, Additional deputy commissionerNo parking lots at many places, People left with no optionIssuing challans for compliance of traffic rules is good but the police should refrain from fining people for wrong side parking as there are no parking lots at many places in the city. In this situation, people do not have any other option except to park their vehicles on the road. Deepak Rathi, Social activistSources said more than 41 per cent cases of vehicle challans issued in February belonged to wrong side driving, driving without helmet and overspeeding. A total 4,373 challans were issued in February and among these 1,802 pertained to the three categories. As many as 687 challans solely belong to wrong side driving, 607 driving without helmet and 508 for overspeeding.People do not bother to park their vehicles at the right place in the city. The police have issued 218 challans for wrong parking last month. As many as 38 persons were fined for not wearing seat belts while driving a four-wheeler. Similarly, 11 pillion riders too had to face penalty for not wearing a helmet. Besides, 287 challans were also issued against those commercial heavy vehicles that were overloaded. A total Rs 1.06 crore was charged as penalty.Deepak Rathi, a social activist, said issuing the challans for compliance of traffic rules was good but the police should refrain from fining people for wrong side parking as there were no parking lots at many places in the city. “In this situation, they do not have any other option except to park their vehicles on the road,” he added.Meanwhile, Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) Mahendra Pal said persistently people had been made aware of the traffic rules and those violating the norms were being challaned. Consequently, there has been a decrease in the number road mishaps this year.“As many as 64 road accidents were reported in January and February in 2022 in which 27 persons lost their lives and 45 others suffered injuries while the number of road mishaps in the corresponding months last year was 78 in which 48 persons died and 74 got injured. Every life is precious hence we are leaving no stone unturned to check the mishaps,” he said.The ADC maintained that jumping red lights was one of the reasons behind road mishaps hence the traffic police had been asked to keep a close watch on those jumping red lights so that they could be fined.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/commuters-continue-to-flout-traffic-norms-in-rohtak-district-380496
25-03-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||MC to undertake sanitation work instead of pvt contractors||Yamunanagar, March 24The Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri (MCYJ), has decided to undertake sanitation work in its hand instead of giving it to private contractors.Proposal passed to give Rs25L to each wardA proposal in this regard has been passed in the MCYJ General House meeting held here today under the chairmanship of Mayor Madan Chauhan.“We are getting the sanitation work done in the twin cities of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri through private contractors. But, now we want that MCYJ should take sanitation work in its hands. We have passed a proposal in this regard in the General House meeting today and this proposal will soon be sent to Urban Local Bodies Department for its approval,” said Chauhan.He said this step was being taken to improve the sanitation condition of the twin cities. According to information, 62 proposals were passed during the meeting.A proposal was passed to give Rs 25 lakh to each ward to undertake development works. There are 22 wards in the twin cities. The General House also passed a proposal of establishing a “Gaushala” in Sasauli village.Besides, nod was given to a number of development works, including undertaking development works in Sectors 17 and 18.MC Commissioner Dhirendra Khadgata asked Officers and officials of the MCYJ to undertake work quickly and implement the proposals passed at the meeting.The meeting was attended by Senior Deputy Mayor Praveen Sharma, Deputy Mayor Rani Kalra, Deputy Municipal Commissioner Ashok Kumar, Executive Officer Sushil Bhukal, councillors and other officials of the corporation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mc-to-undertake-sanitation-work-instead-of-pvt-contractors-380497
25-03-2022||Ravinder Saini||8 cars registered on one name, racket suspected||Jhajjar, March 24A complaint filed by a local resident at CM Window has indicated to a ‘racket’ involving registration of vehicles by using forged documents at the SDM office in Jhajjar city.The complaint has claimed that eight vehicles have been registered against his name while none of those belong to him.He has also demanded cancellation of the registration number and action against those indulging in this ‘unlawful’ activity.Acting on the complaint, the district authorities have blacklisted all the eight vehicles after starting investigation into the case.The involvement of officials, if any, in the case is also being ascertained, said sources.“The matter came to the fore in January when I received a vehicle registration certificate (RC) of a car on my WhatsApp number. The RC was issued against my name and address. I was stunned to see the RC as I did not buy the car. Thereafter, three unidentified youths who introduced themselves as residents of Punjab came to my house,” said Harendra Bhardwaj of Beri Gate locality, the complainant.He maintained the youths told him that the car had been bought by them and they needed a copy of his Aadhaar card to get the RC of the car transferred to their name. The youths informed they had been using the car for the past some years.“The youths returned when I refused to give my Aadhaar card stating that I had nothing to do with the car. Later, I approached the SDM office and found seven more cars registered against my name when I neither bought nor used any of the vehicles. On February 9, I filed a written complaint to the Superintendent of Police and Deputy Commissioner,” said Bhardwaj.He claimed all the vehicles were registered in 2015 and 2016 on the basis of forged documents and using his fake signature. Hence, he wanted cancellation of registration and appropriate action against those who committed the crime.Shikha, Jhajjar SDM, said the matter was being inquired into to find out its veracity. All eight vehicles had been blacklisted. “The police too are investigating the matter,” she added.Sub-inspector Deepak Mehlawat, Additional SHO, City police station, said details of all eight vehicles had been sought from the SDM office to proceed with the investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/8-cars-registered-on-one-name-racket-suspected-380498
25-03-2022||---||110 bags of urea seized from Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar, March 24A team of CM Flying Squad seized 110 bags of subsidised agriculture grade urea loaded in a tractor-trolley from near Kalanaur railway station of Yamunanagar district late on Wednesday.The driver of the tractor-trolley failed to produce bills of the consignment before the flying squad. It is alleged that the urea was to be supplied illegally to plywood factories, where it is reportedly used to prepare glue.On the complaint of Assistant Sub-Inspector of Haryana Police, Rajbir Singh, a member of the CM Flying Squad, a case was registered against tractor driver Rajesh of Kutubpur village of Saharanpur district (Uttar Pradesh) under Sections 120-B, 420 of the IPC and under Section 7 of Essential Commodities Act at Sadar police station, Yamunanagar, on March 24.In his police complaint, the complainant said that they got information that a tractor-trolley loaded with subsidised agriculture grade urea would come to Yamunanagar district from Uttar Pradesh and the urea would be supplied illegally to plywood factories here.He said that the team of the CM Flying Squad along with Bal Mukund Sharma, Quality Control Inspector of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Department, Yamunanagar, stopped the tractor-trolley near Kalanaur railway station.He further said that when the members of the team checked the vehicle, they found that the trolley was loaded with 110 bags of subsidised agriculture grade urea.He added that the team asked the driver to show the bill of the urea, but he failed to produce any bill.Sources said that agriculture grade urea was a subsidised fertiliser and it could be used only for agricultural purposes.However, industrial units could use only technical grade urea which is more expensive than agriculture grade urea.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/110-bags-of-urea-seized-from-ynagar-380499
25-03-2022||Karnal||Haryana: Fresh insect breeding in sugarcane fields, advisory issued||Scientists of Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Regional Centre, Karnal, found eggs and moths in the fields. The production was affected during the last season due to the breeding of the insect.“We have surveyed across the region and found eggs and moths in the fields. The breeding of the insect is dangerous at this time as cultivation of sugarcane is under way,” said Dr SK Pandey, head, Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Regional Centre, Karnal.“The top borer has six stages and at present, it is at the breeding stage. This is the right time to cut the breeding. If breeding is stopped in time, this could help in saving the crop,” he added.In November-December, the insect stays in hibernation and lives on the top of sugarcane, while in February, it matures into an adult, said Dr Pandey.Explaining the attack of the insect, he said the first two generations attack the young plants. In subsequent generations, the pest attacks the terminal portion of the cane causing ‘bunchy top’. The third and fourth generations cause maximum damage. The pest remains active during February to October.Meanwhile, scientists have issued an advisory for farmers to remain vigilant and ensure proper management to stop the breeding.Charan Dev, a farmer of Badagaon village, said during the last season, he had witnessed the insect effect. Now in the fresh season, he has detected this insect in eight acres of land so far. #Agriculture #farmers||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fresh-insect-breeding-in-cane-fields-advisory-issued-380500
25-03-2022||Sunit Dhawan||Retrenched Haryana staff seek compensation||Rohtak, March 24Retrenched and adjusted employees of Confed Haryana, Haryana State Small Industrial and Export Corporation, Haryana State Handloom and Handicraft Corporation and Haryana Minerals Ltd have been running from pillar to post to get the honorarium promised to them by the Chief Minister in lieu of pension as their case files are stuck in red tape.Benefit given to HSMITC employeesHonorarium was extended to the retrenched/adjusted employees of the Haryana State Minor Irrigation and Tubewells Corporation. But those belonging to other four boards and corporations are still struggling to get their duesThe hapless employees lament that they have not been granted their due honorarium despite specific orders of the Chief Minister. In a representation to the top state authorities, the Samayojit Karamchari Sanghathan, Haryana, has pointed out that nearly 5,000 employees of five boards/corporations of Haryana were retrenched during the tenure of Om Prakash Chautala regime in 2001-02.As many as 3,620 retrenched employees were adjusted in different departments of the state government during the tenure of Bhupinder Singh Hooda in 2005-06.In 2020, a delegation of the sanghathan met Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar who promised the provision of honorarium in lieu of pension to the retrenched/adjusted employees of all five boards and corporations.“However, while the said benefit was extended to the retrenched/adjusted employees of the Haryana State Minor Irrigation and Tubewells Corporation (HSMITC), those belonging to the other four boards and corporations are still struggling to get their dues,” states the representation.The sanghathan has urged the Haryana Chief Minister, Deputy Chief Minister, Leader of Opposition, Chief Secretary and other authorities concerned to grant the honorarium in lieu of pension to all retrenched/adjusted employees on pattern of HSMITC.The representation points out that the matter has been pending with the Finance Department of the state government for a long time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/retrenched-staff-seek-compensation-380501
25-03-2022||Nitish Sharma||6-laning of Pipli-KU stretch to resume soon||Kurukshetra, March 24After remaining suspended for over a couple of months, the six-laning project of the Pipli to Kurukshetra University stretch is set to resume soon as the PWD (B&R) has allotted a tender for the remaining work to a Panchkula-based firm.The project started in December 2018 was scheduled to be completed by December 2019, but even after missing its deadlines repeatedly, just around 45 per cent work has been completed.Agreements of two firms have been terminated over tardy work. The entire project had come to a standstill after the last agreement was terminated in December end last year.The project has become a cause of embarrassment for the government and the administration, besides being a political issue. The issue of the delayed project has been raised repeatedly in the Haryana Assembly, due to the ordeal being faced by local residents. The road poses a threat to commuters especially two-wheeler riders.The department had floated a tender for the remaining work of widening, dividing and lightening, worth around Rs 28.41 crore, last month. Three agencies had come forward and after due process, a Panchkula-based firm was selected for the project. Now, the new firm will get six months to complete the project.Sanjeev Gupta, a local resident, said, “Thanesar residents have been waiting desperately for the completion of the Pipli-Kurukshetra University road project as it has become an ordeal for us. Besides, the cost of maintenance of vehicles has also gone up. Now, with the allotment of the tender the project has got a new timeline. We just hope that the project is completed at the earliest and also that its quality is ensured.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-laning-of-pipli-ku-stretch-to-resume-soon-380502
25-03-2022||Nitish Sharma||Norms on hot-mixing along roads being flouted: NGO||Kurukshetra, March 24Citing health hazards posed by hot-mixing being done along the roads for repair and patchwork, Green Earth, a non-government organisation (NGO) in Kurukshetra, has sought compliance with NGT guidelines and a stopping of the practice of hot-mixing along the roads.The NGO says that hot-mixing on the roads is a clear violation of NGT guidelines. It emits toxic gases and deteriorates air quality. The government should look for some alternative technology for the patchwork and repair of roads.Naresh Bhardwaj, executive member, Green Earth, said, “There are directions from the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that hot-mixing can’t be done on the roads. All public authorities were directed to ensure that during construction and maintenance of roads, coal tar, bitumen and/ or asphalt mix should be brought in molten condition. It should neither be burnt nor should fire be lit to melt these substances on open road. But it can be observed that during repair work, hot-mixing is done on the roads. We have raised the issue with the district administration and departments concerned repeatedly but to no avail. The NGT guidelines are being violated and the NGO has decided to file a complaint in the NGT against the violation.“The department should set up a compact hot-mixing plant, prepare the material at a lesser populated area and bring the material for the further work in trailers.Meanwhile, an official in PWD (B&R) said, “Some repair and patchwork are being carried out by the department to keep the roads motorable. No alternative is available. Repairing the roads is an important work and such repairs are not carried out in routine by the department.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/norms-on-hot-mixing-along-roads-being-flouted-ngo-380503
25-03-2022||---||BKU to decide on future course of action||Kurukshetra, March 24The Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) will hold a meet to decide the future course of action of the union regarding whether to continue to work as a pressure group or enter active politics to raise farmers’ issues.BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh has been facing criticism over his call of Mission Punjab, with some activists leaving the union due to the decision of participating in politics.The body held a meeting in Kurukshetra on Tuesday.As per information, some activists were not happy with the decision taken regarding the Punjab Assembly elections and wanted clarity on the union’s future in Haryana. The union has decided to hold demonstrations and submit memorandums to Deputy Commissioners across the state on April 2 regarding the compensation for crop loss. #BKU #farmers #farmers protest #gurnam singh charuni||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bku-to-decide-on-future-course-of-action-380504
25-03-2022||---||12 booked for assaulting cops||Hisar, March 24The Hisar police have booked 12 persons for vandalism and assault on police officials at the Barwala town police station on Wednesday. The police have nabbed three in this regard.The three accused are Ankit, Sushil and Praveen.According to the police, a group of people from Kumba Khera village visited the police station in connection with a dispute. They got into an altercation with the officials and started abusing the SHO of the police station.Apart from the SHO, lady constable Suman and cook Pradeep were injured in the assault. Meanwhile, a villager, Om Prakash, tried to consume a poisonous substance during the altercation.On the complaint of Barwala SHO Sukhjit Singh, a case has been registered under Sections 147, 149, 186, 294, 309, 332, 341, 353 and 506 of the IPC and Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-booked-for-assaulting-cops-380505
25-03-2022||Karnal||Ex-SE arrested for corruption||The Karnal police today arrested former Superintending Engineer (SE) of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC), Deepak Kinger, from Faridabad.Kinger and his PA Vikas Sharma were booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act by the Civil Lines police allegedly for accepting money, videos of which had gone viral on social media in December.The FIR was registered on March 14 on the inquiry report of the ADC Yogesh Kumar, who was assigned the inquiry after the surfacing of these videos in December.His PA has already been arrested and is now in judicial custody. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-se-arrested-for-corruption-380506
25-03-2022||Karnal||Karnal: Boy stabbed to death on school premises||An 18-year-old student of Class XII of Sanskar Bharti Senior Secondary School at Harisinghpura village was stabbed to death allegedly by his classmate and 6-7 others on the school premises today. Old enmity between them is said to be a reason behind this murder.The deceased has been identified as Viren of Harisinghpura and the accused has been identified as Subham of the same village, said Manoj Kumar, DSP, Gharaunda. He said that both the accused are adults.“The Gharaunda police have registered a case under Section 302, 148, 149, 120 B of the IPC against Subham and 6-7 others. Efforts are being made to nab the accused. We have also taken the CCTV footage to identify the other accused,” said the DSP he added. The accused stabbed Viren on the chest that proved fatal. Both had an altercation some days back also, the DSP said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/boy-stabbed-to-death-on-school-premises-380507
25-03-2022||Chandigarh||Vijai Vardhan to be Haryana Chief Information Commissioner||The state government has cleared the names of former Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan as Chief Information Commissioner and former IAS officer SS Phulia as Information Commissioner. The decision was taken by a selection committee on March 23. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vijai-vardhan-to-be-cic-380508
25-03-2022||Parveen Arora||261 construction works by Karnal MC under scanner, face quality test||Karnal, March 24As many as 261 construction works undertaken by the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) have come under the scanner. MC Commissioner Naresh Narwal has constituted a team led by Joint Commissioner (JC) Gagandeep Singh to check the quality of all construction works carried out in the recent past. Besides, councillors of all the wards are the members of this committee.The team has started testing the quality of work done and so far it has checked 40 such works. The team members conducting the test found quality related flaws in several works.“We are testing the quality of all the construction works carried out recently. We found some quality related issues. Directions have been issued to the contractors to rectify these,” said Gagandeep Singh, JC.“In some works, we found that no testing of tiles has been done and the contractors have been directed to replace the tiles,” said Singh.Naresh Narwal inspected the construction work of the street from main road to Radha Swami Satsang Bhawan in Sectors 32-33 and found poor quality work done as paver blocks were not laid systematically and cement concrete locking on the edge was uneven. After which the payment of the contractor was stopped, said the JC.“We will ensure good quality work is done in the KMC limits. Explanations have been asked from the officials responsible for these works. Disciplinary action will be taken if their replies are found to be unsatisfactory,” said Narwal.Payment has been stopped as we are conducting quality test. The contractors will be given a chance to rectify the flaws and if it is not found up to the mark even after that then criminal proceeding will be done against the contractors,” said the Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/261-construction-works-by-mc-under-scanner-face-quality-test-380509
25-03-2022||---||Air quality poor, dust pollution up in Faridabad||Faridabad, March 24Owing to dry weather conditions accompanied with a sharp rise in dust pollution, the air quality in the city continues to remain poor. As per a report by an international NGO, the city has found a place in the list of 15 top polluted cities in the world.According to ‘Sameer’, the official app of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the PM 2.5 level recorded at 221 on Wednesday evening has been categorised as poor.The air quality which has remained “poor” in March so far, is likely to persist or worsen more in view of the present conditions, Pollution Control Board, Haryana (PCB), said.The average AQI in March so far has been recorded above 200. The satisfactory level (between 60 and 100) was achieved for only three days since January 1 this year, according to the data compiled by the official app.It is revealed that a large volume of dust was generated due to road repair works and highway construction projects, including the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway passing through the city.“Measures to control dust pollution at the construction sites are missing. Uprooting of several roads for reconstruction is also taking place in various parts of the city. This has led to the problem of dust pollution and hindered traffic movement,” SK Sharma, coordinator, city-based NGO Road Safety Organisation (RSO), said.He said constant movement of traffic on uprooted passages had led to dust storm-like conditions, resulting in pollution.Faridabad DC Jitender Yadav said he has directed the PCB officials to ensure the compliance of all NGT norms and adoption of measures to keep a tab on dust pollution. #Environment #NGT #Pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/air-quality-poor-dust-pollution-up-in-fbad-380510
25-03-2022||---||750 awarded degrees at Vidyapeeth||Gurugram, March 24Governor-Chancellor Bandaru Dattatraya has called upon educational institutions to provide quality education to students by using new technology-based tools so that they get new employment opportunities at the world level.Dattatraya was speaking as the chief guest at the convocation ceremony of Lingaya’s Vidyapeeth (deemed-to-be university) in Faridabad, today. He said the university should impart education to students in cutting-edge subjects related to information and technology so that they could leave their mark on the world stage and address all kinds of challenges being faced by the country. The Governor-Chancellor presented degrees to 750 students. Of these, 85 students were awarded diplomas, 545 graduates, 103 postgraduate degrees and 17 PhD degrees.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/750-awarded-degrees-at-vidyapeeth-380511
25-03-2022||Chandigarh||New hockey Astroturf in Gurugram||Haryana Minister of State for Sports and Youth Affairs Sandeep Singh said soon a new AstroTurf for hockey will be set up at the Nehru Stadium in Gurugram at an estimated cost of Rs 9.40 crore. This work will be completed in 2022-23.In a message issued here today, he said apart from the hockey AstroTurf in Gurugram, the government was also taking steps to promote sports in Nuh. To facilitate players, new grounds with modern facilities for multi-games would be set up, where the land would be made available by panchayats or institutions. Apart from this, the government is also planning to build new multi-game tracks in Hodal and Palwal. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/new-hockey-astroturf-in-gurugram-380512
25-03-2022||Gurugram||Man robbed, murdered||A 28-year-old man was robbed and shot dead by an unidentified person in the Pataudi area. The deceased has been identified as Rakesh Gurjar, native of Alwar, Rajasthan.On the complaint of the brother of the deceased, an FIR was registered against an unidentified at Pataudi police station. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/man-robbed-murdered-380513
25-03-2022||Karnal||Science quiz contest||Online essay competitionKarnal: An online essay and quiz competition were orgnised under the aegis of the women cell under the leadership of principal Naresh Singh at Government Women College, Bastara, Gharaunda. All students of the college enthusiastically participated. Dr Meenu Anand, the convener of the women cell, while remembering the martyrs, encouraged all girl students who participated in the competition. In the quiz competition, Swati of BSc II year, Kajal of BA II and Shivani of BCom II year secured first, second, third place, respectively. Sneha of BA second year in essay competition, Anjali of BA second year and Chand Kaur of BCom second year secured first, second and third position, respectively.NCC cadets observe Martyrdom DayYamunanagar: NCC cadets of Guru Nanak Khalsa College observed Martyrdom Day on the college premises. College principal Dr (Major) Harinder Singh Kang said Shaheed Azam Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru sacrificed their lives for the country at a very young age. Dr (Lt) Ramneek said hese three bravehearts were kept in the Lahore Central Jail. She said historians said March 24, 1931 was fixed for hanging these three, but the British made a sudden change in it and hanged them one day before the due date fearing that people would revolt on the day of hanging, because these three were very popular among the youth at that time.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/science-quiz-contest-380514
25-03-2022||Defacement of both public and private properties has emerged as a menace in the city. No action has been taken against the offenders by the authorities concerned. As there is hardly any residential locality or sector||Defacement of properties, offenders go unpunished||Sandeep Sidharth, FaridabadGarbage littered around Ambala city marketThere is poor sanitary condition in areas around the market of Sector 7 Ambala City. Garbage is thrown by eateries on the road and in the drains. Drains around the market are blocked with plastic waste emanating foul smell.Arun Chaudhary, Ambala CityNo traffic lights, discipline in PanchkulaCommuters follow traffic rules very sincerely in Chandigarh but as soon as they enter Panchkula and in and around Zirakpur, Dhakoli, they forget all the traffic rules due to the absence of traffic light and challans .Worst hit are the ambulances. The authorities need to keep a check on this.Ritik Thakral, PanchkulaWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/defacement-of-properties-offenders-go-unpunished-380515
25-03-2022||Vibha SharmaNew Delhi||Parliamentary panel: Stubble-burning spiked during farm protest||Punjab recorded more stubble-burning incident during the farmers’ protest against the now-repealed agricultural laws, according to a report submitted to the Parliament by the department-related parliamentary panel.Lens on Punjab, Haryana, UPYear - Burning incidents2019 - 61,3322020 - 89,4302021 - 1,02,379Stubble-burning incidents events are monitored by multiple satellites with thermal sensors during the harvest period from October 1 to November 30 in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, the Department of Agricultural Research and Education under the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare told the panel.“The burning events recorded during 2019 in the three states were 52 per cent fewer as compared with 2016. However, the number was 89,430 and 1,02,379 in 2020 and 2021, respectively, as compared with 61,332 in 2019,” it said.“The burning events were higher, particularly in Punjab. It may be a result of ‘protest burning’ by Punjab farmers. The efforts have resulted in 52 per cent reduction in crop residue burning incidents as compared with the base year 2016,” the department told the panel headed by Bagalkot MP PC Gaddigoudar when asked about the steps taken to mitigate the problem of stubble-burning in Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and the NCT of Delhi.Under the central sector scheme on “Promotion of Agricultural Mechanisation for in-situ management of crop residue in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and NCT of Delhi”, Rs 1,151.80 crore were allocated for two years (Rs 591.65 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 560.15 crore in 2019-20) and Rs 600 crore in 2020-22.During four years, 2.13 lakh machines were supplied to the states for the in-situ residue management. At present, the department is working on promoting equipment for in-situ management. #farmers protest #stubble burning||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/parl-panel-stubble-burning-spiked-during-farm-protest-380438
25-03-2022||Sumedha SharmaGurugram||Gurugram builders put on notice for violating norms||Many builders in Gurugram have gone ahead with selling flats in their projects without obtaining the mandatory occupation certificate (OC).An OC certifies that a project is habitable and that all requisite permissions have been obtained. The Department of Town and Country Planning has identified 17 projects where flats have been sold and occupied without getting necessary clearances, thereby putting the lives of occupants at risk.“We have issued show-cause notices to them to explain why they did so and what is the status of their OCs? We can’t risk the lives of homebuyers,” said DTP RS Bhatt. “Allowing occupation of flats without obtaining an OC is a violation of the conditions of the approved building plan… You have contravened norms and the same is liable for penal action under Section 10 of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Area Act, 1975,” reads the notice.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-builders-put-on-notice-for-violating-norms-380428
