26-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Warrant officer maltreated, HC tells DGP to file affidavit||Chandigarh, March 25The Punjab and Haryana High Court has ordered Haryana Director-General of Police to file his personal affidavit after a warrant officer, appointed by the court in an alleged illegal detention case, was misbehaved with and even chased by “some police officials”.Invites contempt proceedingsFacts disclosed by the warrant officer in his report would reflect that the CIA Staff, Panipat, was having no regard for a warrant officer appointed by this court and misbehaved with him in utter disregard of the order passed by this court, resulting in inviting contempt of court proceedings. Justice Sant Parkash, Punjab and Haryana high courtAlleged detainee not named in firsDirections were also issued for intimating the court on the action taken against the “erring officials”. The Bench asserted the action had resulted in attracting the contempt of court proceedings.Justice Sant Parkash of the High Court also made it clear that the state Director-General of Police would remain personally present in the court if the affidavit was not filed by the next date of hearing in the matter.Fixing the case for the next hearing on March 30, Justice Sant Parkash further made it clear that the affidavit would be filed by the state’s top cop after verifying the facts from the “SSP concerned”.In its detailed order, the Bench also took note of the fact that the alleged detainee, sought to be freed by filing the petition, was not named in the FIRs he was purportedly wanted in.As the habeas corpus petition filed by Bala Devi against the state of Haryana and other respondents came up for resumed hearing before the Bench, Justice Sant Parkash asserted that the warrant officer was appointed to get the detainee released from illegal custody pursuant to the previous order dated February 25.Referring to warrant officer Bhag Singh Virk’s report placed before the court, Justice Sant Parkash asserted a glance at it revealed that he was “maltreated” and even chased. The detainee was stated to be wanted in two FIRs, but had not been named in the same.Before parting with the case, Justice Sant Parkash added: “The facts disclosed by the warrant officer in his report would reflect that the CIA Staff, Panipat, was having no regard for a warrant officer appointed by this court and misbehaved with him in utter disregard of the order passed by this court, resulting in inviting contempt of court proceedings.”A copy of the order was directed to be handed over to the state counsel “dasti” for onward transmission to the Director-General of Police for the purpose of its compliance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/warrant-officer-maltreated-hc-tells-dgp-to-file-affidavit-380804
26-03-2022||---||Inflation hitting common man: Congress||Ambala/Karnal, March 25Congress activists, led by Mullana MLA Varun Chaudhry, held a demonstration against rising fuel and gas prices. They also submitted a memorandum to Ambala Deputy Commissioner for the President.Targeting the Centre, Chaydhry said after winning the Assembly elections, the BJP had brought ‘Mehnge Din’ as a return gift for the voters.“Rising fuel and gas prices are the result of wrong economic policies of the Centre and has been affecting all sections of society,” he added.The treasurer of the Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee, Rohit Jain, said: The prices of essential commodities have been increasing continuously, but the government has failed to provide any relief to the common man. We have submitted a memorandum for the President of India. The government should roll back the increased prices.”Protests were also held in other parts of the state.In Kurukshetra, Congress activists led by Ladwa MLA Mewa Singh and Ashok Arora protested at the mini secretariat and raised slogans against the BJP.Mewa Singh said: “The government had claimed to double farmers’ income, but it has only increased the cost of production by increasing the prices of fuel and fertiliser.”Meanwhile in Karnal, scores of Congress workers also staged a protest in the city against rising inflation and hike in the prices of cooking gas.Assandh MLA Shamsher Singh Gogi, Congress leader Trilochan Singh, former chairperson of the Haryana Minority Commission and other senior leaders led the protest and reached the mini secretariat from Sector-12 park.Gogi said the government has started increasing the prices of fuel and LPG cylinders after the results of Assembly elections in five states.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/inflation-hitting-common-man-congress-380805
26-03-2022||Parveen Arora||Karnal police face staff crunch||Karnal, March 25The Karnal Police Department is facing an acute shortage of personnel. It’s facing a staff crunch of around 30% in 18 police stations and 16 posts across the district.The data collected by The Tribune shows that as many as 756 posts of the different ranks of police personnel are lying vacant, affecting the working.Sources say from the available force, around 200 personnel are on duty to protect the VIPs as well as persons who have given police protection. They further say the number of the sanctioned posts was approved recently. In the meanwhile, four new police stations have been established too.The data further says that a majority of the posts of constable are yet to be filled in the home district of Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar.Of the 2,470 posts of police personnel sanctioned in the district, 1,714 are filled while the remaining 756 are lying vacant.A police official said they had to work with limited manpower to maintain the law and order situation along with managing the VIP movement. “The most challenging task is to ensure the presence of traffic police on every chowk in the city. During any law and order situation or VIP movement, we have to face difficulties in adjusting the manpower,” he added.Meanwhile, SP Ganga Ram Punia said: “The district police are ensuring the optimum utilisation of the available manpower as well as resources.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-police-face-staff-crunch-380806
26-03-2022||---||Upgrade Karnal railway station, demands MP||Karnal, March 25Sanjay Bhatia, Member of Parliament (MP) from Karnal, has urged the Railway Ministry to upgrade the Karnal railway station to a junction. He raised this demand during the Parliament session on Thursday.Karnal railway station is one of the oldest railway stations of the country. It was established by the British under the aegis of East India Railways Company in 1892, a year after the opening of Delhi-Panipat-Karnal-Ambala-Kalka line.“Karnal railway station is considered national heritage as it is around 130 years old, but it has not been upgraded to a junction so far,” said Bhatia in the session.Being located on an important route connecting Delhi with Chandigarh, nearly 125 trains pass this station daily, but more than half of those have no stoppage here, he said.“I demand that the Railway Minister should fulfil the long-pending demand of residents by upgrading it as a junction,” he said.Bhatia also reiterated the demand of laying railway lines to connect Karnal with Yamunanagar, the DPR of which has been rejected by the Railway Ministry.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/upgrade-karnal-railway-station-demands-mp-380807
26-03-2022||---||ADC raids tehsil, treasury offices||Yamunanagar, March 25Additional Deputy Commissioner-cum-Vigilance Officer Ranjit Kaur conducted a surprise inspection at tehsil and treasury offices in Radaur town of Yamunanagar today.She checked attendance registers in tehsil and treasury offices and ordered that those employees who were found absent without taking prior permission from authorities should submit the explanation.She also reviewed the functioning of officers and officials in both offices besides interacting with the people present in those offices.“I reviewed the cleanliness arrangements in the offices of tehsil and treasury. I directed the naib tehsildar to ensure cleanliness in tehsil office and to make adequate seating arrangements for the general public,” said ADC Ranjit Kaur.District Planning Officer Sachin Paruthi, Naib Tehsildar Anil Kumar, Assistant Treasurer Poonam Rani and other officials were present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/adc-raids-tehsil-treasury-offices-380808
26-03-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Footfall at Surajkund mela falls||Faridabad, March 25Soaring day temperature has hit the footfall in the ongoing Crafts Mela at Surajkund here. The international event is being held on a delayed schedule due to the impact of the Covid pandemic against the regular period in the first fortnight of February.“Though a week has gone, the number of visitors has been less than one-fourth of the strength seen in the corresponding period in 2020 when the mela was held last time,” say sources in the district administration.Claiming that the decision to hold the mela on a delayed schedule seems to have gone wrong in view of the adverse conditions, an official on the condition of anonymity said that issues like the ongoing school examinations and the pandemic threat had also been ignored.As the day temperatures have tended to rise up to 39°C since the mela’s start on March 19, he said that it becomes intolerable to roam around or shop here.“I have not seen such a poor response to the mela in terms of visitors in the past several years which is perhaps due to inclement weather,” said a stall owner from West Bengal. He said he might not be able to recover the expenses that he incurred in coming here.A craftsperson from Himachal said that the ideal time of holding the mela is February when the weather is neither too cold nor hot.The number of visitors to the mela this time may not reach even one-third of the 12 lakh visitors in 2020, it is claimed. Parking rates of Rs 150 per vehicle (four-wheeler) for four hours is too much and a deterrent,” says Varun Sheokand, a resident.Rajesh Joon, Nodal Officer, Crafts Mela, admits that the flow of visitors has been low due to hot weather. He said footfall might increase considerably on weekends and in the evenings. The mela, which began on March 19, will continue till April 4.With as many as 1,183 working huts, it has over 55 commercial stalls. Entry ticket per person costs Rs 120 (weekdays) and Rs 180 (weekends). It remains open between 12 noon to 9.30 pm daily.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/footfall-at-surajkund-mela-falls-380809
26-03-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Delay in Delhi-Mumbai Expressway  project||Faridabad, March 25Handing over the 70-m right of way (ROW) to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway project has been delayed.Hurdles galoreThe work has failed to get completed mainly due to hurdles, which include legal issues, allotment of alternative land and lack of political will. Sources in District administrationThe routeStarting from the Ring Road-DND junction in Delhi, the Expressway will pass through Faridabad-Ballabgarh bypass to culminate at the interchange near Mandkola village in Palwal.The ROW, which was to be handed over this month to the NHAI as per the revised schedule, still faces hurdles, threatening to cause further delay. The work has already missed the initial deadline of December 2020.“Though the process for the removal of encroachments in the 26 km-long passage between Sector 37 and Sector 59 on the byepass road here had been on for the past two years, the work has failed to get completed mainly due to hurdles, which include legal issues, allotment of alternative land and the lack of political will, according to sources in the district administration.While many encroachments in the shape of residential and commercial buildings have been removed, others still exist due to a legal tangle in which alternative space is to be provided to many structures. Such structures include seven fuel pump stations, two boosting stations (sewage) and encroachments in the form of slum clusters.“While the matter was being pushed continuously, inordinate delay has marked the possession of the ROW for the project,” said Dheeraj Singh, a senior NHAI official. “We are expecting the ROW possession soon,” he said. “While frequent transfers of the officials concerned and recent Assembly polls in UP have impacted the process, the delay has placed the commuters at the receiving end due to the slow pace of the work,” said Varun Sheokand, a resident.Meanwhile, claiming that the process of the removal of encroachments had either been over or was in final stages, Jitender Dahiya, Administrator, HSVP, said the ROW would be given soon. With the allotment of alternative space to fuel and boosting stations finalised, he said the rehabilitation of the slum clusters residents was in process as per the court directions. A large number of encroachments have been removed in the recent past, he says.Starting from the Ring Road-DND junction in Delhi, the Expressway will pass through Faridabad-Ballabgarh bypass to culminate at the interchange near Mandkola village in Palwal.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/delay-in-delhi-mumbai-expressway-project-380810
26-03-2022||Parveen Arora||147 classrooms to be built in Karnal government schools||Karnal, March 25To provide better infrastructure in government schools, the Education Department is going to construct 147 new classrooms as the schools have been facing shortage of rooms after the demolition of around 300 condemned classrooms.The department has given nod for the construction of new classrooms and a budget of Rs 12 crore has been sanctioned. The civil wing of the department and office of the district project coordinator will jointly work on the construction of these rooms.Of these 147 new classrooms, tender of 73 has been floated, while for the remaining 74 classrooms, the tender is likely to be floated soon, said Rajpal, District Education Officer.After the complaints of dilapidated conditions of the classrooms in different government schools, the department got a survey conducted and found 304 classrooms were condemned in 97 government schools.The survey also revealed the necessity of 183 classrooms, so that the students would not suffer anymore.“Of these 304, the department has demolished around 300 condemned classrooms. Auctioning of the material has also been done,” said the DEO.The construction work is likely to start in April, he added. The DEO said after the construction of these classrooms, there would be no shortage of rooms in the government schools.Anish Yadav, Deputy Commissioner, said focus was being laid on strengthening the infrastructure in government schools. The construction of new classrooms is also a part of it. “We will ensure speedy work with quality in the construction of these classrooms,” said the DC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/147-classrooms-to-be-built-in-karnal-government-schools-380811
26-03-2022||---||AAP protests against delay in Pipli-KU stretch work||Kurukshetra, March 25Aam Aadmi Party activists today staged a dharna in front of the new bus stand over the delay in the construction of the road from Pipli to Kurukshetra University.The AAP activists also submitted a memorandum to the District Revenue Officer for the Haryana Governor. AAP leader Vishal Khubber said, “The road from Pipli to Kurukshetra University is the lifeline of the city, but even after missing so many deadlines, the project is incomplete. Corruption is the only reason behind the delay in construction of road.”Sumit Hindustani said, “Not only are the Pipli-KU road, but all major roads of the city are in poor condition. The roads have become an ordeal for commuters. The local MLA has repeatedly claimed that the road will be completed soon but nothing happened. The MLA should resign if he can’t even get a road constructed on time.”However, Thanesar BJP MLA Subhash Sudha said, “The construction work of the road has been resumed today. The work has started at different locations, including Mohan Nagar flyover, and Third Gate of Kurukshetra University. The Opposition parties have been trying to politicise the issue and all allegations being levelled against me arenot true and baseless.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/aap-protests-against-delay-in-pipli-ku-stretch-work-380812
26-03-2022||Aditi Tandon||Unity must to win 2024 poll: Rahul to leaders||New Delhi, March 25Top state Congress leaders on Friday got candid at a meeting called by former party president Rahul Gandhi, who asked them to “freely airgrievances against one another”.By the end of a two-and-a-half-hour long discussion on the party roadmap for the 2024 state poll, Rahul urged veterans to work together and said “organisational unity was key to the party’s victory”.Rahul is learnt to have indicated that everyone must hit the ground running, go to the field and fight to cement the Congress’ prospects in the poll. He is learnt to have signalled that the issues of leadership in the state could be addressed gradually once the party is fighting fit.Rahul also expressed concern over the complete lack of organisation in Haryana at the meeting attended by AICC incharge Vivek Bansal, state chief Kumari Selja, ex-CM Bhupinder Hooda, AICC general secretary Randeep Surjewala, Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Hooda, ex-CLP leader Kiran Choudhry, MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi, Deputy CLP leader Aftab Ahmed, Congress OBC cell chairman Ajay Yadav, ex-PCC chiefs Dharam Pal Malik and Phool Chand Mullana.The state Congress revamp has been due since 2014 when all districts and block committees were dissolved. The leaders took stock of the reasons holding back the restructuring process with Rahul, expressing urgency around the task.References were also made to how the party suffered losses in Uttar Pradesh, where its organisation was nil.It is learnt that Selja, without naming anyone, aired her grievances. She is also learnt to have flagged G-23 leaders holding independent meetings. Hooda is a part of G-23.Meanwhile, sources said leaders articulated their thoughts on the political strategy the party should adopt in Haryana — whether to project a suitable leader to consolidate Jats or signal accommodation for all communities by projecting collective leadership.The AAP as a challenger should not be taken lightly, most leaders felt, adding that strategies need to be in place to ensure that the party does not play a spoiler for the Congress as it did in the recently held Goa and Uttarakhand elections, which the BJP won.The sources further said the meeting was stormy with Rahul encouraging frank discussions and saying, “What is the point of this meeting if you can’t speak to each other openly”.Later, Rahul also held a one-on-one discussion with the leaders for a few minutes.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/unity-must-to-win-2024-poll-rahul-to-leaders-380813
26-03-2022||Deepender Deswal||Ex-Union Minister plans state tour to garner support||Jind, March 25Fuelling speculations about his next political move, BJP leader and ex-Union Minister Birender Singh has said he will tour the state to consolidate support on the issues of empowerment of weaker sections, workers and farmers, and to uproot corruption.Sitting saffron party MLAs absentThe event held to felicitate Birender Singh on him completing 50 years in public life was attended by the leaders of different parties, including INLD’s Abhay Chautala, AAP MP Sushil Gupta, BJP leader and ex-minister Rambilas Sharma, Punjab leader Jagmeet Brar and Congress leaders Krishan Murti Hooda and Subhash Batra besides BKU leader Yudhvir Singh. However, none of the sitting BJP MLAs were present on the occasion.Addressing supporters at a function organised to felicitate him on 50 years in public life held at Rajiv Gandhi College in Uchana today, Birender said that there was a need to launch a fight for the uplift of the underprivileged.Expressing his political aspirations, he said: “You must be thinking what I will say in today’s meeting. I will do exactly what you are thinking. Don’t worry.” His remarks have triggered speculations of a churning in Haryana politics though the elections are still three years away.On the occasion, INLD MLA Abhay Chautala urged Birender to take initiative for the formation of a third front in Haryana, while stating that those attending the programme today were unhappy with the leadership of their respective parties. He said people were awaiting change.AAP leader Sushil Gupta offered Birender to join hands, saying that they will welcome him into the party fold. BJP state ex-president Ram Bilas Sharma also praised him and said his political career had been spotless.Birender hailing from Doomarkhan village of Jind has apparently organised the event as a show of his political strength. His son Brijendra Singh is BJP MP from Hisar. Though the event had a tepid response in terms of gathering, it sent out a political message. Birender was awarded a Cabinet berth in the first term of the Modi government when he had left the Congress and joined the BJP. However, his son couldn’t find a place in the Union Cabinet in the second tenure of the BJP government at the Centre.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ex-union-minister-plans-state-tour-to-garner-support-380814
26-03-2022||---||5-day police remand for ex-SE in graft case||Karnal, March 25Former Superintending Engineer (SE) of the Karnal Municipal Corporation, Deepak Kinger, who was arrested on Thursday from Faridabad in a corruption case, was on Friday produced in a court, which sent him on a five-day police remand.TO DETERMINE MONEY SOURCE.We'll determine the source of money, which the ex-SE accepted from his PA. We'll also take the files of the works for which he took the money. Also, permission will be taken from the court to check his lockers. Mukesh Kumar, DSP (HQ)“We have taken him on a five-day police remand to determine the source of money, which he accepted from his PA… A recorder, which was installed under his office table by a contractual employee, is also to be recovered from him,” said Mukesh Kumar, DSP (Headquarter).The DSP said they would also take permission from the court to check his lockers. “Kinger was arrested from Faridabad on Thursday, while his PA Vikas Sharma was arrested earlier. Both were booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act by the Civil Lines police allegedly for accepting money. The FIR was registered on March 14 on the inquiry report of ADC Yogesh Kumar, who was assigned the inquiry after the surfacing of the videos, showing him taking money from his PA. Kinger was already suspended by the government.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/5-day-police-remand-for-ex-se-in-graft-case-380815
26-03-2022||Gurugram||Illegal arms unit busted||Following the arrest of a leader of an arms gang here last week, the police busted an illegal arms manufacturing unit in Hathras of UP.The police have arrested two more persons — Abhishek (30) of Nangla Bihar village in Hathras and Sunil (25) of Rampur village in Aligarh, UP — and recovered cartridges, a country-made pistol and a large number of weapon-making machines from the unit.The duo had put up the unit six months ago in Sadabad, Aligarh. Abhishek, alias Gabbar, was arrested last week. He worked as an arms supplier. A total of 25 country-made pistols were seized from him.The arrested used to sell weapons in UP and Delhi-NCR. “The mastermind behind the illegal arms unit is Jeetu. Sunil was his helping hand. Abhishek revealed that he had supplied more than six weapons to Jeetu and used to get 10% commission,” the police said.The police further said they were conducting raids to nab the other accused. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-arms-unit-busted-380816
26-03-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Hospital ex-staffer makes hoax bomb call||Gurugram, March 25A doctor and ex-employee of the Medanta Hospital created panic on the premises by making a hoax bomb call on Thursday.The police traced the call to an ex-employee who was reportedly sacked in 2017. Raids are on to nab him.The caller claimed to have planted a bomb in the hospital and threatened a terrorist attack. The police reached the spot with the bomb disposal and dog squads. A search operation was conducted for two hours but nothing was found. Finally, the information was declared fake.According to the complaint filed by Dr Sanjeev Gupta, medical director of the hospital, it was at 12.15 pm when they received a bomb threat call. “It created panic in the hospital,” Dr Gupta said.An FIR was registered against the unidentified caller under Sections 336 and 506 of the IPC at the Sadar police station. The police traced the accused who is also a doctor and his name is reportedly Vikram. “The details of the mobile number used for the call have been extracted. The caller’s location was Delhi,” said Inspector Dinesh Kumar, SHO, Sadar police station.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hospital-ex-staffer-makes-hoax-bomb-call-380817
26-03-2022||---||Hisar boy stabbed by classmate||Hisar, March 25A Class X student stabbed a classmate at a private school in Hisar on Friday. The injured student has been referred to a private hospital.The police said the incident occurred when the teacher was not in the classroom.One of the students started harassing the victim by cutting his hair with a pair of scissors. When the victim objected, a brawl ensued and the victim was stabbed in his chest by the scissors. The police said that they were taking action as per law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hisar-boy-stabbed-by-classmate-380818
26-03-2022||---||Old enmity sparks clash in Yamunanagar village; 2 hurt||Yamunanagar, March 25A group of youths allegedly attacked some persons over old enmity in Jaidhar village of Yamunanagar district.In the incident, two persons of a family sustained injuries and were given treatment at the local Trauma Centre.On the complaint of Rohit Garg of Jaidhar village, a case has been registered against 13 persons under Sections 148, 149, 323, 452, 506 and 307 of the IPC at the Chhachhrauli police station on Thursday.In his police complaint, Rohit said he along with his friend Shivam was standing near the latter’s house on Wednesday night when Rohit and Amir Khan of the same village came on a motorcycle. The duo, however, returned on seeing them.He alleged after sometime, Rohit and Amir Khan came back along with several persons, who had iron rods, swords and wooden sticks. “Sabir, Yasin and Sallu attacked me with iron rods and Amir hit me with a wooden stick. The other persons misbehaved and manhandled with other villagers Ashok Kumar and his wife Mukesh Devi. They also threw stones at us, injuring my uncle Radhey Shyam,” alleged the complainant.He further alleged that a quarrel had taken place between them on Eid last year, but the issue was later settled in a panchayat held in the village. “Since then these persons were having a rivalry with us, so they attacked us.”The police, however, claimed a quarrel broke out over not giving side to a motorcycle.Meanwhile, Chhachhrauli police station SHO Sandeep Singh said three persons had been arrested and efforts were being made to nab others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/old-enmity-sparks-clash-in-ynagar-village-2-hurt-380819
26-03-2022||Palwal||Threatened, couple seeks permission to leave village||During the monthly meeting of the District Grievances and Redress Committee held at the mini secretariat today, a middle-aged couple from a village in the district has raised the issue of life threat posed by some anti-social elements.The meeting was headed by Haryana Cooperatives Minister Dr Banwari Lal.The couple alleged for the past several months, some politically influential persons had been threatening them with dire consequences for raising voice in connection to an old dispute.“Persons armed with weapons keep visiting our house, claiming that no one can harm them if we take an action against them,” the woman complained during the meeting.She told the committee that despite a complaint lodged with the police in November last year, no action has been taken so far.The Minister directed the police to act promptly to provide security to the couple and take action against the culprits. He also asked the authorities to install CCTV at the house of the complainant. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/threatened-couple-seeks-permission-to-leave-village-380820
26-03-2022||Chandigarh||Migratory birds at Chhilchhila after 25 years||Migratory birds were sighted at the Chhilchhila Wildlife Sanctuary in Sarasa village, Kurukshetra, after 25 years.A spokesperson of the Forest Department said the migratory birds sighted were painted stork, red-naped ibis, little cormorant, great heron, little and cattle egrets, comb duck and little grebe.Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said all this had been possible with the mutual cooperation of the residents of Sarasa village and the Forest Department. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/migratory-birds-at-chhilchhila-after-25-years-380821
26-03-2022||---||Discharge  two airmen,  IAF told||Chandigarh, March 25The Principal Bench of the Armed Forces Tribunal (AFT), New Delhi, has ordered the Indian Air Force (IAF) to discharge two airmen who have cleared civil jobs exams and issue necessary no-objection certificate (NOC) to them.It has also asked the Air Force to issue necessary amendments in its policy to facilitate its personnel to apply for prior permission for exams, without having professional skill Grade A.Corporal Ayush Maurya cleared the Union Public Service Commission’s Civil Services Examination for Indian Defence Estate Service and Sergeant Kuldeep Kumar Vibhuti cleared Bihar Public Service Commission’s exam.Both were denied NOC by the Air Force on the ground that they lack skill Grade A. The current policy in vogue in the Air Force states that an individual should have a minimum of seven years of service and skill Grade A for applying for Group A/B civil jobs.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/discharge-two-airmen-iaf-told-380822
26-03-2022||---||Fill PhD seats: GJUST students||Hisar, March 25The Student Council for Educational Reforms, a student organisation, has submitted a requisition letter to Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, to fill the vacant PhD seats in the university. There have been two rounds of counselling for PhD admission.Gurmail Dhabi, a student leader, said in January 2022, applications were sought by the university for PhD admissions. But after two rounds of counselling, seats were still lying vacant in some departments. “We have written a letter seeking filling up of the vacant seats. The organisation has demanded that no PhD seat should go vacant in the university.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fill-phd-seats-gjust-students-380823
26-03-2022||---||Submit report in 2 days on flaws on e-ways: IG  to officials||Karnal, March 25To ensure safe driving on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) and Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal (KGP) expressways, and also strict implementation of lane driving on the national highways, Dr Rajshri Singh, IG, Traffic and Highway Police, Haryana, conducted a meeting with officials of HSIIDC, NHAI, SHOs of Sonepat, Jhajjar, Faridabad, Palwal, Gurugram, Mewat, Karnal, Kurukshetra and Panipat in her office on Friday.She directed the police officials to prepare a list of flaws on the KMP and KGP and submit it in two days in her office, so that these could be rectified after communication with different departments.“We have to ensure that there should be no flaws on these roads for smooth journey of commuters. There should be proper lighting, signboards, proper lay-by, white line, roads with proper railing,” said the IG.Accompanied by Rajinder Kumar Meena, Superintendent of Police (SP) Traffic and Highways, Haryana, she also discussed the opening of new police stations on the KMP and KGP for crime control. She also exhorted the police officials to spread awareness about following traffic rules.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/submit-report-in-2-days-on-flaws-on-e-ways-ig-to-officials-380824
26-03-2022||Gurugram||125 units of blood donated||National conference organisedKarnal: The Directorate of Higher Education (DHE), Haryana, sponsored a national conference in the department of political science at DAV College on the topics "Contemporary relevance of the ideas of Mahatma Gandhi". The function was inaugurated by chief guest Prof Ajay, a Gandhian thinker. Dr Vikas Sabharwal, chairperson, department of political science KUK, Dr Jagroop Kaur, chairperson, Punjabi University, Patiala and Dr Subhash Tanwar, Principal Pundri and Dr Anupama, principal, Ambala, also participated. Prof Ajay shared his views about Gandhi on the significance of truth and non-violence in the lives. During the technical sessions more than 100 Research scholars and students presented their papers on topics relevant to the theme of conference.Extension lecture on Bhagvad GitaSonepat: The department of English at Bhagat Phool Singh Mahila Vishwavidyalaya (BPSMV) organised an extension lecture on "Taking Bhagvad Gita to classroom: Pedagogical perspective" as part of its invited lecture series on "Indian classical texts" started last year. While delivering the presidential address on this occasion, Prof Sudesh, Vice-Chancellor of the women university said Bhagvad Gita was a knowledge text of world literature and its teachings were more relevant in the modern turbulent times. She said that all the teachers of BPSMV will be oriented and trained in the teachings enshrined in Gita. The teachers will further share these teachings with the students of the university in classrooms.Orientation course for teachersHisar A 21-day orientation course for 22 newly appointed teachers and scientists at Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences (LUVAS) came to an end. On this occasion, Chaudhary Charan Singh, Haryana, Agricultural University, Vice-Chancellor Dr BR Kamboj was the chief guest and LUVAS Vice-Chancellor Dr- Vinod Kumar Verma was present as the special guest. The trainees were given exposure by experts from all over the country on various topics like behavioral skills, personality development, various facilities available in the university, accounting and procurement process rules, understanding the psychology of students, spirituality etc.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/125-units-of-blood-donated-380825
26-03-2022||While going to Delhi||Reflectors not fixed on flyover walls||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaPets, stray cattle spread filth in front of housesDog owners don't bother about their dogs pooping in front of residences in Panchkula sectors. They or their house helps take pets for walk/pooping and spread filth in front of residences of others and near parked vehicles. They Just don't bother about civic sense. It is so difficult to walk on the roads and the tyres also get smudged. People feed strays on roadsides and the cattle/ dogs also poop on roads. Every MC elections, this is on top of the agenda but once the MC is formed, no one bothers. A reader, PanchkulaOpen air library in Gurugram a welcome stepIt is very pleasing to learn that the Municipal Corporation Gurugram (MCG) is going to inaugurate an open air library in a park where books and newspapers will be available. They wish to promote the habit of reading in the parks and pass time in a dignified manner. The MCG wants to create more libraries in other parts of the district.Subhash C Taneja, GurugramStray dog menace in Karnal HSVP sectorsIwant to draw attention of the authorities concerned towards the nuisance of stray dogs rampant in Sector 7 Karnal. On a number of occasions, they bite passersby. These canines chase vehicles passing through streets. The victims are children, housemaids and the elderly moving in the streets. These dogs move in packs and bark during the day and even at the dead of the night causing disturbance to residents. The authorities are expected to come to rescue of the common man. Surinder Kumar Mahna, KarnalWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you?Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/reflectors-not-fixed-on-flyover-walls-380826
26-03-2022||Jhajjar||Two charred bodies found||Two held for vehicle theftYamunanagar: The anti-vehicle theft cell of the Yamunanagar police has arrested two persons and recovered three motorcycles from their possession. The accused have been identified as Sagar and Saurabh, residents of Shyam Sunder Puri Colony of Jagadhri. Ramesh Rana, in charge of the cell, said the duo was arrested at the naka laid near Buria town. TNSDr MK Sehgal is YJCCI chiefYamunanagar: Educationist and alumnus of IIM Ahmedabad, Dr MK Sehgal, has been appointed as the president of the Yamunanagar-Jagadhri Chamber of Commerce and Industry (YJCCI) during the annual general meeting of the body held here on Wednesday. TNSVardhan appointed state CICChandigarh: Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday administered the oath of office and allegiance to former chief secretary Vijai Vardhan as the Chief Information Commissioner and retired IAS Satyavir Singh Phulia as the State Information Commissioner.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-charred-bodies-found-380827
26-03-2022||Sumedha Sharma||Gurugram building collapse: Debris of Chintels Paradiso tower to be tested||Gurugram, March 25Following recommendations of the IIT-Delhi, the Gurugram administration will go ahead with testing debris of the collapsed tower of Chintels Paradiso. The special committee inquiring into the incident would rope in structural designers and engineers, who, under the supervision of the IIT team, would conduct tests to ascertain reasons behind the building collapse.DC Nishant Yadav said, “We will get the debris tested. As per recommendations of the IIT-Delhi, we are getting structural engineers and designers on board who will conduct technical investigation.” The committee has served notices on builders and residents to record their statements. All other stakeholders have also been summoned.Gurugram ADC Vishram Meena said, “The Superintending Engineer couldn’t attend today’s meeting due to some prior engagement. We will hold another meeting next week to initiate technical procedures.”A three-member IIT team, which conducted spot inspection of the collapsed Chintels Paradiso tower, had found that the project aged faster than expected. #chintelsparadiso #gurugram||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/debris-of-collapsed-tower-to-be-tested-380763
