27-03-2022||Karnal||Student murder case: Main accused held||Family members, relatives and community members of Viren (18), who was stabbed to death two days back on a private school premises in Jaisinghpura allegedly by his classmate, today protested and alleged police inaction in the murder case.In the evening, Gharaunda SHO Deepak Kumar Lee’s team arrested the main accused Subham of the same village from Babarpur in Panipat.SP Ganga Ram Punia said that the main accused would be produced in court tomorrow where they would seek his custody. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/student-murder-case-main-accused-held-381144
27-03-2022||Hisar||Bill defaulters assault  two linemen in Hisar||Two employees of the Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (DHBVN) were allegedly assaulted by three villagers in Shikarpur village of Hisar district yesterday. Assistant linemen Ramesh Kumar and Jasvir of the Dakshin had gone to the village to disconnect the defaulters’ electricity connection.The Hisar Sadar police have registered a case against Akshay, Kali Ram and an unknown woman, all resident of Shikarpur village, under various Sections of the IPC.Later, a junior engineer came along with a team and got the victims admitted to a hospital. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bill-defaulters-assault-two-linemen-in-hisar-381143
27-03-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram: Chinese man arrested for staying illegally||The Gurugram police have arrested a 28-year-old Chinese national from a hotel located in the Old DLF area for allegedly illegally staying in India.An FIR has been registered at Sector 14 police station. He was produced in a city court and sent to judicial custody.According to the police, the accused has been identified as Wang Yanam. He hails from Shandong province in China. The accused came to India in July 2021 and his visa expired on August 10, 2021. But after that, he did not apply for extension of visa and has been staying in India illegally for the past seven months, said the police.“Following a tip-off, he was arrested under the Foreigners Act from a hotel in Sector 14. He is a service engineer and works as a supervisor in a Chinese company,” said ASI Neeraj Kumar, the investigating officer. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-chinese-man-arrested-for-staying-illegally-381142
27-03-2022||Hisar||Rape victim gives birth in Jind||The Jind police today booked a youth for raping and impregnating a minor girl who gave birth to a premature baby in Jind district.The police said the victim’s kin lodged a police complaint at Civil Lines, alleging that a resident of Kiloi village of Rohtak district had raped the girl in September last year.The accused’s sister is married to a member of the victim’s family in Jind town following which the accused had been visiting their home frequently. The police registered a case under various Sections of the IPC and the POCSO Act. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/rape-victim-gives-birth-in-jind-381141
27-03-2022||---||Soon, academy for youngsters at Bhiwani village||Hisar, March 26A drama based on the history of martyrs of Rohnat village in Bhiwani district known as ‘the village of rebels’ struck an emotional chord with the audience, which included CM Manohar Lal Khattar, at the IG auditorium in Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University (HAU) here today.The CM announced to include the history of Rohnat village in the educational curriculum and to set up an academy for youngsters in the area for them to get training for recruitment in defence forces.Besides, the CM said the government was contributing Rs 1 crore to the Rohnat Trust for the needy and aged people of the village.The drama ‘Dastan-e-Rohnat’ showed the story of this village located in Bawani Khera block of the district as part of the “Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav”.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/soon-academy-for-youngsters-at-bhiwani-village-381140
27-03-2022||Gurugram||Gurugram woman jumps to death from flyover||A 23-year-old woman allegedly died by suicide after jumping off the Rajiv Chowk flyover here this afternoon.An alumnus of the Delhi University, the deceased has been identified as Sapna of Hans Enclave Colony near Rajiv Chowk. Before jumping off the flyover, she even slit both her wrists.“The reason behind the extreme step is yet to be ascertained as the deceased’s family is in shock and unable to give the statement. We are probing all angles,” said Inspector Dinesh Yadav, SHO, Sadar police station.As per information, it was around 3 pm today when Sapna came on her Scooty, parked it and jumped off the flyover. She suffered head injuries and was rushed to the Civil Hospital but the doctor declared her brought dead. “We have taken the Scooty and her phone in custody. Her body is in the mortuary and an autopsy will be conducted tomorrow. No suicide not was found,” the SHO said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/gurugram-woman-jumps-to-death-from-flyover-381139
27-03-2022||---||Yamunanagar: 5 booked for sexual abuse bid on minor||Yamunanagar, March 26Five persons allegedly made an attempt to sexually abuse a 16-year-old girl in a marriage palace in the district.On the complaint of the grandmother of the victim, a case was registered against six persons, including a woman — Rohit, Bilal, Krishanpal, Kadir, Amzad Khan and Deepika — under Sections 376 (DA) and 511 of the IPC and Sections 4/18 of the POCSO Act at the women police station on March 25.The complainant said Amzad was a friend of her granddaughter and he took her to the wedding of his maternal uncle on March 24.She said Deepika along with Rohit, Bilal, Krishanpal and Kadir also came to attend the wedding. The complainant alleged after attending the function, the accused forcibly took her granddaughter in their car to a nearby marriage palace around 11 pm.“There the accused consumed liquor and made my granddaughter drink too. Then they tried to sexually abuse her and Deepika helped them in committing the crime,” she added.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-5-booked-for-sexual-abuse-bid-on-minor-381136
27-03-2022||---||Two get life term for murder in Mahendragarh||Mahendragarh, March 26A Narnaul court sentenced two persons to life term while one to five-year rigorous imprisonment for killing a Khatodra village resident.The court of Additional Sessions Judge, Abdul Majid, awarded life sentence to Somdutt and Malkeet, while Devi Lal got the rigorous imprisonment for murdering Birendra Singh whose partially charred body was found near Baba Narayan Dass Temple in Khatodra village in Mahendragarh district on June 23, 2018.Birendra’s brother Mahendra had approached the police following the murder. He had told the police that his brother was seen consuming liquor with some villagers just before his murder.The police had then arrested Somdutt alias Gutka, Malkeet and Devi Lal, alias Naresh, for the crime. During the accused’s interrogation it came out that Somdutt and Malkeet killed Birendra while Devi Lal had assisted them to dispose of the body.They were then booked under Section 302, 201 and 120B of the IPC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-get-life-term-for-murder-in-mahendragarh-381132
27-03-2022||Hisar||Four kill cat in Sirsa, upload video||The Sirsa police have booked four persons for allegedly killing a cat and uploading the video of the crime on social media. The action comes after the video went viral.The case has been registered on the complaint of Jaspal, an activist of NGO Animal Birds Welfare Society. Jaspal said he received information that on March 20, Hassan, Rishi, Sunny and Jai Bhagwan of Thehar Mohalla had killed a cat and uploaded the video of the incident on the social media.A case has been registered against the accused under the Section 429 of the IPC and Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act.Meanwhile, DSP Arpit Jain said probe had been initiated and strict action would be taken against those involved in the incident. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-kill-cat-in-sirsa-upload-video-381130
27-03-2022||---||Labourer dies after pipe falls on him in Gurugram||Gurugram, March 26A 49-year-old construction worker was killed after a metal pipe fell on his head from the 25th floor at a construction site in Gurugram. The police have registered an FIR against the project manager of the site at Badshahpur police station.The deceased was identified as Dalbir Singh, a native of Lakhan Majra in Rohtak district. He had been staying with his brother-in-law Vijay in Jhajjar’s Salhawas. Both of them worked at same construction sites as labourers.The incident occurred when they, along with another labourer, were unloading a truck and a metal pipe fell from the 25th floor of the building. “A metal jack pipe fell from the 25th floor on his head. His head was crushed and his arm was buried under the pipe. The mishap occurred due to negligence of the project manager who did not install a safety net next to the building,” Vijay said in his complaint.The police said that the FIR was registered following the post-mortem examination. Dinkar, SHO of Badshahpur police station, said that a probe is on and action would be taken as per law.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/labourer-dies-after-pipe-falls-on-him-in-gurugram-381127
27-03-2022||Aditi Tandon||Portal brings to the fore unknown aspects of PM Modi's life||New Delhi, March 26Sudha Yadav, wife of a Kargil martyr, has many fond memories of Narendra Modi.She can’t forget how Modi, as BJP’s incharge for Haryana, went all out to mobilise the election funds for her in 1999.“The first donation came from Modiji himself -– Rs 11 which his mother had given him saying the money would come in handy someday. Modiji said that day had come,” recalls Yadav, who had contested and won the 1999 Lok Sabha election as a BJP candidate from Gurgaon segment.It was the year when the BJP had decided to field Kargil war widows in General Election.Yadav’s and similar testimonies by many others known to the Prime Minister were placed in public domain on Saturday by a volunteer group which has created a portal called modistory.in.The platform pieces together unknown aspects of Modi’s life through recollections of his friends, peers and officers.From election tips to former Punjab minister Manoranjan Kalia and lessons of zero food wastage to helper Deepak Kumar in Rohtak to perfect disguise as a Sikh during the Emergency and the decision to spend the 2002 Diwali with Bhuj earthquake victims – the vignettes on the portal bring alive the leader many describe as “exceptional.”Sudha Yadav speaks of how Rs 7.5 lakh election funds were raised within half an hour of Modi spreading a sheet and donating seed money of Rs 11 for her election.In twin testimonies, former Punjab minister Manoranjan Kalia says Modi gave him winning election tips.“Carry toffees in your pocket. That way you will win over children and also parents,” he told Kalia, who recalls another incident from 1997-98 when Atal Behari Vajpayee had visited Amritsar.“We forgot to pick Modiji who was accompanying Atalji. When I sent a worker back to receive him from the railway station and apologised, I was surprised at his equanimity. He didn’t complain even once,” Kalia says.An interesting recollection comes from Gujarat’s Kedar Tambe who once asked Modi whether he would ever take rest. “May be in another lifetime,” was Modi’s reply, recalls Tambe.The portal throws light on how Modi wanted to enrol in a Sainik School; how he carried a Dictaphone way back in 1970s and how he disguised as a Sikh so perfectly during the Emergency that his closest friends couldn’t recognise him.Another aspect of Modi’s personality is brought to life by former Union Finance Secretary Hasmukh Adhia who recalls, “Modiji once praised his peon’s handwriting to me. I felt ashamed that while Modiji knew even the special skills of his peon, we officers barely knew the names of our peons.”As Haryana in charge of BJP, Modi would cook his own meals, says Deepak Kumar, Modi’s helper in Rohtak in those days. “Modiji taught me the lesson of zero wastage of resources. He once came late and asked for food. There was none left. He spotted a bottle of leftover pickle in the kitchen, diced onions, prepared dough with the pickle and relished parathas made from the mix. Modiji would also make ‘khichdi parathas’ which ML Khattarji also enjoyed very much,” recalls Kumar in his testimonial.Zero wastageAs Haryana incharge of the BJP, Narendra Modi would cook his own meals, says Deepak Kumar, PM’s helper in Rohtak in those days. “Modiji taught me the lesson of zero wastage of resources. He once came late and asked for food. There was none left. He spotted a bottle of leftover pickle in the kitchen, diced onions, prepared dough with the pickle and relished parathas made from the mix. Modiji would also make ‘khichdi parathas’ which ML Khattarji also enjoyed very much,” recalls Kumar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/portal-brings-to-the-fore-unknown-aspects-of-pm-modis-life-381125
27-03-2022||Kaithal||Pay hike: Farmers extend support to anganwari workers||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, along with leaders of Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), Sarva Karamchari Sangh, Mahila Samiti and other organisations, extended support to the anganwari workers and helpers — demanding pay hike — during a mahapanchayat held at Kalayat in Kaithal.State president of Sarva Karamchari Sangh, Subhash Lamba, also promised support to the agitating workers.Tikait along with the leaders of other organisations, demanded the government to resolve the issue by reinstating the services of terminated workers and helpers.The anganwari workers and helpers have been protesting across state since December 8, 2021. Several workers and helpers have been terminated from services after the protests started, anganwari workers said.Tikait said, “An elected government should never disregard the rights of the people to organise and agitate.”The leaders of anganwari workers’ organisation said that they would not end the protest until their demands were met.They added that the government had assured them of raising the wages of workers and helpers by Rs 1,500 and Rs 750 per month, respectively, in 2018, but to no avail so far.The Talmel Committee has also announced a meeting on March 30 in Rohtak to chalk out future course of action.  Joint agri panel soon||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pay-hike-farmers-extend-support-to-anganwari-workers-381122
27-03-2022||---||Fake call centre busted in Gurugram||Gurugram, March 26A joint team of the CM Flying Squad and Gurugram police busted a fake call centre which cheated the citizens of USA and Canada. The police arrested 24 persons from the call centre and seized mobile phones, computers and Rs 2.5 lakh cash from the call centre.The accused were duping foreign nationals of $500 to 1,000 by offering technical support through pop-ups. An FIR has been registered under various Sections at DLF Phase-II police station.DSP Inderjit Yadav of CM Flying Squad said that information was received that a fake call centre is running in DLF Phase-II. So a joint raid was conducted on Friday night and 14 men and 10 women were seen working on computers and laptops.When asked, they could not show any valid OSP licences of Department of Telecommunications or any other agreement/MoU related to their work.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fake-call-centre-busted-in-gurugram-381121
27-03-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||Dry spell,  Haryana wheat growers on the edge||Yamunanagar, March 26Farmers have urged the state government to increase power supply to agriculture feeders as they are finding it difficult to save their late-sown wheat crop amid the ongoing dry spell.They said the grain in majority of the late-sown wheat crop was in the milking stage, which required watering this time. They further said the sowing of the sugarcane crop was also going on in full swing in the district and there was a need for irrigation soon.A progressive farmer, Satpal Kaushik, has written a letter to the higher officials of the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN), requesting them to provide at least 10 hours of power supply daily to tubewells for irrigation.According to information, normally wheat is sown up to November 25, but in Yamunanagar district the crop is sown till December 31 every year in a large area after harvesting sugarcane.“In most of the fields, the early sown wheat crop is in the ripening stage. But the wheat sown after harvesting sugarcane is in the milking stage at this time. It will take at least 20 days to ripen. If farmers fail to irrigate their crop this time, the sudden hike in day temperature may lead to the shrinking of grain and ultimately cause a decrease in the yield,” said Kaushik.He further said the government was providing only 4-5 hours of power supply to agriculture feeders this time, but it needed to be increased it to at least 10 hours daily.Ramesh Kumar of Telipura village said Yamunanagar district was considered to be the hub of sugarcane crop in Haryana.He said the sowing of the sugarcane crop was going on in full swing in the district right now. “Soon after sowing the sugarcane crop, it needs watering.”Another farmer, Anil Kumar, said they were forced to use diesel engine to run tubewells to get extra water. “Farmers are failing to maintain the required moisture in their fields to save their late-sown wheat and sugarcane crop along with green fodder following the ongoing dry spell. In such circumstances, the government should increase the power supply daily.”CROP LOSS FEAR LOOMSFarmers are forced to use diesel engine to run tubewells to get extra water. They are unable to maintain the required moisture in fields and are facing difficulties in saving their late-sown wheat and sugarcane crops… The govt needs to increase the daily power supply. Anil Kumar, a farmerSnag hits 2 thermal plants, SUpply to be increased SOONThis time, we are giving six-hour power supply to agriculture feeders as two thermal plants aren’t working properly due to a technical snag. The supply will be increased to eight hours daily soon. Rajinder Singh, SE, Operation circle, UHBVN, Yamunanagar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dry-spell-wheat-growers-on-the-edge-381116
27-03-2022||---||Karnal: Gang of transformer thieves busted, involved in 338 cases||Karnal, March 26The Karnal police claimed that four members of a gang — arrested on March 12 — were behind the theft of electricity transformers in Karnal, Kaithal and Kurukshetra districts. The accused have confessed that they were involved in 338 such thefts in the last three years, the police added. The accused are currently under the police custody.The accused have claimed that eight to ten persons, including them were involved in the thefts. They used to target three to five transformers in a night, said inspector Harjinder Singh, incharge of detective staff.The accused have been identified as Karar Hussain of Daulatpur village in Shahranpur district, Jisan of Salapur in Shamli district, Mustakim and Sharukh of Dadri villages in Gautam Budh Nagar district of Uttar Pradesh.The police said that they have recovered 650-kg copper wires — used in the transformers — and a car from their possession. The accused used to sell the copper for Rs 400-500 per kg in Delhi, the police said.The officer in-charge said two members of the gang would conduct recce of the spot while others used to stay at a nearby dhaba on a national highway.“They would call a taxi from Delhi at Rs 8,000 per night. They then would drop couple of the members near the target site and the remaining members would return to dhaba in the taxi,” he added. If they failed to open the transformer, the gang members would throw it in the field, Singh said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-gang-of-transformer-thieves-busted-involved-in-338-cases-381114
27-03-2022||Ravinder Saini||In 6 months, 400 Bahadurgarh units found violating fire norms||Jhajjar, March 26Around 400 factories have been found violating the fire safety norms in Bahadurgarh town in the past six months.All units were put on notice by the Department of Haryana Fire Services asking them to submit a no objection certificate (NOC). However, merely 10 per cent of the units approached the department, which is now gearing up to recommend action.Sources claimed the lack of safety measures in the factories was also making the situation difficult in case of fire breaks out there. Two factories caught fire recently and the department had to press in tenders from outside to control the situation.“Before starting its operations, every factory is required to get an NOC from our department. Thereafter, it is bound to get it renewed annually but many don’t pay any heed to it. Hence, we conduct regular inspection to find out if the fire safety norms are being followed or not in the factories,” said Rakesh Kumar, fire station officer, Bahadurgarh.He said during inspection, around 400 such factories were found operating without an NOC in the past six months. They were served notices and asked to submit a reply, but merely 40 factories had responded so far. Since the higher authorities were authorised to take action against the erring factories hence preparations were underway to recommend it, he added.Meanwhile, Jhajjar Divisional Fire Officer Rajender Dahiya said the industrial units were not only being made aware of the fire safety norms at regular intervals but also issued notices if they didn’t adhere to them.Inspection still underwayInspection of the units is still underway. Around 100 more units have been found violating fire safety norms. They’ve been verbally asked to submit the NOC at the earliest or face action. Many units on rent are also flouting the norms. — Rakesh Kumar, Fire station officer, Bahadurgarh||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-6-months-400-bahadurgarh-units-found-violating-fire-norms-381112
27-03-2022||---||NGO seeks arrest of accused in Nagal communal violence||Chandigarh, March 26The Association for Democratic Rights (AFDR), an NGO, today demanded the arrest of all accused in the Nagal village communal incident of Yamunanagar, which took place on February 21.A team of the AFDR had recently visited the village and today, it shared its fact-finding report with mediapersons.One of the victims Advocate Kamal Khan, present during the media interaction today, claimed his house was the first to be targeted. He said the community was scared and some families had left their homes and went either to their relatives’ place or rented accommodation.The victims told the AFDR team that the mob came with sticks and sharp-edged weapons. All doors were axed and household items like refrigerators, washing machines, fans, and vehicles were damaged. Women said they escaped by jumping off windows. Javed and Arif, another victims, told the team that the attackers left them expecting they were dead. They had bandages on their heads and plasters on their arms.Nagma, a graduate, and Tabassum, a Class XII student who had bandages on their heads, said some of the attackers were their colleagues.However, the other party told the AFDR team that a group attacked them during a jagran and threw the parshad in the gutter. They also got a cross-FIR registered on February 22 under the same sections. However, the AFDR concluded that it was a false FIR, which was registered to bring the other party to the compromise table.Meanwhile, advocate Mandeep Singh, who was part of the fact-finding team, said: “We will share our report with the Chief Justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and the National Commission for Minorities.”Talking about the incident, Prof Jagmohan Singh, the nephew of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, said, “The atmosphere is being spoiled…If the Muslims hold a prayer in a public place it is being objected, but other communities are freely holding their functions. The girls from the minority community are not being allowed to study on the pretext of hijab ban…The BJP governments in the state operate with their agenda.”Senior advocate RS Bains said, “The violence took place because probably there was assurance that no legal action will be taken. This development indicates how you prepare a society for a genocide.” He added that this happened from 1980 to 1984 too and then the anti-Sikh riots took place.Meanwhile, the AFDR also demanded adding Sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 379B (snatching) of the IPC to the FIR, quashing of the cross-FIR, charging negligent cops, rehabilitation of victims and judicial inquiry into the incident.Moreover, a day after Diwali, a youth named Ikram was also beaten up in the village and he suffered fractures. 2 GROUPS FOUGHT OVER LOUD MUSICOn Feb 21, a verbal spat over loud music between two groups snowballed into clashes in Yamunanagar village, injuring around 15 persons and damaging 13 bikes, a car and other household items. A temporary mosque was also allegedly ransacked. An FIR was registered against 33 persons by name for rioting, defiling place of worship, criminal intimidation, voluntary causing hurt and trespass.Process to record statements onThe process to record the statements is on. Also, no one has been questioned in the cross-FIR. — DSP Rajat Gulia, SIT head||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/ngo-seeks-arrest-of-accused-in-nagal-communal-violence-381110
27-03-2022||Aditi Tandon||When Narendra Modi donated Rs 11 to a Haryana war widow||New Delhi, March 26Sudha Yadav has many warm memories of Narendra Modi.“I can never forget how Narendra Modi, as organisational in charge of the BJP Haryana, went all out in 1999 to mobilise my election donation. The first donation I received was from Modiji himself. He donated to my campaign fund Rs 11 his mother had once given saying they would come to good use one day,” recalls Yadav, a Kargil war widow, who contested the 1999 Lok Sabha election as a BJP candidate.Yadav’s memories of Modi and similar testimonies by several others who have interacted with the prime minister over all these years are now in public domain in the form of a web portal - modistory.in - a volunteer initiative to piece together the life of a leader many describe in their narrations as “enigmatic and exceptional”.Sharing Yadav’s story on the portal, former union minister and sitting Lok Sabha MP Ratan Lal Kataria speaks of how the BJP, on Modi’s suggestion in 1999, decided to field Kargil war widows in the Lok Sabha election.“After a great deal of search, we found Sudha Yadav in Gurugram. Modiji spread a sheet in the party office to invite campaign donations for her. He began by making a donation himself and within half an hour, Rs 7.5 lakh was collected,” remembers Kataria.Yadav, in a separate testimonial on the portal, confirms the development and speaks of how overwhelmed she felt when Modi donated Rs 11 to her campaign.Modistory.in reveals the lesser-known aspects of Modi’s life through recollections of people he met during his journey from an RSS worker to Gujarat CM to the Prime Minister.The portal records testimonies of Modi’s friends who recall the time when the former RSS worker masqueraded as a Sikh during the Emergency in 1975.“Modi adapted the manners and attire of a Sikh so well that even RSS workers could not spot him,” said one of his friends.In his testimony, former Punjab minister Manoranjan Kalia speaks of election tips Modi gave to him once.“Modiji asked me to carry toffees during election campaigns and offer them to kids. That way we can win over not just children but also parents,” Kalia says, narrating another instance where he forgot to pick up Modi from Amritsar railway station but Modi was calm about the lapse and did not make a fuss.In another video, Modi’s former Rohtak-based assistant Deepak Kumar speaks of the prime minister’s commitment to zero wastage. “Modiji once came in late and asked for food. Since there was none left, he spotted a bottle of pickle with some leftover mixture. He cut some onions, prepared a dough with the pickle leftovers and relished parathas made out of the mix,” said Kumar also recalling another of Modi’s ‘khichdi paratha; recipe which even Manohar Lal Khattar used to enjoy at the time Modi was national BJP secretary in charge of Haryana.In another testimonial, former Union finance secretary Hasmukh Adhia remembers how Modi once praised a peon’s handwriting to him. “I felt ashamed when Modiji told me whether I knew that his office peon Pratap had a wonderful handwriting. I thought to myself that I could not even properly recall the names of my peons,” Adhia said.In her narration, paralympian Deepa Malik speaks of how the PM shielded her back when people were patting it as a sign of praise for her paralympic feat. “PM Modi shielded my back. I could not believe that a prime minister could be so sensitive as to know that my back could get hurt as I have a spinal cord injury,” Malik says.The portal, replete with incidents that offer an insight into Modi’s life, also shows how Modi wanted to get admitted to Sainik School as a child with his schoolteacher making the revelation.In yet another testimonial, Kedar Tambe, a Gujarat RSS leader, sheds further light on Modi’s personality.“I once asked Modiji whether he will ever find the time to rest. His reply was – may be in another lifetime. He said he had his task cut out for this life,” Tambe says.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/when-as-punjab-incharge-modi-had-advised-manoranjan-kalia-to-carry-toffees-for-kids-during-election-campaign-380955
