28-03-2022||Chandigarh||Public transport services affected in Haryana as roadways employees join nationwide strike||Public transport services were affected in Haryana on Monday as the roadways employees joined the two-day nationwide strike call given by a joint forum of the central trade unions to protest against the Centre's alleged wrong policies that are affecting farmers, workers and others.Commuters had to face a tough time as the bus services remained suspended at several depots of Haryana Roadways.The roadways employees held protest at many depots in the state as part of the strike.Sarbat Singh Punia, a leader of the joint front of 10 unions of roadways employees, said "in all the depots bus services are suspended"."Only a few buses which are run under the kilometre scheme were operated in the morning in Narnaul, Jhajjar and Chandigarh depots by private operators. Our roadways employees are observing a complete strike," he said.He alleged that the BJP-led Haryana government was not strengthening the Haryana Roadways fleet."This indicates their intent to promote privatisation of the transport services. There were 4,200 buses in the Haryana Roadways fleet about six years back, which have been reduced to 2,600 now and route permits are given to promote private buses. Haryana Roadways needs 10,000 buses in its fleet but the government is not paying heed," he claimed.In some districts, prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC were imposed to maintain law and order during the strike under which a ban has been imposed on the gathering of five or more persons in a 100-metre area of the bus stands, officials said.Punia claimed that employees and workers of some other departments, including public sector banks and municipal bodies, are also participating in the nationwide strike.Meanwhile, public transport buses were plying normally in neighbouring Punjab, officials said."Our bus services are running normally in Punjab," an official of the State Transport Department said.Naresh Gaur, Deputy General Secretary of Punjab Bank Employees Federation, however, said the employees of nationalised bank employees joined the strike and the banking services remained affected in Punjab.A joint forum of central trade unions had given a call for a nationwide strike on March 28 and 29.Their demands include the scrapping of the labour codes, no privatisation of any form, scrapping of the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), increased allocation of wages under MNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Act) and regularisation of contract workers, among others.The central trade unions that are part of this joint forum are INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/public-transport-services-impacted-in-haryana-as-roadways-employees-join-nationwide-strike-381495
28-03-2022||The system of lifting door-to-door garbage is not being followed in all wards and mohallas of the city under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. This facility is not being conducted properly localities such as -- Chopra Garden||Garbage not being lifted from houses in Yamunanagar||Welcome provision in annual budgetIt is heartening to note that the Yamunanagar Jagadhri Civic body has passed an annual Budget of Rs 300 crore for 2022-23. The Budget has a provision wherein the twin cities are to be made free from stray cattle and dogs. Specially, stray dogs are found in packs in almost every street of the twin cities. They have become a source of nuisance as well as a cause of accidents. It is now hoped that the coming year will see some improvements in the solution to the problem of stray dogs.Dr Yugesh Kumar, YamunanagarIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/garbage-not-being-lifted-from-houses-in-yamunanagar-381384
28-03-2022||Faridabad||Haryana Diary: Too hot for a rally||BJP factionalism comes to foreMahendragarh: Factionalism among the BJP leaders in the district came to the fore again during the starting of construction work of the much-awaited mini secretariat project in Kanina town. The BJP MLA from Nangal Choudhary, Abhay Singh Yadav, was not present on the occasion, but BJP MLAs from Mahendragarh and Rewari attended the function, in which Union Minister Rao Inderjit was the chief guest, but he did not attend the function.Another poll battle on cards?Hisar: Birender Singh had announced to quit electoral politics when the BJP gave ticket to his son Brijendra Singh from Hisar Lok Sabha in 2019 General Elections. However, sensing the changing political scenario, he has expressed intentions that he was ready for another poll battle at his March 25 meeting organised to mark 50 years in public life.Cong chides leaders for goof-upAmbala: A video of a party organised at the Congress Bhawan in Ambala Cantonment is being shared on social media, in which some people can be seen dancing to a Punjabi song. Posters of Congress leaders can be seen in the background. Unhappy with the party scenes inside Congress Bhawan, Congress activists are questioning the leaders for the goof-up. A local Congress leader said while the party is already struggling to maintain its ground here, after seeing such scenes, residents are making fun of the party on social media.Political leaders in a hurryYamunanagar: Assembly elections will be held after more than two and a half years in Haryana and an election-like atmosphere can already be felt in Yamunanagar this time. Leaders of various political parties are in a hurry to join other political parties. Recently, several leaders left their political parties and joined the AAP, while one joined the Congress.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/too-hot-for-a-rally-381380
28-03-2022||Ambala||Virtual library launched||National seminar organisedKurukshetra: Dr Som Nath Sachdeva, Vice-Chancellor, Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, said India could leapfrog in amalgamating industry 4.0 and society 5.0 and become a role model for the rest of the world. While delivering presidential address in the inaugural session of the national seminar on the theme "Industry 4.0 and society 5.0 - insights and implications for Indian businesses" which organised by the University School of Management, KUK, in collaboration with ICSSR. Dr. Hardeep Singh, chief guest in the seminar and Director-General, Agriculture and Farmer Welfare Department, Government of Haryana, pointed out that the concept of Industry 4.0 could revolutionise agricultural industry as well.Workshop on 'Scientific writing'Faridabad: The Research and Development (R&D) Section of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad, organised a one-day workshop on "Scientific writing". Vice-Chancellor Prof Sushil Kumar Tomar was an expert speaker in the workshop. The workshop was specifically meant for the faculty members and research scholars of the university. Prof Tomar said, "Research is a never-ending process". He said research was not limited to science, engineering and technology, but it had vast area where other disciplines such as literature, history, language, management and social science contributed immensely in its enrichment.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/virtual-library-launched-381379
28-03-2022||Gurugram||Prepare vision documents: Haryana Chief Secretary to DCs||Haryana Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal had a meeting with the Deputy Commissioners of the districts falling under Gurugram division to elaborate on the preparation of respective vision documents.The meeting was held at PWD rest house at Gurugram wherein the Chief Secretary directed the DCs to prepare a vision document for their districts by enlisting the works that are required to be done . These projects should be short-term as well as long-term, he said.“As DCs, you remain busy the whole day meeting deadlines for various tasks. But despite that, you should do something to make a difference in the lives of the people ,” said Kaushal. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/prepare-vision-documents-haryana-chief-secretary-to-dcs-381378
28-03-2022||Karnal||3 shops registered on fake property IDs; 2 arrested in Karnal||The Karnal police have arrested two persons, including a woman, for allegedly getting three shops of other person registered on the basis of fake property IDs.They were produced in a court on Sunday, from where they were taken on a three-day police remand. The police are yet to arrest four more accused in the case.The accused have been identified as Rajbir and his daughter-in-law Reena of Krishna Colony in the city. They were arrested on the complaint of Amit Bhatia of Sector 8.The complaint alleged the duo got the possession of his three shops by breaking open the locks and later, getting the registry done in their name with the help of fake property IDs.“We have taken the duo on three-day police remand to determine the involvement of others in the fraud as well as to know the whereabouts of the remaining accused,” said Ganga Ram Punia, SP.He further said a case under Sections 420, 447, 467, 468, 471 and 120B of the IPC had been registered against six persons at the Sector 32-33 police station. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/3-shops-registered-on-fake-property-ids-2-arrested-in-karnal-381375
28-03-2022||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar man dupes Maharashtra firm of Rs8L, booked||The police have booked a local for duping a Maharashtra-based manufacturing wooden boxes firm of Rs 8 lakh on the pretext of supplying raw material.On the complaint of the CEO of the firm, Raj Kumar Dev, a case was registered against Raghav Vimal Malhotra of Yamunanagar under Sections 406 and 420 of the IPC at the City police station on Saturday.The complainant alleged his company paid Rs 8 lakh to the firm of Raghav to purchase the raw material used to prepare wooden boxes in 2021. Kumar further alleged that Raghav’s firm had neither supplied them raw material nor returned their money back so far. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-man-dupes-maharashtra-firm-of-8l-booked-381372
28-03-2022||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar: 7 booked on rape charge||A woman belonging to Mohali in Punjab has alleged that she was raped by three persons of a family of the district.The complainant said she visited Mullana in Ambala with her sister in January 2015, where she met Yash Bansal, a businessman.After our first meeting, I regularly met him in a factory, where he raped me multiple times, she said, adding that Bansal had promised her that he would marry her. “Yash left for Africa and assured me that he would call me soon, but he didn’t. One day, one of his family members called me and told me that Yash had died of some disease.”“Then Yash’s relatives Viney Bansal, his sister and Sanjay Bansal came to meet me separately and raped me. Later, some unknown youths took me to their house, where his family tied my hands and feet and snatched my gold chain and bangle.”A case has been registered against seven persons under Sections 323, 376 (2) (N), 379-B and 506, IPC at the women police station. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/yamunanagar-7-booked-on-rape-charge-381371
28-03-2022||Jhajjar||Jhajjar: 'Run over by tractor in jail', undertrial dies||An undertrial prisoner died at the district jail in Dulina village here today. The deceased, Krishan of Birohar village, was lodged in the jail in connection with a murder case.The jail administration has claimed it to be an accidental death but the kin suspect it to be murder. They have demanded action against the officials who were on duty at the time of the incident.“As per the jail administration, Krishan died after being run over by a tractor-trailer which brought construction material to the premises. The tractor was started by Krishan himself,” said DSP Rahul Dev, adding that the CCTV footage of the jail would be analysed to find out the veracity. He said a judicial probe was underway and the autopsy was conducted by a board of doctors.“I got a phone call from the jail at 11.58 am and the caller told me that my brother had died in an accident. I rushed to the Civil Hospital in Jhajjar where the body was kept. It is murder. Hence, we want legal action against officials on duty,” said Pawan, brother of Krishan, adding that his brother had been lodged in the jail for the past three months. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/jhajjar-run-over-by-tractor-in-jail-undertrial-dies-381370
28-03-2022||---||Karnal: Main accused sent to police remand for student's murder||Karnal, March 27Gharaunda police on Sunday produced main accused Subham in court in connection with the murder of Viren (18), who was allegedly stabbed to death by Subham and others at a private school in Harisinghpura village three days back. Subham was sent to three-day police remand.“We have taken Subham on three-day police remand to recover the knife used in the crime and also to know the whereabouts of the other accused,” said inspector Manoj Kumar, DSP, Gharaunda.He said there were 10 accused in this case. “Investigation is on and three teams are on the job to arrest the remaining accused,” the DSP said.Meanwhile, family members, relatives and members of the community today protested outside the SP’s residence and also met SP Ganga Ram Punia.“We met the SP and demanded justice for Viren. All the accused involved along with the family members who supported the accused should be arrested,” said Nasib Karsa, president of the Ror community. “The SP has assured us that all the persons involved will be arrested,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/karnal-main-accused-sent-to-police-remand-for-students-murder-381369
28-03-2022||---||BHU (Charuni) panel to take call on poll plunge in Haryana||Kurukshetra, March 27The Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) has constituted a four-member political advisory committee (PAC) to get the opinion of BKU activists and assess the political atmosphere before taking the final call regarding entering the active politics in Haryana.The committee has been asked to submit its report in a month following which a two-day seminar will be organised by the union to decide the future course of action. The committee comprises union spokesman Rakesh Bains, Sudhir Jhakhar, Prince Waraich and Sikander Rori.As per BKU (Charuni) executive state president Karam Singh Mathana, the committee will meet farmers and BKU activists across the state to hold discussions and know about their views regarding union’s participation in active politics. The committee members will also meet the like-minded political groups and their leaders.It is pertinent to mention that BKU (Charuni) chief Gurnam Singh had been facing criticism over his call of Mission Punjab. A state-body meeting of the union was held in Kurukshetra earlier this week. While discussing different agendas related to the union and the farmers’ issues, some activists, who were not happy with the decision taken regarding the Punjab Assembly elections, wanted clarity on the union’s future in Haryana. Following that, it was decided to organise a seminar to decide whether the union would function as a pressure group or enter the active politics.PAC member Rakesh Bains said, “We will start holding meetings soon and present a report in a month. The committee will seek opinion from the activists whether the union should join active politics or not. They will also be asked that how the participation of farmers can be ensured in politics in future so that the farmers’ issues could be raised effectively.” #gurnam singh charuni||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kurukshetra-kisan-union-panel-to-take-call-on-poll-plunge-in-haryana-381368
28-03-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana Government invites applications for Energy Conservation Award||To promote energy conservation and reduce power consumption, the Department of New and Renewable Energy, Haryana, and HAREDA has invited applications for the State Energy Conservation Awards from eligible consumers of various categories for 2020-21 by March 31. The state government awards up to Rs 2 lakh will be given for the year 2020-21.An official spokesperson said the State Energy Conservation Award was given to the institutions doing excellent work in the field of energy conservation by industrial, commercial, government, institutional, group residential buildings and making proper use of technology and energy efficiency. In addition, these include new promotional projects in innovation or new technologies or R&D projects. The spokesperson said for information related to guidelines under this scheme, visit the website of HAREDA https://hareda.gov.in/. Apart from this, the Department of New and Renewable Energy can also be contacted during any working day. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-government-invites-applications-for-energy-conservation-award-381367
28-03-2022||---||Mini sectt's construction at Kanina begins after 3 years||Mahendragarh, March 27Three years after Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar laid the mini secretariat’s foundation stone in Kanina town, the construction work finally started here on Saturday. The secretariat would be developed on around 51 kanals.Union Minister Rao Inderjit, accompanied by Dharambir Singh, Bhiwani-Mahendragarh MP, inaugurated the work. The authorities have set the target to complete the construction by December 14, 2023. Thereafter, people would be able to avail the government services under one roof.Sources said selection of appropriate place for the project was the reason behind inordinate delay in starting the construction work. Initially, the authorities wished to execute the project on the outskirts of Kanina town as adequate space was available there for the same but later, it was decided to implement the project in the town where SDM office and courts are located.“Building of the mini secretariat will be constructed in the town keeping in view the convenience of the people. The development project is a gift for Kanina hence there should be no politics on it. Since I started my political inning from Kanina, I have special attachment with this town,” said Inderjit, adding that he would strive to bring more projects for the town to ensure its overall development.Dharambir Singh maintained National Highway 152D would be expanded to Mumbai. Compensation for land acquired to the project in Kotputli and Alwar (Rajasthan) had been paid while another highway to Punjab from Rewari via Hisar had been sanctioned.Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Om Prakash Yadav said mini secretariat was the long-standing demand of people of Kanina. The project was being executed in the town in view of road connectivity.Cooperative Minister Banwari Lal, Kosli MLA Laxman Yadav and Ateli MLA Sitaram Yadav were also present.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mini-sectts-construction-at-kanina-begins-after-3-years-381366
28-03-2022||---||Minister: Plans being made for tackling waterlogging in Haryana cities||Chandigarh, March 27Haryana Development and Panchayats Minister Devender Singh Babli said blueprints were being prepared for concrete management of waterlogging situations in cities. He added that he was frequently monitoring the progress of the work.Babli was presiding over a meeting with the Public Health Department and Municipal Council officers. In the meeting, an extensive discussion took place on the arrangement of a better drainage system in Tohana city. He gave necessary directions to the officers to deal with waterlogging and better drainage at Tohana Main Chowk, Ramnagar, Chandigarh Road, Ratia Road, and Shaheed Chowk.Babli said Rs38 crore had been approved for Tohana city for the drainage management system and work had already been started. Apart from this, the officers should also identify such places where there is a situation of waterlogging. He directed a separate proposal for drainage of waterlogged sites be prepared and a proposal sent to the government for approval. He said the government had sufficient budget, so the departments should take concrete initiatives and prepare their proposals so that the issue of waterlogging could be resolved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/minister-plans-being-made-for-tackling-waterlogging-in-haryana-cities-381365
28-03-2022||Shiv Kumar Sharma||MC fails to curb dog menace in twin cities Yamunanagar and Jagadhri||Yamunanagar, March 27The Municipal Corporation has failed to curb the stray dog menace in the twin cities Yamunanagar and Jagadhri.Dog-bite cases continue to rise. Besides, dogs chase motorists at times resulting in accidents.Residents of the twin cities have demanded the MC authorities to launch an animal birth-control programme to tackle stray dog menace.According to information, there are more than 20,000 stray dogs in the twin cities that keep roaming in streets of colonies throughout the day.“The twin cities of Yamunanagar and Jagadhri are reeling under the stray dog menace. In the absence of a sterilisation drive, the population of the stray dogs is on the rise as new puppies keep on adding to the count every day,” said Anil Kumar, a resident of Professor Colony, Yamunanagar.“Children are the most affected due to this problem. They even hesitate to go outside their houses to play. Senior citizens also opt to stay inside their houses as they are afraid of the attacks by the canines,” said Anil Kumar.Amar Nath of Saraswati Colony, Jagadhri, said there was an unprecedented increase in the number of stray dogs here in the past several years.He said packs of stray dogs could be easily seen in streets of any colony, posing direct threat to the public, especially children and senior citizens.“Several areas have been the regular joints of stray dogs. Packs of stray dogs are a regular sight in Basant Nagar Colony, Saraswati Colony, Lal Dwara area, Veer Nagar, sectors of HUDA and a number of other colonies of the twin cities,” said Amar Nath.Naveen Kumar of ITI area said stray dogs chasing motorists was a common sight in most of the colonies.He said one day he fell down and sustained injuries, when a pack of stray dogs started chasing his motorcycle.He further said if someone tried to chase these out of the streets, they became violent and attacked.As per available information, on an average, 10 cases of dog bites are reported monthly only in Mukand Lal District Civil Hospital, Yamunanagar. However, there is no data available on dog bites cases reported in private hospitals.Anil Nain, Chief Sanitary Inspector, MCYJ, said they were working to solve the problem of dogs menace in the twin cities.“We will soon take steps to control population of stray dogs by a sterilising these,” said Anil Nain, Chief Sanitary Inspector.Kids, elderly hitChildren are the most affected due to this problem. They even hesitate to go outside their houses to play. Senior citizens also opt to stay inside their houses as they are afraid of the attacks by the canines. Anil Kumar, resident of professor colony, YamunanagarChase motoristsStray dogs chasing motorists is a common sight. One day, I fell down and sustained injuries, when a pack of stray dogs started chasing my motorcycle. If someone tries to chase these out of streets, they become violent and attack. Naveen Kumar, ITI areaDogs to be sterilisedWe will soon take steps to control population of stray dogs by a sterilising them. Anil Nain, chief sanitary inspector||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mc-fails-to-curb-dog-menace-in-twin-cities-yamunanagar-and-jagadhri-381360
28-03-2022||Ambala||Pakistan national held in Ambala repatriated||Pakistan national Ali Murtaza Asghar, who faced a trial for allegedly violating Foreigners Act and was acquitted in July last year, finally reached his country on Saturday. The Ambala police escorted him and he was repatriated via the Attari-Wagah border in Amritsar.Ali Murtaza, a software engineer from Karachi, had a visitor’s visa when he was arrested by the CIA-II staff of Ambala police and booked under the provisions of Officials Secrets Act and Foreigners Act on August 14, 2019.The public prosecutor had contended that Ali was arrested on the suspicion of having come to India to collect information to supply to ISI Pakistan. The sanction for prosecution of the accused for having committed offences punishable under the Official Secrets Act wasn’t granted by the authority concerned and therefore, the accused was discharged.The assistant public prosecutor had submitted that the accused was not having visa for Ambala and therefore his entry and stay in Ambala was in violation of Section 14 of Foreigners Act.However, SK Maken, counsel for the accused, had argued that the accused was not apprehended but was picked up from his berth on Golden Temple Mail (train) on August 14 at Ambala Cantonment railway station. He was arrested only because of him being a Pakistan national.The court of Chief Judicial Magistrate Amberdeep Singh had acquitted him in July last year. — #ISI #Pakistan||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/pak-national-held-in-ambala-repatriated-381355
28-03-2022||---||Haryana discusses trade initiatives with 11 Caribbean nations at Surajkund||Faridabad, March 27The Foreign Cooperation Department under the aegis of the Government of Haryana organised the “Haryana-Latin American and Caribbean (LAC) Regions Meet” at Surajkund staging the 35th Surajkund International Crafts Mela here today. It was organised in consultation with the Ministry of External Affairs, Government of India. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar and Union Minister of State for External Affairs of India. Meenakshi Lekhi along with officials from the Government of India and the state government were present.Sharing details of the event, an official spokesperson said the meeting held with the representatives of the countries like Guatemala, Chile, Peru, Costa Rica, Panama, Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Colombia, Cuba, Trinidad and Tobago and Guyana was conducted in a very cordial manner on Sunday. He said it was likely to play a vital role towards taking the state’s vision forward of ‘Transforming Haryana through a go-global approach’ with participation from 11 countries from the LAC region. Welcoming the delegates at the meeting, The CM said this had a special significance as a large number of artisans and craftspersons were already part of the international Mela, which he said had become a kind of icon of international culture.Describing it as a heart to heart (H2H) interaction, the CM said India had been very particular in coming up to the expectations of their partners in any collaboration.He said delegates discussed the potential for collaboration in the field of areas of agriculture, skill development, education, information technology, agro-based food processing, dairy, sports, cultural exchange, mutual interest, and several other sectors benefiting from each other’s relative strength in various areas.The meeting was followed by a cultural programme at the main “Chaupal of the Mela” premises. Such a meeting will go a long way in promoting Haryana on a global platform through a ‘Go-global approach’, said Lekhi on the occasion. She said the state had taken a lead in promoting culture and tourism at various levels. It may be recalled that a similar meeting involving the officials and representatives of African nations had also been held earlier on similar grounds.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/haryana-discusses-trade-initiatives-with-11-caribbean-nations-at-surajkund-381354
28-03-2022||Parveen AroraKarnal||After battling cancer, Kuldeep Bishnoi seeks to regain lost ground||After battling throat cancer for three years, Congress leader and Adampur MLA Kuldeep Bishnoi on Sundday started statewide ‘Jan Jagran Karyakarta Sammelan’ from Karnal to regain his political ground by reuniting his supporters.“I couldn’t meet you all for the past three years as I was undergoing cancer treatment. After holding meeting with workers recently, I had decided to start the statewide sammelan from Karnal to regain our old vote bank back,” Bishnoi said while addressing his supporters.After the launch, Bishnoi said: “Karnal is like my second home as I have started my major campaign from here. My father was an MP from here and we are connected with the locals.”Meanwhile, no stalwart of the local Congress unit was present and the pictures of major party leaders of the state were missing from the posters. On being asked about the absence of local and state leaders from his programme, he said there was no rift in the Congress and all workers and leaders were making efforts to strengthen the party in their own ways.Bishnoi, however, admitted that the alliance with the BJP had weakened his previous political party, Haryana Janhit Congress (HJC), which he had formed after parting with the Congress. Later, he rejoined the Congress. “After holding the rath yatra for 57 days in 2013, when the time of the Lok Sabha elections came in 2014 the BJP had betrayed us, which made us weak politically. Our years long efforts went in vain and our voters shifted to the BJP. The Congress vote bank made by former Chief Minister Bhajan Lal shifted to the BJP because to me. To bring that vote bank back, I have started this programme,” he said, adding they would uproot the BJP from power in 2024.Giving an example of his father, Bishnoi said when Bhajan Lal was the CM, the state was developed equally but now Karnal, which was the constituency of Manohar Lal Khattar, was awaiting growth. “No major project has been brought to Karnal. Even no job opportunities have been created for the unemployed. Only rampant corruption is visible.”Meanwhile, the Congress leader also accused the ruling BJP-JJP government on the issues of poor law and order, rising inflation and unemployment.Special connect with Karnal peopleKarnal is like my second home that is why I have started my major political campaign from here. My father too was an MP from Karnal and both of us are connected with the locals. — Kuldeep Bishnoi, Congress leader #kuldeep bishnoi||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/after-battling-cancer-kuldeep-bishnoi-seeks-to-regain-lost-ground-381353
28-03-2022||---||Bhupinder Hooda opposes HSVP e-auction policy||Chandigarh, March 27Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda has opposed the decision of the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) to stop the draw of lots and allot them through auction.In a statement issued here, Hooda said building a house in the HSVP sectors would remain a dream for the common man as residential plots would now cost 5 to 10 times in the auction, as compared to the draw. It was beyond the power of the poor and middle class to pay such a price, he added.It’s an attack on public interestThe e-auction policy of residential plots is a direct attack on the interest of the general public. This policy has been made to promote illegal colonies, benefit property dealers and private colonisers. — Bhupinder Hooda, ex-CMHooda said the e-auction policy of residential plots was a direct attack on the interest of the general public. “This policy has been made to promote illegal colonies, benefit property dealers and private colonisers. The objective of HUDA (now HSVP) was to provide housing to poor and middle-class families with all urban amenities in well-planned sectors,” he added.“The erstwhile HUDA has made significant contribution to the urban development of the state. This authority was in profit, despite implementing welfare policies during the Congress tenure. The policies of the BJP and BJP-JJP government brought bad name to the authority. Plot holders of the HSVP were harassed in the name of enhancement by stating that the organisation has been in loss. It is now adopting the auction process throwing public welfare to winds,” Hooda added.The former CM said the policy of reservation was implemented by HUDA in the allotment of residential plots to various classes, especially low-income group, including SC and BC category as well as ex-servicemen, government employees and lawyers. “The plots were given to the reserved category at a low price, but all types of reservations have been abolished in the current government’s e-auction policy. This has exposed the anti-reservation mindset of the government once again. “During the Congress government, families from the economically weaker sections were given 100 square yards plots and Rs 92,000 to build houses. “After coming to power, the BJP stopped this welfare scheme of the poor. After attacking the rights of the poor, the government has now attacked the interests of the middle class,” he added.“We demand that the government must stop such anti-people decisions. The schemes of providing housing facilities to the poor and middle class should be taken forward so that every section of the society can build a home for their family,” the Leader of Opposition added.Promises to waive house tax for poor if voted to power Faridabad: LoP Bhupinder Hooda has announced to revive the old pension scheme and waive property tax for the poor, if the Congress returns to power. Talking to the media here on Sunday, Hooda came down heavily on the present BJP govt for the reported withdrawal of the old pension scheme and issuing of notices to the residents for not submitting house tax with penalty clause. TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhupinder-hooda-opposes-hsvp-e-auction-policy-381352
28-03-2022||---||Procurement of wheat in Haryana mandis from April 1-May 15||Chandigarh, March 27The procurement of wheat will begin from April 1 in various mandis of the state. Besides, the purchase of gram and barley will also be procured at the MSP.Procurement will continue till May 15.An official spokesperson said the procurement of wheat, gram and barley would start from April 1 during the rabi procurement season in Haryana.He added that the departments concerned had been directed to make necessary arrangements for all procurement processes in the mandis across the state.For this rabi season, the MSP for wheat has been fixed at Rs 2,015 per quintal, gram Rs 5,230 per quintal, barley Rs 1,635 per quintal and mustard Rs 5,050 per quintal. Wheat will be procured by the Food and Supplies Department, Hafed, Haryana Warehousing Corporation and Food Corporation of India.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/procurement-of-wheat-in-haryana-mandis-from-april-1-may-15-381351
28-03-2022||Parveen Arora||Heat won't impact most wheat varieties: Scientists||Karnal, March 27The dry spell due to sudden rise in temperature in March is causing anxiety among farmers, who apprehend that it would have an adverse effect on wheat production. They fear the size of the grain will get reduced.“With the sudden rise in temperature, the dry spell has started around 15 days in advance. It is a worrisome situation for us as it will affect the growth of the grain which will ultimately reduce the yield. We expect a loss of around 5 quintal per acre due to this early dry spell,” said Joginder Singh Grak from Baldi village.Vijay Kapoor, a progressive farmer, said that the dry spell is not only adversely affecting the yield, but will also bring the harvest earlier. The speed of wind is very high, making the grains dry. “We expect around 5-10 per cent loss in yield due to this sudden rise in temperature,” said Kapoor.On the other hand, the scientists of the Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research (IIWBR) here opine that the dry spell would not have any major adverse effect on wheat, except minor effect on late-sown varieties.“No doubt the dry spell is little in advance. There is very less possibility of adverse effect on the wheat crop as the temperature in night is still low. The dry spell will make the harvesting early,” said Dr GP Singh, Director, IIWBR.“There could be little effect on the late-sown varieties, but that will also be minor,” said the director. He advised the farmers to irrigate the late-sown varieties to reduce the effect.The director said that most of the varieties, sown by the farmers in the region, are heat-tolerant. “Most of the varieties sown by the farmers like DBW-187, 303, 3086 in major areas are heat-tolerant, reducing the possibility of major effect on wheat during the early dry spell,” he said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/heat-wont-impact-most-wheat-varieties-scientists-381350
28-03-2022||Ravinder Saini||1 LMT mustard bought by private markets||Rohtak, March 27Over one lakh metric tonne (MT) of mustard has so far been bought this season across the state, but none of the farmers has sold the produce to government procurement agencies as private buyers are paying Rs 1,350 to Rs 1,750 per quintal, which is higher than the MSP.The MSP fixed by the government for per quintal is Rs 5,050 and the private players are offering prices ranging between Rs 6,400-Rs 6,800 in Rohtak, Jhajjar, Rewari and Mahendragarh districts.The government has tasked the HAFED and Haryana State Warehousing Corporation (HSWC) to procure mustard at MSP. Both agencies have deputed their officials in the grain markets for procurement, but no procurement has been made so far.Moreover, mustard growers said they were relieved that they didn’t have to wait for days to get payment for their produce.Satbir Singh Malhan, president, Grain Market Association, jhajjar, said over 1,500 quintal mustard had already been bought by private buyers in the Jhajjar grain market so far.Harsh Girdhar, co-chairman, Haryana State Grain Market Commission Agents Association, said mustard was being bought by private buyers enthusiastically for attractive rates.“In Rohtak, good quality mustard was being sold for Rs 6,800 per quintal. Over 6,200 quintal mustard has so far been bought by private buyers in the grain market there,” he added.Santram, district manager, HAFED, Rewari, said officials had been sitting at the Rewari grain market daily for mustard procurement since March 21, but no farmer had so far sold their produce at government agencies.“The situation is likely to continue in the coming days as well because private players are offering prices higher than the MSP,” he added.Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Minister JP Dalal confirmed that over one lakh MT of mustard had already been purchased by private buyers at attractive prices, stating that it was due to the state government policy under which tax had been imposed upon the import of palm oil.“Not only mustard but also cotton and wheat as well are being sold in the state at attractive rates,” he added.Paying farmers on the spotFarmers have to wait for at least two weeks to receive their payment after they sell their produce to government agencies, but we are paying farmers either in cash or cheque on the spot. — Satbir Singh Malhan, president, grain market assn, Jhajjar25% rise in cultivation in stateWhy will mustard growers sell their produce at MSP when they are easily getting much higher rates? The state has also recorded a rise up to 25 per cent in the cultivation area of mustard. — JP Dalal, Agri and Farmers’ Welfare Minister||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-lmt-mustard-bought-by-private-markets-381349
28-03-2022||Hisar||Rs 11L for wrestling hall in Hisar village||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Sunday announced to give Rs 11 lakh for the construction of a wrestling hall in Umra village of the district.He was the chief guest at the Bharat Kesari Wrestling Dangal in the village.Addressing the gathering, Dushyant said the state government was providing better infrastructure and facilities for sports. He said it was a matter of pride that both boys and girls were representing the state on the world stage in the field of sports.Labour and Employment Minister Anoop Dhanak was also present on the occasion.Earlier, the Deputy Chief Minister inaugurated a newly constructed bridge over the multipurpose drain in Umra village. An amountof Rs 9 lakh has been spent on the bridge. The bridge has made the movementof people of about 200 dhanis in the fields of Umra village easier. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/11l-for-wrestling-hall-in-hisar-village-381348
28-03-2022||Faridabad||'Will ensure all-round development of Faridabad'||Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar attended a ‘Pragati Rally’ organised by Tigaon MLA here on Sunday evening.He said: “The state government will not spare any effort to ensure all-round development of the industrial city. Projects worth several hundred crore of rupees are either in the pipeline or have been launched in the district.”The CM said the main focus was to ensure the benefits of the schemes to all sections of the society.Announcing to shift the Vita milk plant to Prithla from Ballabgarh, he said a budget of Rs 195 crore had been earmarked for this purpose. Khattar said the Rs 350 crore elevated flyover project to be built on Mohna Road to link the city with the KGP expressway was expected to take off soon. Besides these, he said an amount of Rs 47 crore was being spent on the reconstruction of government schools buildings.He further said adequate budget was being sanctioned to various agencies — Rs 350 crore to the Municipal Corporation, Rs 56 crore to the Faridabad Metropolitan Development Authority for construction of roads and tubewells, Rs 91 crore to Prithla Assembly segment, Rs 75 crore to village panchayats, Rs 67 crore for roads in Greater Faridabad, Rs 12 crore for new fire station and Rs 10 crore for the construction of community centres.The CM also inaugurated the newly constructed Indoor Sports Complex in Sector-31, ITI building at Tigaon, Community Health Centre and 96-bed Covid care centre at the Civil Hospital. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-ensure-all-round-development-of-faridabad-381347
28-03-2022||Deepender Deswal||1 lakh houses to be built for poor: Haryana CM ML Khattar||Hisar, March 27Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has defended the e-auction policy introduced by the Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP). He said that the decision of e-auction was taken to break the nexus that was involved in fixing the allotment of plots which was a practice under previous governments.The CM said HSVP was in dire financial straits due to the old policies introduced by previous governments. “This policy is for those who can spend money and afford to procure plots in e-auction,” he said while addressing a press conference in Hisar today.The Chief Minister stated that the government has cracked down on the growth of illegal colonies by unscrupulous colonisers and has banned registries in the illegal colonies. “Besides, we have brought Deen Dayal Upadhyaya housing scheme in which licences are being given to develop colonies for the common man. About one lakh houses will be constructed under the Economic Weaker Sections (EWS) scheme in the state,” he said.The CM said that the work of expansion of the airport in Hisar is going on and the schedule of flights both domestic and international would be issued soon after the completion of the ongoing work. “Aeronautics-related projects, pilot training and defence equipment manufacturing will start at the airport,” Khattar added.When asked about the Punjab’s decision to cut down on pension of MLAs, Khattar maintained that the Haryana Government too had cut the pension of the MLAs by reducing dearness allowance (DA) from 256 per cent to about 28 per cent three years ago. The benefits of pension cannot be stopped for the existing beneficiaries but new rules could be introduced later on.Talking about the ongoing controversy over the termination of 3 per cent sports quota in jobs in class 1, 2 and 3 categories, the CM said that they had discontinued the quota facilities on the basis of sports gradation because many certificates were found fake.“The medal winners will continue to get jobs in Haryana even beyond the quota of 3 per cent,” he stated.When asked about rumours that former Union Minister Birender Singh could quit the party, Khattar stated that he is a senior leader of the party and he was going nowhere.“Birender Singh is with us and will stay with us. I have very good relations with him and we held a meeting in Chandigarh last week and also discussed several issues for the state,” he said.The Chief Minister announced several development projects worth aboutRs 50 crore for Nalwa Assembly constituency on the demand of Deputy Speaker Ranbir Gangwa.Birender going nowhereBirender Singh is with us and will stay with us. I have very good relations with him and we held a meeting in Chandigarh last week and also discussed several issues for the state. Manohar Lal Khattar, CM #birender singh #Khattar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/1-lakh-houses-to-be-built-for-poor-haryana-cm-ml-khattar-381346
