29-03-2022||New Delhi||Rs 301.56 crore allocated for National Cancer Institute Jhajjar in 2020-21: Government in Rajya Sabha||The health ministry on Tuesday informed Rajya Sabha that the budget allocations for the National Cancer Institute (NCI) at the AIIMS phase-II project at Haryana's Jhajjar has been rising with Rs 301.56 crore allocated in 2020-21.Answering a question by Haryana MP Deepender Singh Hooda regarding the status of the AIIMS Jhajjar campus project and whether there are plans to set up more national institutes at the Jhajjar AIIMS campus, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar said, "As on date, there is no proposal other than National Cancer Institute at Jhajjar."Hooda has sought to know the details along with the status of work of National Institutes other than the NCI.On the MP's query, the ministry said that the funds have been rising.As part of the AIIMS Phase-II project in Jhajjar, Haryana, NCI was operationalised from February, 12, 2019.The details of the funds allocated in each of the last five years for continuing the project are: Rs 175.49 crore in 2016-17; Rs 311.87 crore in 2017-18; Rs 412 crore in 2018-2019; Rs 189.55 crore in 2019-2020 and Rs 301.56 crore in 2020-21.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/rs-301-56-crore-allocated-for-national-cancer-institute-jhajjar-in-2020-21-government-in-rajya-sabha-381806
29-03-2022||Chandigarh||Public transport services affected in Haryana as nationwide strike enters day 2||Public transport services were affected in Haryana for the second day on Tuesday, as roadways employees came in support of the two-day nationwide strike called by central trade unions to protest against the Centre's alleged wrong policies.The Haryana Roadways bus services remained suspended as its employees held protests at several depots of the state.Sarbat Singh Punia, a leader of the joint front of 10 unions of roadways employees, said that the normal bus services will resume from Wednesday morning.Employees and workers of other departments, including public sector banks and municipal bodies, also joined the nationwide strike for the second day.Commuters, meanwhile, continued to face inconvenience as public transport services remained affected in Haryana.Public transport buses were plying normally in neighbouring Punjab, officials said.However, public dealings at some public sector bank branches were hit in the two states.Bank unions are protesting against the Centre's move to privatise two public sector banks as announced in the Budget. They are also demanding an increase in the interest rate on deposits and a reduction in service charges.A joint forum of central trade unions had given a call for a nationwide strike on March 28 and 29.Their demands include the scrapping of the labour codes, no privatisation of any form, scrapping of the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), increased allocation of wages under MNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Act) and regularisation of contract workers, among others.The central trade unions that are part of this joint forum are INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/public-transport-services-impacted-in-haryana-as-nationwide-strike-enters-day-2-381793
29-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Art of letter writing almost on verge of extinction: Punjab and Haryana High Court||Chandigarh, March 29The art of letter writing, with the formation of sentences punctuated with proper grammar, is almost on the verge of extinction, the Punjab and Haryana High Court has asserted. The assertion by Justice Anupinder Singh Grewal came in a case where the police registered an FIR against a youth who used the expression “straight shooter” in a WhatsApp message to the complainant.Justice Grewal asserted the FIR was based on a WhatsApp message sent by the petitioner to the complainant. The message began with reference to certain property and a certain sum of money. In the latter part of the message, “boss-to-boss” and “straight shooter” were used.Making it clear that a “straight shooter” was a straightforward and forthright person, who would call a spade a spade, Justice Grewal added the expression did not mean literally to shoot with a firearm. It did not even refer to any violent activity or meant literally.Justice Grewal also quashed the FIR registered on March 7, 2019, under Sections 386 and 506 of the IPC at “Faridabad Central” after asserting that the use of the slang was fairly common amongst the younger generation adept at messaging and could be misunderstood if taken literally. The messages may often appear to be cryptic, but the point was driven home.Section 386 deals with extortion by putting any person in fear of death or of grievous hurt. Justice Grewal added an offence under Section 386 would not be attracted. A bare look at the WhatsApp message in the attending facts and circumstances would not indicate that the complainant was put to fear of injury, or there was any inducement to deliver property or valuable security.Justice Grewal observed even if a phrase or an idiom sent through a message was capable of two interpretations, the one favourable to the accused would be acceptable. A narrow and pedantic view may curtail freedom of speech and expression.“In a democracy, people are free to express their views. Freedom of speech and expression is one of the essential foundations of a democratic society, one of the basic conditions for its progress and for the self-fulfilment of an individual. Besides the message in the instant case, there is no supporting material which would constitute a prima facie case under Section 387 IPC,” Justice Grewal added.            `Before parting with the case, Justice Grewal added it was noteworthy that the police had been overzealous in registering the FIR. The complaint was made on March 7, 2019, before the Faridabad Commissioner of Police. The FIR was registered and the petitioner was also arrested the same day, although the Supreme Court in Lalita Kumari’s case had held it was not mandatory to arrest the accused immediately on registration of the FIR.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/punjab/art-of-letter-writing-almost-on-verge-of-extinction-high-court-381764
29-03-2022||---||Haryana Roadways employees join strike, transport services hit||Chandigarh, March 28A two-day strike call given by the joint forum of central trade unions today partially affected transport services in several parts of the state today, causing inconvenience to commuters.All 94 buses of faridabad depot remain off-roadAccording to reports, along with other services, transport services by the Haryana Roadways were disrupted in certain areas.In Faridabad, claiming that the strike hit the movement of Haryana Roadways buses, All-India State Road Transport Federation national general secretary Ramashray Prasad Yadav said all 94 buses of the local depot remained stationed due to the strike. However, Haryana Roadways GM Rajiv Nagpal claimed that seven buses left the depot here this morning for various routes which included Aligarh, Jaipur and Agra. He said efforts were on to restore the services soon.Meanwhile, Sarv Karamchari Sangh state president Subhash Lamba said besides bus service, routine work in majority of government offices, including the Municipal Corporation, State Electricity Department, remained suspended.A total of 55 roadways buses from Jhajjar and 48 from Bahadurgarh depot plied as usual, while several roadways employees sat on a dharna.Leaders of the Haryana Roadways Union, however, claimed that the strike was a success in the region. #haryana roadways||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/roadways-employees-join-strike-transport-services-hit-381639
29-03-2022||Kurukshetra||Scrap power amendment Bill, stop privatisation, demand Haryana power staff||On a call of the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers (NCCOEEE), power sector employees and engineers held protest meetings as part of the two-day work boycott, against the “privatisation policies” of the Centre.Provisions of bill ‘anti-people’Various provisions of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill-2021 are anti-people and anti-employees and if enacted, these will have adverse consequences. — VK Gupta, All-India power engineers’ federation spokespersonAll-India Power Engineers’ Federation (AIPEF) spokesperson VK Gupta said the employees were seeking scrapping of the Electricity Amendment Bill-2021, and Standard Bidding Document for the total privatisation of distribution of electricity.The other demands of the power sector employees and engineers are withdrawing the process of privatisation of electricity in states and union territories. “Various provisions of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill-2021 are anti-people and anti-employees and if enacted, these will have adverse consequences. The private sector would compete over larger and more profitable consumers while the smaller and poorer consumers would be left to languish,” he said.He further said the Electricity Amendment Bill would put the future of over 25 lakh workers employed by discoms as well as their families in danger. The consumers will also be badly affected by the Bill as they will simply be transferred from discom to some private company.AIPEF general secretary KK Malik said: “In the name of reforms, the government is serving the interest of the private sector, gradually destroying the public sector across the country.” The federation official also demanded the implementation of an old pension scheme for all power sector employees and the regularisation of all contract workers.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/scrap-power-amendment-bill-stop-privatisation-demand-staff-381642
29-03-2022||Deepender DeswalHisar||Agitating farmers start relay fast over 'denial' of compensation||Farmers have started a relay fast at the ongoing dharna being stage ay Kheri Jalab village of the Narnaund subdivision in the district today. They are protesting the denial of compensation to cotton farmers after the special girdawari conducted by the Haryana Government.Awaiting full ReliefAs per PM Fasal Bima Yojna, I got a relief of Rs19,000 per acre for seven acres. However, no compensation was given for the remaining eight acres. —Shalender Singh, Farmer of Kapro villageThe farmers of about 18 villages have been staging round-the-clock dharna in the village. These farmers alleged that they were awarded no compensation by the government as the report of special girdawari showed damage to the kharif crops below 25 per cent, which did not qualify for the compensation.On the first day today, farmers Rajkumar, Randhir, Satpal, Raghbir and Jogiram sat on hunger strike.The protesting farmers said the crops in kharif 2021 had suffered massive losses due to inundation and pink bollworm and a number of farmers had even overturned their standing cotton crops.The farmers jointly launched an agitation at the tehsil office in Kheri Jalab village and locked the office on March 16. They alleged discrimination in the allocation of the compensation for the damaged crops in different areas.Suresh Khoth, a farmer leader, said despite their dharna at the Tehsil office, the government officials have failed to take note of their issues.“I came to know that the ruling politicians are resorting to pick and choose in allocating compensation to the farmers who had lost kharif crops. This is blatant discrimination at behest of ruling politicians. We staged a protest of the local JJP MLA Ramkumar Gautam after which he was forced to take up the issue in the Assembly”, he said, adding that they will intensify the stir in next few days.Rajkumar Rakhi, a khap leader informed that Rakhi Barah khap and Panchgrami khap comprising about 18 villages are sitting on dharna in the village. “Opposition party leaders including the Congress, INLD and AAP have also extended their support to the dharna”, he informed.District revenue officer Vijender Bhardwaj informed that after a delegation of farmers met Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, the administration formed a committee comprising SDMs of Narnaund and Hisar and the Deputy Director of Agriculture Department to examine the issue raised by farmers.“As per a special girdawari report, these villages had suffered less than 25 per cent crop loss and thus did not qualify for compensation. But, the committee of SDMs and DDA has been examining the report and also taking feedback from the ground. It is likely to submit a revised report. Further action will be taken on the basis of this report,” the DRO said. #Cotton #farmers #pink bollworm||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/agitating-farmers-start-relay-fast-over-denial-of-compensation-381644
29-03-2022||Ravinder Saini||Private schools hike transport fee up to 25% in Rohtak, Jhajjar||Rohtak, March 28Rising prices of petrol and diesel have started showing their adverse effects with several private schools in Rohtak and Jhajjar district hiking transport fees from 15 to 25 per cent.Rising fuel prices to blame Already suffering from losses due to the pandemic, private schools have no option but to hike transport and other fees in a situation where the rates of petrol and diesel are increasing on a daily basis. — Anshul Pathania, Secretary, Rohtak CBSE School AssociationThe situation has put an extra financial burden on parents who are yet to come out from the losses faced during the Covid times. The admission process in the schools is underway these days.Interestingly, one of the prominent schools in Jhajjar district, in a whatsapp message sent to the parents, has also maintained that the transport fee may also be enhanced further in mid-session if the prices of petrol and diesel shoot up in the coming days in view of the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war.Sources said private schools in Rohtak had charged transport fees between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,500 per month from students in the previous academic session.Now, the fee is being charged between Rs 1,200 and Rs 1,800 per month. Some schools also charged Rs 5 per km but they had now enhanced the rate up to Rs 6 per km. Similarly in Jhajjar, transport fee from Rs 800 to Rs 1,200 were being charged from children, sources said.“Already suffering from huge losses due to the Covid situation in the past two sessions, private schools have no other option but to enhance transport and other fee to meet their expenses in a situation when the rates of petrol and diesel are increasing on a daily basis. The parents should understand our situation and cooperate with us,” said Anshul Pathania, Secretary, Rohtak CBSE School Association.He maintained they know that the pandemic took a toll on every section of the society but the hike in transport fee was much lower than the substantial increase in the prices of diesel.The diesel prices were likely to rise considerably in future as well but they had decided not to make any change in the transport fee in the ongoing session, he added.Jitender Bhardwaj, a parent, said not only the transport fee but tuition and other fee had also been enhanced by private schools, leaving parents in a difficult situation.A majority of the schools were located away from the city and parents could not drop the children on their own to school hence they would have to pay whatever fee is being charged by the schools, he added.The District Education Officer of Rohtak, Vijay Luxmi, said a committee had been constituted at the district level to take a decidion on complaints about fee structure of private schools.“Transport fee is optional, not compulsory for students,” she added. #private schools||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/private-schools-hike-transport-fee-up-to-25-in-rohtak-jhajjar-381646
29-03-2022||Ambala||Will raise every public issue, says Bhupinder Singh Hooda||Former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda today said Congress would raise every public issue vigorously and the accountability of the government will be fixed.The former Chief Minister, who was on his Panipat visit on Monday, said the JJP had promised to implement the old pension scheme in its manifesto and they must fulfil this promise. He said if the present government failed to fulfil its promise, the employees will be given the benefit of the old pension scheme when the Congress government is formed.He met delegations of employees’ union, Resident Welfare Association, Vyapar Mandal, ASHA workers and Anganwadi workers, who submitted a memorandum regarding their demands. He promised to take up their demands in the next Assembly session.Hooda said: “Congress MLAs in the Assembly are ready to raise the issues of the people. The accountability of the government will be fixed on every issue. An example of this has been seen even before the start of the Budget session when the Congress Legislature Party held a meeting and announced to launch an all-out agitation from streets to the House, against the exorbitant increase in ‘development fee’, the government had to bow down and take back its decision.”“Similarly, the government will have to withdraw the decision to reduce the condition of 15 years for domicile to five years because the change made in the rule is a direct attack on the rights of local Haryanvis. This will cause huge loss to SC and OBC youth as it will be difficult for them to get the benefits of welfare schemes like jobs, college and university admission, scholarship and ration,” he said. — #bhupinder hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/will-raise-every-public-issue-says-hooda-381647
29-03-2022||Vijay MohanChandigarh||In Sainik School enrolment, Haryana among top three states||Haryana is among the top three states in the country which have the highest number of students studying in Sainik Schools that function under the aegis of the Ministry of Defence (MoD).The strength of the students enrolled in Sainik schools in Haryana is 1,163, according to data placed by the MoD in the Rajya Sabha today. There are two Sainik Schools in the state, located at Kunjpura near Karnal and Rewari.Girls allowed admissionKarnataka tops the list with 1,274 students studying in Sainik schools, followed by Andhra Pradesh with 1,184 students. Both these states have two Sainik schools each. Uttar Pradesh is the only state to have three Sainik schools, but the total strength of students from this state is only 709, which falls somewhere in the middle of the list.There are a total of 33 Sainik schools in 24 states and Union Territories across the country, having a total student strength of 17,234. Following a recent shift in policy, all Sainik schools have started admitting girls from the 2021-22 academic session.The total strength of girls in the 2021-22 session was 320 and for the 2022-23 session, there are 335 vacancies for girls, according to the MoD’s statement in Parliament today.The admission of girls was first started on a pilot basis in Sainik School Chhingchhip during 2018-19. On the pilot being successful, 10 per cent of vacancies in Class VI or 10 seats, whichever is higher, have been earmarked for girls in all Sainik schools.Conceived in 1961 and managed by the Sainik Schools Society under the MoD as feeder institutes for the armed forces, these schools take in students at the level of Class VI and prepare them mentally and physically for entry into the National Defence Academy (NDA). Their alumni have attained the highest positions in the armed forces as well as the civil society.Recently, the MoD initiated a move to establish 100 more boarding Sainik schools in the public-private partnership (PPP) mode. As a first step towards this end, the MoD last week approved the setting up of 21 new Sainik schools in partnership with NGOs, private schoolsand state governments across India. These include one school each at Fatehabad in Haryana, Patiala in Punjab and Solan in Himachal Pradesh.While 12 new schools will be managed by NGOs, trusts or societies, six are private schools and three are state government-owned schools. Unlike the existing Sainik schools, which are purely residential, seven new schools will be day-boarding.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/in-sainik-school-enrolment-hry-among-top-three-states-381648
29-03-2022||Rewari||2 Rewari cops suspended for torture of retd IAF man||Superintendent of Police (SP) Rajesh Kumar has suspended an exempted assistant sub-inspector (EASI) Sumer Singh and exempted head constable (EHC) Anil Kumar, deputed on integrated emergency helpline “Dial 112” under the Bawal police station here. He has also ordered a departmental inquiry against them.The action came after both officials were found guilty in an inquiry conducted by the DSP in a complaint lodged by a retired official of the Indian Air Force (IAF).In his complaint, Balram Yadav of Mohanpur village, accused the police personnel of keeping him confined in the police station at night and torturing him on lodging a complaint against the playing of DJ music system at a high volume outside his house in the village on March 17 night. He further alleged that the cops also pressured him to sign on a paper before letting him go.“I reside in Gurugram, but came to Mohanpur village in Rewari district on March 17 to meet my elderly parents and to celebrate Holi there. Around 11 pm, I made a call to ‘Dial 112’ against some persons who had been dancing for some hours by playing the DJ at a high volume,” said Yadav.He maintained that three cops in a van came there, but people managed to flee after seeing them. The cops then forcibly took him to the Bawal police station and tortured him. Around 6.30 am, they let him go after getting his signature on a statement that he did not want any further action in the matter, he alleged. The district police’s spokesman confirmed that the EASI and the EHC had been suspended. — #haryana police #iaf #indian air force||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/2-cops-suspended-for-torture-of-retd-iaf-man-381649
29-03-2022||Nitish Sharma||Budget meeting adjourned in Ambala||Ambala, March 28An important Budget meeting of the Ambala Municipal Corporation was adjourned today after the Haryana Jan Chetna Party (HJP) councillors objected to the presence of a woman councillor, who was booked in a murder case last year, in the House.Next Meeting once case decidedThe meeting was adjourned and the next meeting will be called only after her case is decided by the Divisional Commissioner so that there is no further disturbance in the meetings over the same issue. Shakti Rani Sharma, MayorCouncillor being protectedThe murder accused is being protected by the government. She skipped three meetings of the House continuously and the matter regarding her membership of the House is pending with the Commissioner, Ambala Division. Rajesh Mehta, haryana jan chetna partyArun murder caseAs many as 10 persons were booked in Arun murder case. While nine were arrested, the arrest of woman councillor Rubi Sauda is pending. Her lie detector test is to be conducted.Supporting systemWe are not supporting Rubi Sauda at all but we are supporting the system. She has all the rights to remain present in the House. The Mayor shouldn’t have adjourned the meeting and let the Budget be presented. It will hamper the functioning of the corporation. Sandeep Sachdeva, BJP nominated councillorHaryana Democratic Front councillor Rubi Sauda was booked in connection with the murder case of Arun, a resident of Ambala City.Before the start of the meeting, it was expected that Rubi Sauda would attend the meeting today, Congress and HJP councillors staged a dharna at the Panchayat Bhawan and demanded justice for Arun. Both parties have been demanding the arrest of Rubi and her disqualification from the House.Haryana Jan Chetna Party councillor Rajesh Mehta said, “The murder accused is being protected by the government. She skipped three meetings of the House continuously and the matter regarding her membership of the House is pending with the Commissioner, Ambala Division.”Congress Councillor advocate Mithun Verma, said, “We demanded justice for Arun who was killed in February last year. The police were being pressured by the government. She should have been arrested and then the court should have decided. If there is an arrest warrant against her then she should be arrested and if the warrant has been cancelled then at least it should be produced.”However, BJP councillor supported the woman councillor. BJP nominated counicllor Sandeep Sachdeva said, “We are not supporting Rubi Sauda at all but we are supporting the system. She has all the rights to remain present in the House. The Mayor shouldn’t have adjourned the meeting and let the Budget be presented. It will hamper the functioning of the corporation.”Shakti Rani Sharma, Mayor, said, “The meeting was adjourned and the next meeting will be called only after her case is decided by the Divisional Commissioner so that there is no further disturbance in the meetings over the same issue.”The Mayor also inquired about the arrest warrant against Sauda from ASP Pooja Dabla who was present in the meeting.Meanwhile, kin of Arun also reached Panchayat Bhawan demanding arrest of the woman councillor, met the Mayor and corporation officials and later threatened to self-immolate themselves. They said they were being given assurances only and administration had been supporting the murder accused.As many as 10 persons were booked in Arun murder case, while nine were arrested, the arrest of Rubi Sauda was pending. Her lie detector test is to be conducted.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/budget-meeting-adjourned-in-ambala-381650
29-03-2022||---||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij meets business leaders in Dubai||Chandigarh, March 28Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij said India was fast moving in the field of industry and investment. Similarly, Haryana was also one of the most progressive states of India and the state was considered an industrial powerhouse of the country with more than 250 Fortune companies having their base in Haryana.Vij addressed business leaders, business tycoons, top investors and partners from across the globe at the “Global Investors Growth Summit” held under the guidance of Sheikh Majid Rashid Al Mualla, Majestic Investments, Champions Group, a member of the UAE Royal Family, in Dubai today. During this visit he interacted with various business leaders and also invited them to set up their units in Haryana. Speaking on the occasion, Vij thanked member of the royal family, Sheikh Majid Rashid Al Mualla, for inviting him to the summit. Along with this, he also thanked the business leaders, financiers, planners, thinkers from all over the world present there. #anil vij #Dubai||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/vij-meets-business-leaders-in-dubai-381651
29-03-2022||---||Kathak danseuse Pallavi Pinge enthrals at Surajkund mela||Faridabad, March 28Zirakpur (Chandigarh)-based Kathak danseuse Pallavi Pinge enthralled the audience at the International Crafts Mela at Surajkund at a cultural event on Sunday. The programme was held at Chaupal (central stage for cultural events at the crafts mela with an array of visitors.Pallavi (48) presented a dance ballet titled as “Meera Vaani” (voice of Meera ) with her team. “Meera Vanni” is a ballet based on poems of well-known saint Meera Bai . The presentation was a tribute to the legendary late Lata Mangeshkar, says Pinge. She said all poems had also been sung by Lata Mangeshkar. The ballet showcased the life of Meera Bai and her divine love for Krishna through her dance, according to the danseuse. Though it was choreographed by Pallavi herself she was assisted by her daughter Kanhari Pinge. Other artistes of the team included Jannat Sood, Aarna Dhoke, Geeta Chauhal, Kunika Chandan, Astha Sardana, Sneha Deb Burman, Tanya Patidar and Khushi Khichi.Pallavi Pinge is an Indian classical dancer and a photographer. She teaches Kathak at her own studio Kalakunj and has performed in Chandigarh and Delhi. #surajkund mela||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/kathak-danseuse-pallavi-pinge-enthrals-at-surajkund-mela-381652
29-03-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||No move to clean polluted Gurugram irrigation canal||Faridabad, March 28The 17-km-long Gurugram irrigation canal passing through the city has virtually turned into a sewage drain with quality of water unfit for the purpose it was built. It continues to pollute the air and water quality with no move to cleanse it till date.Sources in the Irrigation Department said though the Gurugram and the Agra canals running parallel in the city were thrown open for irrigation in Faridabad, Gurugram, Mewat and Agra district of UP, the water quality has turned poor due to unchecked release of untreated industrial and sewer waste into these canals. The biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), the amount of oxygen consumed by bacteria and other microorganisms while they decompose organic matter under aerobic conditions, touches 32 points when these canals enter the district, while this has been at just 2 when the Yamuna river enters Delhi, according to officials concerned. With 64 drains releasing waste in Delhi region, a majority of the water released is untreated , it is claimed. “Besides this huge quantity of untreated waste is also released in Faridabad making it more toxic,” says an official on condition of anonymity. These canals receive water from Yamuna river near Okhla (Delhi).“The downside is that with no serious efforts made to counter the problem, any plan to clean it had been missing,” says AK Gaur of the Faridabad Action Group (FAG) , an NGO. Describing these as sewage drains he said these have become a bane of the city, which is already in the list of top 15 polluted cities in the world. He said the quality of ground water supplied by tubewells and borewells has become unfit due to heavy total dissolved solids (TDS) and concentration of toxic chemicals. Satbir Dagar, from the Progressive Farmers Front, claims that poor upkeep and lack of cleanliness has led to remarkable surge in health disorders in the region. All samples of the canal water have failed in the past, he adds.Virender Rawat, Executive Engineer, Irrigation Department, said that a report is sought from the Pollution Control Board on a regular basis to keep an eye on the quality of water of the Gurugram canal. #Environment #Pollution||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/no-move-to-clean-polluted-gurugram-irrigation-canal-381653
29-03-2022||Gurugram||Eunuch's body found near Leisure Valley Park in Gurugram||The Gurugram police found the body of a local eunuch near the Leisure Valley Park today. Prima facia it appears he was stoned to death. The police have registered a case and started investigation after taking the body into custody.The police said, the eunuch was identified as Milan (32), a native of west Bengal and lived in Wazirabad village. His nephew Polasi Sheikh said, he left home today around 11 am and they got information in the evening that he was killed by an unknown person. His nephew said he had no enmity with anybody. It was around 4pm when the police got information that a body was lying in the bushes near the Leisure Valley Park. A police team led by inspector Anil Kumar, SHO of Sector 29 police station, reached the spot and found the body lying in a pool of blood and his face had injury marks.It seemed that stones were thrown at him. On the complaint of Sheikh, an FIR has been registered under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (hiding evidence) of the IPC at the Sector 29 police station. “We found his mobile phone and called on one of the numbers, Sheikh came to spot and identified Milan . We kept the body in the mortuary and postmortem will be conducted tomorrow. The cause behind the murder has not been ascertained yet but the probe is on,” said Kumar. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/eunuchs-body-found-near-leisure-valley-park-in-gurugram-381655
29-03-2022||Kurukshetra||Four killed, 7 injured in Kurukshetra mishap||Four persons were killed and seven injured when two vehicles collided late last night on the Kurukshetra-Kaithal road near Kamoda village.The deceased were identified as Harinder Malik and Pinki of Kurukshetra and Suba Singh and Booti Ram of Patiala. The police have booked the driver of the Tavera vehicle for rash driving.Sources said the Tavera and i-10 car collided near Kamoda village. Nine persons were travelling in the Tavera, out of whom two were killed. They were on their way towards Patiala after performing some post-death rituals in Hardwar.A case was registered on the complaint of Bahu Devi of Patiala. The complainant said the driver of their vehicle, was driving rashly. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/four-killed-7-injured-in-kurukshetra-mishap-381656
29-03-2022||Chandigarh||Rs 113-cr projects for 7 Haryana districts approved||Chief Secretary Sanjeev Kaushal today approved 53 projects worth Rs 113 crore related to health, education and skill development. He chaired a state-level empowered committee constituted for Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karyakram (PMJVK).These projects will be executed in 15 blocks of seven minority districts — Fatehabad, Nuh, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Sirsa, Palwal and Yamunanagar.While presiding over the meeting, Kaushal directed the officers concerned to ensure implementation of all these projects soon, as this scheme focuses on reducing socio-economic imbalances among notified minority communities by creating the required infrastructure for their holistic development. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/113-cr-projects-for-7-districts-approved-381657
29-03-2022||Chandigarh||Kumari Selja: Demands of staff legitimate||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee chief Kumari Selja said every section of the state was angry with the Centre and the state government and people had to resort to dharna, demonstration and strike.Government employees of various departments were on a nationwide strike today against the alleged anti-employee policies of the government, including privatisation.In a statement issued to the media, Kumari Selja justified the demands of the employees and said even after raising their voices repeatedly, the Centre and the state government did not pay attention to their demands so they were forced to go on a strike.“Had attention been paid to their problems and demands, there would have been no situation of strike and people of would not have to face any kind of trouble,” she said.“Haryana Roadways employees have been opposing privatisation since long. The government has been repeatedly trying to eliminate the fleet of roadways by increasing the number of private permits in one way or the other,” she said. — #kumari selja||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/selja-demands-of-staff-legitimate-381658
29-03-2022||Fatehabad||Bank employee 'misleads' villager, minister orders FIR||Power and Jail Minister Ranjit Singh has directed the police to register an FIR against an employee of a branch of IndusInd Bank in Dariyapur for misleading a villager who came to get a fixed deposit (FD) but was instead issued an insurance policy.The matter came up for hearing during the meeting of the Public Relations and Grievance Committee at Fatehabad town today. A total of 19 complaints were taken up in the meeting, of which 13 complaints were disposed of while the minister directed to keep six complaints pending and submit them along with the report in the next meeting.During the hearing, Govind, a resident of Dhani Chanan, alleged that he had given consent for FD to a bank employee, but the employee issued an insurance policy of the Tata company to him without informing him.During the meeting, the Power Minister said there was sufficient amount of electricity with the state and there would be no shortage of electricity in summer. He directed the Public Health Department to ensure a smooth supply of drinking water during the upcoming summer season. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bank-employee-misleads-villager-minister-orders-fir-381659
29-03-2022||Faridabad||Hackathon concludes at varsity||Political scientist awardKurukshetra: Professor Rajvir Singh Yadav, former Dean of social sciences, head of the department of political science and defence and strategy studies of Kurukshetra University, has been honoured with the senior national political scientist award for 2020 by the Indian Political Science Association. He received this award at the 59th All-India Political Science Conference of the association held at Meghalaya Science and Technical University. On this occasion, the first woman Vice-Chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru University and national president of the Indian Political Science Association, Prof Santisree Dhulipudi Pandit honoured him.Campus placement driveFaridabad: The DAV Institute of Management (DAVIM), Faridabad, organised a campus placement drive with the help of TATA Motors and UA Consultants on the campus recently, for the undergraduate students of the institute. According to Dr Satish Ahuja, principal director, DAVIM, while a total of 108 students attended the campus drive, 25 students were shortlisted. Mr Devesh Mittal on behalf of TATA Motors and Ms Ratica on behalf of the UA Consultants conducted the face to face interviews and appreciated the knowledge base and communication skills of students.Scholarship awarded to studentsAmbala: The scholarship of Sitaram Jindal Foundation was distributed to students on Monday at Sanatan Dharma College, Ambala Cantonment. The scholarships worth Rs 4.23 lakh were distributed to 25 students of first year and 31 students of second year. Congratulating the students, Principal Dr Rajendra Singh said Sitaram Jindal Foundation Scholarship was a merit-cum-means based scholarship scheme. The objective of the scholarship is to provide financial assistance to the meritorious candidates belonging to weaker families. College public relations officer Dr Naveen Gulati while congratulating the students said the college would continue to make such efforts in the future.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/hackathon-concludes-at-varsity-381660
29-03-2022||The stray cattle menace in Faridabad has been on the rise. Cows and bulls roam on all internal roads in the city in strength of hundreds at any time||Stray cattle pose accident risk on highway||Major road in pathetic condition in KarnalAlthough Karnal City, which is also known as the Smart City, is the assembly constituency of the Chief Minister, the condition of most of the roads located inside this city is pathetic. The road leading from Ghogripur Railway overbridge to Namaste Chowk on the national highway is the busiest road in the city. All heavy and light vehicles coming from towns such as Kaithal, Assandh, Jind, Hisar, Pehowa and Patiala have to pass through this road to go towards Panipat, Sonipat and Delhi, but this road has been uprooted and completely damaged for the last one year. This road has now turned into deep potholes. Motorists are finding it very difficult to travel on this road. The authorities should get up from its slumber and act at once. Shakti Singh, KarnalWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/stray-cattle-pose-accident-risk-on-highway-381661
29-03-2022||New Delhi||Nationwide strike hits banking, public transport services in West Bengal, Kerala, other states||Banking and public transport services were thrown out of gear in West Bengal and Kerala on Monday as thousands of workers began their two-day nationwide strike against various policies of the government.While essential services mostly remained unaffected, banking services in different parts of the country were partially impacted and there were reports of workers staging protests at several places across states.Electricity and fuel supplies remained unaffected but unions claimed the agitation had had an impact in coal mining belts in Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh.A joint forum of central trade unions has given a call for a nationwide strike on March 28 and 29 to protest against the government policies affecting workers, farmers and others.Their demands include the scrapping of the labour codes, no privatisation in any form, scrapping of the National Monetisation Pipeline (NMP), increased allocation of wages under MNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Act) and regularisation of contractual workers.In West Bengal, normal life was hit with protesters blocking roads and stopping movement of trains at some stations.State road transport buses as well as auto-rickshaws and private buses were off the road in Kerala but essential services, including supply of milk, hospital and ambulance services, were not affected.Public transport services were hit in Haryana as employees of state roadways joined the two-day nationwide strike.Thousands of workers of state-owned SAIL, RINL and NMDC also joined the nationwide strike, affecting production at steel plants and mines.Banking services were partially impacted on Monday as a section of bank employees did not report for work. However, there was hardly any impact on the functioning of new-generation private sector banks.There might be a delay in cheque clearances and government treasury operation might also be affected by the strike.The impact of the strike is prominent in eastern India as many branches of public sector banks there are closed, All India Bank Employees' Association (AIBEA) general secretary CH Venkatachalam said.In the other regions, branches are open as officers are present but services are being impacted due to many employees participating in the strike, he said.Bank unions are protesting against the government move to privatise two public sector banks as announced in the Budget 2021-22. They are also demanding an increase in interest rate on deposits and reduction in service charges.The central trade unions that are part of this joint forum are INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC."The two-day nationwide strike by the joint forum of central trade unions has begun on Monday morning and has got good response," Amarjeet Kaur, general secretary of All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), told PTI.She said the entire coal belt (mining area) had been affected in Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh.According to her, there is a good response for the strike call in industrial areas of Assam, Haryana, Delhi, West Bengal, Telangana, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Bihar, Punjab, Rajasthan, Goa, Andhra Pradesh and Odisha.Amarjeet Kaur claimed that banks and insurance sectors had been affected all over India while steel and oil sectors were also seeing partial impact.As many as 10 central trade unions have joined hands to go on a two-day nationwide strike from Monday. About 20 crore workers are expected to join the strike.The strike notices have been given by the unions in various sectors, including coal, steel, oil, telecom, postal, income tax, copper, banks and insurance.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/nation/central-trade-unions-begin-two-day-nationwide-strike-good-response-in-industrial-areas-of-punjab-haryana-381465
