30-03-2022||Gurugram||90-year-old priest found dead in Gurugram temple with his throat slit||A 90-year-old priest was found dead at a local temple in Kadarpur area here, police said on Wednesday.According to the police, when the locals went to the temple to offer prayers in the morning, they found the priest lying in a pool of blood with his throat slit.The police reached the spot with a forensic team and are investigating, they said.Govind Das had been priest in the temple for the past 35 years, they said.The incident created a sense of panic among the locals.Neeraj Kumar, a villager said, "The area is getting unsafe day by day and there is no fear of police. The priest was killed in the temple and this has left us all hurt and horrified. We want strict action."  Station House Officer, Sector 65 police station, Deepak Kumar, said, "We are investigating the matter but have not got any clue about the incident so far."||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/90-year-old-priest-found-dead-in-gurugram-temple-with-his-throat-slit-382104
30-03-2022||---||Day 2 of strike, Haryana state bus services hit partially||Chandigarh, March 29The second day of the Haryana Roadways’ strike partially affected the bus services across the state.Wrong policies to blameThe strike is the result of the wrong policies of the state and the Centre. The Haryana Roadways, considered the best state transport in the country, had got cut short to a fleet of 1,700 against the requirement of 14,000 buses. Subhash Lamba, President, Sarv Karamchari Sangh, HaryanaOnly five of the total 90 buses in the Faridabad depot plied on routes today. “The depot managed to operate five buses on Delhi, Aligarh, Haridwar and Gurugram routes,” said Rajiv Nagpal, GM, Haryana Roadways, here. He said the strike forced commuters to take buses and vehicles operated by private transporters.A majority of the employees of various state government departments remained on strike for the second day today in support of the demands, he said.There was little impact of the strike on the transport services in Sirsa. Meanwhile, the Sirsa police registered an FIR against the employees union leaders for garlanding a driver with shoes who had refused to observe the strike.In Gurugram, the employees sat on a demonstration outside the roadways workshop. Senior leaders of the Sanjha Morcha, formed for the agitation, said that the strike was successful.The transport services were partially affected in Ambala. State vice president of Haryana Roadways Worker Union Ramesh Sheokand said, “The government has forced the employees to give the call of the strike. The demands include no privatisation in any form, implementation of the old pension scheme, regular jobs and increase in the number of buses.” The protesters claimed that only regular employees could give good services to passengers.Meanwhile, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Shaheed Bhagat Singh) came in support of the agitating roadways staff.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/day-2-of-strike-state-bus-services-hit-partially-381920
30-03-2022||Deepender Deswal||Haryana's Mandi Dabwali civic body to pay Rs16 cr for environmental damage||Sirsa, March 29The Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) has imposed a penalty of Rs 16 crore on the Mandi Dabwali Municipal Council in Sirsa district for violating the solid waste management rules and disposing of the waste without segregation at the main dumping site in the town.NGT’s direction to impose penaltyThe NGT has issued directions to impose penalty on the non-complying polluting units and levy compensation on the principle of “polluter pays” to recover environment compensation for the restoration of the environmental damage caused.Not aware of HSPCB orderI am not aware of the order of the HSPCB, so I don’t know about the penalty. We have complied with the norms of the Pollution Control Act in the town. Surender Singh, Executive officer of MCI had to approach NGTI complained to the authorities but when nobody took note of the matter, I approached the NGT. — Vinod Kumar Bansal, ComplainantThe HSPCB has directed the MC to deposit Rs 16.01 crore with the HSPCB as environment compensation within 15 days to avoid further legal action.The regional office of the HSPCB has submitted an environment compensation report against the MC Mandi Dabwali vide letter number 3678 on March 24. It stated that the HSPCB has inspected the site in the town and found that the MC was disposing solid waste without segregation at the main dumping site and non-complying under the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. “So, the MC is liable to pay environmental compensation as per the policy of the board”, the order stated.In its committee on March 24, the Environment Compensation Assessment Committee examined the case and levied the penalty for violation of the Environment Act. “The ECAC has considered the violation for 1,826 days (for about five years) from August 28, 2014 to August 27, 2019”, it added.The complainant in the case, MC member Vinod Kumar Bansal stated that he had filed the complaint with the National Green Tribunal (NGT) as the entire town was dotted with garbage. “I complained to the authorities but when nobody took note of the matter I approached the NGT”, he said.The NGT has issued directions to impose the penalty on the non-complying polluting units and levy compensation on the principle of “polluter pays” to recover environment compensation for the restoration of the environmental damage caused. The HSPCH had adopted the methodology suggested by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for assessment, imposing, collection and utilisation of environment compensation from the polluting units in Haryana.The Executive Officer of the MC, Surender Singh, said the case was pending with the NGT but he was not aware of the penalty. He said they had complied with the norms of the Pollution Control Act in the town.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/mandi-dabwali-mc-to-pay-16-cr-for-environmental-damage-381921
30-03-2022||---||Haryana: Bhiwani municipal council chief, EO nabbed for bungling of Rs2 cr||Bhiwani, March 29The State Vigilance Bureau (SVB) has arrested the Chairman and the Executive Officer (EO) of the Municipal Council, Bhiwani, in the case of bungling of about Rs 2 crore of the MC funds meant for development activities.Modus operandi of accusedThe accused had transferred an amount of about Rs 2 crore from the bank account of the Bhiwani Municipal Council to the private accounts via cheque between the period June 18, 2019 to October 9, 2019. It was alleged that there was no entry of details of the transaction in the account books of the MC.The Bhiwani police registered a case of cheating and fraud against certain persons two weeks ago on the complaint of a former Municipal Councillor Sudarshan Jindal. However, as the police dug deep into the bungling of funds, more skeletons continued to tumble out of the cupboard.Initially, the police registered a case under Sections 420 (cheating), 409, 467, 468, 471, and 120-B against Vinod Goyal, Vikash, bank manager Nitesh, and some officials of the Municipal Council. The state government yesterday transferred the case to the State Vigilance Bureau which widened the ambit of investigation into the alleged scam. The SVB called in MC chairman Ran Singh Yadav and the Executive Officer Sanjay Yadav today and later arrested them.Police sources informed that the police had produced them in the court which remanded the duo to four days police custody. The police had already arrested three others, including manager of the Bhiwani branch of the Axis Bank Nitesh and two others Arun and Nitin. While Nitesh has been sent to jail after six days in police remand, two others are still in police custody.Revealing the modus operandi of the accused in the bungling of the MC funds, the police sources said they had transferred an amount of about Rs 2 crore from the bank account of the Bhiwani Municipal Council to the private accounts via cheque between the period June 18, 2019 to October 9, 2019. It was alleged that there was no entry of the details of the transaction in the account books of the Municipal Council.Further probe by the police had indicated that the bungling could go up to Rs four crore and even more as more cases of transfer of funds from the Municipal Council accounts had come to light during the investigation.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhiwani-mc-chief-eo-nabbed-for-bungling-of-2-cr-381923
30-03-2022||---||Gurugram: Employees set bus on fire in Manesar; 123 arrested, let off on bail||Gurugram, March 29High drama prevailed in the industrial hub IMT, Manesar, today as protesting employees of a company set a bus on fire.Protesting for their demands, the workers, along with others, blocked the entry of other employees despite Section 144 being imposed there. Later, the police managed the situation and nabbed 123 workers, including 70 women. All were let off on bail after joining investigation.The workers have been staging protest for the past few days, demanding the return of sacked workers outside of JNS Instruments Limited, a manufacturer of parts for Maruti, located in Sector 3, IMT, Manesar.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/employees-set-bus-on-fire-123-arrested-let-off-on-bail-381924
30-03-2022||Nitish Sharma||Ambala: Crushing season nears end, yet Rs103 cr cane dues still pending||Ambala, March 29The sugarcane crushing season is nearing end, but the payment of nearly Rs 103 crore to Ambala farmers is still running late.Trying to fix payment issuesWe recently sold some stock, which is yet to be lifted and its payment still to be received. Even the sugar prices are low at present. Due to these issues, we weren’t able to release the payment in the past 15 days… We are trying to clear the dues at the earliest. Niraj, ceo, naraingarh sugar millsDue to the payment issues, even the farmers had diverted their produce to othersugar mills and crushers this year. In the last season, around 50 lakh quintal of sugarcane was crushed by the Naraingarh mill and the same quantity was expected this year as well. However, the mill is unlikely to get more than 45 lakh quintal of sugarcane.Farm leaders believe that due to factionalism in unions, they had also failed to put pressure on the government for the timely release of payment. As per the norms, the payments should be cleared within 14 days of purchase.As per the information, the mill has bought sugarcane worth around Rs 159 crore, of which the total payment made from this year’s sale is around Rs 123 crore, including that of the current and previous seasons. However, a payment of Rs 103 crore for the current season is still pending.Meanwhile, a group of farmers is staging a dharna outside the sugar mill. Vicky Rana, a farm leader, said they were forced to hold protests and make repeated requests to get their own payments. “Besides the current season’s payment, a crop loan is also pending. We will continue to struggle till our payments are not cleared.”Vinod Rana, president, Ganna Kisan Sangharsh Samiti, said: “This was a crucial season for the mill and the sugarcane farmers of this area. We were expecting that the mill will get over 50 lakh quintal of sugarcane and with good prices in the market, the season will end with lower pending dues. But due to the payment issues, the farmers diverted their sugarcane to mills in Punjab, Yamunanagar and Karnal. The Naraingarh mill is being managed by the government. We have demanded a meeting with the higher authorities.”However, Naraingarh SDM Niraj, who is also the CEO of the mill, said: “Payments up to January 2 have been cleared and we assure that the amount due up to January 15 will be paid in the next 10 days. The mill has so far received around 44 lakh quintal of sugarcane and it may get another 1 lakh quintal only.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/crushing-season-nears-end-yet-103-cr-cane-dues-still-pending-381925
30-03-2022||---||Transport inspector in Haryana's Bahadurgarh nabbed taking bribe||Jhajjar, March 29A team of the Vigilance Bureau from Karnal yesterday caught red-handed transport inspector, Nirmala Devi, posted at the Regional Transport Authority in Bahadurgarh town here, while accepting a bribe of Rs 20,000 for releasing the registration certificate of a transferred vehicle.A case under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act was registered against her in this regard.The team took the action on the complaint lodged by a Bahadurgarh resident who accused Nirmala Devi of demanding the bribe for issuing the new registration certificate of his truck.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/transport-inspector-nabbed-taking-bribe-381926
30-03-2022||Yamunanagar||Commissioner conducts surprise inspection at several offices in Yamunanagar||Renu S Phulia, Commissioner of Ambala division, made a surprise inspection at several offices in Yamunanagar district on Tuesday afternoon.She inspected several offices located on the district secretariat premises in Jagadhri including SDM office, District Treasury office, Tehsil office and Atyodaya Saral Kendra.During the inspection, she gave necessary instructions to officers and officials of the departments concerned.On this occasion, Deputy Commissioner Partha Gupta, Additional Deputy Commissioner Ranjit Kaur, Jagadhri SDM Sushil Kumar, Municipal Commissioner Ashok Kumar, District Treasury Officer Ashwani Kumar Sharma, Jagadhri Tehsildar Krishna Kumar and DIO Arvindjot Singh Walia were present.Later, she also held a meeting with the officers of the Zila Sainik Board and the Education Department in DC’s office and instructed them to take necessary steps to improve education as well as implement the schemes for the welfare of soldiers. This morning, Deputy Commissioner, Parth Gupta conducted an annual inspection at the office of Block Development and Panchayat Officer (BDPO) and police station in the Radaur subdivision of Yamunanagar district. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/commissioner-conducts-surprise-inspection-at-several-offices-in-yamunanagar-381928
30-03-2022||Gurugram||Labourer dies after mud in basement caves in||A labourer died when mud in an under-construction basement of a building caved in at Sector 84 here. While one labourer was rescued, four others had a narrow escape.The deceased has been identified as 22-year-old Gajender who hailed from Uttar Pradesh. The police have kept his body in a mortuary for the autopsy and are waiting for his family to lodge a case. According to the police, the incident happened in Sector 84 on Tuesday morning where six labourers were putting iron rods. Suddenly, mud from one part of the basement caved in and two labourers were buried. While people rescued one of them, they couldn’t pull Gajender out. The police and officers of the Fire Department rescued him after 40 minutes. He was taken to the Civil Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. An Industrial Safety and Health team visited the site and spoke to the labourers. Preliminary probe revealed that safety measures were not being adopted. “We have kept the body in a mortuary and informed the family of the deceased. On the basis of their complaint, further action will be taken” said Inspector Rajender Singh. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/labourer-dies-after-mud-in-basement-caves-in-381929
30-03-2022||---||40 units sealed in Faridabad for not paying property tax||Faridabad, March 29The Municipal Corporation Faridabad (MCF) today sealed 40 commercial units for not paying the pending dues of Rs 34 lakh. The deadline of availing the rebate on interest on the pending dues on property tax is March 31.Those sealed on Tuesday include 36 units in the NIT zone having a defaulting amount of Rs 28 lakh and four units located in the Old Faridabad zone having an outstanding dues of Rs 6 lakh for the past several years, according to the officials of the MCF. “With around 20,000 notices served on major defaulters (defaulting amount of Rs 50,000 or more), poor response has made the authorities to start the sealing drive to speed up recovery before the end of the financial year,” said Yashpal Yadav, Commissioner, who revealed that around 30 commercial units had already been sealed this month . According Sources said the number of defaulters has been around 1.60 lakh units and have been included in the defaulting list, prepared last year, having a total outstanding amount of about Rs 190 crore. The sealing drive launched last year led to the recovery of over Rs five crore, according to MCF officials. Besides the private residential and commercial units, the defaulters include 107 government offices.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/40-units-sealed-for-not-paying-property-tax-381930
30-03-2022||Chandigarh||Haryana state ranked 1st in export index||Haryana has proved its mettle once again by securing first position under the landlocked category in the Niti Aayog’s Export Preparedness Index (EPI) 2021.Haryana is followed by UP, MP and Punjab. Haryana’s position is up two places from third to first in this category as compared to 2020. The state’s robust performance is reflected in improved scores in all sub-pillars of the business ecosystem.Apart from getting first position under the landlocked category, Haryana has ranked overall fifth among all the states of the country with 58.2 points in the EPI chart. Haryana was seventh in the previous report released by the Niti Aayog in 2020.To achieve this feat, the state has shown continuous growth in ensuring institutional framework, business environment, transport connectivity, export diversification and infrastructure development. The structure of the EPI includes four pillars — policy, business ecosystem, export ecosystem and export performance. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/state-ranked-1st-in-export-index-381931
30-03-2022||Sanjay Yadav||Gurugram Accident victim's organs donated to 8||Gurugram, March 29Gurugram traffic police made a 19-km-long green corridor to transport organs from Artemis Hospital to Indira Gandhi International Airport. The distance was covered in just 13 minutes, helping transportation of organs to Jaipur and Hyderabad.19-km-long green corridorTwo ambulances with human organs had to reach Jaipur and Hyderabad via Delhi airport in a very short time. Gurugram traffic police took both the ambulances to the Gurugram-Delhi border without stopping in only 13 minutes so that the organs could reach the destination on time. Ravinder Singh Tomar, DCP, Traffic, GurugramThe organs were harvested from a 25-year-old youth, Bhupendera Singh, who was declared brain dead after a road accident. So his family stepped forward to donate his organs to persons who have been on the organ transplant waitlist for years.The organs were sent to various hospitals across the country for eight patients.Bhupendera was admitted to Artemis on March 27. He had swelling in his brain, with severe internal bleeding. Then, he slipped into the deepest grade of coma. Doctors declared him brain dead on March 28.The National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation allocated the organs to hospitals in various cities. While one kidney of the youth remained with Artemis Hospital for transplant, his liver and another kidney were sent to Medanta Hospital in Gurugram. The heart was flown by air to the Eternal Heart Care Centre and Research Institute in Jaipur and the lungs were dispatched to KIMS, Hyderabad. Both corneas were given to the eye bank.Harish Singh, father of the deceased, said, “Every organ would just have become ashes. This way, he helped eight patients. He will leave us but will continue to live on in eight families.”“The father of the youth showed exemplary courage,” said Dr Saurabh Anand of Artemis Hospital. #organ donation||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/accident-victims-organs-donated-to-8-381933
30-03-2022||---||Post DTP & tehsildar's arrest, major reshuffle in Karnal revenue offices||Karnal, March 29Days after the arrest of District Town Planner (DTP) Vikram Kumar and tehsildar, Karnal, Rajbakhsh Arora, in an alleged case of corruption, the district administration has made a massive reshuffle of the dealing hands in the revenue, panchayat and other departments to improve the governance and services.TransferredThe step has also been taken to break their long tenure on the same seat, besides a major reshuffle in Karnal tehsil.As per the data collected by The Tribune, 30 patwaris, nine kanungos, and clerks, assistants and peons, numbering 39, of revenue departments have been transferred from their circles.Also, 27 village panchayat secretaries have been shifted to other villages from their present posting.Likewise, 54 data entry operators of various departments have been transferred to other departments from their present offices.Two revenue accountants (wasil baki navis) have been transferred to other parts of the district.After the reshuffle, the Deputy Commissioner (DC), Anish Yadav, directed the staff to perform their duties with full dedication, honesty and commitment.“Transfer of the dealing hands has been done in routine to ensure good governance. I have transferred clerks, patwaris, kangungo, secretaries, data entryoperators and others who were sitting on the same seat for a significant time,” added Yadav, DC.“The performance of the staff would also be strictly be monitored and dereliction from duty would not be accepted,” said the DC Yadav.“We will ensure works of the public in a fixed time manner,” he said.The DC further told that the corrupt staff members would be dealt with ironhand.It is learnt that Vikram Kumar was arrested red-handed by the state vigilance team from his residence in Sector-6 on March 11 while accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh from a coloniser. His driver was also arrested with Rs 5,000. The vigilance team also recovered Rs 78.6 lakh from the residence of Vikram Kumar. On his statement that Tehisldar Rajbakhsh Arora had given Rs 14.5 lakh to him for the NOCs which he had provided for the registration of land in different colonies, the vigilance team arrested the Tehsildar. The vigilance team investigation revealed that it was a well organised nexus of both the officials in which various employees, deed writers, registry clerks and others are said to be involved.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/post-dtp-tehsildars-arrest-major-reshuffle-in-revenue-offices-381934
30-03-2022||Bhartesh Singh Thakur||Blind students in fix over qualification rules for scribes||Chandigarh, March 29Unable to find a junior student as a writer for board exams, Kamal Madan, a visually impaired Class X student, travelled from Panipat to the office of the Board of School Education Haryana (BSEH) in Bhiwani to seek special permission for allowing a senior student as a scribe but was turned back.Efforts on to arrange writersThe decision to fix educational qualification rules for scribes has been taken after deliberating on the complaints received. We are trying to arrange scribes for the students. Prof Jagbir Singh, BSEH ChairmanReason: The BSEH’s notification dated March 11 says the qualification of the scribe has to be lower than that of the candidates.“It is not easy to find junior scribes. The Class IX exams are coinciding with our papers. Similarly, Class XI students are also taking the exams. When I told the board officials that the Himachal Pradesh prescribes no qualification rules for the scribes, I was taunted whether I was living in Haryana or HP,” said Kamal, a student of the Government Institute for the Blind, Panipat.“No one listens to us. This rule was introduced last year, but the board exams were not conducted due to Covid. Before that, there was no qualification criterion for scribes and we could get anyone to write the paper for us. New rules have put us at a disadvantage,” said Ajay, Class XII student of the Panipat institute.Meanwhile, principal of the Government Institute for the Blind Manish Jain said they had recently approached the state board for allowing seniors to write the board exams but were not allowed. He said they faced a lot of difficulties in arranging the scribes as parents were not relenting on sending their wards due to Covid.“Some Class IX and XI exams are coinciding with Class X and XII papers, respectively. Though after making a number of efforts, we have arranged the scribes for the students.”Notably, the 2013 guidelines of the Centre say that there should not be any fixed criteria of educational qualification for the scribe. “When the schools don’t provide the scribe, the qualification should not be fixed. The BSEH is not complying with the Centre’s directions. Moreover, the minimum qualification of a scribe should not be less than matriculation,” said Ajai Srivastava, chairman, Umang Foundation, an NGO, in his complaint on the behalf of blind students before the Juvenile Justice Committee of the Punjab and Haryana High Court and the Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR). Srivastava has been fighting for the disabled students in HP too.Due to Srivastava’s efforts, the HP Board of School Education on March 15 removed the condition of education qualification for the scribes, saying instead invigilation system should be strengthened.Meanwhile, HSCPCR chairman Jyoti Bainda said they had sought a reply from the BSEH on the complaint.BSEH chairman Prof Jagbir Singh, however, said: “Once a teacher was found appearing for a candidate and invigilators are not expected to keep tabs on the scribes all the time. The decision to fix educational qualification rules for scribes has been taken after deliberating on the plaints received. We are fully cooperating to provide scribes.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/blind-students-in-fix-over-qualification-rules-for-scribes-381936
30-03-2022||Our Coresspondent||6 nabbed with Rs1-cr marijuana||Gurugram, March 29A joint team of the Anti-narcotics Cell and the CIA, Tauru, today arrested six alleged drug smugglers who were carrying marijuana by hiding the contraband in 32 plastic bags under rice straw.The consignment was hidden in a truck headed from Andhra Pradesh to Tauru. Cops recovered 956 kg and 750 gm of ganja along with the truck. The market value of the marijuana was around Rs 1 crore, said the police.An FIR was registered at the Nuh Sadar police station and the police are questioning the accused in this regard.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/6-nabbed-with-1-cr-marijuana-381937
30-03-2022||Kaithal||Dushyant lays stones of Rs8-crore projects||Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday promised status of sub-division to Pundri in Kaithal district if it fulfils the criteria.Patwaris honoured with motorcyclesJind: Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala honoured 105 patwaris from across the state for their performance in revenue-related works during the sensitive period of Covid at a public function here on Tuesday. Fifty patwaris were rewarded with a motorcycle and a certificate of appreciation, while the remaining 55 were given a letter of appreciation. TNS“It is a long-pending demand of the locals and I will raise this issue with the Chief Minister. If it fulfils all the criteria, it will be given status of sub-division on priority,” said Dushyant while addressing a public meeting at Pundri grain market. It was in response to the demand raised by Ghula MLA Ishwar Singh and Raju Pai, who had contested the last Assembly election from Pundri seat.The MLA apprised the Deputy CM that there are four Assembly constituencies in Kaithal district and except Pundri, all three sub-divisions are sub-divisions.Earlier, Dushyant inaugurated projects worth Rs 29.68 crore and laid stones of projects worth Rs 8.72 crore. He also said the government was working on the renovation of ponds and a sum of Rs 600 crore would be spent on it. In the first phase, as many as 3,000 villages have been identified.He highlighted the works done for farmers by the state government. He said the present government was farmer-friendly. Keeping in view the upcoming rabi season, 400 grain markets and purchase centres have been established across the state.He said the government has approved development works of Rs 197 crore for the Pundri Assembly segment. For Ghula Assembly constituency, it has sanctioned a sum of Rs 200 crore. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dushyant-lays-stones-of-8-crore-projects-381938
30-03-2022||---||Patwari held for taking Rs 2K bribe||Karnal, March 29The State Vigilance Bureau arrested a patwari red-handed while taking a bribe of Rs 2,000 in a matter relating to registration for the mutation of his ancestral land.The accused has been identified as Ranjeet, who is posted in Indri. He was arrested on the complaint of Ajay, a resident of Muradhgarh village in the district, said an official.He said the complainant was making rounds to the office for the past 20 days for his work. “Following his complaint, a trap was laid and the patwari was arrested from the office. A case under Section 7 of the Prevention of the Corruption Act was registered against him,” said the official. — TNS||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/patwari-held-for-taking-2k-bribe-381939
30-03-2022||New Delhi||Govt : Rs301 crore for AIIMS Jhajjar cancer institute in 2020-21||The Health Ministry on Tuesday informed the Rajya Sabha that the budget allocation for the National Cancer Institute (NCI) at the AIIMS Phase-II project in Jhajjar have been rising, with Rs 301.56 crore allocated in 2020-21.Answering a question by MP Deepender Hooda regarding the status of the AIIMS Jhajjar campus project and whether there are plans to set up more national institutes here, MoS for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar said, “As on date, there is no proposal other than the NCI at Jhajjar.”Hooda has sought to know the details along with the status of the work of national institutes other than the NCI to be established in AIIMS Phase-II in Jhajjar.On the MP’s query about the funds allocated for the NCI, the ministry said the amount had been rising.As part of the AIIMS Phase-II project in Jhajjar, the NCI was operationalised from February, 12, 2019.The details of the funds allocated in each of the last five years for continuing the project on the Jhajjar campus are — Rs 175.49 crore in 2016-17; Rs 311.87 crore in 2017-18 and Rs 412 crore in 2018-2019; Rs 189.55 crore in 2019-2020 and Rs 301.56 crore in 2020-21. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/govt-301-crore-for-aiims-jhajjar-cancer-institute-in-2020-21-381940
30-03-2022||Sirsa||Two-day international conference||Guv’s Nominee in executive councilHisar: Prof Avnesh Verma, Registrar, Guru Jambheshwar University of Science and Technology, Hisar, has been appointed as the nominee of Governor of Haryana in the the Executive Council of Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra (KUK). Prof Avnesh Verma will share his experience and expertise on the important issues of Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra. ProfVerma, said he would discharge the responsibilities assigned to him by the Governor.IGU students win four medalsRewari: Pooja Jakhar and Jyoti, students, have brought laurels to Indira Gandhi University by winning four medals in the All-India Inter-University Kayaking and Canoeing competition held at Sukhna Lake, Chandigarh. Vice-Chancellor Prof SK Gakhar informed in 500 mts singles (K-1) Pooja Jakhar bagged gold medal in 500 mts doubles (K-2) Pooja and Jyoti again won gold medal and in 200 mts event singles K-1 Pooja won silver medal and 200 mts doubles (K-2) Pooja and Jyoti won silver medal. The girls have qualified for the forthcoming Khelo India university games to be held at Bhubaneswar, Odisha, he added.Lecture on groundwaterMahendragarh: The department of environmental studies, School of Interdisciplinary and Applied Sciences at Central University of Haryana (CUH) celebrated the World Water Dayby organising a lecture on "Groundwater: Making the invisible visible" in collaboration with the environment and climate change department, Panchkula. Prof Manoj K Pandit from the University of Rajasthan, Jaipur and Prof Rajbir Singh Sangwan from France were the key speakers. Vice Chancellor Prof Tankeshwar Kumar said pure water was going to be one of the major problems in future. He highlighted the need of water resources and specially emphasised on groundwater conservation and management.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-day-international-conference-381941
30-03-2022||On main roads||Illegal hoardings block view of motorists||Ramesh Gupta, NarwanaAdmn's social media handles inactiveRefering to "Inactive social media handles of Panchkula DC, Municipal Corporation, police irk residents" (The Tribune, March 25), is such a worrisome scenario that raises several eyebrows more so when their 'inactive' Twitter handles which prevents distressed residents from directly approaching them for redressal of their grievances. Even e-mails addressed to the incumbent DC, Panchkula, and the city MC, highlighting important issues, also remain unanswered. So, whom to fall back upon, if the situation so demands? One genuinely wishes that all such avenues, which provide direct connectivity between the aggrieved citizens and the city administration, are kept functional on a regular basis. Vinayak, panchkulaKurukshetra road in poor stateIt is disheartening to see the poor condition of roads in Kurukshetra city which is being projected as the religious capital. Instead of repairing the roads by carpeting or reconstructing these, patchwork is being carried out which is not durable and after sometime conditions of the city roads become full of potholes and cracks causing accidents and damaging vehicles. Most importantly, the main city road from Pipli to Kurukshetra university is hanging fire for many years. Residents of Kurukshetra have been taking up the matter with the administration and elected representatives, but to no avail.Ravi Bhushan, KurukshetraFilth dots public places in Ambala, no action by authorities concernedThese pictures pertain to an important area behind the building of Life Insurance Corporation, Ambala City, near the Main Post Office. The area always remains full of filth because hoteliers dump the muck carelessly which pile up. Besides, some car washers too add to miseries. The pits close to the electric transformer add to the worry because the dirty water mixed with residues gives foul smell and invite stray animals making the passage difficult for commuters. The area is seldom cleaned and remains neglected despite being close to important office buildings and way for shops.Gian P Kansal, Ambala CityWhat our readers sayIs a civic issue bothering you? Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/illegal-hoardings-block-view-of-motorists-381942
30-03-2022||Geetanjali GayatriChandigarh||Strike-hit Haryana to act against 5 roadways GMs||Adopting a carrot-and-stick policy, the Haryana Government has decided to act against five general managers of state roadways for failing to ensure proper bus service during the nationwide strike yesterday and issue appreciation letters to four others for “outstanding work”. Sources said Transport Minister Mool Chand Sharma recommended to the Chief Secretary to impose major penalty and issue chargesheet against the General Manager, Roadways, Hisar.Bus service impactedOrdering proceedings against other four GMs posted at Charkhi Dadri, Faridabad, Palwal and Sirsa depots, Principal Secretary (Transport) Navdeep Singh Virk instructed the Transport Director to send the draft chargesheet by March 31. Since one GM is retiring this month, his retirement benefits are being withheld till the proceedings are finalised. Sources said over 75% buses of these depots were impacted. In contrast, GMs of Jhajjar, Delhi, Narnaul and Chandigarh depots were applauded for ensuring plying of all buses. Sharma said public inconvenience wouldn’t be tolerated. #haryana roadways||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/strike-hit-haryana-to-act-against-5-roadways-gms-381874
