31-03-2022||Mahendragarh||Dushyant Chautala unveils statue of Chaudhary Devi Lal||Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala today unveiled an 11-feet tall statue of former Deputy Prime Minister Chaudhary Devi Lal at Tau Devi Lal Park in Mahendragarh city.Former Education Minister Ram Bilas Sharma was also present. Speaking on the occasion, Dushyant said the state government was leaving no stone unturned to ensure the overall development of the district by resolving all issues. — #chaudhary devi lal #dushyant chautala||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/dushyant-chautala-unveils-statue-of-devi-lal-382245
31-03-2022||Hisar||Excavation restarts at Rakhigarhi  site||A team of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has restarted excavation at the Harappan site of Rakhigarhi in the district with a team of about 40 employees.Dr Sanjay Kumar Munjal, Joint Director General (Archaeology), informed The Tribune that they had embarked on excavation at the mound numbers 1, 3 and partially on mound number 7 which is a burial site. He informed that, so far, there has been no significant discovery but they are likely to get some major breakthrough during the season.Asked about reports of recovery of a skeleton, Dr Munjal said it was of a child and it appeared to be related to the modern era and not related to the Harappan era. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/excavation-restarts-at-rakhigarhi-site-382244
31-03-2022||Chandigarh||Promotion quota also for employees disabled in service in Haryana||The Haryana Government has clarified that the benefits of reservation in promotions would also be admissible to the employees who were disabled while in service.“The Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995, does not make any distinction between persons acquiring disability before or after entering into service,” an order issued by the state government said.“A government employee, who acquires disability after joining service, will be equally entitled to get the benefit of reservation as provided to the disabled employees at the time of the entry into service with effect from the date he produces a certificate of disability to the appointing authority issued by the competent medical authority,” the order said. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/promotion-quota-also-for-employees-disabled-in-service-in-haryana-382243
31-03-2022||---||12 in core panel of new Bhartiya Kisan Union group||Karnal, March 30Farmer leaders from Karnal, Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Panipat districts and Safidon block, who had quit the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU Charuni) recently, today formed a new group named Bhartiya Kisan Union (Sir Chotu Ram) to raise farmers’ issues.A state-level core committee comprising 12 members has been formed to decide the future course of action and to take decisions on farmers’ issues.These farmer leaders have also decided that there would be no national and state president in the organisation. Only a 12-member committee will have all powers.Giving details, Bahadur Singh Mehla, who was present at the meeting, and one of the members of the committee, said the leaders had constituted the BKU (Chotu Ram) and a 12-member committee had been formed.Sukhwinder Singh from Nissing, Bahadur Mehla from Baldi in Karnal, Navjot Sandhu from Taraori,Tajinder Singh from Kaithal, Gursharan Cheema from Kaithal, Shamsher Ror from Nilokheri, Rammehar from Gharaunda, Baba Takhwinder from Darar, Chaterpal Sindhar from Jaisinghpura, Baghel Singh from Bansa, Samay Sandhu and Harbhajan Singh Alipura are among the committee members.“We will raise the issues of farmers. We will also chalk out the future strategy over the non-fulfilment of our demands, including an MSP gurantee Act,” said Mehla. #BKU||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/12-in-core-panel-of-new-bhartiya-kisan-union-group-382241
31-03-2022||Jhajjar||Naveen Jaihind to protest in Rohtak on April 2||Former state president of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Naveen Jaihind today announced to hold a demonstration in Rohtak city on April 2 in protest against the state government for curtailing the sports quota in government jobs. — #naveen jaihind||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/naveen-jaihind-to-protest-in-rohtak-on-april-2-382238
31-03-2022||Is a civic issue bothering you?||Damaged roads bane of commuters in gurugram||Are you agitated over the lack of concern? Is there something heartening that you feel needs to be highlighted? Or a picture which in your opinion ought to be seen by many, and not just you?The Tribune invites its readers to have their say. Please email at: haryanacity@tribunemail.com Damaged roads bane of commuters in gurugramThis road has been damaged for a long time now. Commuters are inconvenienced while moving on this part of the road. This road is leading to Badshapur to Sector 70 and Darparipur road and is congested. The authorities concerned must get it repaired at the earliest. Subhash C Taneja, GurugramBad road engineering, an invitation to accidentsThe authorities carrying out the widening or construction of slip roads at various intersections in the Greater Faridabad area of the city have set an example of bad or very poor road engineering by constructing the passage with electric poles and other stuff still standing in the median of the road. This has not been done at just one spot, but almost all crossings in the area, where the movement of vehicles and commuters is the most. The poles and road signs (signals) coming in the way at this crossing pose a major risk to the commuters as accidents can take place in case of negligence. While the problem is required to be resolved immediately, the agency and the officials supervising the job must also be taken to task. Pramod Manocha, FaridabadWastage of power can be avoidedIt is being noticed that for the past many days streetlights in Hisar are switched on at around 6pm daily whereas it can be postponed by at least half-an-hour due to clear visibility. Likewise, the lights in streets and parks are also left burning till 6.45 am. The authorities concerned should look into the issue and regulate it. Balgeet singh Deep, Hisar||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/damaged-roads-bane-of-commuters-in-gurugram-382236
31-03-2022||Karnal||Student selected for Asian games||Seminar on application of mathsFaridabad: A one-day seminar on the applications of mathematics, sponsored by Haryana State Council for Science Innovation and Technology (HSCSIT), was organised by the department of mathematics of JC Bose University of Science and Technology, YMCA, Faridabad. VC Prof Sushil Kumar Tomar highlighted the importance of mathematics and its applications in the modern world. He said without mathematics and its applications, the growth of engineering could not be imagined. Prof BS Rajput, former VC, Kumaun University, detailed the work and achievements of ancient Indian thinkers and philosophers in the field.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/student-selected-for-asian-games-382234
31-03-2022||---||Three-day ‘Chaitra Chaudas’ fair begins at Saraswati Tirtha in Pehowa||Kurukshetra, March 30The three-day Chaitra Chaudas fair started at the Saraswati Tirtha in Pehowa, Kurukshetra on Wednesday.Devotees from Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, UP and Delhi reach Pehowa during the Chaitra Chaudas fair in large numbers to offer prayers to their ancestors.The fair will conclude on April 1. Due to the Covid pandemic, the fair is being organised after two years.Fair administrator and SDM Pehowa Sonu Ram said, “The fair duly started today and devotees have started reaching from different parts of the country and all arrangements have been made to ensure that no one faces any inconvenience. The number of buses by the Roadways Department has been increased on this route, a control room has been set up and a close watch is being kept on the area around Saraswati Tirtha. Duty magistrates and sector officers have been deputed to maintain sanitation, electricity and other arrangements.”||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-day-chaitra-chaudas-fair-begins-382232
31-03-2022||Yamunanagar||Yamunanagar: Two factories, 7 shops sealed to recover property tax||As part of the Municipal Corporation, Yamunanagar-Jagadhri’s (MCYJ) drive to recover pending property tax from defaulters ahead of March 31, a team of the MCYJ sealed two factories and seven shops on Wednesday.A team constituted by Dhirendra Khadgata, Commissioner of MCYJ, sealed a plywood factory near Agrasain Chowk and a cement factory in Manakpur.The team also sealed seven shops in Indirapuram Colony and Ashoka Vihar Colony in Jagadhri. According to information, the authorities of MCYJ had recently issued notices to about 102 property holders for non-deposit of outstanding property tax. The MCYJ has collected only Rs 14.20 crore as property tax so far against the target of Rs 48 crore fixed for financial year 2021-22. Only one day is left for the current fiscal to end and the authorities of MCYJ are hoping to get more amounts by March 31. “We have started the process of sealing the properties of those, who have not deposited the outstanding property tax. Today, we sealed two factories and seven shops for non-deposit of property tax,” said Dhirendra Khadgata, Commissioner, MCYJ. He said that in the coming days, the MCYJ would seal the properties and shops of the outstanding property tax holders.“To avoid the sealing action of the MCYJ, the property owners should deposit their property tax,” said Khadgata. He further said the property holders could deposit their tax without paying interest by March 31, but after March 31, tax would be collected along with interest. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/two-factories-7-shops-sealed-to-recover-property-tax-382231
31-03-2022||Jhajjar||Jhajjar: Video on cheating in board exams goes viral||A video went viral on social media, showing several students supplying chits to their friends taking board exams of Class XII at the government school in Bupania village under the Badli sub-division here today.Interestingly, outsiders were also seen helping the examinees through the window of exam halls in the presence of police personnel there.Acting on the video, Badli SDM, Vishal Gakhar, along with police personnel, rushed to the exam centre. “We are going to take action against those indulged in the cheating,” Gakhar said.OUTSIDERS SEEN HELPING EXAMINEESInterestingly, outsiders were also seen helping the examinees through the window of exam halls in the presence of police personnel there.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/video-on-cheating-in-board-exams-goes-viral-382229
31-03-2022||Karnal||Graft case: Rs 17L recovered from former Superintending Engineer||The Karnal police have recovered Rs 17 lakh from former Superintending Engineer (SE) of the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC), Deepak Kinger, who was arrested last week from Faridabad allegedly in connection with viral videos showing he was taking money from his PA.“Deepak Kinger was on five-day police remand. During the remand period, the police have recovered Rs 17 lakh from his possession,” said Ganga Ram Punia, Superintendent of Police.The SP said that he was produced in court today after the completion of the police remand and sent to judicial custody. —||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/graft-case-rs-17l-recovered-from-former-superintending-engineer-382228
31-03-2022||---||Assets of ex-govt official attached in fraud case||New Delhi, March 30The Enforcement Directorate (ED) today said it has issued a provisional attachment order under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) to seize assets worth Rs 2.42 crore belonging to Naresh Kumar Sheokand, former District Revenue Officer (DRO) of Panchkula, and his alleged associate Shamshad as part of its probe in a case relating to corruption and cheating against them.The ED in an official statement said that it has initiated a probe under PMLA against Sheokand and others on the basis of an FIR registered by the State Vigilance Bureau and the CBI, under various Sections of the IPC and Prevention of Corruption Act, for criminal conspiracy, cheating, forgery and criminal misconduct of a public servant.The investigation in the case revealed that Sheokand in connivance with other private persons had fraudulently transferred NHAI and HSIIDC funds for acquisition to ineligible land owners, causing wrongful loss to the exchequer to the tune of Rs 37.89 crore, the ED alleged.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/assets-of-ex-govt-official-attached-in-fraud-case-382226
31-03-2022||---||Discom clerk held for embezzlement||Karnal, March 30The Panipat police have arrested the main accused in the embezzlement of multi-crore funds in the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN). Three accused had already been arrested.The accused has been identified as Raghav Wadhawan, a clerk of UHBVN in Bilaspur division, Yamunanagar. He was arrested on March 22 and was taken on police remand till today. He was again produced in court and was taken on seven-day further police remand, said ASP Pooja Vashisth.During investigation, Wadhawan confessed that he, with the help of other accomplices, had made fake vouchers and siphoned funds from the account of UHBVN. During the remand period, the police recovered Rs 46.86 lakh, an SUV, and 1.8 kg gold worth Rs 7 lakh from Raghav, she added.She said that earlier, Pawan Sharma of Saharanpur in UP, Ajay Sharma of Samalkha in Panipat, Yogesh of Yamunanagar had been arrested. So far, the police have recovered Rs 1.16 crore from all the accused.On the complaint of Suresh Kumar of Karad village in Panipat, a case was registered at Samalkha on February 8.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/discom-clerk-held-for-embezzlement-382225
31-03-2022||Faridabad||Bhupinder Singh Hooda: People will vote out BJP-JJP govt||Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda today said Haryana would be free from the “misrule” of the BJP-JJP alliance in the next elections as people were “disillusioned” with their performance.Hooda said people were fed up of “wrong” policies of the government. He announced that the next “Vipaksh Aapke Samaksh” (Opposition at Your Service) programme would be held here on April 24. He alleged that people had already made up their mind to vote out the government over their non-performance.Hooda was here in connection with the session of the National Integration and Sadbhavna Camp organised in the memory of Dr SN Subbarao, a well-known social worker and Gandhian. — #bhupinder hooda||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/bhupinder-singh-hooda-people-will-vote-out-bjp-jjp-govt-382223
31-03-2022||Hisar||Won’t allow JJP to hold Narnaund rally: Farmers||Agitating farmers of several villages in Narnaund subdivision of the district have announced that they would not allow the JJP, a coalition partner in the state regime, to hold a rally at Narnaund on April 5.The farmers have been staging a dharna at Kheri Jalab village in the subdivision for the past 15 days to protest the denial of compensation for crop loss. They have also locked the tehsil office at the village.They have been demanding compensation for the loss of kharif crops, including cotton, in 2021. The farmers have also alleged discrimination in the grant of compensation.On the other hand, officials concerned maintain that a special girdawari conducted to assess the damage indicated that the crop loss was less than 25 per cent, and hence these farmers did not qualify for compensation.A delegation of farmers had met Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala, following which a committee comprising SDMs of Hisar and Narnaund and a Deputy Director (Agriculture) had been constituted to look into the matter.However, farmers lament that no functionary of the state government had approached them to address their concerns till date.Hence, they said they had decided that they would not let the JJP rally, proposed to be held at Narnaund on April 5, take place.“A detailed strategy in this regard will be chalked out at a meeting slated to be held on April 2,” said a farmer leader.Seeking compensation for crop lossFarmers have been staging a dharna at Kheri Jalab village in Narnaund subdivision for the past 15 days to protest the denial of compensation for crop loss. They have also locked the tehsil office at the village. #dushyant chautala #farmers protest||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/wont-allow-jjp-to-hold-narnaund-rally-farmers-382222
31-03-2022||---||Three get life term in murder case in Karnal village||Karnal, March 30A court of the Additional Sessions Judge Sonepat, Devinder Singh, awarded life imprisonment to three persons for abducting and killing a milkman of Gumar village in Gannaur on July 10, 2017. The court has also imposed a penalty of Rs 65,000 each.As per the police, the convicted Dinesh, Munish and Parveen of Gumar village abducted milkman Ankit and strangulated him after making him unconscious by giving some intoxicant. They threw his body after tying his hands and legs in the canal.The police had registered a case on July 11 and later the trio was arrested on October 29. During the investigation, they confessed to the crime and told the police they wanted to extort Ankit’s father on the pretext of kidnapping.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-get-life-term-in-murder-case-in-karnal-village-382220
31-03-2022||Bijendra Ahlawat||Fund crunch delays Ballabgarh auditorium project||Faridabad, March 30The cost of the first auditorium of Ballabgarh town here has gone up by several crores due to the delay in release of payments, it is revealed. The work which was withdrawn from a private agency and handed over to the PWD last year has failed to restart due to unavailability of funds so far.“Though the foundation stone was laid in 2014, only 60 per cent of the work has been completed so far,’’ claim sources. The work which had been lying suspended or on hold due to a tussle between the contractor and the Municipal Corporation Faridabad(MCF) over clearance of pending bills for the past over two years, was transferred to the PWD in 2021. However, according to officials, unavailability of funds as per the revised estimate has led to continued delay in work. “Funds to the tune of about Rs 12 crore is needed as the revised estimate of the project is pegged over Rs 16 crore,” said an official of the PWD, who added that despite administrative approval the money was yet to be received. Pradeep Sindhu, Executive Engineer, PWD, said thework was expected to start as soon as the funds were made available. The delays have made the project cost jump by more than two and half times of the original cost of Rs 6.75 crore, it is claimed.“The project which has consumed eight long years and the budget escalated several times is a result of total mismanagement,” says Ajay Bahl, a resident.With the foundation stone laid in August 2014, the original deadline of December 2016 and the revised deadlines of December 2019 , December 2020 and December 2021 stand missed, it is revealed. The work on it has got disrupted mainly due to the shortage of funds or financial crunch faced by the civic body and the wrangles over the payment to the contractor awarded the project seven years ago.Neeraj Sharma of KBG Construction who was allotted the work at the beginning, said it got halted due to non-release of his dues for the works done.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/fund-crunch-delays-ballabgarh-auditorium-project-382218
31-03-2022||Ravinder Saini||Three senior doctors at Rohtak PGIMS seek VRS in two months||Rohtak, March 30Already grappling with shortage of specialist doctors, Pt BD Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) here has suffered another blow with one more senior faculty member of Department of Medicine, Dr Harpreet Singh, seeking volunteer retirement from service.Associated with the PGIMS for more than three decades, Dr Harpreet also runs a special clinic of rheumatology and is known as one of the best doctors in the state. He has cited family reasons in his VRS notice. Dr Harpreet is the third specialist doctor at the PGIMS in the past two months, who has sent three-month VRS notice to the PGIMS authorities. Earlier, Senior Professor (Dr) RC Siwach, head, Department of Orthopaedics; and endocrinology specialist Dr Rajesh Rajput have also sought voluntary retirement.“Internal politics, rising workload due to staff shortage and attractive earnings in the private sector are some of the major reasons forcing senior doctors of the PGIMS to take VRS. I know good doctors who wished to serve the poor but they were either shifted to other institutes or had to take VRS from the PGIMS following unfavourable atmosphere,” commented a retired PGIMS doctor on anonymity.Dr Ranbir Singh Dahiya, a former senior professor (surgery), who too got VRS from the PGIMS in 2014 said that VRS by specialist doctors was not a good trend. The state government should talk to senior faculty members of the PGIMS to redress their grievances and take vital steps for the betterment of the institute. Otherwise, the series of VRS would continue in the future as well, he added. Dr Shamsher Singh Lohchab, Director, PGIMS, while confirming the VRS notice moved by Dr Harpreet Singh, said he would talk to him and would try to persuade him to change his decision. “Taking VRS is not a new trend. Doctors adopt this option some years prior to their retirement,” he added. #rohtak pgims||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/three-senior-doctors-at-rohtak-pgims-seek-vrs-in-two-months-382217
31-03-2022||Karnal||Karnal: Flaws in new survey of property IDs raised during minister Kamal Gupta’s visit||Urban Local Bodies Minister Kamal Gupta on Wednesday visited the Karnal Municipal Corporation (KMC) office. During his visit, discrepancies in the new survey of property IDs were the key issue, which was raised not only by residents, but also by the public representatives and officials.Firm conducting survey must be penalisedThe company which has conducted the survey for the property IDs must be penalised. It has made residents run from pillar to post to get ther flaws corrected. Ish Gulati, councillorNeed to bring about changeI have come here for the first time after taking charge as the minister. There is a need to bring about some change in the system. I will get all issues resolved as and when these come to my knowledge. Kamal Gupta, Urban local bodies ministerA private company has conducted the survey of the city with the help of drones. After this survey, the residents have to face inconvenience as there are lots of flaws in the IDs, including wrong name, wrong property IDs, excess area, less area and others. An 80-year-old woman told the minister that after the survey, her property ID was made in the names of three persons. She has been making rounds of the office, but all in vain. "The company which has conducted the survey for the property IDs should be penalised, as it has made residents run from pillar to post to get their flaws in property IDs corrected," said Ish Gulati, a councillor who apprised the minister about the problems being faced by the residents.Earlier, Gupta held a meeting with Mayor Renu Bala Gupta, Commissioner Naresh Narwal, Joint Commissioner Gagandeep Singh, councillors and officials of the KMC in the office of the Mayor.Meanwhile, the representatives of the councillors were asked not to attend the meeting, brewing resentment among them.Even the minister made it clear that no representative will attend the official meeting. “I have directed the officials not to allow the representative in the official meeting,” said the minister.In the meeting, the Commissioner informed the minister that they had constituted monitoring committees and the concerned councillors had been made the members of it. Several flaws have been found during the inspection of the works, and the contractors have been directed to remove the flaws.During this meeting, the minister discussed the ongoing projects of the city as well as the development works. He directed the officials to ensure beautification of parks.The minister reached the KMC office premises at around 2.20pm and remained there till 4pm. He went to the office of the Commissioner and later reached the citizen facilitation centre (CFC), where he inquired about the services being provided to the residents. He directed the officials to ensure single window system. When he reached the property ID correction centre, he was surrounded by the residents who came there with complaints. “I have come here for the first time after taking the charge as the minister. There is a need to bring about some change in the system. I will get all issues resolved as and when these come to my knowledge,” said the minister.Action will be initiated if anyone is found involved in corrupt practices, said minister on being asked about the reports of rampant corruption in the civic bodies.On the issue of spreading wings of AAP in Haryana, he said it was a democracy. The power of vote is strong.Several flaws in IDsA private company has conducted the survey of the city with the help of drones. After this survey, residents have to face inconvenience as there are lots of flaws in IDs, including wrong name, wrong property IDs, excess area, less area and others.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/flaws-in-new-survey-of-property-ids-raised-during-ministers-visit-382216
31-03-2022||Saurabh Malik||Explain why witness not asked to identify accused: Punjab and Haryana High Court to judge||Chandigarh, March 30The Punjab and Haryana High Court has directed an Additional Sessions Judge to submit his explanation after noticing apparent negligence on his part in a murder case.Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan of the High Court asserted that it was mandatory for the court and the public prosecutor concerned to ask question from an eyewitness regarding the identification of the accused. But the judicial officer failed to do the same during the course of the hearing in the matter.Prosecution failureIt is surprising that the identification of the accused facing the trial and present in the court was “not got done” by the prosecution witness. Justice Arvind Sangwan, Punjab & Haryana HCJustice Sangwan also ordered Haryana Director Prosecution to submit a reply about the guidelines issued to all District Attorney/ Deputy District Attorney/ Additional District Attornies in this regard. He was further directed to seek an explanation from the District Attorney/DDA/ADA concerned.The matter was brought to Justice Sangwan’s notice after an accused filed a regular bail plea in a case registered for murder and other offences in August 2019 at the Uklana police station in Hisar.As the case came up for resumed hearing before Justice Sangwan’s Bench, an affidavit, filed by Barwala Deputy Superintendent of Police, was taken on record. The counsel for the petitioner, during the course of arguments, also referred to the statement of an eyewitness in the case.Referring to his examination-in-chief, Justice Sangwan asserted that neither the District Attorney concerned, who was getting the statement recorded on that day, nor the Additional Sessions Judge/the presiding officer “surprisingly” noticed the fact that the identification of the accused facing the trial and present in the court was “not got done” by the prosecution witness.“It appears to be a deliberate attempt on part of the District Attorney to help the accused and negligence on part of the Additional Sessions Judge in not adhering to the fact that despite guidelines issued, it is mandatory for the court as well as the Public Prosecutor concerned to ask question for the identification of the accused done from the eye-witness,” Justice Sangwan said.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/explain-why-witness-not-asked-to-identify-accused-punjab-and-haryana-high-court-to-judge-382214
31-03-2022||Karnal||Wheat procurement round the corner, yet Karnal grain markets lack basic amenities in Karnal district||Even as the state government has announced to start wheat procurement from April 1, basic facilities are missing at a majority of the grain markets and purchase centres in the district.The supply of gunny bags in grain markets and purchase centres is yet to be made, while heaps of garbage are lying at many places, reflecting a poor sanitation condition. Besides, stray cattle menace is a major issue in different grain markets.Arhtiyas without gunny bagsThe season is about to start, but no gunny bags have been given to arhtiyas. If the purchase starts in two days, where will they keep the procured wheat? Rajesh Arora, secretary, Karnal arhtiyas associationTo check the preparedness for procurement, a visit to a couple of major grain markets showed that cleanliness was missing at most of the markets, as garbage was lying at various places. Animals could be seen roaming on roads, which were also in a pathetic condition.Arhtiyas complained of not having gunny bags. “The season is about to start, but still no gunny bags have been given to arhtiyas. If the procurement starts in two days, where will they keep the procured wheat,” said Rajesh Arora, secretary, Karnal Arhtiyas Association.Rajinder Gupta, vice-president, Karnal Arhtiyas Assocition, said the situation was almost the same in grain markets of Nissing, Kunjpura, Indri, Nilokheri, Taraori, Assandh, Gharaunda, Nigdhu and others.Dr Pooja Bharti, zonal administrator, Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB), said the Deputy Commissioner, Anish Yadav, today held a meeting of all officials concerned and directed them to ensure arrangements before the commencement of the procurement. The SDMs have been directed to visit their grain markets. “I have also visited four grain markets today and some issues came to my notice there. I have directed the authorities to ensure cleanliness as well as make all the arrangements,” said Bharti.Yadav said wheat would be procured for the rabi season 2022-23 at 22 grain markets and purchase centres in the district. Market committee secretaries had been directed to ensure that no problem would be faced by the farmers.Secretaries had been directed to ensure CCTV cameras at entry gates of the grain markets, besides ensuring the availability of the Internet facility at gates for the issuance of gate passes. Toilets should be cleaned and drinking water and electricity should be available, he added. #wheat procurement||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/procurement-round-the-corner-yet-grain-markets-lack-basic-amenities-in-karnal-district-382213
31-03-2022||Ravinder Saini||Russia-Ukraine war impact: Stored wheat sells above MSP in Haryana||Rohtak, March 30The global shortage of wheat due to the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war has brought financial benefit to those farmers in Rohtak, Jhajjar and Rewari districts who had stored their wheat produce in the last season.Also read: Russia-Ukraine War impact: At Rs 2,300 per quintal, wheat sells above MSP in Punjab Unexpected gainFarmers store at least 10 per cent of their wheat produce every season. Early this month, private traders contacted farmers and purchased their entire stored wheat for Rs2,200 to Rs2,300 per quintal following the global crisis of wheat due to the Russia-Ukraine war. Bhup Singh, a farmerThey reaped good profit by selling their wheat produce from Rs 2,200 to Rs 2,300 per quintal in the private market this month. The government had procured their produce for Rs 1,975 per quintal at minimum support price (MSP) last year.As the new produce of wheat is yet to arrive in grain markets, the old wheat is still being bought by private traders from Rs 2,050 to Rs 2,100 per quintal.The government will start procurement of wheat from April 1 at MSP of Rs 2,015 per quintal.“Farmers store at least 10 per cent of their wheat produce every season in order to deal with any crisis. They sell it in the private market before the arrival of the new produce. Early this month, private traders contacted such farmers and purchased their entire stored wheat for Rs 2,200 to Rs 2,300 per quintal following the global crisis of wheat due to the Russia-Ukraine war. It is for the first time we got such a high price for wheat,” said Bhup Singh, a farmer.Harsh Girdhar, co-chairman, Haryana State Grain Market Commission Agents Association, said days after the Russia-Ukraine war, a sudden rise in wheat price was witnessed not only in Rohtak and surrounding districts but also in other states. Russia and Ukraine are large producers of wheat and the war had taken a toll on the wheat export to other countries from there, he added.“The majority of farmers who had stored the wheat have earned a profit of Rs 225 to Rs 300 per quintal by selling it in the private market. The situation will further encourage the practice of hoarding wheat among farmers in the coming season as scarcity of wheat in the international market still continues and farmers are aware of it,” said Girdhar, adding that wheat was delivered to Kandla port (Gujarat) for Rs 2,550 per quintal early this month.Ashok Yadav, a commission agent, Rewari, said private traders had purchased wheat for Rs 2,200 to Rs 2,250 per quintal over a week ago. “Now, no old stock of wheat is available at the market in Rewari as all farmers have already sold their stored produce for a good price,” he added.Another commission agent in Jhajjar informed that many local farmers sold their produce to private buyers at the grain market in Najafgarh (Delhi) for up to Rs 2,300 per quintal due to rising demand of wheat in the international market. #MSP #russia ukraine war #ukraine crisis||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/war-impact-stored-wheat-sells-above-msp-in-haryana-382211
31-03-2022||Geetanjali GayatriChandigarh||Free education for EWS kids in private schools goes in Haryana||The Haryana Government has withdrawn the facility of free education in private schools to the children of Economically Weaker Section by omitting Rule 134-A in the Haryana School Education Rules, 2003.After a notification to this effect was issued, private schools across the state welcomed the move. They had been protesting against the facility on grounds that the parents were submitting fake income certificates to avail the benefit. However, the Education Department maintained that the rule had to be dropped since it was at variance with the Right to Education Act (RTE) of the Central government.“Rule 134-A was a provision under the Haryana School Education Rules, which existed prior to the RTE. The new Act provides for 25 per cent benefit to the EWS, while Rule 134-A provided benefit of only 10 per cent. Since this was at variance with the Central Act, itwas dropped,” ACS (Higher Education) Anand Mohan Sharan, link officer for school education, said.He said private schools would be reimbursed according to provisions in the Act that state that the Haryana Government would pay the private school according to its per child spending or school fee, whichever was less. This implies that the schools will now get reimbursement for the number of students studying as per rules.The private schools, while not admitting students under Rule 134-A in the last academic session, had been demanding from the government that the pending Rs 1500 crore towards the beneficiaries be reimbursed to them or these students be shifted to government-run Sanskriti model schools.“At a meeting, we even suggested that the government transfer the fee of the Sanskriti model schools directly into the accounts of the parents of these children through DBT and leave it to them to decide where they want to seek admission,” says Anil Kaushik of the private schools’ association.Saying they pointed out that parents were using fake income certificates to seek admission under Rule 134-A, Kaushik said linking the data to the “Parivar Pehchan Patra” proved that only 4,100 of 49,000 admissions were genuine. #ews #private schools||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/haryana/free-education-for-ews-kids-in-private-schools-goes-in-haryana-382197
