01-02-2021||First Edit||Scrap elevated corridor project||The elevated road project in Bengaluru which was shelved by the Kumaraswamy government following public outcry over its viability finds numerous mention in the Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP) giving rise to the suspicion that the present dispensation is trying to push it through surreptitiously. The Rs 13,250 crore, 90 km project for which the CMP proposes to allot Rs 5,250 crore in the first phase, will only end up complicating the city’s mobility issues rather than solving it, not to mention the adverse environmental impact. The Yediyurappa government’s obstinate stand even in the light of stiff opposition from the citizens who are the main stakeholders, may only add credence to the oft-repeated charge that the real objective of the project is to pander to the cement and steel lobbies, than to ease Bengaluru’s transport problems. Ironically, the very BJP MLAs who had vociferously opposed the project in 2018 when the Janata Dal (S)-Congress government was in power are the ones who are rooting for it now. Strangely, the Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Limited has been made the implementing agency, instead of an independent planning authority which would have adopted a more scientific approach and recommended a pragmatic solution. While the government claims that the corridor would support traffic speeds of 80 km per hour, a study by Indian Institute of Science states that given the increase in traffic density in 2030 when the project is expected to be completed, the travel time will be reduced by only 5.3%, and actually move to negative down the years. On the other hand, a metro corridor will reduce the travel time by 40%. Similarly, according to the study, while the road corridor will increase the particle matter (PM) pollution by 11% in 2030, metro rail will reduce it by at least 20%. Increasing the carriage capacity will only add to the vehicular population, making it unsustainable in the long run, defeating the stated purpose of the project. Besides, the elevated corridor will reduce the width of the already narrow roads below leading to further chaos, while there will be little or no space for footpaths. Land acquisition could also pose a problem. Instead, the focus should be on metro rail  and public transport that will reduce the vehicular density on existing roads, while at the same time facilitating mass rapid transit across the city with minimal impact on the environment. The elevated corridor project needs to be scrapped immediately as it will serve absolutely no purpose except further draining the exchequer of the already cash-strapped state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/scrap-elevated-corridor-project-945804.html
01-02-2021||In Perspective||Where welfare state policies are in need||In the context of liberalisation and economic reforms, opinion as well as policy has veered round to lowering government intervention in the spheres of labour, markets, procurement, prices etc. But in a country or society beset with inequality, injustice and built-in disabilities to compete in a level-playing field (in the form of discrimination based on caste, religion, region, language and sex), the government intervention for the benefit of the disadvantaged sections, also called dirigisme/directed or welfare state policies, are abidingly, largely consensually, held necessary.  The policy of minimum support prices has to be viewed in the context of a growing and large proportion of landless labour and marginal land holders on the one hand, and huge market operators with potentially monopolistic resources, to purchase, to stock and sell when the market prices are the most remunerative.  The poor, amidst constantly   growing inequality, are under the potential depredations of these monopoly operators and ultimately will get only the lowest relative prices and remain mired in poverty, socio-economic stagnation and helplessness, a travesty of justice and democracy intentions and welfare state ideals. The inequality/disability scenario is typified by worsening land holding patterns. Over the years, holdings are hopelessly fragmenting, each holding is less than two hectares; these are 86.1% of total holdings and are 12.56 crore households. They are becoming progressively unviable as productive units to more satisfactorily yield the much needed produce, universal nutrition, employment and cash income.   And on the other hand, these holdings are inevitable as sources of the sense of security, dignity, initiative and of agency; without this holding, (this is often sought to be jeopardised/purchased/facilitated/surrendered/sold to non-agricultural urban purposes for one time compensation), individual farmers get consigned to penury, indignity and beggarly sub-human status.  A more poignant aspect of this inequality scenario is the lack of access and receipt of bank loans by the poor distressed agriculturists. Policy-wise, India is increasing allocation of loans from banks to the agricultural sector every year significantly, and is a decades’ old feature. In 2011-12, allocation was Rs 4.75 lakh crore and steadily it increased to Rs 15 lakh crore in 2020-21 with an allocated subsidy of Rs 21,175 crore. During these 10 years, most of these loans have gone to the rich; not even 20% of the poor farmers have accessed these loans.  The RBI has expressed concern about this deficiency in access by the poor, they are said to have received less than 15% of disbursements. The share is 79% for the class of the largest land holding class. This skewed loan access has resulted in another systemic misfortune; less and less additional capital investment under private (and government) aegis has gone into agriculture and instead has gone into urban rentier property with scope for capital gains; all this is by the rural rich who are on their city-ward exodus, making the villages deprived of youth, skills and physical and financial capital. Exodus of capital Evidence for this increasing rural-urban exodus of capital is in stagnant incomes or low increases in income among small farmers and rural labour, manifest increase in numbers and kinds of poverty and socio-economic inequality and insecurity. Coming to statistics, a 2019 working group of the RBI has found inconsistencies vis-a-vis agricultural credit disbursal in several states.  In these states, disbursed farm sector loans were found to be far in excess of their respective state agricultural GDP: Kerala – 326%, Andhra Pradesh—254%, Tamil Nadu—245%, Punjab—231%, Telengana—245%. Also, one reason behind this diversion is that this subsidised agricultural credit to big farmers at a 4-7% rate is being arbitrage lent to small and distressed farmers at rates up to 36%.  Thus, inequality phenomenon is being bolstered by government/bank loans to (richer) agriculturists. Thus, criteria-based inexorability in government policies and schemes may not yield the intended results. Dirigisme policies and direct, focused attack on poverty have to continue as an integral part of democratic welfare state governance, despite the avowed and hankered after merits or need for economic reforms/liberalisation. As a necessary alternative, there is need for income transfers favouring small land holders depending on the size of their holdings (a sort of negative land holding tax) and active agricultural production and encouragement/delivery of manifold grains, superior foods and products. These direct transfers will pave the way for stability of incomes and social security, and skill improvement and education of succeeding generations of farmer families.  Obviously, dirigisme administration has to be imaginative and manifold; the departments and officials in charge of this dirigisme have to be both technically and attitudinally trained and skilled; and have to be suitably drawn from education, health, PWD, departments of employment, training and labour. The tradition of cursorily adding on welfare administration to the existing straitjacket specialised/routine departments  have to give way to emphasis on the brass tacks of development administration, training as well as funding.     (The writer is former Professor, Maharaja’s College, Mysuru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/where-welfare-state-policies-are-in-need-945802.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Udupi student becomes Zilla Panchayat CEO for 30 mins||A student of a Government PU College in Brahmvar taluk assumed the role of Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer in Udupi for half an hour and gave inputs related to cleanliness drive. Varsha was selected for this activity on January 24, celebrated as National Girl Child Day. Students took part in various competitions on the day and 30 best performers were selected for a tour of the Zilla Panchayat office. The girl sat in the chair of Zilla Panchayat CEO Dr Y Naveen Bhat, sitting opposite to her. They discussed the development of the district and cleanliness. Varsha also gave suggestions about effective scientific disposal of waste. Bhat said that the students were informed on Swacch Bharat Mission, MGNREGS, tourism projects and others. In addition, they were also given information on laws related to women and how to face competitive exams like IAS and KAS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/udupi-student-becomes-zilla-panchayat-ceo-for-30-mins-946162.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||3 held for attempt to molest a girl, stabbing people||Three youth, wearing helmets, barged into a hotel to disrupt birthday celebrations and stabbed those who attempted to stop them from molesting a girl student, near Bendoorwell Circle on Saturday evening. Kadri (East) police arrested all the three youth. The accused were identified as Thrishool Salian (19) from Bokkapattana, Santhosh Poojary (19) from Kodical and Dyanish Aran D’Cruz (18) from Dambel in Ashoknagar, Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar told mediapersons on Monday. They had barged into the hotel to outrage the modesty of the PU student celebrating birthday with friends. The girl's friends, who rushed to her help, were also assaulted with lethal weapons. In the melee, a youth, who was part of the celebrations, suffered stab injuries, Kumar added. "The 18-year-old girl resides with her grandparents in Puttur. Thrishool and the girl student had become friends on social media. Thrishool in order to woo the girl had presented her many gifts. However, the girl student before ending the friendship had called Thrishool to Bunts Hostel and had returned all the gifts. In a fit of rage, Thrishool had reportedly brandished a knife warning of dire consequences. Later, the girl student had attended birthday celebrations at the hotel. Thrishool, along with his friends, had barged into the hotel and attempted to attack the girl. The video of clashes inside the hotel has gone viral on social media. Police have registered a case under IPC Sections 143, 147, 148, 324, 354, 307, 506, 149 and Indian Arms Act. Kumar said, "Thrishool has a criminal background with a case registered against him under IPC section 307 at Bunder police station a year ago."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-held-for-attempt-to-molest-a-girl-stabbing-people-946227.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||PMO responds to a complaint on quarrying at KRS||The Prime Minister's office has responded to an e-mail sent by a BJP worker C T Manjunath alleging quarrying activities around the popular Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam, in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district. Responding to the mail, the PMO has directed the authorities to conduct a probe and submit a report. Manjunath had sent a mail to the Prime Minister's office on January 24, claiming that the KRS dam is under threat due to the quarrying activities around it. He had also cited that the State Natural Disaster Management Centre has issued a report banning quarrying around the 20-km radius of the dam. The mining activity should be banned, he stressed. Responding to the complaint, the PM's Office has directed the Central Water Commission, Principal Secretary of the Water Resources department to conduct a comprehensive probe and submit a report. It has also directed the CM's office and the Mines and Geology department to conduct a probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pmo-responds-to-a-complaint-on-quarrying-at-krs-946342.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ready to fight to save country: Doreswamy||Freedom fighter H S Doreswamy, on Monday said that he is getting ready to launch a struggle to save the country with the support of a large number of people. Speaking at a programme in Mysuru, organised by District Kannada Sahitya Parishat, he said, “I am meeting the people of all religions. Around 300 people are already ready to go to jail for the cause. They have also assured of extending support to non-cooperation movement and peaceful protests,” he said. Targeting all the parties, Doreswamy said that the people have put the country on the hands of an elected dictator. The capitalists like Adani and Ambani have been utilising Narendra Modi, he alleged. While the country is facing all kinds of problems, the Congress party has gone into deep slumber, and the people are tired of the developments, he lamented. “Rahul Gandhi never comes out of the house. I will write a letter asking him to read the biography of his grandfather Nehru and try to follow him. Or, handover the post of party president to others,” he said. Targeting JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda, he said, “He (Gowda) is functioning as per his wish, supporting only those who favours him. It is not possible to depend on him for any struggle,” he ridiculed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ready-to-fight-to-save-country-doreswamy-946343.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Protest against hike in petrol, diesel price in Mandya||Condemning the rise in price of petrol, diesel and essential commodities, members of Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) staged a protest near the Deputy Commissioner's office in Mandya on Monday. Pointing out that the government has stopped disbursing scholarships to students belonging to Scheduled Caste and Tribe communities, the protesters urged for its released immediately. "The amendment to the farm laws should be cancelled. The government is privatising all industries to cancel reservation and is trying to lure the people in the name of religion," they said. Based on Justice Nagmohandas report, reservation of SC/STs should be increased to 20% and 10% respectively, they stressed. By implementing Anti-cow Slaughter Law, the government has created a lot of problems to farmers. Lakhs of people will become unemployed. In the name of cow protection, the government is meting out injustice to Dalits, Muslims and Christians. The laws should be withdrawn immediately, they urged. By amending labour laws, the working hours are increased from eight to 12 hours. This should be withdrawn and the pension to senior citizens should be released soon, they demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/protest-against-hike-in-petrol-diesel-price-in-mandya-946344.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Budget lays foundation for India’s future: S T Somashekar||Mysuru District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar described the Union Budget, presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, on Monday, as ‘historical’ and as ‘foundation for future India’ with foresight on ‘Nation First’. In a press release, the minister stated that, the stress on Athmanirbhar Bharat will help farmers, youth and women to become financially empowered. “The state government will supplement the Centre’s initiatives. Both the Centre and state governments are committed to the farm sector and farmers. The announcement on minimum support price (MSP) is in this direction, to double the income of farmers. The announcement on upgrading of Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) yards is an indication towards the pro-farmer policy of the government,” he said. Somashekar said, “The plan of Rs 16.5 lakh crore, to strengthen the agriculture sector, is commendable. Focus on animal husbandry and fisheries is also a positive development. Farmers should exploit the opportunities for exports of their produce. An outlay of Rs 27 lakh crore, over five years, for Athmanirbhar Bharat will give a boost to the manufacturing sector.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/budget-lays-foundation-for-india-s-future-s-t-somashekar-946345.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mastakabhisheka to 18-feet statue of Shantinatha||Mastakabhisheka was performed to the 18-ft tall statue of Shantinatha Thirthankara at the Jain temple in Bastihalli, Halebid, on Sunday. The temple was constructed during the Hoysala period. Special abhishekas were performed on the statue of the 16th Thirthankara Shantinatha. The statue was anointed with water, sandal, milk, tender coconut, red sandal, turmeric, sugarcane juice, kashaya and others, amid the chanting of mantras by priests. A large number of devotees from various places in Hassan district attended the ceremony, singing bhajans praising the saint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mastakabhisheka-to-18-feet-statue-of-shantinatha-946350.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||15 new police vehicles to serve public during emergency||In an effort to serve the public during emergency, the Police department launched ‘Emergency Response Support System’ in Hassan district, with 15 new vehicles, including 11 Scorpio and four Toyota cars, to its fleet. The system is an initiative to create a people-friendly environment. The public, who require the help of Police or Fire and Emergency Services can call free helpline number ‘112’. The vehicles will reach the spot within a few minutes. The vehicles are equipped with the latest technologies like siren, top light, medical kits, GPS and Google map. The vehicles will not only reach the emergency site within minutes, but it also has the facility to provide minute-to-minute information to the control room. The vehicles will reach the spot in case of minor incidents of clash due to trivial reason, farmers problems, cases related to domestic and sexual violence, fire mishap and others. While four vehicles are identified for Hassan, 11 vehicles will be on service for the taluks. There is a target for the vehicles to reach the spot in nine minutes in Hassan. If it is successful, it would be reduced to 7.30 minutes in coming days. The time limit will be 16 to 20 minutes in taluks, according to sources. The Police department has formed a 45-member trained team for every shift. The team includes assistant sub-inspector, head constable, constable and expert drivers. The team members have been specially trained in Mysuru and Dakshina Kannada districts, according to Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda. “The team will also patrol, to check people moving in a suspicious manner, to prevent illegal activities, clash, gambling and other crime in Hassan district,” the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/15-new-police-vehicles-to-serve-public-during-emergency-946352.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Genetic abnormality has not dwarfed her achievements||P V Srujana of Nagapura Tribal Rehabiliation Centre, has cleared the UGC National Eligibility Test (UGC-NET), and became the first tribal woman to qualify for the post of assistant professor. Srujana has dwarfism - a genetic abnormality. But, that did not deter her from achieving the goals and is now a pride to the community with her academic achievement. Srujana’s family is one of the tribals, which came out of the Nagarahole forest around 22 years ago. Earlier, a few had made strides in education under the guidance of Dr Sudarshan of Biligiri Rangana Betta, but lost interest later. Srujana, who was born at Balakovu tribal hamlet in Virajpet taluk in Kodagu district, completed her primary education at the government school in Ummathuru. She completed her PUC and graduation in Hunsur. She secured 74% in her Master’s degree in Commerce in 2018-19, in Manasagangotri and has passed the UGC National Eligibility Test (UGC-NET) in Finance and Taxation. Srujana has proved that her genetic problem has not come in the way of achievement, and has been using the opportunities in an intelligent manner. Now, she wishes to begin her career as a lecturer and also nurtures an ambition to do her doctorate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/genetic-abnormality-has-not-dwarfed-her-achievements-946354.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||PMO responds to complaint on quarrying around KRS Dam||The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has responded to an e-mail sent by C T Manjunath, a BJP worker, alleging quarrying activities around the popular Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in Srirangapatna taluk in the district and has directed the authorities to conduct a probe and submit a report. Manjunath had sent a mail to the PMO on January 24 claiming that the KRS dam is under threat due to the quarrying activities around it. He had also cited the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Management Centre’s report recommending a ban on quarrying within 20 km radius of the dam.The mining activity should be banned, he stressed. Responding to the complaint, the PMO has directed the Central Water Commission, principal secretary of the water resources department to conduct a comprehensive probe and submit a report. It has also directed the chief minister’s office and the mines and geology department to conduct a probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pmo-responds-to-complaint-on-quarrying-around-krs-dam-946379.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Headmaster in KR Pet taluk held under POCSO Act||The KR Pet Rural police have arrested Krishnegowda, headmaster of Hariharapura Government High School in KR Pet taluk on charges of sexually harassing students and abusing them by caste. Alleging sexual harassment and caste abuse, during school hours, parents of girl students complained to the Block Education Officer (BEO) against Krishnegowda. Based on this, BEO Basavaraj lodged a complaint with the Rural police. The police booked the headmaster under Protection of Children against Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act, arrested him and remanded to judicial custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/headmaster-in-kr-pet-taluk-held-under-pocso-act-946388.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Seven PDOs suspended for lapses in housing schemes||As many as seven panchayat development officers (PDO) in Bhalki taluk were suspended by zilla panchayat CEO Gyanendra Kumar Gangwar following irregularities in the selection of beneficiaries for various housing schemes in 2015-16 and 2018-19. The suspended PDOs are: Baaluru Gram Panchayat PDO Sangamesh Saavale (now Meti Melkund GP); Biri B-Mallesh Maruti (now Chimmegaon GP); Jyanthi-Revanappa (now Gore Chincholi GP); Morambi-Rekha (now Dhummanasur GP); Talavad(K)-Chandrashekar Gangashetti (now Malachapur GP); Varawatti-Santhosh Swamy (now Rekulagi GP) and Yenakuru-Praveenkumar. Gangwar told reporters, “During the inquiry, the PDOs in question were found to have committed irregularities in selection of beneficiaries for housing schemes. It was found that allotment of about 9,000 houses was improper. Houses have been allotted to the influential and their relatives.”   The ZP CEO further said there were complaints about a few PDOs claiming two bills for a single house. The managing director of Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation Ltd had submitted a report about the irregularities by the PDOs in the housing schemes. The director had on April 27, 2019, written to the competent authority to initiate action against the errant PDOs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/seven-pdos-suspended-for-lapses-in-housing-schemes-946389.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Maharashtra CM issuing baseless statements: Laxman Savadi||Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi said that Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was issuing baseless statements to divert the attention of his people from his failures. Speaking to the reporters, the deputy chief minister said that the Maharashtra CM was arrogant and should be condemned for his audacity to claim Belagavi, Nippani and Karwar as part of Maharashtra. "All these areas are an integral part of Karnataka and will remain so. In fact, Belagavi is the state’s second capital with winter session being held in Suvarna Soudha. All the previous attempts and research taken up has proved Belagavi to be part of Karnataka," he said "It is just an attempt by Thackeray to cover up his failures in front of his people, who are completely unhappy with his administration", he said. He reiterated that great warrior and Maratha king Shivaji originally hailed from Gadag. “His ancestors are from here.” Retorting to a query on the Lok Sabha candidate for Belgaum constituency, after the vacancy created due to the death Suresh Angadi, the minister said state BJP will suggest few names and party high command will finalise the candidate. Savadi called on those who oppose the entry of Arvind Patil and said it is disheartening to observe the people opposing Patil. He opined party can be strengthened only by welcoming people from other parties. He said Angadi family is committed and loyal to the BJP. There is no question of his daughter contesting as an independent candidate. He also ridiculed former MLA C M Ibrahim’s remarks on possible Assembly elections in near future. Savadi said Ibrahim is not an astrologer, but a good orator.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/maharashtra-cm-issuing-baseless-statements-laxman-savadi-945924.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||I am ready to face Lok Sabha byelection: MLA Satish Jarkiholi||MLA Satish Jarkiholi stated that he is ready to face Lok Sabha byelection to Belagavi on Congress ticket. But the party has not taken a final call on it. Speaking to media persons in Harihar on Monday evening, he said discussions had been held in this regard so far. He would face byelection if the party wants him to do so.  Referring to the Valmiki community's demand for a rise in reservation, he said the community has set a deadline for it. "We will discuss the next course of action after the completion of the deadline. The issue would be discussed in Valmiki fair slated to be held in Harihar soon," he said. Valmiki community seer Prasannananda Puri Swami exuded confidence that the demand for a rise in reservation for the community would be met in the fair and Chief Minister B  S Yediyurappa would announce it there. He is hopeful that the government would provide 7.5% reservation to the community.  On Union Budget 2021-22, he alleged that the Centre has meted out injustice to Karnataka. It is unfortunate that nobody is talking about the fuel price hike.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-am-ready-to-face-lok-sabha-byelection-mla-satish-jarkiholi-946362.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Shivamogga blast was murder, says Siddaramaiah||Cornering the government over alleged irregularities that led to the explosion at a stone quarry in Hunasodu near Shivamogga, leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday demanded a judicial enquiry by a sitting High Court judge, even as he called the incident a “murder”.  Raising the issue in the Assembly, Siddaramaiah said 1,350 kg of explosives detonated at the stone crushing unit compared with 250 kg explosives used in the Pulwama terror attack. “All quarries against which there are complaints from the public should be stopped,” he said. Allowing the district administration to probe the case will not bring out the truth, as the deputy commissioner had not acted on complaints, including those by Forest department over illegal quarrying, he said. Demanding that the authorities revise the sections invoked against the accused, he said that police had missed filing cases under Sections (3) and (4) of the Explosive Substances Act, which mandate life imprisonment for such crimes. “Politicians and officials who were aware of illegal quarrying have abetted the crime,” he said, adding that action should be initiated against them too. Even BJP MLC Ayanur Manjunath, Siddaramaiah said, had noted that local police authorities had seized 25 boxes of gelatin sticks a few days before the incident, but failed to initiate action against those involved. “The laxity then was the cause of the tragic accident,” he said. The issue was discussed in the Legislative Council, where leader of the Opposition S R Patil demanded a detailed investigation into the issue. The government has to identify those who are directly and indirectly involved. “There are many cases of illegal mining where no FIRs are registered. The government has to take this issue very seriously. How did these explosives reach Karnataka from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh? It looks like even intelligence officials are hand in glove here,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/shivamogga-blast-was-murder-says-siddaramaiah-946378.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||'Miffed' BJP MLAs huddle up||A section of BJP legislators, associated with RSS, held a meeting at Vidhana Soudha on Monday to discuss their grievances against the B S Yediyurappa government. Fourteen BJP MLAs, including V Sunil Kumar, Siddu Savadi, Sanjeeva Matandoor and others took part in the lunch meeting. According to sources, the MLAs discussed the need to prioritise the second-rung leadership within the party keeping the 2023 Assembly polls in mind. They also resolved to end the dynasty politics.  The group dwelled on several issues, including sidelining of senior leaders and the lack of social justice in the Cabinet. The MLAs have decided to approach the BJP high command after holding one more round of discussion.  Though the MLAs maintained that they are not rebels, they are yet to decide whether to attend a dinner, hosted by Chief Minister Yediyurappa, on Tuesday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/miffed-bjp-mlas-huddle-up-946398.html
01-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Sharath's breach of privilege motion: Bommai seeks report||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said he would seek a report from the Superintendent of Police of Bengaluru Rural district on whether or not protocol was violated in not inviting Hoskote MLA Sharath Bachegowda to a government event last week.  Sharath, who moved a breach of privilege motion in the Assembly, said the Hoskote city municipal council commissioner had violated protocol by not giving him prior intimation of a government event that was held on Saturday, January 30.  As per protocol, the local MLA should preside over a government function.  “The CMC commissioner came to me on Friday and invited me to the event that was being held the next morning. For courtesy’s sake, I was neither invited a few days in advance nor was my availability checked. I asked for the event to be postponed, but that didn’t happen,” Sharath said, adding that he had been humiliated.  The police had to resort to lathicharge after Sharath’s followers clashed with the supporters of Municipal Administration Minister M T B Nagaraj. Sharath and Nagaraj are arch-rivals. In 2018, Nagaraj was with the Congress when he defeated Sharath, who was then with the BJP. Nagaraj defected to the BJP and lost the December 2019 bypoll to Sharath, who contested as an independent. Sharath is now set to join the Congress.  “Our government isn’t ready to allow the privilege of any member to be breached. Such instances happen all the time. We will have to examine what exactly happened. I will get a report from the SP. I will submit the report to the Speaker,” Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sharaths-breach-of-privilege-motion-bommai-seeks-report-946399.html
01-02-2021||Main Article||Karnataka State Universities Act: Ready for bold reforms?||The Government of Karnataka appointed some time ago a committee headed by Vasudev Are, former chairman, Defence Research and Development Organisation, to suggest amendments to the Karnataka State Universities Act, 2000 (KSU Act). Karnataka thus wanted to be the first state to implement the New Education Policy 2020, with Deputy Chief Minister Dr Ashwath Narayan, who also holds the higher education portfolio, being keen on it. The Atre Committee is seized of the matter and will shortly submit its report.  Here are some suggestions on a few key aspects for consideration by the committee and the government:   Firstly, let us take up the obnoxious system of appointing persons called the `Authorities of the University’, consisting of the Vice-Chancellor and the Syndicate. Their appointment is often mired in controversy with reports of aspirants for the post of Vice-Chancellors and membership of the Syndicate indulging in unethical practices to gain positions.  Luckily, the NEP talks of creating new structures like the Board of Governors, replacing the Syndicate. If this key recommendation is to be implemented, the government should seize the opportunity and bring about bold reforms by way of changes in appointment to these Authorities.  As for the Board of Governors, the existing practice of Syndicates consisting of the government and governor/chancellor’s nominees should be dispensed with as it gives room for not only interference in the functioning of universities but also lobbying for nominations for memberships of Syndicate.  Most often, undeserving persons get nominated with an eye on membership of Affiliation Committees and other committees like the building committee, purchase committee etc, for obvious gains. Attractions for people seeking such positions can be removed if these committees are filled by academicians of the universities themselves.  However, as it was suggested by the earlier government in its amendments to KSU Act, physical infrastructure development work may be entrusted to the Central Public Works Department or the state PWDs.  My suggestion is that with the Vice-Chancellor as chairman, the BOG should consist of: 1) two former Vice Chancellors drawn from other universities; 2) two members drawn from the industry; 3) two from among the alumni; 4) two eminent public intellectuals, one each from within the state and one from outside the state; 5) two principals of affiliated colleges on rotation; and, 6) one member each representing the students and non-teaching staff.  The BoG should meet once a month and decisions be taken by consensus or by a majority of the members present. Proceedings of the BOG should be conducted transparently in virtual mode and available for stakeholders to view it. Possibility of corruption can be greatly removed in the process.  As regards the appointment of Vice-Chancellors, there is need for a thorough restructuring of the search committees constituted for such purposes in which government’s and chancellor’s role should be completely taken away.  The government’s role should be confined only to providing financial grants and ensuring the adherence of norms laid down for admission and appointments. The practice of government nominee, chancellor’s nominee and university nominee should be done away with and replaced by drawing an eminent former Vice-Chancellor/academician of proven integrity and administrative capability as chairman.  The other members of the committee should include: a University Grants Committee nominee, an eminent public intellectual from within the state, an industry representative, and eminent alumni of the university concerned).  Applications for the post of Vice-Chancellors can be invited through advertisement in the university website and newspapers. The bio data of the candidates who apply for such positions should be hosted on the website for viewing by stakeholders.  The committee should allot marks for candidates’ scholarship in terms of teaching and research, proven administrative capabilities and capacity for fund raising. The search committee can have an interactive session with the candidates, ask them to present their blueprint for the development of the university, all of which can be conducted transparently for stakeholder viewership via virtual platforms.  The marks obtained by candidates in the above fields should be consolidated leading to submission of a panel of names to the Chancellor for formal appointment of the VC. The Chancellor should have no discretionary powers in the matter.  General public The KSU Act should be amended to help our universities have an ombudsman, with a retired judge of the High Court being appointed to the position to adjudicate on matters referred to him by the V-C and or brought to his/ her attention by the general public.  The decision of the ombudsman should be mandatorily implemented by the university administration. This reform would considerably remove corruption in universities.  The most important issue concerns faculty accountability. The best way to ensure that is to put in place an institutional structure of academic audit. Faculty members must mandatorily submit and upload on university website their annual plans for research and new modes of teaching, specially for multi-disciplinary courses.  Their annual self-appraisal reports will have to be evaluated by external peers and their recommendations strictly implemented.  As for promoting excellence in teaching, research, innovation, entrepreneurship and social contribution, as outlined by the NEP, they can be done even without amending the KSU Act.  The NEP’s recommendations like the introduction of four-year courses, with entry, exit and re-entry provisions, one or two years PG Courses, and setting up of Academic Bank of Credits for credit transfers can be implemented by universities and colleges on their own under dynamic and visionary Vice-Chancellors, supported by pro-active Board of Governors, without amending the Act. Is the government ready for bold reforms in higher education? (The writer is former Professor of Political Science and former Dean, Faculty of Arts, Bangalore University)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/karnataka-state-universities-act-ready-for-bold-reforms-945806.html
01-02-2021||National||IRCTC to resume e-catering services from February 1||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will resume e-catering services from Monday. "Indian Railways to resume e-catering services from 1st February. This will further enhance the travel experience and passenger convenience as they can enjoy their favourite & fresh food during train journeys," Ministry of Railways said in a tweet. The services will start at 62 stations in the first phase starting from February 1, 2021 onwards. The stations selected for the first phase of resumption include New Delhi, Lucknow, Bhopal, Surat, Pune, Ahmedabad, Howrah, Patna, Vijayawada, Ernakulam, Ujjain and Panvel. The services were suspended in March last week after the lockdown was announced to check the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/irctc-to-resume-e-catering-services-from-february-1-945841.html
01-02-2021||National||DH Toon | Centre faces fiscal deficit and trust deficit||The Union Budget 2021 to be presented on Monday is likely to give a prudent spending plan, notwithstanding the rising demand for a large fiscal stimulus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-centre-faces-fiscal-deficit-and-trust-deficit-945873.html
01-02-2021||National||India sees 11,427 new Covid-19 cases, 118 deaths||With 11,427 new coronavirus cases, India's Covid-19 tally has climbed to 1,07,57,610, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,04,34,983, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The national recovery rate has climbed to 96.99 per cent. The death toll increased to 1,54,392 with 118 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.       The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The total Covid-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh for the 13th consecutive day. There are 1,68,235 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.57 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-11427-new-covid-19-cases-118-deaths-945889.html
01-02-2021||National||Singapore permanent resident preparing for India trip tests Covid-19 positive||A 36-year-old permanent resident in Singapore, preparing to depart for India, has tested positive for Covid-19, according to a media report. Tests showed that the man had a low viral load and a serology test result also came back positive on Saturday, The Straits Times quoted the Ministry of Health (MOH) as saying. His infection was revealed on Saturday from a pre-departure test he took in preparation for another trip to India. The man had returned from a trip to India on December 19 last year, and served his stay-home notice at a dedicated facility until January 2. He tested negative for Covid-19 on December 31 and showed no symptoms. "Given that these indicate likely past infection, we have classified the case as imported based on his travel history," the Singapore daily quoted the MOH as saying. "He is likely to be shedding minute fragments of the virus RNA (Ribonucleic Acid), which are no longer transmissible and infective to others," the MOH said. Twenty-eight other Covid-19 cases were confirmed in the country on Sunday, taking the tally to 59,536. All the cases were imported ones, with none in the community (local) or foreign workers' dormitories. The imported cases had flown in from countries including India, the UK and Nigeria. There were 13 work permit holders who arrived from Bangladesh, India, Indonesia and Myanmar. Of these, six are foreign domestic workers. All the imported cases have already been placed on stay-home notice upon arrival and were tested while serving the notice. None of them had symptoms. The number of new cases in the community has fallen to three in the past week, compared to 15 in the week before. With 32 recoveries on Sunday, so far 59,213 patients have recovered from the disease. As many as 44 patients are still in hospital, the report added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/singapore-permanent-resident-preparing-for-india-trip-tests-covid-19-positive-945904.html
01-02-2021||National||Budget 2021 | Nirmala Sitharaman meets President Kovind ahead of speech||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday called on President Ram Nath Kovind before presenting the Union Budget 2021-22. As per established tradition, the Finance Minister met the President at the Rashtrapati Bhawan before heading to Parliament. The Union Cabinet will meet at 10.15 am to clear the Budget. Also before the actual presentation, the Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi approved the Budget for the fiscal year 2021-22. While traditionally, copies of the Budget are brought to the Parliament complex before finance minister arrives, this year no document has been printed following the Covid-19 protocol. Instead, the Budget copies will be disseminated electronically, with documents being uploaded on the government website as well as being made available on a special app developed for the same. Expectations are running high as Sitharaman presents her third budget in the Lok Sabha on Monday. She has her task cut out to fire up a pandemic battered economy and revive the animal instinct in it. Dressed in a red-coloured silk saree with off-white detailing and golden border, Sitharaman continued with the tradition she set in 2019 carrying the budget speech in a 'bahi khata', which she used ditching the briefcase. She was seen holding a red 'bahi khata'.   On the first day of the budget session of Parliament, Sitharaman on Friday tabled the pre-budget Economic Survey for 2020-21, which projected a 'V'-shaped recovery for the economy in the next financial year. The economy is projected to contract by 7.7 per cent in the current fiscal ending March 31, 2021, and expanding by 11 per cent in the next.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/budget-2021-nirmala-sitharaman-meets-president-kovind-ahead-of-speech-945914.html
01-02-2021||National||Scindia, loyalists not feeling insecure in BJP: Muralidhar Rao||BJP's Madhya Pradesh in-charge P Muralidhar Rao has termed Jyotiraditya Scindia as the "leader of the entire BJP" and said the Rajya Sabha member and others who had joined the saffron party along with him do not have any feeling of insecurity. Talking to reporters on Sunday on the sidelines of first meeting of the state BJP's newly formed executive committee, Rao said now Scindia is not just the leader of those who left the Congress along with him (last year) and joined the BJP. "He is the leader of the entire BJP. Scindia or those who have come with him to the party have no feeling of insecurity," he asserted. "All these leaders may have come from anywhere, now they have gelled with the BJP," Rao said. He was replying to a query on Scindia loyalists not getting adequate representation in the executive committee. "Tell me what is this adequate space? Have all our workers, who worked tirelessly to enrol one crore members in the (state) BJP got an opportunity (in the newly set up executive committee)?" he asked. "Please remember that we pushed behind our senior leaders to give ministerial berths to those who came to the BJP along with Scindia," Rao said. Actually, there is no issue of giving more or less weightage to any leader in the BJP, he added. In March last year, 22 Congress MLAs, mostly Scindia loyalists, quit the party and resigned from their Assembly membership, causing downfall of the Kamal Nath government. The BJP then returned to power in the state under the leadership of Shivraj Singh Chouhan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scindia-loyalists-not-feeling-insecure-in-bjp-muralidhar-rao-945925.html
01-02-2021||National||India expresses 'deep concern' over Myanmar military coup; monitoring situation closely||India on Monday expressed "deep concern" over the military coup in Myanmar and detention of the country's top political leaders, saying it has always been steadfast in supporting the democratic transition in that country. In its reaction, the Ministry of External Affairs said India is monitoring the situation closely. "We have noted the developments in Myanmar with deep concern. India has always been steadfast in its support to the process of democratic transition in Myanmar," the MEA said. "We believe that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld. We are monitoring the situation closely," it said in a statement. Myanmar's military staged a coup on Monday and the country's top leader Aung San Suu Kyi detained. According to media reports, an announcer on Myanmar's military-owned Myawaddy TV declared on Monday morning that the military had taken control of the country for one year. Myanmar's leader Suu Kyi and other senior figures from the ruling party have been detained in an early morning raid, the spokesman for the governing National League for Democracy (NLD) was quoted as saying in the media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-expresses-deep-concern-over-myanmar-military-coup-monitoring-situation-closely-945936.html
01-02-2021||National||Police block roads into Delhi to stop farmers disrupting budget day||Indian police and paramilitary dug ditches and spread razor wire across main roads into New Delhi on Monday to prevent protesting farmers from entering the capital as the finance minister prepared to deliver the government's annual budget in parliament. Internet and messaging services were blocked in several neighbourhoods on the outskirts where protests turned violent week, and security was stepped up around parliament and other important government offices in the central district. "The government has increased security to avoid any clash or violence when parliament is in session," said a senior official who didn't wish to be named in line with official policy. "The idea is to keep everyone safe and avoid any escalation in tensions." A farmers' procession turned violent on Jan. 26, when India celebrated its Republic Day with a military parade, as some protesters broke away from a rally of tractors to storm into the historic Red Fort complex after breaking through barricades and clashing with police. On Friday, authorities used tear gas and batons to break up clashes at one of the protest sites near the city. And in the past few days, more farmers have arrived along with their tractors to join their protesting colleagues at the three major protest sites near New Delhi. "The country was saddened by the insult to the Tricolor (Indian flag) on the 26th of January in Delhi," Modi said in a radio address on Sunday, making his first public comments on last week's violence. "The government is committed to modernizing agriculture and is also taking many steps in that direction." The farmers want the government to withdraw three new farm - introduced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government in September - that they say will hurt their livelihoods and benefit large private produce buyers. The government says the reforms will open up new opportunities for farmers and it has invited farmer leaders for fresh talks to end the deadlock. Although Modi remains India's most popular politician, his standing in the rural areas, where most Indians live, could be damaged by his handling to the farmers' two-month-old agitation. (Reporting by Mayank Bhardwaj; Editing by Simon Cameron-Moore)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-block-roads-into-delhi-to-stop-farmers-disrupting-budget-day-945941.html
01-02-2021||National||Global Indian Diaspora seeks repeal of farm laws||Expressing solidarity with agitating Indian farmers, an alliance of various diaspora organisations has demanded the repeal of the three agricultural laws that have caused unrest in the country’s farming community. Global Indian Progressive Alliance, which represents more than a dozen and a half Diaspora organisations from across the world, demanded that the Indian government recognise the right to peaceful protest, and acknowledge the peaceful protests outside Delhi for the last 60 plus days and of prior farmer protests across the country. India has called the remarks by foreign leaders and organisations on protests by farmers as "ill-informed" and "unwarranted", asserting that the matter pertains to the internal affairs of a democratic country. "We have seen some ill-informed comments…relating to farmers in India. Such comments are unwarranted, especially when pertaining to the internal affairs of a democratic country," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said in December. Seeking implementation of the Swaminathan Commission recommendations, representatives of these organisations during a virtual conference demanded the Indian government repeal the laws and submit bills to a parliamentary committee for review and stakeholder engagement as per prior parliamentary norms. “Commit to ensure safety of peaceful dissenters; securing cooperation between law enforcement agencies and protest organisers in a transparent manner,” the alliance said. “Commit publicly to engaging with protesting groups to address their demands and include stakeholders (in this case, farmer’s unions / groups) as part of review of existing laws and bills brought to parliament going forward,” it said. “As progressive Indians, we are again disturbed to see the ramming through of laws without any attempt at consensus building. There has been no discussion with other political parties, citizen groups, affected stakeholders or academics in developing bills and passing them through parliament, suppressing even the parliamentary debate process,” the alliance said. Alleging that the government has repeatedly ignored the calls of farmers for greater support, the alliance said that the current rallies outside Delhi were not reflections of dissatisfaction by farmers from Punjab and Haryana alone, but have received support from farmers across the country. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price for their crops. Dubbing these laws as "anti-farmer", these farmers claim that the newly enacted legislations would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. There have been multiple rounds of talks between representatives of the protesters and the Indian government but the logjam continues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/global-indian-diaspora-seeks-repeal-of-farm-laws-945951.html
01-02-2021||National||Four persons booked for posting offensive remarks against BJP on WhatsApp||An FIR has been lodged against four persons for allegedly posting objectionable comments against the RSS and BJP on social media, police said on Monday. The FIR was lodged on RSS functionary Ajay Pandey's complaint at the Rasda police station on Sunday. Pandey, police said, alleged that Sushil Shrivastava and three unnamed persons made objectionable comments against the RSS and BJP on WhatsApp. A probe is on in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-persons-booked-for-posting-offensive-remarks-against-bjp-on-whatsapp-945964.html
01-02-2021||National||Security stepped up at Tiruchirappally, Chennai airports after threat call||Security personnel launched a search at the airport here after receiving a bomb threat call on Monday, police said. Subsequently, security at the airport in Chennai was also stepped up. According to police, about 200 passengers were evacuated from the airport here before a search of the premises was conducted by CISF personnel, besides police, using sniffer dogs and metal detectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-stepped-up-at-tiruchirappally-chennai-airports-after-threat-call-946010.html
01-02-2021||National||Covid-19: J&K police, security forces to be vaccinated from Feb 4||In the second phase of vaccination drive, Jammu and Kashmir police personnel, security forces and other frontline workers will get Covid-19 vaccine from February 4. The second drive of vaccination would go on simultaneously with the vaccination of healthcare workers which began pan-India on Jan. 16. J&K Immunization Officer, Dr Qazi Haroon said from the first week of February police personnel, security forces, revenue officials, municipality workers and a select group of panchayat members will be vaccinated. “On Saturday, the health ministry included Panchayat members that were or are part of Covid-19 response,” he said. According to official figures, nearly 27,000 front line workers have been vaccinated in J&K in the last two weeks. J&K government has prepared a list of two lakh frontline workers that will be given Covid-19 shot beginning Feb 4, Financial Commissioner Health and Medical Education, Atal Dulloo said.   He said the second drive of vaccination would go on simultaneously with the vaccination of healthcare workers. Asked whether there would be any vaccination drive for teachers, given that regular academic activities are expected to start in some weeks, Dulloo said, “We are awaiting Center’s directions and it appears that teachers would be the next group of workers that will be vaccinated.” With constant decline in Covid-19 positive cases in the recent months, the union territory (UT) government has already ordered lifting of pandemic related restrictions and re-categorized all districts of J&K as ‘green zones.’ The activities to be resumed include opening of schools, colleges, higher educational institutions, technical/skill institutions as per SOPs. The ceiling on the number of pilgrims permitted to visit Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine, Katra has been revised to 25000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-jk-police-security-forces-to-be-vaccinated-from-feb-4-946018.html
01-02-2021||National||Six out of 20 DDC chairpersons in J&K to be women||State Election Commission (SEC) on Monday ordered that six out of 20 district development council (DDC) chairperson seats will be reserved for women while overruling all the objections filed against the draft reservation for these posts. Soon after the J&K government issued reservation rules for the posts of chairpersons of the DDCs on January 11, Congress party termed it an attempt to “defeat and distort” the mandate of the people and manipulate the results. Formally issuing the reservation rules, the Union Territory administration had accorded 33% reservation to women while SCs and STs will get reservation based on their population. However, the SEC while overruling the objections stated that all of them were devoid of merit. “None of the objections/representations so received had any merit.  No infirmity, leave alone irregularity was brought out in the draft notification for reservation dated 25th January, 2021," reads the SEC order. According to the order, Baramulla, Ganderbal and Shopian in Kashmir and Ramban and Kishtwar in Jammu have been reserved for women, while Poonch (Jammu) has been reserved for women from Schedule Tribe (ST) category. The order further reveals that Anantnag in Kashmir and Rajouri in Jammu have been reserved for STs while Jammu and Udhampur have been reserved for the Schedule Castes. The maiden DDC elections to 280 constituencies spread over 20 districts – 10 each in Kashmir and Jammu divisions – were held in November-December last year. While Farooq Abdullah-led People’s Alliance for Gupkar Deceleration (PAGD) won 110 seats having a clear majority in six districts and edge in six others, the BJP emerged as the single largest party with 75 seats and has clear majority in five districts. The PAGD was an alliance of arch-rivals and regional heavyweights – National Conference and PDP -- besides five other parties. It was formed on October 15 to work towards restoring the special status of J&K which was revoked last August. However, after the DDC election results, Sajjad Lone led People’s Conference parted ways with the PAGD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-out-of-20-ddc-chairpersons-in-jk-to-be-women-946022.html
01-02-2021||National||Farm stir: Cong MPs from Punjab protest in LS wearing black robes during Budget presentation||Congress MPs from Punjab, Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Jasbir Singh Gill and Ravneet Singh Bittu, on Monday, wore black robes in Lok Sabha during the presentation of the Union Budget to express solidarity with protesting farmers and against the three farm laws. The three MPs from Punjab have been sitting on a dharna at Jantar Mantar here for two months now demanding the repeal of the three farm laws. The three MPs on Monday first protested outside Mahatma Gandhi's statue in Parliament house complex and raised slogans against the government, alleging that it is "anti-farmer" and is not listening to the voice of farmers. "We wore black clothes during the budget presentation as a mark of solidarity with the protesting farmers and against the 'anti-farmer' attitude of this government which is not repealing the farm laws as demanded by the farmers," Gill told PTI. Various slogans were written on the black robes sported by the three MPs like 'farm laws responsible for death of farmers, should be repealed', 'black laws should be scrapped' and 'I am a farmer, I am a farm labour, please do not deceive me'.   Gill said since the budget presentation was a constitutional function, they did not create any disturbance when Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman presented the Union Budget for 20021-22. The three Congress MPs also met former Congress president Rahul Gandhi inside Parliament house and told him about their protest. The Congress has been demanding the repeal of the farm laws and said it stood with the protesting farmers and their demands. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and parts of UP have been protesting at Delhi's borders for over two months now, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-stir-cong-mps-from-punjab-protest-in-ls-wearing-black-robes-during-budget-presentation-946027.html
01-02-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on PIL for regulating social media platforms to prevent hate speech, fake news||The Supreme Court, on Monday, issued a notice to the Centre on a PIL for regulating social media platforms, including  Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp, and hold them responsible for spreading hate speech and fake news. Petitioner-advocate Vineet Jindal also sought a direction to the Union government for establishing a mechanism for automatic removal of hate speech and fake news within a short span of time. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response from the Union government on the petition filed through advocate Raj Kishore Choudhary. The petitioner pointed out freedom of speech and expression was broadly understood as a notion that every person has the natural right to freely express themselves through any media. However, freedom of expression is a complex right. Article 19 (2) of the Constitution provided for a number of grounds for imposing reasonable restrictions on this right. These are the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or morality or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an offence, the plea added. Maintaining that everyone must take cognisance of fundamental duties enshrined in the Constitution, the petitioner cited a number of communal incidents, including of recent Delhi riots, communal violence in Pune in 2014, Muzaffarnagar riots in 2013, where social media played a role of incitements. Emphasising the need to hold social media platforms directly responsible for spreading hate speeches in the country, the petitioner said, after a local communal incident, we rarely asked what the role of social media was and how had the social media age changed the way in which communal violence was engineered. He pointed out that the Australian Parliament has passed a legislation to crack down on violent videos on social media, despite furious reaction from the tech industry, media companies and legal experts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-pil-for-regulating-social-media-platforms-to-prevent-hate-speech-fake-news-946030.html
01-02-2021||National||India's first paperless budget is also 100% visionless: TMC||The TMC lashed out at the Centre over the Union Budget on Monday, saying it was 100 per cent "visionless" and its theme was "sell India." The remarks came after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman read out the Union Budget speech in the Lok Sabha. "India's first paperless budget is also a 100% visionless budget. Theme of the fake budget is Sell India!" TMC spokesperson Derek O'Brien said. "Railways: sold, Airports: sold, Ports: sold, Insurance: sold PSUs: 23 sold!" O'Brien claimed common people and farmers were ignored, adding that the Budget would make the rich richer and the poor poorer, while the middle class got "nothing". The Rajya Sabha MP also highlighted statistics to show how West Bengal had developed rural roads. "Rural roads: 39,705 km rural roads till 2011. 88,841 km rural roads developed between 2011-20," he said, adding that the state was No. 1 in rural roads. "What Bengal did yesterday, Centre only talks today: Budget 2021 promise – 625 km roads in Bengal. Bengal government (2018-19) – New roads of 5111 km, top performer in country. additional 1165 km constructed in 2019-20," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-first-paperless-budget-is-also-100-visionless-tmc-946031.html
01-02-2021||National||Goa CM should resign; has compromised with Karnataka on Mahadayi: Oppn||The Goa Opposition has asked for Chief Minister Pramod Sawant's head, amid a fresh controversy related to the Mahadayi inter-state river water dispute. Opposition parties have now accused the Sawant-led administration of sabotaging Goa's interests in the dispute, after Arvind Datar, a senior counsel appointed by the Goa government to represent its case in the Supreme Court, has now alleged that he did oppose Karnataka government's plea in the apex court seeking notification of the Mahadayi tribunal's award on the instructions from the Goa government. "We have sold out on the Mahadayi issue. This government has compromised Goa's interest," former Union Minister of State for Law Ramakant Khalap told reporters on Monday.Datar made the controversial comments to a local cable news channel late on Sunday. "Former Senior Counsel Adv Arvind Datar reveals that he did not object to notification of Mhadei Award before the Supreme Court on clear instructions of the Government of Goa. The betrayal by BJP of Mother Mhadei stands exposed. Congress Party demands Chief Minister of Goa must step down," Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat has also said.Goa Karnataka are battling out a two-decade-long dispute over the sharing of the Mahadayi river in the Supreme Court, after both parties expressed reservations about the award by the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal in 2018. Goa has also opposed the diversion of water from the Mahadayi river basin through the Kalasa-Banduri project claiming it would cause “ecological devastation” in Goa.However, the decision of the Goa government to not object to Karnataka's plea to the SC in 2019, to urge the central government to notify the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal award, has given opposition parties like the Goa Forward to slam the government. "RESIGN, @goacm! It’s now clear that @GovtofGoa did not oppose the #MhadeiTribunal Award Notification because the lawyer was instructed not to. Who instructed him? @DrPramodPSawant or WRD minister Felipe Neri Rodrigues? Who betrayed mother #Madhei? #Goa wants to know ! Answer!" former deputy Chief Minister and Goa Forward party MLA Vijai Sardesai has demanded. Responding to the criticism, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has accused the opposition of playing dirty on a sensitive issue involving the Mahadayi."No instructions were given by anybody from the Government to not oppose notification of Mahadai award. Government instructions are always in writing," a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office said. "This fact is already in the public domain for more than a year. I once again appeal to the opposition to not play dirty politics on the Mhadei issue," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-cm-should-resign-has-compromised-with-karnataka-on-mahadayi-oppn-946036.html
01-02-2021||National||Gujarat doctors sit on hunger strike, say no to 'mixopathy'||Doctors in Gujarat started a relay hunger strike on Monday as part of a nationwide protest called by the IMA against the Centre's decision to allow Ayurvedic physicians to perform certain types of surgeries. Around 20 doctors associated with the Indian Medical Association's (IMA) Gujarat branch sat on a day-long hunger strike outside the Ahmedabad Medical Association hall on Ashram Road here. Nearly 30,000 doctors are associated with the IMA's state branch. IMA-Gujarat secretary Dr Kamlesh Saini said modern medicine is different from Ayurveda, and the government must not promote the "practice of mixopathy" which allows Ayurvedic doctors to perform surgeries after a three-year course. As directed by the IMA headquarters, the relay hunger strike would take place in different cities of Gujarat between February 1 and February 14, he said. "To register our protest against 'mixopathy', the Gujarat branch of the IMA has launched its relay hunger strike with 20 doctors on Monday. Tomorrow, another batch will take over," he said. The hunger strike will continue in Ahmedabad till February 4, following which similar protests would be organised in other cities like Vadodara and Surat till February 14, he said. "We demand withdrawal of the Central Council of Indian Medicine's (CCIM) notification and the NITI Aayog committee for integration (of all medicine systems)," Saini said. This is the second major nation-wide protest called by the IMA in recent times against the Centre's decision to allow post-graduate Ayurvedic physicians to perform certain types of surgeries after training. The IMA headquarters has termed this second round of protest as "the freedom struggle of modern medicine". In December 2020, the IMA gave a call for withdrawal of all non-essential and non-COVID-19 services for 12 hours against the CCIM's decision to allow Ayurvedic doctors to conduct certain surgical procedures after completion of their three-year PG course, Saini said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-doctors-sit-on-hunger-strike-say-no-to-mixopathy-946055.html
01-02-2021||National||Delhi HC asks Indiabulls firm director to respond to Bhushan's plea to quash defamation case||The Delhi High Court Monday sought response from a director of one of the subsidiaries of Indiabulls Group on a plea by advocate Prashant Bhushan seeking quashing of criminal defamation complaint filed against him for making alleged defamatory statements regarding functioning the group and its promoters and directors on social media. The court also granted exemption to Bhushan from his personal appearance before a trial court which is hearing the defamation complaint. Justice Yogesh Khanna issued notice to complainant Bhavya Narwal, director of Indiabulls Venture Capital Management Pvt Ltd, and sought her response on the petition. The high court listed the matter for further hearing on July 12. “In the facts and circumstances of the case, let notice be issued to the respondent (Narwal) for the next date of hearing on July 12. Meanwhile, let the presence of the petitioner (Bhushan) before the trial court be exempted through his counsel,” the judge said. The high court was hearing the petition by Bhushan seeking quashing of an October 2019 summoning order passed by a Rohtak court on the complaint, which was transferred to a Delhi court in 2020 following order of the Supreme Court. He has also challenged a December 9, 2020 order passed by the patiala house court, where the matter is pending, issuing notice to him to appear. Advocate Kamini Jaiswal, representing Bhushan, argued that the case was nothing but a malicious attempt to harass the petitioner and the defamation complaint was filed to obstruct the course of justice. The plea, filed through advocate Neha Rathi, said Narwal has no locus to file the complaint as she was not an aggrieved person and there was no mention of her in Bhushan's September 14, 2019 tweet. “The tweet was made in public interest and does not even mention the company the complainant works for. Moreover, Bhavya Narwal is not even directly linked to IBHFL but to Indiabulls Venture Capital Management, which is one of the hundreds of other such subsidiaries of IBHFL. The said tweet only mentions the promoter of IBHFL. Thus, if there possibly could be any aggrieved person it could only be the promoter, who has chosen not to file any complaint of defamation against the petitioner herein. Thus, the instant complaint case deserves to be quashed,” the petition claimed. It added that the tweet was made to alert the authorities into the irregularities and illegalities being committed by promoters of Indiabulls Housing Finance Limited (IBHFL), against a possible loss to the exchequer of thousands of crores of rupees that IBHFL/ its promoters have borrowed from public banks and institutions. The same is an exception to the offence of defamation under Section 499 (defamation) under the IPC and as such protects the petitioner, it added. The 2019 complaint has alleged that Bhushan has made defamatory statements regarding the functioning of Indiabulls group, its promoters, officials and directors through social media sites -- Twitter, Instagram and Facebook. It has alleged that the Bhushan has caused substantial damage to the goodwill and reputation of Indiabulls group as well as of its promoters, directors and officials including Narwal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-asks-indiabulls-firm-director-to-respond-to-bhushans-plea-to-quash-defamation-case-946057.html
01-02-2021||National||Govt handing over India's assets to crony capitalists: Rahul Gandhi on Union Budget||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi hit out at the Centre on Monday following the presentation of the 2021-22 Union Budget, alleging that the Narendra Modi government plans to handover India's assets to crony capitalists. The government on Monday budgeted Rs 1.75 lakh crore from stake sale in public sector companies and financial institutions, including two PSU banks and an insurance company, in the next fiscal. "Forget putting cash in the hands of people, Modi government plans to handover India's assets to his crony capitalist friends," he said after the presentation of the Union Budget. Prior to the presentation of the budget, he said it should provide support to small and medium enterprises, farmers and workers, and generate employment. Gandhi also demanded an increase in healthcare budget and hike in defence expenditure to safeguard the country's borders. "Budget 2021 must: Support MSMEs, farmers and workers to generate employment. Increase healthcare expenditure to save lives. Increase defence expenditure to safeguard borders," he said on Twitter. Unveiling the PSE policy in Budget 2021-22, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said barring four strategic areas, public sector companies in other sectors will be divested. The policy would give a clear roadmap for disinvestment in strategic and non-strategic sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-handing-over-indias-assets-to-crony-capitalists-rahul-gandhi-on-union-budget-946097.html
01-02-2021||National||Twitter 'withholds' accounts of farmer protesters, magazine among others, later restores them||Microblogging site Twitter on Monday restored several accounts after "withholding" them. These included accounts linked to the farmers’ protest at Delhi borders and the Caravan magazine. The accounts which were withheld owing to "legal demand" included Kisan Ekta Morcha (@Kisanektamorcha) and BKU Ekta Urgahan (@Bkuektaugrahan). The account of Caravan magazine, which goes by the handle @thecaravanindia, was also withheld. A number of individual accounts were also withheld. According to Twitter, a “withheld” account is when the social media site is "compelled to withhold the entire account specified (e.g, @username) in response to a valid legal demand, such as a court order." The latest episode came after the Delhi Police registered cases against organisers of Republic Day tractor rally after it turned violent. A separate case was filed against Caravan and others for tweeting about the death of a farmer during the protest. Later in the evening, the handles were restored. A number of people came out in support of people whose accounts were withheld. Rasmus Kleis Nielsen, Director of Reuters Institute and Professor of Political Communication at University of Oxford, tweeted, "can you imagine Twitter or any other platform company doing something like this in the US, France, or Germany, withholding e.g. Atlantic, Nouvel Obs, or Spiegel, with no real transparency about legal demands received? Troubling to see profound inequality in platform governance." Troubling that it is happening. And troubling how it is happening...The most fundamental problem is the erosion of fundamental rights including free expression and media freedom. Beyond that (I) have considerable respect for the Twitter policy team but still find handling of this troubling and hard to imagine would have been handled this way in the US or EU?" he said in other tweets. Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF), a private watchdog, said reports suggest that a large number of Twitter accounts which were sharing information about the farmers' protests have been blocked by MeitY under the opaque Section 69A of the Information Technology Act. "Section 69A and the IT Blocking Rules prevent intermediaries like Twitter from disclosing any information about blocking of an account or tweet. The confidentiality requirement present under Rule 16 of the IT Blocking Rules creates a bizarre situation where citizens have the right to challenge blocking of online content but they are unable to do so because they don't have access to these legal orders," it tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-withholds-accounts-of-farmer-protesters-magazine-among-others-later-restores-them-946100.html
01-02-2021||National||Union Budget 2021: Over 15,000 schools to be strengthened as per new NEP, 100 new Sainik Schools to be set up||Setting up a central university in Leh, 100 new Sainik schools and Higher Education Commission of India, increasing collaboration with foreign institutions, strengthening over 15,000 schools as per new NEP and reforms in board exams from 2022 are among the major announcements from the education sector in the Budget announced on Monday. The Ministry of Education has been allocated a total of 93,224.31 crore this year. In 2020-21, it was allocated Rs 99,311.52 crore. The budget for last year was eventually revised to Rs 85,089.07 crore as the coronavirus pandemic hit the country and classes were ordered shut to prevent the spread of the virus. "For accessible higher education in Ladakh, I propose to set up a Central University in Leh," Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in her Budget speech. She said, "More than 15,000 schools will be qualitatively strengthened to include all components of the National Education Policy. They shall emerge as exemplar schools in their regions, handholding and mentoring other schools to achieve the ideals of the Policy. 100 new Sainik Schools will be set up in partnership with NGOs, private schools and states. 750 new Eklavya model residential schools will also be set up". "In Budget 2019-20, I had mentioned about the setting-up of Higher Education Commission of India. We would be introducing legislation this year to implement the same. It will be an umbrella body having 4 separate vehicles for standard-setting, accreditation, regulation, and funding." In the Budget, the blanket exemption in annual receipts for charitable trusts running educational institutions, has been increased from Rs 1 crore to 5 crore. "We hope to reduce compliance burden on small charitable trusts running educational institutions and hospitals. So far, there is a blanket exemption to such entities, whose annual receipt does not exceed Rs 1 crore. I now propose to increase this amount to Rs 5 crore. The finance minister noted that many Indian cities have various research institutions, universities and colleges supported by the Government of India like Hyderabad which has about 40 such major institutions. "In nine such cities, we will create formal umbrella structures so that these institutions can have better synergy, while also retaining their internal autonomy. A Glue Grant will be set aside for this purpose," Sitharaman said. In order to promote enhanced academic collaboration with foreign higher educational institutions, the Budget has proposed to put in place a regulatory mechanism to permit dual degrees, joint degrees, twinning arrangements and other such mechanisms. For children with hearing impairments, the government has proposed to work on standardization of Indian Sign language across the country and develop national and state curriculum materials for use by them. "There are a number of senior and retired teachers. They will be used for individual mentoring of school teachers and educators through constant online and offline support on subjects, themes and pedagogy," she said. Sitharaman announced that the CBSE board exam reforms will be implemented from 2022-23 academic session in a phased manner. The reforms were proposed in the new National Education Policy announced last year in which making board exams easy, reduction of curriculum to core concepts, replacement of 10+2 structure of school curricula with a 5+3+3+4 structure and teaching up to at least class 5 in the mother tongue or a regional language, were among the many school education reforms outlined. "For the past few years our prime minister has been engaging with students every year before their Board Exams to help them overcome anxiety and stress. In this direction, we will introduce CBSE Board Exam reforms in a phased manner to be effective from the 2022-23 academic session," she said. She added, "Exams will move away from rote-learning and students shall be tested on their conceptual clarity, analytical skills and application of knowledge to real life situations. "Students have so far been evaluated on unidimensional parameters. There will be a complete shift from using assessments to not only judge the cognitive levels of the learner, but also using it as an opportunity to identify the unique strengths and the potential of the child. "To this effect, a holistic progress card is envisaged to provide students with valuable information on their strengths, areas of interest, needed areas of focus and thereby, helping them in making optimal career choices," she added. Noting that during the year, despite COVID-19 pandemic, more than 30 lakh elementary school teachers have been trained digitally, the finance minister said, "in 2021-22, we will enable the training of 56 lakh school teachers through the National Initiative for School Heads and Teachers for Holistic Advancement (NISTHA)". "In my Budget Speech of July 2019, I had announced the National Research Foundation. We have now worked out the modalities and the NRF outlay will be of 50,000 crores, over 5 years. It will ensure that the overall research ecosystem of the country is strengthened with focus on identified national-priority thrust areas," Sitharaman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-budget-2021-over-15000-schools-to-be-strengthened-as-per-new-nep-100-new-sainik-schools-to-be-set-up-946109.html
01-02-2021||National||Iron bars hooked between barriers, cement poured in to create makeshift wall at Singhu border||Workers under the watch of police personnel on Monday were seen hooking iron rods between two rows of cement barriers on a flank of the main highway at the Singhu border to further restrict the movement of protesters agitating against the new farm laws at the site. Another portion of the highway at the Delhi-Haryana border is practically blocked now as a makeshift cement wall has come up there. Worker drilling rods in cross-formation between two rows of solid barriers said, "The other flank was done yesterday. Cement is to be poured in the space between the barriers on this flank to make a makeshift wall". The move comes days after the violent clashes between some protesters and police on January 26 during the tractor parade by the agitating farmers. The section of the highway at the Singhu border, which has been the epicentre of the farmers' protests for over 60 days, had also seen a clash recently between farmers and a group of people who claimed to be local residents. On Monday, the Delhi side of the Singhu border saw a sparse crowd of protesters while the Haryana side was dominated by vociferous speeches denouncing the new farm laws and clarion calls to infuse a new sense of solidarity in the agitation after the Republic Day incident. Security personnel from the paramilitary forces, RAF and CRPF, were seen in relatively less numbers compared to the past few days but many police personnel manned the stretch spanking a mile from the protest site. Besides the makeshift wall on the highway, a small trench was also dug up earlier across an inner street a little off the highway and cement barricades put up on both the sides. The protesting farmers and leaders at a tent, however, showed no signs of being cowed down and asserted that "these barricades put up around us can't cage our spirit". All of them alleged that on January 26, "a conspiracy was made to malign this movement" and "defame it", and more such attempts are being made while asserting that the agitation has "come out stronger" now. Balwinder Singh Sirsa, a farmer leader from Sirsa, Haryana, exhorted people to not get demotivated by what happened during the January 26 incident, as it was "orchestrated by some people to denigrate the movement". A woman protester from Haryana, addressing a huge gathering from the dais, said the alleged conspiracy on that day has "failed to weaken this movement" and has rather injected "a new lease of life" in it. Randhir Singh, 85, a farmer from Haryana, also addressed the gathering saying "I have worked with legends Mahendra Singh Tikait and I know how Jat movement was weakened few years ago". "What happened on January 26 was a conspiracy. It was not done by farmers but all was part of a smear campaign bring run to defame the movement," he alleged. "We are not terrorists or Khalistani. We are fighting for our rights. Attempts are still being made to defame and weaken us. But Tikait's tears have awakened the farmers of Haryana, UP, and other states," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iron-bars-hooked-between-barriers-cement-poured-in-to-create-makeshift-wall-at-singhu-border-946151.html
01-02-2021||National||Union Budget silent on 'agricultural unrest', ignores 'entire north India': Punjab FM||Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Monday criticised the Union Budget, saying it was silent on agricultural unrest, unemployment and problems of the middle class. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday presented the Budget for 2021-22. In a series of tweets, Badal claimed that the “entire north India” was ignored in the Budget. “The Budget is silent on agricultural unrest. It buries its head in the sand, and rather than help solve the crisis that the NDA created. What about MSP," Badal asked in a tweet. Farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been camping at the Delhi borders for several weeks, demanding the repeal of the new farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for crops. The Punjab minister claimed that instead of doubling income from agriculture, it will reduce the earnings by half. Badal further said that the budget was “silent” on unemployment. “Unemployment figures are skyrocketing due to NDA's pandemic mismanagement,” alleged Badal adding, “But the Budget is silent on this issue, leave alone to tide over the crisis.” He further claimed that the Budget was “silent on the travails of the middle class.” “Middle classes get nothing except increased costs of petrol and diesel. Hopes of the middle classes of relief after suffering from a once-in-a-century pandemic have been shattered,” he said in another tweet. “Entire north India has been ignored. Why? Because it is not going to the polls! States that are going to polls are given sops. Just like the maximum Padma awardees came from five states going to polls,” Badal claimed. The Punjab FM said the Budget was “silent” on revenue generation. “How will the NDA raise revenue? Should the people expect another surreptitious and clandestine attempt to raise revenue on the sly,” he asked. Badal further alleged, “The Budget seeks to sell India's precious assets. One thing is clear. The Union Government wants to sell more and more of government assets.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-budget-silent-on-agricultural-unrest-ignores-entire-north-india-punjab-fm-946161.html
01-02-2021||National||Anti-people budget by BJP: Mamata Banerjee||Dubbing the Union Budget as “anti-farmer, anti-people and anti-country” West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said that the Centre was writing off all the NPAs but refused to pay the train fare of returning migrant workers during the nationwide lockdown. “They did not pay the train fare of migrant workers during the lockdown. But they are writing off all NPAs which means that those who have crores are borrowing crores of Rupees from banks and the Centre is writing them off. But they are not wiping out the loans of farmers, workers. But the loans of millionaires are being written off,” said Mamata. Speaking at a cultural programme in North Bengal the Chief Minister said that the Centre did not do anything for the farmers and did not withdraw the new Farm Laws. “They have not done anything for farmers. They have said that they will withdraw the Farm Laws. They have hiked petrol price eight times. They are privatizing the Railways, Air India, other PSUs,” she said. Mamata further alleged that the jobs of those working in the public sector under the Centre were not as safe as the BJP government was selling off everything. "Some one or two people who are the source of funds of the BJP are being handed over all the business,” said Mamata. Earlier in the day, she dubbed the BJP as a “gas balloon kept alive by the media" and said that the saffron party was a “washing machine” for those who had illegally amassed wealth. “Dacoits suddenly amassed a lot of money. Now they are going to the BJP washing machine and coming out clear,” said Mamata. Lashing out at the defectors in the TMC, Mamata said that she would not give them a ticket for the Assembly elections as they failed to do good work. “I would not have given them a ticket for contesting the Assembling elections. Why should I give the ticket to those who failed to work for the people? People will be happy if I give tickets to fresh faces instead of the earlier ones,” said Mamata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anti-people-budget-by-bjp-mamata-banerjee-946168.html
01-02-2021||National||HC seeks Centre stand on PILs claiming misreporting of farmers protest on Republic Day||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought response of the Centre on two PILs which have alleged that a certain media house has indulged in a "concocted", "offensive and potentially fatal" attack on the Sikh community by circulating unverified videos regarding the Republic Day protest by farmers on their news platforms.  A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, the Press Council of India (PCI), News Broadcaster Association (NBA) and a media house, seeking their stand on the two pleas by February 26. One petition has been moved by Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and the other by Delhi resident Manjit Singh G K, both claiming that the "vicious campaign directed against a particular community at a time when public sentiments are flared up could result in disastrous consequences, including endangering the lives, property and liberty of members of that community". Dhindsa, the Shiromani Akali Dal MP, in his petition filed through advocate B S Bagga, and Manjit Singh, in his plea filed through advocate Parminder Singh Goindi, have contended that "allegations, as insinuated in said videos, are absolutely untrue, baseless and a concoction of phantom imagination which bears no nexus to facts, whatsoever". On what happened on Republic Day, the petitioners have claimed that "due to infiltration of the protests by certain anti-social and ill-motivated elements, the tractor rally was met by severe and brutal assaults by the police authorities and the anti-social and ill-motivated elements utilized the said opportunity to create ruckus amongst the public with the object of delegitimizing the protests". They have claimed that the media house was showing a video in which one of its reporters was alleging that the protestors were involved in the destruction of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand tableaus which were featured on Republic Day.  The petitioners have further alleged that "such a vilification campaign directed by the news channels to incite hatred against the 'Sikh' community is absolutely reprehensible and could give rise to a serious law and order situation in the country including creating stigma and banishment of the 'Sikh' community".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-seeks-centre-stand-on-pils-claiming-misreporting-of-farmers-protest-on-republic-day-946190.html
01-02-2021||National||Nitish Kumar congratulates Centre for 'balanced' budget despite Covid challenges||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday congratulated the Centre for coming out with a "balanced" budget for the financial year 2021-2022 despite constraints on revenue collection in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. He also hailed Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's proposal to increase the budgetary outlay for health to over Rs 2.23 lakh crore in FY22 from Rs 94,452 crore estimated in the current fiscal. Kumar said the centre presented a Rs 34.8 lakh crore budget for 2021-22, which is more than the estimated total expenditure of Rs 30.42 lakh crore in the current financial year, and proposed to increase the capital spending by 34.5 per cent to Rs 5.5 lakh crore. "It is a welcome budget given the COVID-19 pandemic and constraints on revenue collection. I congratulate the central government for presenting a balanced budget," Kumar, who is heading the NDA government in Bihar, said in a statement. Kumar hailed the announcement to exempt pensioners, who are of 75 years of age or above, from filing tax returns. The Union finance minister said in the budget that the exemption would be made available to such senior citizens who have only interest income apart from their pension. The proposal to provide LPG cylinders to one crore additional households under the Ujjwala scheme is a welcome step, Kumar, the de facto leader of BJP's NDA ally JD(U), said. The Ujjwala scheme has benefited eight crore poor households across the country. He also said the proposed scheme for 'Mega Investment Textiles Parks' will not only provide employment but also help boost exports from the country. The Union finance minister announced that seven textile parks with world-class infrastructure would be set up over the next three years. Kumar said the centre is promoting solar and renewable energy and will provide financial assistance to check air pollution, which is an encouraging step to save the country's environment. The Bihar government has already decided to install "pre-paid smart meter", the CM said, adding that the centre has also decided to extend it further.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitish-kumar-congratulates-centre-for-balanced-budget-despite-covid-challenges-946194.html
01-02-2021||National||Allocation of Rs 35,000 cr for Covid vaccines will help end pandemic, expedite eco recovery: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday lauded the 2021-2022 Budget, saying the allocation of Rs 35,000 crore for Covid-19 vaccines and commitment to provide further support will help end this pandemic and expedite economic recovery. He hailed the "visionary leadership" of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and "prudence" of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman "for taking us closer to Health For All". "A remarkable 137 per cent increase, taking budgeted outlay for health and wellbeing to Rs 2,23,846 crore," he said. The government on Monday proposed a budget outlay of Rs 2,23,846 crore for health and well being in 2021-2022, an increase of 137 per cent from the previous year, with Rs 35,000 crore earmarked for Covid-19 vaccine in the upcoming fiscal. In the Union Budget, Rs 71,268.77 crore has been allocated to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, as against Rs 65,011.8 crore allocated in 2020-2021. An allocation of Rs 2,663.00 crore has also been made to the Department of Health Research in the 2021-22 Budget. The Ministry of AYUSH has been allocated Rs 2,970.30 for the next fiscal as against Rs 2,122.08 crore proposed for 2020-2021 fiscal. "Rs 35,000 crore allocated for Covid-19 vaccines and commitment to provide further support as needed will help end this pandemic and expedite economic recovery as well," Vardhan said. The finance minister also announced that a new centrally sponsored scheme, Prime Minister Atmanirbhar Swasth Bharat Yojana, will be launched with an outlay of about 64,180 crore over six years. Vardhan termed the PM Aatmanirbhar Swasth Yojana a "gift of self-reliant healthy India scheme" and said the interventions under it include establishing critical care hospital blocks, integrated public health labs in all districts and strengthening HWCs. This will develop capacities of primary, secondary, and tertiary care health systems, strengthen existing national institutions, and create new institutions, to cater to detection and cure of new and emerging diseases. This will be in addition to the National Health Mission. The main interventions under the scheme include support for 17,788 rural and 11,024 urban health and wellness centres, setting up integrated public health labs in all districts and 3,382 block public health units in 11 states, establishing critical care hospital blocks in 602 districts and 12 central institutions, strengthening of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), its five regional branches and 20 metropolitan health surveillance units. Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey termed the budget "historic" and said it was for the welfare of public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allocation-of-rs-35000-cr-for-covid-vaccines-will-help-end-pandemic-expedite-eco-recovery-harsh-vardhan-946199.html
01-02-2021||National||Farm Laws: Centre open for discussions, says FM Sitharaman on farmer agitation||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said the government is ready for talks with the protesting farmers on the three farm laws as discussion is the only way forward. Thousands of farmers are protesting on key entry points to the national capital for over two months, demanding the repeal of the three farm laws and legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) on crops. "We can understand why farmers are sitting at the border. If any farmer has any question, Agriculture Minister (Narendra Singh Tomar) has never denied opportunities for talk," Sitharaman said in reply to a query during her post Budget briefing. The minister said Tomar has had several rounds of discussions with farmers and also asked to them to come up with clause by clause suggestion on all the three legislations. "Therefore, I think, discussion is the only solution. The government is open for discussion. The Prime Minister before the commencement of Parliament session said that the offer is still on the table," she said. Farmers who have doubts and confusion should come forward and speak to the government, she added. Meanwhile, Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary told reporters that some people are adding fuel to the fire for their narrow political gains and "I believe farmers' unions will understand this". Referring to the Union Budget, he said the people can see what the Modi government is trying to do for farmers. "I think they (farmers unions) will definitely compare and see what has been the allocation now and during the UPA regime," he said. He too stressed that solution will emerge through discussion only. "Definitely the government has kept the doors open. Definitely, the solution will emerge if we sit and talk. I have full faith," Choudhary added. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and parts of UP have been protesting at Delhi's borders for over two months now, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The government has offered some concessions, including keeping the new farm laws on hold for 1-1.5 years and the Supreme Court has set up a panel to look into the matter while keeping the contentious legislation in abeyance for two months. However, the agitating farmer unions have rejected both and intensified their stir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-centre-open-for-discussions-says-fm-sitharaman-on-farmer-agitation-946205.html
01-02-2021||National||Editors Guild demands immediate release of journalist arrested at Singhu border||The Editors Guild of India on Monday expressed concern over the incarceration of freelance journalist Mandeep Punia who was reporting on the farmers' protest at Singhu border, saying the arrest was an attempt to muzzle courageous voices of independent scribes. In a statement, the EGI demanded immediate release of Punia and "Delhi Police restore circumstances in which the media can report without fear or favour." Punia and Dharmender Singh (with Online News India) were detained by Delhi Police on Saturday evening for allegedly misbehaving with security personnel on duty at the Singhu border where farmers have been protesting the Centre's three farm laws. While Singh was later released, the police arrested Punia on Sunday. "The EGI is deeply concerned over the incarceration of freelance journalist Mandeep Punia who was reporting on the farm protest from the Singhu border. Punia's arrest is an attempt to muzzle young courageous voices of independent journalists that through reporting are busting fake news and speaking truth to power. "EGI demands that Mandeep Punia be released forthwith and Delhi Police restore circumstances in which the media can report without fear or favour," the statement signed by EGI president Seema Mustafa said. The Indian Women's Press Corps, Press Club of India and the Press Association had on Sunday demanded Punia's immediate release and said no journalist should be disturbed while carrying out their duties at any place. "Such crackdowns impinge on the media's right to report freely and interferes with our right to freedom of expression, and freedom of the press as guaranteed by the Constitution of India," the bodies had said in a joint statement||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/editors-guild-demands-immediate-release-of-journalist-arrested-at-singhu-border-946211.html
01-02-2021||National||NRI business chiefs in UK welcome ‘pathbreaking’ Union Budget||Two leading NRI business chiefs in the UK welcomed the Union Budget tabled by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman as a promising and “pathbreaking” initiative. Hinduja Group Co-Chairman Gopichand P Hinduja said the proposed capital expenditure of Rs 5.54 lakh crores, 34.5 per cent higher than the current year, augurs well for the infrastructure, manufacturing industry and job creation and also welcomed the hike in the foreign direct investment (FDI) cap for the insurance sector. “The finance minister, Mrs Nirmala Sitharaman, must be congratulated for presenting a pathbreaking, inclusive Budget in these unprecedented times,” said Hinduja. “The government’s decision to increase FDI in the insurance sector, monetisation of government assets will boost global investors sentiments and should greatly contribute to the advancement of India in the Ease of Doing Business Index,” he said. The Hinduja Group, which has diversified business interests in India, also welcomed the move to set up a Development Finance Institution as “very encouraging” and measures directed at NRI investors as having greater potential. “The extension of tax holiday for start-ups and increased allocation for research and development will encourage innovation. Tax relief provided to non-resident investors is a welcome move but a lot more could have been done for encouraging investments through NRIs,” he added. London-based Caparo Group founder Lord Swraj Paul, whose company has business interests in India, took to Twitter to congratulate the finance minister Sitharaman and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the Budget statement. “It should lead India to the strength of what it should be. @NarendraModi you are the vision of India which can be achieved. The country has great scope,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nri-business-chiefs-in-uk-welcome-pathbreaking-union-budget-946216.html
01-02-2021||National||Active Covid-19 cases in India drop to 1.68 lakh, recovery rate reaches 97%||The tally of active Covid-19 cases in India has dropped to 1.68 lakh which is just 1.56 per cent of the total instances of the viral infection reported so far, while the recovery rate has reached 97 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Monday. A total of 1,04,34,983 people have recovered from Covid-19 so far. While 11,427 cases were reported in a day till Monday 8 am, as many as 11,858 patients recuperated from the disease during the same period, widening the gap between recoveries and actives cases by 1,02,66,748. With a consistent rise in the number of people getting recuperated, India's Covid-19 recovery rate has reached 97 per cent, one of the highest globally, the Health Ministry said, adding the country's daily new deaths have fallen below the 120-mark with 118 fatalities were recorded in a day. It said that 86.47 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 10 states and UTs. Kerala reported the highest 5,730 single-day recoveries, followed by 1,670 in Maharashtra and 523 in Tamil Nadu. The ministry said of the fresh cases reported on Monday, 80.48 per cent were from five States and UTs. Kerala continues to report the highest daily new cases at 5,266, followed by 2,585 in Maharashtra and 522 in Karnataka. Kerala and Maharashtra cumulatively contributed 68.71 per cent of the daily new cases. Six states and UTs account for 76.27 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum 40 fatalities, Kerala 21 and West Bengal nine deaths. Till Monday 8 am, more than 37.5 lakh beneficiaries have received anti-coronavirus shots in 69,215 sessions conducted so far under the Covid-19 vaccination drive. In one day, 14,509 people were vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/active-covid-19-cases-in-india-drop-to-168-lakh-recovery-rate-reaches-97-946217.html
01-02-2021||National||SC to start hybrid system of hearing cases||Advocates can now choose between arguing their cases physically or virtually in the Supreme Court as Chief Justice of India S A Bobde on Monday agreed to start hybrid mode of hearing. A meeting of the CJI with Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, Chairman, BCI Manan K Mishra, SCBA Vice President Kailash Vasudev, Secretary Rohit Pandey, SCAoR Association Manoj K Mishra and Secretary Joseph Aristotle along with former SCBA President Vikas Singh was held on Monday morning. Singh organised a protest at SC premises demanding a physical hearing. Since March last year, the SC has been holding virtual hearings only. "Though there shall be a hybrid system of hearing till the pandemic is over, but as proposed video conferencing could be done by lawyers who are present in Delhi and should be done only through cable connections either in lawyers chamber or cubicles installed in SC premises," the Bar Council of Delhi said in a press release. It also said physical courts may start in three-four weeks in the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-start-hybrid-system-of-hearing-cases-946233.html
01-02-2021||National||Punjab Mail with group of farmers diverted; protestors allege foul play||The Punjab Mail was diverted while another train was short-terminated Monday, prompting charges that it was done to prevent farmers from reaching Delhi to join the ongoing protests against the three new farm laws, even as the Railways said the move was an operational necessity. Sources said that a group of farmers had boarded the Punjab Mail last night at Ferozepur (in Punjab) and they were to join others who have been protesting against the Central laws at the Delhi borders. The train, which travels via Delhi, was diverted from Rohtak (in Haryana) to Rewari, and further towards its Mumbai route. "The train was diverted because of operational reasons," a Northern Railways spokesperson said. Another train travelling from Ganganagar in Rajasthan to Old Delhi, via places in Punjab and Haryana, was short-terminated at Bahadurgarh (Haryana). "Ferozpur Mumbai Punjab Mail diverted from Rohtak to Rewari this morning to prevent about 1,000 farmers from reaching Delhi," Swaraj India Chief Yogendra Yadav posted on Twitter. The Punjab Mail has around a 20-minute halt In Delhi. Starting from Ferozepur in Punjab, the train enters Delhi from Rohtak. New Delhi is the next stop. On Monday, it was rerouted via Rewari in Haryana and then further westward to take the route to Mumbai. Farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at Delhi's borders for over two months now, demanding scrapping of the farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for crops. After briefly appearing to be fizzling out following the Republic Day violence in Delhi, the farmers' stir against the agri laws seems to be reviving with more and more of farmers groups heading to the national capital from various parts of Punjab and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-mail-with-group-of-farmers-diverted-protestors-allege-foul-play-946242.html
01-02-2021||National||Tomar hails Budget; says priority given to doubling farmers' income||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Monday welcomed the Union Budget for 2021-22, saying priority has been given to doubling farmers' income by focusing on making available higher farm credit and post-harvest infrastructure in rural areas. "I welcome the budget. It is a good budget that focuses on all sections of the society. Better fund allocation has been made for each sector which will benefit farmers and rural India," Tomar told reporters. For instance, the farm loan target has been increased to Rs 16.5 lakh crore for the 2021-22 fiscal from Rs 15 lakh crore this financial year while the Rs 1 lakh crore agriculture infrastructure fund would be made available for strengthening APMCs, he said. Stating that the government is committed to farmers' welfare, Tomar said, "The government is making efforts towards achieving the target of doubling farmers' income by 2022. The priority has been given for this in the budget." When asked about some political parties protesting against the budget in Parliament saying the government presented a digital budget when the internet has been snapped at the farmers' protest site at Delhi borders, Tomar said, "I want to urge such political parties not to politicise the matter. Those who look for opportunities for doing politics, their plight will be that of Opposition parties". On agri-infrastructure and development cess, the minister said it will not have an impact on consumers. The fund raised through the cess will be used for development of post-harvest infrastructure, which is much needed for enhancing farmers' income. Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary also lauded the budget saying it benefits all sections of people and the allocation made for the sector is much higher than what was there during the UPA time. The budget allocation and several measures taken in the farm sector will benefit farmers and enhance their income, he said. The minister also said that sufficient funds have been allocated for agricultural research and education and if needed more can be sought later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tomar-hails-budget-says-priority-given-to-doubling-farmers-income-946251.html
01-02-2021||National||Nagaland Lokayukta offers to resign before SC||Retired High Court judge Justice Uma Nath Singh on Monday offered to resign as Nagaland Lokayukta before the Supreme Court due to "unpleasant circumstances and a very hostile environment". Justice Singh, former Chief Justice of the Meghalaya HC, was appointed as chairperson of the Nagaland Lokayukta on March 13, 2019. The Nagaland government had filed a petition in SC seeking a direction to cease his powers alleging "impropriety, abuse of power and office, arbitrariness and self-centrism". Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for Justice Singh, submitted that he was ready to resign before a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde. The court, taking note of his submission, disposed of the petition by the state government. In a note, Justice Singh said the court may treat this as his resignation and may pass orders accordingly. He also asked the court to direct the state or other authority or person to not use or refer to any material, defaming him in the media so as to cause any stigma in any manner to his privileges and status, professional, official or otherwise. "There should only be a factual reporting strictly confined to the content of the order and no one should be permitted to tarnish his image bringing distorted facts and twisting the observations of this court in front of the media or otherwise by any authority or individual," his note stated. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, however, declined to issue any such direction. In its petition, the state government alleged that Justice Singh sought exemption from frisking at Guwahati Airport, made unjustified and excessive demands for allotment of a former residence-cum-office of a chief minister and made the state government spend Rs 46.79 lakh to make ready a bungalow of his choice only. He also allegedly directed that his photograph be displayed next to the governor and the chief minister on the official website, it said. Among other things, the state government claimed that Justice Singh had virtually taken over power of the Upa Lokayukta and had shown his "prejudice against Nagas in day-to-day conduct".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nagaland-lokayukta-offers-to-resign-before-sc-946257.html
01-02-2021||National||Can’t give extra chance to UPSC aspirants who appeared in last attempt in 2020, Centre tells SC||The Centre told the Supreme Court on Monday that it cannot grant an extra chance to the civil services aspirants who could not appear or prepare well for their last attempt in the UPSC exam in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic, reiterating it would amount to extending “differential treatment” to similarly placed candidates. The top court however adjourned the hearing in the matter till Friday after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta sought time to discuss the issue once again. At the outset, a bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheswari was told by Additional Solicitor General S V Raju that the Centre was not agreeable to giving a one-time concession to the candidates who were not able to appear in their last attempt due to the pandemic. Raju also furnished a chart to the court giving details of relaxation given by Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) in civil services exams since its inception and said that in 1979, 1992 and 2015 relaxations were given to the candidates due to change in patterns of examination. The bench said then it is not the first time that the exemption would be granted. Raju said that in 1979 and 1992 there was no preliminary examination and something new was introduced and subsequently rules were tweaked. The bench said that the one-time relaxation will benefit over 3,300 students without even increasing the age-limit. It told Raju that if the Centre is not acceding to the suggestion then it would like to hear the petitioners. Senior advocate Shyam Divan, assisted by advocate Anushree Prashit Kapadia, sought the chart submitted by Raju to the court. Mehta told the bench, which resumed the hearing in the post lunch session, that the Centre would like to discuss the matter once more and sought adjournment of the hearing till Wednesday or Thursday. The bench said it is not recording anything but asked the Centre not to notify the rules for 2021 civil service exams till then and posted the matter for further hearing on Friday. In its affidavit, the Centre said the contention by the petitioners that their preparation was hampered due to the stress caused by the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic does not hold weight as the UPSC had already given extra time to the candidates by postponing the civil service (preliminary) examination from May 31, 2020 to October 4, 2020. “It is further submitted that giving an additional attempt or relaxation in age for some candidates would amount to extending differential treatment for similarly placed candidates at the examination,” it said and added that providing an extraattempt could further have “cascading effect” by creating a ground for challenge by candidates, who have already appeared for the October, 2020 exam. It said that non-final attempt candidates, who took the examinations without any murmur or discontent, would disadvantageously be placed in future examination, if the relief is granted to the petitioners as it would enable a vast number of experienced candidates, to participate in the examination again. The Centre said it was decided by the minister for state (personnel, public grievance and pension), who the competent authority for approving matters related to IAS/IPS/IFS on January 20, not to provide relaxation in age and number of attempts. On January 29, the top court had asked the Centre as to why one-time relaxation cannot be given to civil services aspirantswho could not appear or prepare well for their last attempt in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. It had asked Centre to apprise it by February 1 on how many candidate would appear if one-time relaxation is given and how many times it has been done since the UPSC was established. On January 25, the Centre had told the apex court that allowing extra attempt in UPSC civil services exam to those who could not appear in their last chance in 2020 due to Covid-19 would create a “cascading effect”, detrimental to the overall functioning and level playing field necessary for a public examination system. It had said 4,86,952 candidates appeared in the October 4, last year examination and the UPSC had “left no stone unturned in their pursuit to accommodate for the means and interests of the candidates”. The top court on September 30 last year had refused to postpone the UPSC civil services preliminary exam because of the Covid-19 pandemic and floods in several parts of the country. However, it had directed the central government and the UPSC to consider granting an extra chance to candidates whohave their last attempt in 2020, with corresponding extension of the upper age-limit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-t-give-extra-chance-to-upsc-aspirants-who-appeared-in-last-attempt-in-2020-centre-tells-sc-946259.html
01-02-2021||National||FM hits back at Rahul Gandhi on crony capital comment on Budget||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday hit back at Rahul Gandhi's claim that the Budget favours certain crony capitalists, saying Congress-ruled Kerala-government in the past had handed over a port in the state to the same businessman on invitation basis. Soon after the Budget presentation, Congress leader Gandhi alleged that the Narendra Modi government plans to hand over India’s assets to crony capitalists through stake sale in public sector companies and financial institutions, including two PSU banks and an insurance company, in the next fiscal. "Forget putting cash in the hands of people, Modi government plans to handover India's assets to his crony capitalist friends," he said after the presentation of the Union Budget. Responding to the comment of Gandhi, the Finance Minister said he repeats this particular question every 15 days. "The party which even today does not know to explain if I take one example of Kerala under Congress giving away sea port development on invitation basis to one of the crony capitalists that he is talking about," she questioned. She referred to Congress-led Kerala government inviting Adani Group, who Gandhi referred to as crony capitalist friends of Modi government, to Vizhinjam Port in the state. Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Ltd, (APSEZ), India’s largest port developer and part of the Adani Group in December 2015 formally began development of international transhipment project in Vizhinjam, Kerala. "Can he (Gandhi) explain as to how for developing Vinizam port a crony capitalist, I would not call him that but he uses that word, was invited by the Congress party....if he cannot answer that I think Rahul Gandhi should understand either understand nothing what he is speaking about or he is being ill-advised," she said. Unveiling the PSE policy in Budget 2021-22, the Finance Minister said barring four strategic areas, public sector companies in other sectors will be divested. The policy would give a clear roadmap for disinvestment in strategic and non-strategic sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-hits-back-at-rahul-gandhi-on-crony-capital-comment-on-budget-946267.html
01-02-2021||National||Union Budget: Nirmala recites once again from Thirukural; Stalin reminds her of another one on kings||For the second year in a row, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday recited a couplet from the Tamil classic Thirukkural during her budget speech, on the characteristics of a ruler who creates wealth. Last year too, she had recited from the popular classic, penned by saint poet Thiruvalluvar. Thirukkural is considered the gold standard of various principles of life by the Tamil people. However, ruling BJP's bitter critic in Tamil Nadu, DMK chief M K Stalin took a dig at Sitharaman and said she had failed to take into account a different 'kural' that defines a king, including the need for compassion. In her 110-minute long speech, the union minister quoted the Tamil kural "iyatralum eettalun kathalum katha vaguthalum valla arasu," and went onto explain what it meant. "A king or a ruler is one who creates or acquires wealth, protects and distributes it for common good," Sitharaman, who read out her budget speech from a tablet, said. Last year too, she had read out a couplet from Thirukkural that says the five aspects-- good health, wealth, increased produce, happiness and safety are key for a country and went on to say that key NDA initiatives, including Ayushman Bharat scheme were five jewels of the country. However, DMK President Stalin, who was critical of the union budget, saying it offered an "illusionary lollipop" to the poll-bound Tamil Nadu, pointed out to her about another couplet from the classic that defines a ruler. "It is regrettable she did not consider the kural which says delivering (to people) what is required for a good life, being compassionate, giving a just rule and safeguarding citizens brings more laurels to a government," he said, referring to the kural "kodayali sengol kudi ombal nangum udaiyanam ventharku oli."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-budget-nirmala-recites-once-again-from-thirukural-stalin-reminds-her-of-another-one-on-kings-946279.html
01-02-2021||National||#MeToo: Delhi court reserves for Feb 10 verdict in M J Akbar's defamation case against Priya Ramni||A Delhi Court on Monday reserved for February 10 the verdict in MJ Akbar's criminal defamation case against journalist Priya Ramani for her allegations of sexual harassment against him. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar reserved the judgment after Akbar as well as Ramani completed their arguments. The court also allowed both the parties to file their written submissions, if any, within five days. Ramani had made allegation of sexual misconduct against Akbar in the wake of #MeToo movement in 2018. During the arguments on Monday, senior advocate Rebecca John, appearing for Ramani, said that Akbar should not get any relief as he chose to target Ramani to target other women. “Why was Akbar was not aggrieved by graver allegations made by Ghazala Wahab and Pallavi Gogoi. As charges became graver, Akbar became unsure. “Wahab's allegations were of six months of sexual assault and harassment. Akbar opposed Gogoi's statement saying it was not rape but consensual relationship,” John said. She said Akbar did not give any reason as to why he chose to file case against Ramani and not others. “When you pick and choose, one has to say the reason for not choosing others was for X or Y, which was not done in the present case. Akbar went after Ramani because she was a soft and vulnerable target. “The object is to harass. That is the consequence. Selective prosecution must be deprecated. The prosecution that chooses to target Ramani to target other women should get no relief,” she said. John further refuted Akbar's claim that Ramani's tweet “instigated and ignited the first flame when she accused him of sexual misconduct”, saying that journalist Wahab tweeted on October 6, 2018 and after that journalist Shunali Kullar Shroff made the allegations of sexual misconduct. “I (Ramani) tweeted on October 8,” John said. The counsel added that Akbar's argument asking phone records, CCTV footage or hotel record of the alleged meeting was of no use because there would be no such evidence since the incident took place 20 years ago. “They argued I could have brought on record CCTV footage, call records. The burden on me is not of proof beyond ready doubt. Why didn't you (Akbar) disprove the allegations? What stopped you from bringing the hotel records and CCTV footage? “After 20 years, there will be no phone records, CCTV footage or hotel record. I would have if I could have,” she said. The counsel said that Akbar's argument that by deactivating her Twitter account, Ramani destroyed and tempered with the primary evidence was “absurd and fallacious”.  “She has not deleted any tweets. Ramani has deactivated Twitter account for personal reasons. I (Ramani) have not deleted. What is the consequences in relation to the complaint against me? Have I denied making these tweets? From the time I was summoned, I have taken on consistent plea with integrity and honesty. I have not feigned ignorance. I don't suffer from memory losses,” she said. John further questioned why Akbar did not move an application seeking to reactivate Ramani's Twitter account. “Twitter should have proved these tweets but I admitted. No evidence has been destroyed. Whether I deactivate or remain or Twitter, is a private relationship between Twitter and me. “Did they move a single application asking this court to direct me to reactivate my Twitter account. Very often counsel move applications for presentation of call data records, bank account etc. Did they move any such application? Why is the onus on me,” she said. John further added that if court directs, the Twitter account can be activated even today. “I reactivated when they asked me to check for corrigendum. I deactivated again. There is not a single direction from court. I have admitted the primary evidence. They had ample time to examine my Twitter account when they filed the case. You didn't work. It's not my fault. I'm not obliged to help you to make a case against me. “If court directs, it can be activated even today. The account is not the subject matter of this case. Nothing stopped them from asking for preservation of account at the start of the trial,” she said, adding that she had a constitutional right to privacy. She added that the trial was not a fishing and roving inquiry and that even during cross examination, the court did not ask Ramani to reactivate her Twitter account. Akbar had filed the criminal defamation complaint against Ramani in October 15, 2018 for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct over two decades ago. He resigned as Union minister on October 17, 2018. He has denied all the allegations of sexual harassment against the women who came forward during #MeToo campaign against him. Akbar had earlier told the court that Ramani had defamed him by calling him with adjectives such as 'media's biggest predator' that harmed his reputation. He has denied all the allegations of sexual harassment against the women who came forward during #MeToo campaign against him. Over 20 women came up with accounts of the alleged sexual harassment by Akbar while they were working as journalists under him. He termed the allegations “false, fabricated and deeply distressing” and said he was taking appropriate legal action against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/metoo-delhi-court-reserves-for-feb-10-verdict-in-m-j-akbars-defamation-case-against-priya-ramni-946287.html
01-02-2021||National||Apex education regulator HECI likely to be set up in 2021; NRF outlay at Rs 50,000 crore||Centre proposes to set up the Higher Education Commission of India (HECI) – subsuming the University Grants Commission and All India Council for Technical Education – later this year. HECI will be the new apex regulator for university and higher education in India and tasked with setting benchmarks for academic performance, ensuring that institutions adhere to these and act against those that violate standards. “We would be introducing legislation this year to implement the same. It will be an umbrella body having four separate vehicles for standard-setting, accreditation, regulation, and funding,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sithraman said. The minister also announced an outlay of Rs 50,000 crore over five years for the National Research Foundation to strengthen the research ecosystem with a focus on identified national priority thrust areas. She also announced that more than 15,000 schools will be 'qualitatively strengthened' as the government sets out to implement the National Education Policy (NEP) to enable them to emerge as exemplar schools in their regions, handhold and mentor other schools to achieve the ideals policy. In a bid to achieve greater synergy in various centrally-funded institutes, universities and colleges, the government also proposed to set up umbrella structures for better coordination. She noted that Hyderabad alone was home to 40 major centrally-funded institutions. “In nine such cities, we will create formal umbrella structures so that these institutes can have better synergy, while also retaining their autonomy. A glue grant will be set aside for this purpose,” the minister said. The minister announced an increase in the blanket exemption in annual receipts for charitable trusts running educational institutions from Rs one crore to Rs five crore. “We hope to reduce the compliance burden on small charitable trusts running educational institutions and hospitals. So far, there is a blanket exemption to such entities, whose annual receipt does not exceed Rs one crore. I now propose to increase this amount to Rs five crore,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apex-education-regulator-heci-likely-to-be-set-up-in-2021-nrf-outlay-at-rs-50000-crore-946293.html
01-02-2021||National||Only concerned about having farm laws repealed, budget does not matter: Farmers||Farmers protesting at various sites on the border of Delhi on Monday unequivocally said they are only concerned about their common goal of having the three farm laws repealed, and what has been offered to the agriculture sector in the Union budget did not matter. At Singhu Border, most farmers were rather clueless about the Budget, saying they were "unable to access the internet" at the protest site, so couldn't get to know the details. "Our demand was to increase the price of crops, not agriculture credit. This is a conspiracy to take away your land. Within 10-15 years, the corporate will take your land. The fight is for rate of crops, not for credit. They didn't talk about MSP. There is nothing for farmers," farmer leader Rakesh Tikait told PTI. "The administration has put barbed wires on three roads. They are stopping movement of vehicles towards Delhi, not us. We have been waiting to talk to the prime minister for the past seven years. PM Modi, give us your mobile number. We are ready to talk," he added. Randhir Singh, 48, from Kaithal district of Haryana, who has been camping there since December, said, "Our only goal right now is to see the three laws repealed. Union budget is not of immediate concern to us". Pala Ram, also from the same village as Singh, echoed similar views. "Some people told me about the points made for the agriculture sector, but that is something, we are not worried about at the moment," he said. Avtar Singh, 65, from Punjab's Patiala, said, the government should have offered ways to increase farmers' income and not just credit target. Ranjeet Raju, state president, Gramin Kisan Majdoor Samiti, Sri Ganga Nagar said, "If the government wants to help, they should take steps to increase farmers' income, not by increasing agriculture credit target. This is like pushing farmers into the debt trap, which eventually leads to more farmer suicides. And micro-irrigation corpus, which I am told is doubled in this Budget, is something that goes to industries in the name of farmers". "Farmers didn't expect much from the present Budget. But were curious to know the funds marked for the agriculture sector. However, with no internet facility here we were bereft of those details too this time," said Jehangir, 31, a farmer hailing from Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-concerned-about-having-farm-laws-repealed-budget-does-not-matter-farmers-946305.html
01-02-2021||National||Rashtrapati Bhavan to reopen for public from Saturday||After remaining out of bounds for the public for almost 11 months, Rashtrapati Bhavan will reopen from February 6. The sprawling Rashtrapati Bhavan campus was closed on March 13 last year due to Covid-19. "It will be open on Saturdays and Sundays (except on government holidays). Visitors can book their slots online by visiting the website," an official statement said. As earlier, it said a nominal registration charges of Rs 50 per visitor will be levied.   "To maintain the social distancing norms, three pre-booked time slots at 1030 hrs, 1230 hrs and 1430 hrs have been fixed with a maximum limit of 25 visitors per slot. During the tour, visitors have to follow Covid-19 protocols such as wearing of mask, maintaining social distance etc," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rashtrapati-bhavan-to-reopen-for-public-from-saturday-946312.html
01-02-2021||National||Farmers' protest: A fortress in making in Ghazipur||With parked DTC buses sealing main entry points, multi-layered security arrangements and check points -- both by police and farmers' union volunteers -- Ghazipur, the new focal point of the ongoing farmers' agitation, witnessed heightened restrictions on Monday. The Delhi-UP border site, which is galvanising farmers from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand days after BKU leader Rakesh Tikait's emotional appeal, is a fortress in the making with security arrangements being amplified with every passing day. Concertina wires -- a new addition in at least three points -- boulders in between the barriers. No major road is open for movement of vehicles and people which is proving to be a growing problem for many passing the stretch. Rakesh Tikait, the star farmer leader, while addressing a packed crowd from the main stage also mentioned the newly put barbed wires in his speech. "They (the administration) have put these barbed wires, not us. They are not allowing people to come to Delhi. We are not the one blocking the roads. If we block roads, they ask us to vacate, but no action is taken when the same is done by these security forces," he said to a cheering crowd. On Wednesday night, the atmosphere was tense at Ghazipur. The Ghaziabad administration had issued an "ultimatum" to the protesters to vacate a stretch of the Delhi-Meerut expressway they were occupying as the January 26 clashes painted a not-so-peaceful picture of the peasant community. As security presence at the site escalated, fears grew that the protesters would be forcibly evicted, but the emotional outburst of Rakesh Tikait saved the day -- and possibly the whole movement -- and people in tens of thousands started converging at the protest site in support of the agitation. Many commuters complained that the heightened security measures and new restrictions on routes day after day are affecting their daily commute. "Since December we were facing problems with this stretch, but the security and restrictions has been grown by leaps and bounds. The interior routes which they have not barricaded -- as of yet -- are not only congested but are in a pathetic condition, making them too dangerous to travel on," said Navdeep Kumar, a regular commuter of the National Highway-24. To keep at bay an unruly crowd and any possible plot to disturb the peaceful movement, the volunteers have taken the matter into their own hands. They are maintaining high vigil in the area by setting up multiple-check points. "We don't allow locals to enter without any rhyme or reason. Even if you are media, you have to show your id-card for entry. The drill is applied round the clock," said a volunteer, standing next to a make-shift checkpoint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-a-fortress-in-making-in-ghazipur-946313.html
01-02-2021||National||Punjab Congress leaders meet Shah, raise concerns over youths 'missing' after Red Fort incident||Congress MP Manish Tewari, and Punjab ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria met Home Minister Amit Shah in the Parliament House on Monday to trace the whereabouts of people "missing" since January 26 in the national capital during farmers' tractor parade. The Punjab leaders and MLA Raj Kumar Chhabbewal expressed their concerns over the "missing youths" who were detained by the Delhi Police after the incident, and they demanded their early release. The Punjab government later provided details of 120 people from the state who have been arrested by Delhi police in various cases registered during the tractor parade. Randhawa and Sarkaria later said that in order to fight the legal cases of people arrested by the Delhi Police, the Punjab government has formed a team of 40 advocates who have already started their work. He said the advocates would meet the arrested persons and their families and fight the legal battle to provide justice to these persons free of cost. The ministers said at a press conference that they have also appealed to the central government for taking a lenient view towards those arrested. During the meeting, Shah stated that the list of arrested persons has been uploaded on the Home Ministry's website and if the state government provided any other list of missing persons, the central government would leave no stone unturned to find the whereabouts of such persons, Randhawa said. On the deadlock between the Centre and farmer unions over farm laws, Randhawa said the home minister stated that the central government is ready for talks and waiting for farmers' response in this regard. "The chief minister has called an all-party meeting on February 2 to evolve a consensus on the way forward on the issue of farm laws and the farmer's agitation in the light of the recent developments in Delhi," the minister said. The Delhi Police has said it filed over 35 cases and arrested more than 80 people in connection with the violence and vandalism in the national capital during a tractor parade on January 26 by the farmers protesting against the three new central agriculture laws. Concerns have been raised in Punjab over some of the youths having gone "missing" after they were protesting at the Singhu border and having participated in the agitations at the Red Fort on Republic Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/punjab-congress-leaders-meet-shah-raise-concerns-over-youths-missing-after-red-fort-incident-946319.html
01-02-2021||National||Gaganyaan's first unmanned launch slated for December 2021: FM Sitharaman||India would take its first step towards sending a man to space in December when the first unmanned human module would be launched to critically examine the re-entry parameters. “The first unmanned launch is slated for December 2021,” Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said here on Monday while presenting the Union Budget 2021-22. The Rs 10,000 crore Gaganyaan mission aims to send a three-member crew to space for a period of five to seven days by 2022 when India completes 75 years of independence. As per the original plan, the first unmanned mission was planned in December 2020 followed by the second unmanned mission in June 2021. But the schedule was derailed due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown that ensued. As part of the Gaganyaan mission activities, four Indian astronauts were being trained on the generic aspects of space flights in Russia, she said. In another upcoming mission, the New Space India Limited, a new public sector undertaking under the Department of Space will execute the PSLV-CS51 launch, carrying the Amazonia Satellite from Brazil, along with a few smaller Indian satellites. This is the first earth observation satellite entirely developed by Brazil. An allocation of Rs 700 crore has been made for the NSPL. Compared to last year's revised estimate, the Department of Space's budget has been increased by more than Rs 4400 crore, of which nearly Rs 3709 crore would be spent on new space technologies including the GSLV Mark-III that would carry the full load unmanned module to a low earth orbit. However, a comparison with the last budgetary estimate showed that the allocation remained exactly the same. ISRO had earlier indicated that there would be a delay in several missions as the space body's work has been hit by disruptions due to the coronavirus pandemic. Staff members from ISRO's different centres were infected with Covid-19 during the pandemic and only essential and process-related work was going on. The related industry was also affected due to the coronavirus lockdown. Among the major projects that have been affected are Chandrayaan-3 and Gaganyaan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gaganyaans-first-unmanned-launch-slated-for-december-2021-fm-sitharaman-946323.html
01-02-2021||National||Mobile internet suspension now extended only in seven Haryana districts||The Haryana government on Monday further extended the suspension of mobile internet services till 5 pm on February 2 in seven districts of the state “to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order” amid protests by farmers against three new farm laws that witnessed violence earlier this week.   According to an official statement issued here, the Haryana government has extended the suspension of mobile internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), SMS services (only Bulk SMS) and all dongle services etc. provided on mobile networks except voice calls in seven districts -- Kaithal, Panipat, Jind, Rohtak, Charkhi Dadri, Sonipat and Jhajjar till 5 pm on February 2. This order is issued to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of these districts of Haryana and shall be in force with immediate effect. Any person who will be found guilty of violation of aforesaid order will be liable for legal action under relevant provisions, it said.         The suspension of mobile internet has not been extended in Ambala, Bhiwani, Sirsa, Fatehabad, Kurukshetra, Karnal and Hisar, where it was suspended until 5 pm February 1. On Sunday, the government had also not extended suspension of mobile internet in Yamunanagar, Palwal and Rewari districts, where the mobile internet services were suspended until 5 pm of January 31. Commenting on the suspension of mobile internet services in some Haryana districts, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar had on Sunday said the decision was taken in the wake of the situation which had built up following incidents of violence in the national capital on January 26.    Khattar had said mobile internet had been suspended in some districts for a temporary period and will be restored once the law and order situation returns to normal.      The government had on January 26 ordered the suspension of mobile internet services in Sonipat, Jhajjar and Palwal districts after a violent farmers' protest rocked Delhi. On Friday, it had extended the suspension to some other districts. Thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally in Delhi called by farmer unions on January 26 to highlight their demand for the repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws.  Many protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mobile-internet-suspension-now-extended-only-in-seven-haryana-districts-946324.html
01-02-2021||National||India will deploy all its resources to punish terror attack perpetrators: Modi to Netanyahu||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday to convey his strong condemnation of the terror attack near the Israeli Embassy here on January 29 and asserted that India will deploy all its resources to find and punish the perpetrators.     In his conversation with Netanyahu over phone, Modi assured him that India accords the highest importance to the safety and security of Israeli diplomats and premises, a PMO statement said. Later in tweets, Modi said, "Spoke to my friend PM @netanyahu and assured him that the attack near the Israeli Embassy in New Delhi will be fully investigated and perpetrators brought to justice. "Our close and valuable security cooperation will continue. We also discussed our healthcare cooperation in the context of Covid-19." A low-intensity blast had occurred outside the embassy on January 29. No one was injured. Both leaders, the PMO said, expressed satisfaction about the close coordination between Indian and Israeli security agencies in connection with the blast probe. Some cars were damaged in the explosion that occurred about 150 metres away from the embassy on Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road in the very high-security Lutyens' bungalow zone. The Israeli foreign ministry said all its diplomats and embassy staff in Delhi are "safe and sound".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-deploy-all-its-resources-to-punish-terror-attack-perpetrators-modi-to-netanyahu-946335.html
01-02-2021||National||SC dismisses NIA's plea against bail for accused in case of chopping professor's palm||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea by the NIA against the Kerala High Court's order granting bail to a man, who, along with PFI members, was accused of chopping a professor's right palm off, for setting a question they considered blasphemous in 2010 BCom examinations. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice N V Ramana rejected NIA's contention about statutory bar under Section 43D(5) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act in granting bail to such an accused. "The presence of statutory restriction per se does not oust the ability of constitutional courts to grant bail on grounds of violation of Part III (fundamental rights) of the Constitution," the court said. It took note of the fact that accused, K A Najeed, has been in jail for more than five years and there were 276 witnesses to be examined in the trial against him. "We are conscious of the fact that the charges against him are grave and a serious threat to societal harmony.  Had it been a case at the threshold, we would have outrightly turned down his prayer," the bench, also comprising Justices Surya Kant and Aniruddha Bose, said.   However, keeping in mind the length of the period spent by him in custody and the unlikelihood of the trial being completed anytime soon, the High Court appears to have been left with no other option except to grant bail, the bench said. The court said that indeed, both the restrictions under a statute as well as the powers exercisable under constitutional jurisdiction can be well harmonised. The rigours of such provisions will meltdown where there is no likelihood of trial being completed within a reasonable time and the period of incarceration already undergone has exceeded a substantial part of the prescribed sentence, the bench added. "Such an approach would safeguard against the possibility of provisions like Section 43D (5) of UAPA being used as the sole metric for denial of bail or for wholesale breach of constitutional right to speedy trial," the court said. The court also noted charges have been framed against the accused only on November 27, 2020.     Najeed had absconded after the incident on July 4, 2010, and could be arrested only in 2015. His trial was split. The co-accused were already convicted and awarded a sentence, ranging between two and eight years’ of rigorous imprisonment. "It also deserves mention that if found guilty, the respondent too would receive a sentence within the same ballpark. Given that two-third of such incarceration is already complete, it appears that the respondent has already paid heavily for his acts of fleeing from justice," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-nias-plea-against-bail-for-accused-in-case-of-chopping-professors-palm-946336.html
01-02-2021||National||Netanyahu thanks PM Modi for efforts to protect Israeli representatives following blast near embassy||Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday thanked his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi for his government's efforts to protect Israeli representatives following the terrorist incident near the country's embassy in New Delhi last week. A minor improvised explosive device (IED) blast took place near the Israeli Embassy in New Delhi on Friday evening. No one was injured. "I spoke to my friend Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and thanked him for his government's efforts to protect Israeli representatives following the terrorist incident near the Israeli Embassy in India," Netanyahu wrote in a tweet. "Prime Minister Modi noted that his country is committed to the security of our people and that India will continue to cooperate with Israel in the fight against terrorism," he added. On his part, Prime Minister Modi assured Netanyahu that the attack near the Israeli mission “will be fully investigated and perpetrators brought to justice.” "Our close and valuable security cooperation will continue. We also discussed our healthcare cooperation in the context of COVID-19," Modi tweeted. Netanyahu congratulated Modi on the production of vaccines in India and the start of the vaccines operation there. Modi also congratulated Netanyahu on the successful vaccines operation in Israel. "The two leaders discussed possible cooperation in the production and supply of vaccines to Israel and the mutual recognition of certificates of vaccination,” the Israeli prime minister's office said. On Friday, Netanyahu had expressed "full confidence" in the Indian authorities in ensuring the safety of Israelis and Jews in India following the blast that occurred about 150 metres away from the embassy in the very high-security Lutyens' bungalow zone. Some cars were damaged in the blast. The Israeli foreign ministry said all its diplomats and embassy staff in Delhi are "safe and sound". Netanyahu through his National Security Adviser Meir Ben-Shabbat, who spoke to his Indian counterpart Ajit Doval, conveyed to Modi that he has full confidence that the Indian authorities will do a thorough investigation of the incident and ensure the safety of Israelis and Jews who are there. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also spoke to his Israeli counterpart Gabi Ashkenazi and assured him of “fullest protection” to diplomats and the mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/netanyahu-thanks-pm-modi-for-efforts-to-protect-israeli-representatives-following-blast-near-embassy-946363.html
01-02-2021||National||Bring bill in budget session to repeal farm laws: CPI to Centre||The CPI on Monday pledged its continued support to the ongoing farmers agitation in Delhi against the three contentious farm laws and demanded that the Narendra Modi government bring a bill to repeal them. The NDA government talked about agrarian reforms, but it should not mean corporatisation of agriculture and depriving the farmers rights and food security of the country, CPI General Secretary D Raja said here. He also said the party would mobilise "all sections of our society... secular, democratic and Left parties" to defeat the RSS-BJP combine and save the country, its Constitution and democracy. "We have decided to continue to support this farmers agitation. We demand the repealof all these three agricultural laws," Raja told reporters here, a day after the two-day National Council meeting of the CPI concluded here. Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at the borders of Delhi for over two months demanding the repeal of the farm laws, claiming they would affect their livelihood, a charge rejected by the government. The government offered to put the laws on hold for 18 months, but how can it be done as the acts were enacted by the Parliament and signed by the President, Raja said. "Our party demands, in the budget session, this government should move a bill for the repeal of these three agricultural laws," he said. He said the CPI would continue to support the farmers agitation because they were very determined, united and have come together to "save Indian agriculture. Claiming that the countrys economy was in a crisis, he said the NDA government at the Centre used the pandemic period to dismantle public sector units which were the backbone of the economy. Accusing the Modi government of "brazenly undermining the Constitution and buildingtheocratic and pro-corporate governance," the CPI leader said his party has decided to continue to fight against the "communal and fascist forces," uniting all secular, democratic and Left forces. The RSS-BJP combine needed to be defeated if the country, its Constitution and democracy were to be saved, he said. "This needs a broad-based ideological campaign. This needs a broad-based political campaign, mobilising all sections of our society, mobilising all secular, democratic, Left parties in our country. This is what our party decided, he said. Raja said the party congress (held once in three years) would be held in Vijayawada early next year, adding the month and other details would be decided later. Asked about the CPI's preparations for the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Kerala, West Bengal and Assam, to be held during the year, he said the partys understanding was that the primary objective must be to defeat BJP and its allies. "Accordingly, the (party's) electoral tactical line must be evolved," he said. In Kerala, the ruling Left Democratic Front, in which the CPI is a partner, gained strength after Jose K Mani joined it, he said, adding its strong performance in the recent local body polls was well known. "After the Hyderabad municipal corporation elections, Mr Amit Shah of BJP claimed Hyderabad is the gateway for entry into the south. I challenge Mr Amit Shah, what is going to happen in Kerala, wait and see. Because, the last local body elections, after Hyderabad, LDF won and made a huge victory, he said. CPI was working in a combine led by the DMK in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, he said. BJP was using all resources at its command to gain a foothold in Tamil Nadu but the Left parties would ensure that it did not happen, he said. In West Bengal, the Left Front (CPI is a part of it) and the Congress were discussing "electoral adjustments", he said. "There also, the BJP is desperate. It is really creating a hype as though BJP will win 200 plus seats. But, West Bengal people will give them a fitting reply. "We have made it clear, the Left Front and Congress would emerge as a credible alternative in the given situation in West Bengal," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bring-bill-in-budget-session-to-repeal-farm-laws-cpi-to-centre-946375.html
01-02-2021||National Politics||Tomar not giving correct facts on farm laws, counters Sharad Pawar||NCP president Sharad Pawar said on Sunday that Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar is not bringing out "correct facts" on the three farm bills. His reaction came after Tomar expressed dismay over Pawar's tweets criticising the farm laws, saying they were a mix of "ignorance and misinformation", and hoped that the veteran leader will change his stand after knowing the "facts". In a series of late-night tweets in Hindi, Pawar said, "@nstomar ji is not bringing out correct facts before people. He has been assuring that the new laws will not affect the mandis but farmers unions are of opinion that the provisions under law favour rival companies." "Under the new laws, farmers can sell their produce outside mandis but have no protection of MSP when they sell their produce to private buyers. This is what the protesting farmers have been saying since the beginning. It has not been assured that farmers will get the right price from the corporate sector in long term." Pawar said last year the government, without taking any political party or farmers into confidence passed the three farm bills. He said it is the duty of the government to assure the farmers and appropriate discussions had to take place at the right time. In a series of tweets, Pawar had on Saturday said the new agriculture laws of the Union government will adversely impact the Minimum Support Price (MSP) procurement and weaken the 'Mandi' system.        Responding to the NCP leader's remarks, Tomar said Pawar, who is a veteran leader, is also considered well-versed with the issues and solutions relating to agriculture. "Pawar himself tried hard to bring the same agriculture reforms earlier." "Since he speaks with some experience and expertise on the issue, it was dismaying to see his tweets employ a mix of ignorance and misinformation on the agriculture reforms. Let me take this opportunity to present some facts," Tomar said on Twitter. The minister countered Pawar's tweet which said that the amended Essential Commodities (EC) Act "may lead to apprehensions that corporates may purchase commodities at lower rates and stockpile and sell at higher prices to consumers." "The apprehension has no basis. Under the EC Act, the central government can intervene in case of extraordinary circumstances including war, famine, extraordinary price rise and natural calamities of grave nature," Tomar said. He said the new laws encourage additional choice channels for farmers as they can sell their produce to anyone, anywhere with a hassle-free movement in and outside the state to realise a competitive and better net price for their produce.  "This doesn't affect the current MSP (minimum support price) system," he added. Under the new ecosystem, the minister said, the mandis are not affected. Instead, they will be more competitive and cost-effective in terms of services and infrastructure; and both the systems will synergistically co-exist for the common interest of farmers. Tomar said, "As he (Pawar)is such a veteran leader, I would like to believe that he  was genuinely misinformed of the facts. Now that he has the right facts, I hope he will also change his stand and also explain the benefits to our farmers."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tomar-not-giving-correct-facts-on-farm-laws-counters-sharad-pawar-945836.html
01-02-2021||National Politics||Took political support for farmers' movement only after democracy was mocked: Rakesh Tikait||The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had not allowed political parties in the movement against new central farm laws but took political support "only after democracy was mocked" at protest sites, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait said Sunday. Tikait made the remark as hundreds of farmers reached a key protest site on the Delhi-Meerut highway in Ghazipur on the national capital's border with Uttar Pradesh where they danced to upbeat tunes, creating a festive atmosphere as more supporters continued to pour in.           Security measures were strengthened with multi-layer barricading that included iron and concrete structures, while barbed wires also came up on both sides of the highway stretch that has become the BKU's camping site since November 28 last year in a major farmers' stir over three new farm laws of the Centre.           Farmers reached the Ghazipur border from western Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand as a turban-clad Rakesh Tikait led the charge for the BKU, the appeal of which coupled with a clarion call from a January 29 "mahapanchayat" of farmers in Muzaffarnagar has re-energised the stir, which was fast losing its sheen and momentum after the Republic Day violence in Delhi.           In response to a question, Tikait said, “the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had not allowed political parties to enter the movement because our movement is apolitical. Support from political parties was taken only after democracy was mocked over the protests. But still, politicians are kept away from the stage of farmers' protest.”           On Sunday, Shiromani Akali Dal leader Sukhbir Singh Badal reached Ghazipur. Besides him, regional leaders of Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Rashtriya Lok Dal, Samajwadi Party also met with BKU office-bearers, extending their support in the fight for their demand for rollback of the new laws.           “Modi saab nu kisaanan di mann di gal sunni chahidi hai (Prime Minister Narendra Modi should listen to the heart's talk of the farmers),” said Badal, whose party broke ties from the BJP-led NDA over the contentious laws last year.           Tikait said the farmer unions are hoping for a resolution of the deadlock through dialogue and if the prime minister wants to talk to the farmers, they will ensure dignity of the PM's post but also protect their self-interest.           On if and when will the farmers decide on talking to the government, Tikait said, “I am one of the 40 members of the farmers' delegation but the decision on talks would be taken by the SKM committee.”           According to the Ghaziabad administration, senior officials and police officers are regularly monitoring the situation at the Ghazipur border.           Vehicles proceeding towards and coming from the protest site are being checked while drones were deployed for aerial monitoring at the site, which had thousands of protestors on Sunday, according to officials.           "The situation is under control and is being regularly monitored," an officer of the district administration said.           The groups of farmers camping at the site braving the cold nights were seen dancing to folk tunes and songs eulogising the nation and farmers as some young protesters carried music systems to Ghazipur on their tractor-trollies.           Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.           The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations.           However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/took-political-support-for-farmers-movement-only-after-democracy-was-mocked-rakesh-tikait-945838.html
01-02-2021||National Politics||Budget 2021: BSP chief Mayawati says working class tired of attractive promises||Reacting to the Union Budget on Monday, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) supremo Mayawati said that crores of poor people, farmers and working class of the country are tired of attractive promises and hollow claims. She said it would be better if the government implemented its stated policies on the ground. 2. देश की करोड़ों गरीब, किसान व मेहनतकश जनता केन्द्र व राज्य सरकारों के अनेकों प्रकार के लुभावने वायदे, खोकले दावे व आश्वासनों आदि से काफी थक चुकी है तथा उनका जीवन लगातार त्रस्त है। सरकार अपने वायदों को जमीनी हकीकत में लागू करे तो यह बेहतर होगा। 2/2 "Will the budget of the Central Government presented in Parliament today be able to deal with poverty, unemployment and inflation, etc?. On this basis, the activities of the government and this Budget will be judged," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. In a related tweet, she said, "Crores of poor, farmers and working people of the country are tired of many kinds of attractive promises, hollow claims and assurances by the Central and state governments and their lives are constantly plagued."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/budget-2021-bsp-chief-mayawati-says-working-class-tired-of-attractive-promises-946083.html
01-02-2021||National Politics||Puducherry Lt Governor Kiran Bedi hails Union budget 2021||Puducherry Lt Governor Kiran Bedi on Monday hailed the Union budget for the fiscal 2021- 2022 and termed it "a healthy budget on all counts." Welcoming the budget, the former IPS officer in a message said "it removes obstacles and provides considerable ease of living focusing on quality of life socially, economically and environmentally." Bedi pointed out that a "healthy nation will lead to a wealthy and a creative nation." Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman presented the budget in Lok Sabha on Monday with a focus on driving economic recovery through higher spending on sectors such as healthcare and infrastructure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/puducherry-lt-governor-kiran-bedi-hails-union-budget-2021-946105.html
01-02-2021||National Politics||Punjab Congress leaders meet Amit Shah, raise concerns over 'missing youths' after Red Fort incident||Congress MP Manish Tewari, and Punjab ministers Sukhjinder Randhawa and Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria met Home Minister Amit Shah in Parliament house Monday and raised the issue of some youths from the state "missing" after the Red Fort violence on Republic Day. The Punjab leaders, also including MLA Raj Kumar Chhabbewal, expressed their concerns over the "missing youths" who were detained by the Delhi Police after the incident, and they demanded their early release. Sources said Shah assured them he will look into the matter. The Delhi Police has said it filed over 35 cases and arrested more than 80 people in connection with the violence and vandalism in the national capital during a tractor parade on January 26 by the farmers protesting against the three new Central agriculture laws. Shah later informed the Congress leaders that he has directed the Delhi Police to release the list of all those arrested, the sources said. Concerns have been raised in Punjab over some of the youths having gone "missing" after they were protesting at the Singhu border and had participated in the agitations at the Red Fort on Republic Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-congress-leaders-meet-amit-shah-raise-concerns-over-missing-youths-after-red-fort-incident-946170.html
01-02-2021||National Politics||Union Budget pro-corporate, nothing for poor: CPI||The Communist Party of India (CPI) on Monday criticised the Union Budget, claiming it was pro-corporate and big businesses and has nothing for the poor. The Budget opened up agriculture, insurance sector and 'everything' for foreign direct investment (FDI), party General Secretary D Raja said, adding a fitting reply would be given for the "anti-people" Budget. "This Budget is the continuation of the aggressive, pro-corporate economic policies the Modi government has been pursuing. It is a pro-corporate, pro-big businesses budget. It is pro-international finance capital, the FDI. So, this budget has nothing for the poor, for the suffering masses," he told reporters here.  The country ranked 116 in the World Banks' human capital index and was also home to "largest number of hungry people" in the world while one in six children was malnourished, Raja claimed, quoting from some international survey. "What is the response (to these) from this Budget? I want to ask the Modi government... What is the meaning of 'Atmanirbhar?" he asked. The CPI leader, now in the city to attend the party's National Council meeting, said the Budget opened up agriculture, insurance sector and everything for FDI. "That's why the Budget is pro-corporate and anti-poor." Raja also said the Budget has let down the youth when the country was facing 'unprecedented' levels of 'unemployment'. "We are charging the Modi government with promoting a communal, pro-corporate, fascist regime which we need to fight. This budget has made it clear... even under such a difficult pandemic situation, the government hasn't cared for the poor people and we will give our fitting reply by mobilising against this anti-people budget, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/union-budget-pro-corporate-nothing-for-poor-cpi-946181.html
01-02-2021||National Politics||Union Budget 2021-22: BJP hails it as vision for 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'; Oppn says 'let down like never before'||The Union Budget on Monday evoked contrasting responses in the political arena with the ruling BJP hailing it as a vision for an 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' and the Opposition describing it as a "let down like never before" that was meant to "deceive" people. Asserting that villages and farmers are at the heart of the Union Budget, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said it has put a lot of emphasis on strengthening the farming sector and increasing farmers' income while making an allocation to further empower agriculture mandis. In a televised message after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman presented the budget, Modi said it has many provisions for the agriculture sector, including for making loans easier for farmers. While BJP president J P Nadda lauded the budget for being "all-inclusive", touching every section of society, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi alleged that "forget putting cash in the hands of people, the Modi government plans to handover India's assets to his crony capitalist friends." Sitharaman presented the budget for 2021-22 in Lok Sabha and read out the budget speech from a tablet instead of a conventional paper document as the first paperless budget since independence was presented by the government due to the COVID situation. Ruling party leaders lauded the budget for its focus on a number of measures, including substantial allocation for healthcare sector, capital expenditure, tax exemption for senior citizens and incentives for start-ups among others. Senior BJP leader and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said this budget is for an Atmanirbhar Bharat and will strengthen the economy. Underlining that drafting the budget during the coronavirus pandemic was a complicated task, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the government has given an "all-inclusive" budget under the guidance of Prime Minister Modi. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan commended the budget, saying the allocation of Rs 35,000 crore for COVID-19 vaccines and the commitment to provide further support will help end this pandemic and expedite economic recovery. He hailed the "visionary leadership" of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and "prudence" of Sitharaman "for taking us closer to Health For All". The Congress, however, was scathing in its criticism of the budget and claimed that it will unravel soon. The opposition party alleged that the budget had deceived the people, as it described the imposition of cess on petrol and diesel in the budget as a "vengeful act" against the thousands of farmers who took out the tractor rally. An agri cess of Rs 2.5 per litre on petrol and Rs 4 per litre on diesel was also slapped but this was offset by a reduction of an equivalent amount in the excise duty -- making it price neutral for consumers. There will be no increase in petrol and diesel prices and there will be no additional burden on people, Union minister Prakash Javadekar tweeted. The Congress also said it was a case of "wrong diagnosis and prescription", and that Finance Minister Sitharaman could have been "brave" by extending help to the poor, but chose to be "timid". Addressing a press conference, P Chidambaram said Sitharaman "deceived" those who were listening to her speech, especially the MPs, who had no clue that she has imposed cesses on a large number of products including petroleum and diesel -- Rs 2.50 on petrol per litre and Rs 4.00 on diesel per litre. He said this was a "cruel blow" to the average citizen, including farmers. "She deceived the people of India, especially the poor, the working class, the migrants, the farmers, the industrial units that had been closed down permanently, and those who had lost their jobs, both regular and informal, and are still looking for jobs," Chidambaram alleged. "The budget was a let down like never before. This budget, like the previous one, will unravel sooner than you think," he said. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh flayed the budget, saying it reflects the Centre's "persistent efforts to sideline" non-BJP ruled states. Left parties also hit out at the government over the budget, terming it as "rhetoric" and stated that it only benefits the corporates. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said the budget is neither for the people nor for the much publicised "V shaped revival of the economy, but for a K-shaped -- rich becoming richer, poor poorer" while CPI MP Binoy Viswam asserted it was "another masterstroke in rhetoric and grandstanding that has become the hallmark of this government." Lashing out at the Centre over the budget, the Trinamool Congress said the document was 100 per cent "visionless" and its theme was "sell India". "India's first paperless budget is also a 100% visionless budget. Theme of the fake budget is Sell India!" TMC spokesperson Derek O'Brien said. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee slammed the union budget as "anti- people" aimed at deceiving the masses, and alleged the BJP talks about nationalism, but in practice, they are the ones who are selling resources of the nation to the private players. The Shiv Sena said Maharashtra was ignored in the Union Budget while its ally Nationalist Congress Party termed the annual financial plan as disappointing amidst the coronavirus pandemic and a move towards privatisation. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said the Union Budget will prove to be a milestone in upgrading India's economy and will ensure development of all sections of society. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar congratulated the Centre for coming out with a "balanced" budget for the financial year 2021-2022 despite constraints on revenue collection in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/union-budget-2021-22-bjp-hails-it-as-vision-for-atmanirbhar-bharat-oppn-says-let-down-like-never-before-946192.html
01-02-2021||National Politics||All-inclusive budget touches every section of society: J P Nadda||The BJP on Monday hailed the Union Budget as one for an 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat', and asserted that this all-inclusive budget will strengthen the economy and double farmers' income. Ruling party leaders lauded the budget for its focus on a number of measures, including capital expenditure, tax exemption for senior citizens and incentives for start-ups among others. The Union budget is all-inclusive and touches every section of society, BJP president JP Nadda said while expressing gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Senior BJP leader and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said this budget is for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat and will strengthen the economy. Underlining that drafting the budget during the coronavirus pandemic was a complicated task, Union Home Minister Amit Shah said the government has given an "all-inclusive" budget under the guidance of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will pave the way for an Aatamnirbhar Bharat, making India a USD 5 trillion economy and doubling farmers' income, Shah said. The budget will do justice with farmers, generate more employment opportunities and will be beneficial for all, said BJP leader and Union Minister Prakash Javadekar. BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav said the budget will provide a major boost to India's infrastructure, agriculture and healthcare. Party spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain praised the budget's emphasis on affordable housing for all, and said it was sensitive to the needs of diverse sections of society. Party leader Jyotiraditya Scindia said Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has presented a well laid-out plan to get the economy back on track. "A forward-looking budget. It will make good on the government's USD 5 trillion economy promise. Multiple pluses: increased govt spending in major sectors like infrastructure, agriculture and healthcare; safety net expanded for the vulnerable; & opportunities for greater private investments," he tweeted||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/all-inclusive-budget-touches-every-section-of-society-j-p-nadda-946222.html
01-02-2021||National Politics||Protesting farmers announce nationwide 'chakka jam' on February 6 for three hours||Farmer unions Monday announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways for three hours in protest against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities and other issues. Union leaders told a press conference at the Singhu Border here that they will block the roads between 12 pm to 3 pm on February 6. They also alleged that farmers have been "ignored" in the Union Budget 2021-22, and water and power supply have been curtailed at their protest venues. The Samkyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions, also alleged that the Twitter accounts of Kisan Ekta Morcha and a user named 'Tractor2Twitter' have been restricted. Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav alleged the action against the Twitter account was taken on the "request of government authorities". He also claimed that the Union government has "reduced the allocation to the agriculture sector" in this budget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/protesting-farmers-announce-nationwide-chakka-jam-on-february-6-for-three-hours-946315.html
01-02-2021||National Politics||Show of strength is never done against family: UP minister on Naresh Tikait's remarks||Uttar Pradesh Minister Suresh Rana on Monday hit out at Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Naresh Tikait over his recent remarks and asserted that a show of strength is never done against the family. His statement comes a day after Tikait termed farm laws a "fire" (aag) which would lead to losses and urged the Centre to repeal them. Throwing a challenge, the BKU leader had said, "If a display of strength has to be done, then the BJP can do so in a state where it is in power like Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. The government will get to know its strength. We will make it fail at every place. We will bear the cost of the stage. We speak for the honour of the farmers." Replying to him, Rana said the welfare of farmers has always been the BJP's top priority. "I am myself a son of a farmer and BJP has always kept the welfare of the farmers in its agenda. But I would only say that show of strength is never done against the family," Rana told PTI on Monday. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken the initiative of doubling the income of the farmers through new laws. And if the farmer brothers have raised questions, then the PM has kept the door for talks open," he added. The UP sugarcane development minister accused the Congress of misleading the farmers over the agri laws. "In 2013, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had spoken about amendments in laws for improvement in the agriculture sector. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi implemented this with courage, then instead of praising it, the party started misguiding the farmers. When such people joined the farmers' protest, its direction changed." When asked to comment on the recent remarks made by Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav over the farmers' issue, the UP minister alleged that indulging in casteist politics, spreading animosity in society, deriving political mileage and defining socialism using one's own lens is the priority of Yadav and his party. On Sunday, the SP chief had said that the farmers were deeply hurt by the moves made by the BJP to defame them. "The farmers are feeling deeply hurt because of the moves made by the BJP to defame them. The BJP has enacted demonetisation, GST, labour laws and farm laws to give benefits only to the billionaires. The BJP has tortured the common people," he had said in a tweet in Hindi. Rana condemned the incidents of violence that unfolded during the farmers' tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day. "When the prime minister, home minister and the agriculture minister have kept the option of talks open, then solution can be reached through talks. Prime Minister Modi and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath have continuously worked in the interest of the farmers," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/show-of-strength-is-never-done-against-family-up-minister-on-naresh-tikaits-remarks-946322.html
01-02-2021||National Politics||Farmers protest continues; Govt says discussion is the only solution||Amid no sign of abatement of the farmers' protest after more than two months, the Government reached out to farmers yet again after the presentation of the Union Budget, which Prime Minister Narendra said, has "farmers at its heart". "Discussion is the only solution. The government is open to discussions. Before the commencement of the Parliament session the Prime Minister said that the offer is still on the table. If any farmer has any question, the Agriculture Minister has never denied opportunities for talks," Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said during her post-budget briefing on Monday. She also emphasised how Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has had several rounds of discussions with farmers. Meanwhile, even as farmer protests at Delhi borders continued, the fourth farmer Mahapanchyat was held in western Uttar Pradesh's Bijnor district extending support to the demand to repeal Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 passed by the government last year. Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary said that some people were adding fuel to the fire for their narrow political gains and  hoped farmers unions will understand this. Highlighting that  the government has kept the doors open, Choudhary expressed confidence that the solution will emerge "if we sit and talk." "I have full faith," Choudhary added.  Both ministers highlighted the pro-farmer approach of the government and the Budget's commitment to farmers' welfare. Farmer organisations Jai Kisan Andolan, Alliance for Sustainable & Holistic Agriculture (ASHA) and Rythu Swarajya Vedika in a joint statement, however, alleged it was "Zero Budget' for farmers and proves their apprehensions. "This government is on a path of withdrawing support to agriculture, not strengthening it. Despite the huge farmers’ protests and deep discontent at their economic plight, the government of India gave the lowest priority to Agriculture in this Budget," they alleged. Meanwhile, a number of roads leading to Delhi from UP were barricaded on the Budget day. On the railway side while Punjab Mail was diverted, another train was short-terminated Monday. This kicked in allegations that this was done to prevent farmers from reaching Delhi to join the ongoing protests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-protest-continues-govt-says-discussion-is-the-only-solution-946371.html
01-02-2021||North and Central||UP police issues notice to 220 tractor owners; Opposition says move to threaten farmers||Around 200 tractor owners have been issued notices by the Uttar Pradesh police, prompting senior SP leader Ram Govind Chaudhary to allege that the move was meant to threaten the farmers. The police, however, stated that the notices have nothing to do with the farmers' protest against the Centre’s new agriculture laws. "Notices have been served to 220 owners of tractors in the Sikandarpur police station area. In the notice, it has been mentioned that the tractors were used on public roads for commercial work, and minors were driving them. As a result of this, there were road accidents. The tractors were also used in illegal mining,” Bal Mukund Mishra, SHO, Sikandarpur police station told PTI. Asked if the police can issue such a notice, Regional Transport Officer Rajeshwar Yadav said he was not aware of any such thing. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition in Uttar Pradesh Legislative Assembly, Ram Govind Chaudhary said police are trying to threaten the farmers. "The farmers have tractors, and they are going to the protest site by tractors. Police have issued the notices to hinder the farmers' movement,” he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-police-issues-notice-to-220-tractor-owners-opposition-says-move-to-threaten-farmers-945837.html
01-02-2021||North and Central||Farmers' protest: Internet suspended at Delhi borders till 11 pm on Feb 2||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Monday extended the suspension of internet services at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri, the borders with Delhi where farmers are protesting, and adjoining localities until Tuesday night. Officials said that the internet services would be suspended till 11 pm of Feb. 2. They said the decision was taken to maintain public safety and avert public emergency under the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules 2017. Earlier on Jan. 30, the MHA had suspended the internet services at these localities till 11 pm on Jan. 31. This was done four days after the farmers' tractor rally turned violent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-internet-suspended-at-delhi-borders-till-11-pm-on-feb-2-945979.html
01-02-2021||North and Central||Madrasa opens doors for a Christian woman's funeral||Malappuram district in North Kerala that was once labelled as India's most violent district by BJP leader Maneka Gandhi has yet another story of harmony to share as a madrassa in the district offered space to conduct the last rites of a Christian woman of the locality. The Tha'leemul Islam Higher Secondary Madrasa at Ponnad near Kondotty, about 20 kilometres from the town, even witnessed a Christian priest conducting prayers by reading the Bible and Christian devotional songs being sung in the Madrasa hall as part of the last rites. Bridget Richards, a local resident, died at the age of 82 on Friday. She has been living in the locality for over 10 years after her husband passed away. The couple had no children. Bridget's was the lone Christian family in the locality and she was having a cordial relationship with the members of the locality, who used to fondly call her 'Ammachi'. Most of her relatives are in Kozhikode and abroad. When her body was brought home, the freezer in which the body was kept could not be taken inside her house. Since the funeral was scheduled for Saturday as her relatives had to arrive, the local people and some of her relatives were looking for other options. That is when the authorities of the madrasa, situated hardly 50 metres from her house, offered the madrasa space. Siddique Ponnad, an executive committee member of the madrasa, told DH that arrangements for keeping the freezer with Ammachi's body were made at a classroom in the madrasa. Arrangement for cleaning the body was also provided at the madrasa premises and local people, mostly from the Muslim community, performed the acts. Some relatives of Ammachi also turned up from Kozhikode. The funeral prayers were also performed on Saturday in the madrasa by Kozhikode CSI cathedral vicar T I James without any sort of hesitation. The vicar was also quite overwhelmed by the harmony in the region as Bible and Christian devotional songs echoed in the madrasa, said Siddique, who is also a local leader of the Indian Union Muslim League. Local MLA T V Ibrahim who came across the heartening developments also turned up for the funeral prayers. Last year, there was a strong campaign by some BJP leaders against the Muslim-dominated district. Following some misleading reports that a wild elephant was killed in the forest areas of Malappuram district after being given explosives-packed pineapple, BJP leader Maneka Gandhi even termed the district as the most violent district. The district had received much appreciation after the local people actively participated in the rescue operations following the AIE flight crash in August last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madrasa-opens-doors-for-a-christian-womans-funeral-946026.html
01-02-2021||North and Central||Intense cold continues in Punjab, Haryana||Biting cold weather conditions continued in Punjab and Haryana on Monday with the minimum temperature hovering below normal limits at most places. In Punjab, Adampur reeled under intense cold recording a low of 2.1 degrees Celsius, meteorological department officials said here. Among other places in the state, Amritsar recorded a low of 5 degrees Celsius, followed by Ludhiana (4.1 degrees Celsius), Patiala (6 degrees Celsius), Halwara (5 degrees Celsius), Bathinda (5.9 degrees Celsius), Faridkot (5.5 degrees Celsius), Gurdaspur (5.7 degrees Celsius) and Pathankot (5.3 degrees Celsius). In Haryana, Karnal’s minimum temperature settled at 4 degrees Celsius, followed by Narnaul (4.5 degrees Celsius), Rohtak (6.6 degrees Celsius), Hisar (5 degrees Celsius) and Ambala (5.4 degrees Celsius). Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 6.8 degrees Celsius, the officials said. PTI SUNb and Haryana on Monday with the minimum temperature hovering below normal limits at most places. In Punjab, Adampur reeled under intense cold recording a low of 2.1 degrees Celsius, meteorological department officials said here. Among other places in the state, Amritsar recorded a low of 5 degrees Celsius, followed by Ludhiana (4.1 degrees Celsius), Patiala (6 degrees Celsius), Halwara (5 degrees Celsius), Bathinda (5.9 degrees Celsius), Faridkot (5.5 degrees Celsius), Gurdaspur (5.7 degrees Celsius) and Pathankot (5.3 degrees Celsius). In Haryana, Karnal’s minimum temperature settled at 4 degrees Celsius, followed by Narnaul (4.5 degrees Celsius), Rohtak (6.6 degrees Celsius), Hisar (5 degrees Celsius) and Ambala (5.4 degrees Celsius). Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 6.8 degrees Celsius, the officials said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/intense-cold-continues-in-punjab-haryana-946091.html
01-02-2021||North and Central||Cold day conditions at few places in UP, similar forecast for Feb 2||Cold day to severe cold day conditions occurred at isolated places over Uttar Pradesh in the past 24 hours as Etawah registered the coldest in the state at 2.4 degrees Celsius, the meteorological department said on Monday. "Dense to very dense fog occurred at few places over eastern UP and at isolated places over western UP. Cold day to severe cold day conditions occurred at isolated places over eastern UP and cold day condition occurred at isolated places over western UP," the Met department said here. The day temperatures rose appreciably in Allahabad, Lucknow, Bareilly, Jhansi while the mercury during the day fell appreciably in Moradabad division division with no large change in the remaining divisions of the state. The highest maximum temperature in the state was 27.1 degrees Celsius recorded at Jhansi observatory. Night temperatures went up in Moradabad division with no large change in the remaining divisions, it said adding that the lowest minimum temperature was 2.4 degrees Celsius recorded at Etawah observatory. The Met department has forecast dense to very dense fog at few places over eastern parts of the state and at isolated places over west UP on Tuesday. Cold wave conditions are very likely to occur at isolated places over eastern UP on Tuesday, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-day-conditions-at-few-places-in-up-similar-forecast-for-feb-2-946104.html
01-02-2021||North and Central||Probing how soldier died at LoC in J-K’s Baramulla: Army||The Army on Monday said it was investigating the circumstances in which a soldier died at a forward post along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir’s Baramulla district. An Army official said it was clarified that the incident in which the soldier died was "non-operational in nature". "Circumstances under which Sepoy Nikhil Dayma was found dead on 29 January 2021 at around 1330 hrs while on sentry duty at a forward post along the LoC in Kashmir are being investigated," he said. Earlier, it was reported that Dayma died in an encounter with militants in Uri sector along the LoC. Dayma, a resident of Alwar in Rajasthan, had reportedly returned to duty on January 13 after availing leave. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and BJP MP from Tonk-Sawai Madhopur Sukhbir Jaunapuria had paid tributes to Dayma, claiming that he was killed at Uri in an encounter with terrorists. "Salute the martyrdom of Alwar, #Rajasthan's braveheart Sh. Nikhil Dayma who made the supreme sacrifice in an encounter with terrorists in Jammu & Kashmir. My heartfelt condolences to his family members & prayers that they find strength. We stand with them in this difficult time," Gehlot tweeted on Saturday. On Sunday, Jaunapuria visited the slain soldier’s bereaved family as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/probing-how-soldier-died-at-loc-in-j-k-s-baramulla-army-946167.html
01-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: HC asks prosecution to respond to Jamia student Tanha's bail plea in UAPA case||The Delhi High Court Monday sought response of the prosecution on a plea by Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, seeking bail in connection with a case related to larger conspiracy in the northeast Delhi riots in February last year. A bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and A J Bhambhani issued notice to prosecution and asked it to file a reply to the petition within three weeks. The court listed the matter for further hearing on March 12. Tanha has challenged a trial court's October 26, 2020 order by which his bail application was dismissed on the ground that he allegedly played an active role in the entire conspiracy and that there were reasonable grounds for believing that the allegations against him were prima facie true. Tanha was arrested in the case in May last year for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” in the riots. Advocates Siddharth Aggarwal and Sowjhanya Shankaran, representing Tahna, submitted that they have challenged the refusal to grant him bail and added that the accused shall be granted the relief as he has been in custody since May 2020 and even the charge sheet has been filed. The prosecution was represented through special public prosecutor Amit Mahajan. The trial court, in its October 26, last year order, had said that since there were reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against Tanha were prima facie true, hence, the embargo created by Section 43D of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) applied for grant of bail to the accused and the bail application was dismissed. Under section 43 D of UAPA, an accused should not be released on bail or on his own bond if the court was of the opinion that the accusation against such person was prima facie true. Tanha's counsel had claimed before the trial court that he was not present in Delhi during the riots and did not visit any of the protest sites where rioting and violence occurred. The counsel had further contended that there was no physical evidence connecting Tanha to the riots and no allegations with respect to any funds being received by him for terrorist activities. The prosecutor had opposed the bail plea saying there were statements of protected witnesses in the case which clearly showed the alleged role of Tanha in the conspiracy. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-hc-asks-prosecution-to-respond-to-jamia-student-tanhas-bail-plea-in-uapa-case-946171.html
01-02-2021||North and Central||JNU reopening: Fourth semester M.Phil, M.Tech, final semester MBA students allowed to return||The Jawaharlal Nehru University on Monday announced that fourth semester MPhil and MTech students of its science school and special centre, and final semester MBA students, both day-scholars and hostel residents, will be allowed to return to the campus from February 8. The B R Ambedkar Central Library of the university also announced partial resumption of service. A notification by the university said those students who require access to the laboratory and have to submit their dissertation or thesis before June 30 are allowed to enter the campus in its seventh phase of reopening. The B R Ambedkar Central Library will now allow students, scholars and faculty members to get books issued from the library. However the facility can only be availed 24 hours after sending an email to the librarian. Only five students will be allowed to enter the library at a time to take the requested books. Reading rooms, bookshelves and reading halls will remain closed till further notice. It also asked the students and other users to comply to COVID-19 guidelines, failing which "will attract a penalty of withdrawal of library facilities". The university also announced immediate reopening of authorised shops, including those providing tea, snacks and refreshments, of hostels, residential areas of shopping complex and Tapti, Paschimabad, and Poorvanchal complex. However, dhabas and canteens in the campus will remain closed until further notice. Yoga activities in sport complex are also allowed with immediate effect and will be held according to standard operating preventive measures, the university announced. Entry of NCC Girls Cadets will also be allowed as their physical presence is required for their NCC 'B' Certificate. The facility of e-autorickshaw will also begin inside the campus, it said. The university has started classes for fourth year PhD, MSc, MCA students from Monday. It had also reopened the sports complex for "walking and running purposes" only, and canteen of Aravali Guest House and the India Coffee House for "takeaway facility".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-reopening-fourth-semester-mphil-mtech-final-semester-mba-students-allowed-to-return-946186.html
01-02-2021||North and Central||UP MLA gets Whatsapp death threats from Pak number||Uttar Pradesh's BJP legislator Sadar Sarita Bhadauria has received multiple messages on WhatsApp from a Pakistani number threatening to kill her, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and senior BJP and RSS leaders, police said on Monday. The MLA from Etawah Sadar has told police that she received the messages on WhatsApp with the logo of Pakistani intelligence agency ISI. According to her, the first message was received on Saturday around 11 pm. By Sunday morning she had received eight messages threatening to kill her, the prime minister, and senior BJP and RSS leaders, police said. Senior Superintendent of Police of Etawah Akash Tomar said, "The MLA has received messages on her WhatsApp. I have seen the message. It has come from a mobile number of Pakistan starting with +92. We are probing the matter and also reviewing security arrangements for the legislator." Bhadauria had won 2017 Assembly election from Etawah Sadar by defeating Kuldeep Gupta of Samajwadi Party by 17,342 votes. She came into politics after the murder of her husband Abhayveer Singh Bhadauria in 1999. The MLA said she would continue to fight for the people and would not get intimidated by any such message.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-mla-gets-whatsapp-death-threats-from-pak-number-946201.html
01-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police appeals to public not to believe in rumours about illegal detention of farmers||The Delhi Police on Monday appealed to people not to believe in rumours about the illegal detention of farmers protesting against three new agri laws and asserted that the investigation is being carried out in a fair and transparent manner. Delhi Police PRO Eish Singhal said 44 FIRs have been registered and 122 people arrested till now. The information about the cases concerned has been updated on the official website of the Delhi Police as per guidelines of the Supreme Court to facilitate the public, he said. The kin of those arrested can also seek information from the police stations concerned. "We appeal to the public to not believe in rumours. Investigation carried out by the Delhi Police is transparent and fair," Singhal said. According to the police, 394 police personnel were injured while 30 police vehicles were damaged in the violence during the farmers' tractor parade on Republic Day. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Police said, "There are various rumours being spread about illegal detention and missing of many farmers post January 26 violence. Delhi Police has registered 44 cases and arrested 122 persons so far." "Their details are available on Delhi Police website. No one has been illegally detained by the police," it added. Meanwhile, security has been beefed up at the border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur with deployment of additional security forces and placement of multi-layered barricades and barbed wires amid apprehensions of more farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh joining the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-appeals-to-public-not-to-believe-in-rumours-about-illegal-detention-of-farmers-946207.html
01-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police personnel get ‘iron batons’ for self-defense||Delhi Police personnel of Shahdara district have been given iron batons to protect themselves from attacks by sharp-edged weapons, police said on Monday. The initiative was taken by station house officers (SHOs) of all 11 police stations falling under the jurisdiction of Shahdara district. Each police station distributed around 12 iron batons to its personnel, they said. "The aim is to protect our personnel from attacks by any sword or sharp-edged weapon. It is for their self-defense. This initiative was taken by SHOs of the respective police stations of Shahdara district," a senior police officer said. The move comes following violence during the Republic Day tractor rally organised by farmers protesting against the Centre’s new farm laws. The rally had descended into anarchy as protesters deviated from pre-decided routes, attacked police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag on the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. According to police, 394 police personnel were injured, while 30 police vehicles were damaged in the violence on January 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-personnel-get-iron-batons-for-self-defense-946244.html
01-02-2021||North and Central||J&K BJP welcomes special package for UT in Union Budget, Congress terms it 'directionless'||The Jammu and Kashmir unit of the BJP on Monday welcomed the special package for the Union Territory in the Union Budget, which the local unit of the Congress termed "directionless". The National Panthers Party (NPP), on the other hand, in its reaction described the budget-2021 akin to "rob the poor and feed the rich and capitalist class". Lauding Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for presenting a “balanced budget” despite constraints on revenue collection in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, J-K BJP spokesperson Tahir said Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is committed to the development of the Union Territory. "The decision to lay a gas pipeline in the Union Territory and extension of centrally sponsored Ujjwala scheme is a welcome development. The mega project will be part of the Union government's plan to add 100 more districts of the country in next three years to the City Gas Distribution Network," he said. The BJP spokesperson said the gas pipeline in J-K will be a revolutionary step as it would relieve the pressure on availability of domestic gas and also help generate employment. The BJP also welcomed the finance minister's decision for proposing a central university in Leh district of Ladakh, he said. Reacting to the budget, J-K Congress chief spokesperson Ravinder Sharma claimed the Centre has neglected and dismayed the people of the UT in the budget which lacked the required direction and any roadmap to create better job opportunities and boost the economy. "The budget is directionless which brought no cheers to the common people, especially the youth, students, the farmers and the labour class who suffered a lot due to worst economic slowdown and the Covid situation," he said. "There are no efforts to boost the rural economy and create job opportunities in the wake of large scale unemployment and retrenchments in the recent years due to wrong economic policies of the BJP government coupled with the Covid situation,” he alleged. The Congress leader said there was no respite from the ever increasing prices of all commodities of common use and unprecedented price hike of petrol and diesel despite drastic fall in the rates of crude oil in international market. "Jammu and Kashmir seems to have been forgotten by the finance minister in this budget and there is no focus on the most badly affected people of this troubled part who have been facing worst economic slowdown due to the various kinds of changes brought by the BJP government in last one and half years," he said. Reacting with anger, NPP patron Bhim Singh said the budget is akin to "rob the poor and feed the rich and capitalist class". He hoped that the entire opposition would unite inside and outside Parliament as well as in the state legislatures to "oppose and depose" the BJP rulers in the interest of 80 per cent of the population of India. Meanwhile, Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Arun Gupta welcomed the massive budget for the health sector and the announcement of a gas pipeline for J-K. "Nothing special has been announced for the trade and industrial sector in today's budget but the government has already announced an industrial package of Rs 28,400 crores to J-K sometime back," Gupta said. He said the economy of the UT is purely based on tourism sector but no focus has been laid on this sector, especially in Jammu division.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-bjp-welcomes-special-package-for-ut-in-union-budget-congress-terms-it-directionless-946369.html
01-02-2021||Opinion||Worrying signs in Budget fine print for agri sector||The Union Budget 2021 is a mixed bag: High on rhetoric with worrisome outlays in the budget document’s fine print. The most important takeaway is that agriculture and allied activities have been given an important place in the Budget speech. Indeed, taxes imposed for their cause. One need not be surprised if there is resentment against the supposed substantial government support to agriculture in the aftermath of the imposition of a sharp increase in Agriculture Development and Infrastructure (AIDC) Cess with the imposition of customs duties on import of select products including petrol and diesel. The rising cost of diesel will only add to the problems of the farming community.  Outlays on agriculture A significant announcement is an increase in agricultural credit target to Rs. 16.5 lakh crore. The other promises relate to rural and agricultural infrastructure development – those related to spending increases on Rural Infrastructure Development Fund (RIDF), minor irrigation fund, availability of agriculture infrastructure fund to APMCs,  integration of another 1000 Mandis with e-NAM and increased outlay for promotion of Farmers’ Producers Organisations (FPOs).  The fine print of the budget indicates a significant infrastructure bet is on the national rural drinking water mission which has seen an increased outlay from Rs 11,000 crore (RE: 2020-21) to Rs 50,011 crore (BE 2021-22). There is a sharp reduction in the allotment for National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme – a decline from Rs 1.11 crores to Rs 73,000 crores while PM-Kisan has remained constant at Rs 65,000 crores. There is a sharp decline in nutrient-based subsidy (Rs 18,288 crore) and urea subsidy (Rs 36,189 crore). Realising promises The government seems to have bet the house on rural infrastructure building as the way to reinvigorate the rural economy rather than putting more money directly into the hands of the farmers and rural economy. Of course, this could change in the next season if there is a substantial increase in MSP or a rise in food inflation in the next few months. The budget expenditure estimates seem to indicate that the headline figures may not be of direct help to most agricultural households and any improvement in incomes may be linked to the larger economic revival.  The large changes in some outlays seem to reinforce the belief that the bet on private and PPP investments in infrastructure in the context of the controversial farm laws seems to be the major if not the only plan under consideration of the government regarding agriculture.  At this juncture, one can only hope that the money collected on the new cess will be utilised rather than meet the same fate as the road cess which remains underutilised. The government needs to quickly clarify how the proceeds of the cess, levied on a few products, will be utilised since the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) has seen a paltry increase from Rs. 208 crores to Rs. 900 crores – a not so enticing figure considering the expected large collections that are likely to accrue with the cess on petrol and diesel and the problems in agriculture.  (S Ananth is an independent researcher and advocate based in Andhra Pradesh. Views are strictly personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/worrying-signs-in-budget-fine-print-for-agri-sector-946156.html
01-02-2021||Opinion||Budget 2021: Safe harbour for the ship in unstable times||That Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman would not be able to spend as much as the experts egged her to do was obvious even before the Budget for FY22 was announced. That she will instead show transparently the details of every possible spend by the government was not so obvious. Yet, once she had made that choice, it became extremely difficult for critics to pan her. This is the reason why commentaries on the Budget will remain upbeat.   But beyond that, as far as Indian government Budgets go this is a huge step-up in confidence. Since the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act was passed in 2004 and even before that, finance ministers have tried to create wormholes to ferret away bad news on expenditure. In this they have been led by the belief that it is great to attempt to come close to the target of 3 per cent of GDP as the golden number. Only once has India managed to sail past the magic number in 2007-08. Sitharaman has instead become the first finance minister not to mention the 3 per cent target and instead offer a glide path of returning to 4.5 per cent by the year 2024-25.  Spending on health and Capex Meanwhile, she has made it clear where she wishes to spend money—on health and on capital expenditure. She has run up large additions to them. 44 per cent for the latter and 137 per cent for the former, year on year.  But by afternoon even as it emerged that the rise in health budget was made up largely with that allocated for drinking water and sanitation, the commentators had something of a problem. The fiscal deficit for FY22 is supposed to be already massively high at 6.8 per cent of GDP. It is close enough to the 7.61 recorded in that perilous year of 1990-91. The 9.5 per cent recorded for FY21 is, of course, the highest ever for independent India.  That said, within this constraint this is still the first budget in a long time that capital expenditure shall grow at the expense of revenue expenditure. Revenue expenditure will be at 84.1 per cent of the government expenditure in FY22 dropping from 87 per cent in FY21 Capital spend will instead climb to 15.9 per cent compared to 13 per cent in FY21.  To ask for more resources for any sector would mean saying yes to either a larger borrowing or the raising of additional taxes. The first would crowd out private sector borrowing, the second would entail a huge cut back in consumption. The only way, for instance, the government could have financed genuinely high health care, (in addition to the bill for vaccines) was through a massive jump in personal income tax at the highest bracket. India Inc. is pretty important to the government’s plan of a ‘Atmanirbhar’ India.  A disproportionately high tax soak up would have scuppered its plans, especially as despite all the rhetoric none of the advanced economies are raising their tax rates. If India did so it would have led to a capital flight.  Also by bringing the money paid by Food Corporation of India out of the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) onto the government budget, she has ensured that not only that the budget numbers look more accurate, but also gives the government a powerful political number to counter the claim of not having done for the cause of farmers. She also had limitations as the higher allocation from the 15th Finance Commission to the states comes into play immediately. A run through these budget numbers is therefore essential to figure out the story of the Budget she has presented today. This is also the reason why the markets were surprised on the positive side. They shall not have to wait for the day after to figure out hidden bombs in the budget numbers and can instead deal with whatever has been offered, at face value. In keeping with tradition So the Budget plays true to the template of the present government. It was for instance never expected that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will make the Budget an occasion for grand annual statements. The eight presented by three finance ministers since FY14, Arun Jaitley, Piyush Goyal and Sitharaman have not been the major templates to set the directions for government policies. Jan Dhan Yojana, Ayushman Bharat, or Prime Minister’s Awas Yojana were not first set out in Budgets. Bank mergers, demonetisation, GST or even the mega slashing of corporate tax rates have all happened outside the Budget speech. The Budgets for each year simply incorporated these announcements into their framework and set out the financial implications. She has not added to any dole in her budget, despite demands for the same. It does not mean they may not make an appearance later this year. But her approach sits very well with this government’s oft-stated position that it shall not offer freebies but put people back to work. The promise from the government shall be minimum interference while the Centre ensures there is certainty in tax rates and other rules. In the bargain, the minister has been able to keep the giveaways to a minimum. She has largely confined her tax treatment to their simplification, including a promised rejig of the huge number of customs duties. She has hardly changed any rates for direct or indirect taxes, instead offering solutions to a series of niggling compliance issues that bother MSME enterprises. There are no surprises in the budget and it augurs well for the economy.  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/budget-2021-safe-harbour-for-the-ship-in-unstable-times-946329.html
01-02-2021||Panorama||The dawn of computer age in administration in Karnataka||Karnataka is renowned for its software professionals in the last few decades. The world looks to Bengaluru for its software needs. Citizens expect the government to serve them using computers. Ration cards, driving licences, examination results, tickets for travel by air, train or bus, are all processed on computers.  In short, computers have become ubiquitous in the work of the government. However, it was not always so. It was only 50 years ago that the first computer was purchased by the Karnataka government, which was among the first states to embark upon computerisation. That little step taken five decades ago has led the state government to its present status as the doyen among computer savvy states in India.  As Bengaluru reaches the significant milestone of 50 years since it all started, I recall my own personal experience of that pioneering year. The year was 1971. Apollo spacecraft sent by USA had landed on the moon in 1969 and sent the famous message, ‘The Eagle has landed’. Neil Armstrong’s message that he had taken the first little step for mankind on the moon was still fresh in public memory.  There was high trust in computers and their ability to do superhuman tasks. Karnataka was still Mysore state. It was under a spell of President’s rule. Dharma Vira was the governor. R J Rebello was the chief secretary; G V K Rao was development commissioner and Mani Narayanaswamy finance secretary.  That year, an IBM 1401 computer and its accessories were purchased by the government to computerise treasury accounts. The computer was set up in the Bureau of Economics and Statistics headed by Sampathkumaran. Parthasarathy, a railway officer with experience in computers, was the manager of the Computer Centre. In August 1971, I was appointed as the Special Officer for the Computer Centre.  For computerising the state accounts, codes had to be designed and standardised for converting the treasury data into digital format. Staff in the treasuries had to be trained to enter receipt and expenditure transactions into coding sheets. These sheets would be transported to Bengaluru.  Data entry operators would punch the data into cards. Another set of operators would verify the correctness of the data. Card reading machines would read the data from the cards and send them to storage devices for storing on magnetic tapes. System analysts had designed the set of programmes that would process data as desired by the finance department. Programmers would write and check the programs needed to operate the system. We had to identify officials, who were willing to learn computer programming. IBM would give them an aptitude test. Those who did adequately well in the test would then be sent for learning the programming language. Development of the system for treasury accounting would take time. In the meanwhile, government wanted to consider computerising other types of repetitive works like tabulation of marks, processing of driving licences, vehicle registration certificates, ration cards and similar applications.  We used to hold meetings with heads of departments, make a presentation about the capability  of computers and invite them to identify tasks in their department, which could be computerised. Depending upon the response, we would invite them to send willing personnel from their departments for the aptitude test. These would be the nucleus staff for computerisation of that department. Punched cards In this way, seeds were sown for the eventual computerisation of treasuries and many other departments.  Looking back, it appears very ambitious on the part of the state government to have tried all these when the status of technology was still primitive. The IBM 1401 computer had a memory of only 8k. The input processing through punched cards was laborious and prone to errors.  Scanning devices were not yet available. Desktop and laptop personal computers and graphic user interface technology had not yet been invented. Laser printers were not yet available. Communication was primitive. Mobile phones had not been invented. Only landlines with limited capacities were available. There was no worldwide web. Programmers were difficult to find.  When computers made their entry, there was fear of loss of jobs. This fear created a lot of resistance to computerisation in the initial decades. Negotiation and persuasion were required before staff unions would accept computerisation. That is why the realisation of the government’s computerisation goals took many years, during which great developments took place simultaneously in computer hardware, software, communications and availability of manpower with the new skills.  Eventually, it was realised that though the computer-rendered many old jobs redundant, it created many new ones. What was more, the new jobs paid much more than the jobs they replaced. The new jobs were also in demand all over the world. Degree and certificate courses in the new skills attracted a large number of young men and women.  Karnataka built up a huge pool of manpower which attracted companies from all over the world. New companies based in Karnataka have also established themselves as globally respected large software houses. Many foreign companies have come here while many others have hired manpower from here in large numbers. All these developments have brought prosperity to individuals, families, cities, states and the country.  While we see and admire now in 2021, the achievements of Karnataka in the field of computerisation, it would be good to remember that a beginning was made by some pioneers 50 years ago. This milestone of 50 years since 1971 is a good occasion to remember and thank those visionaries who foresaw the needs of government in the 21st century and took those little steps, which have resulted in this giant leap for the state. (The writer is a retired IAS officer, Tamil Nadu cadre)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-dawn-of-computer-age-in-administration-in-karnataka-945808.html
01-02-2021||Panorama||Off the record: January 31||Covid-19 trouble For the CPI(M), it will be a depleted bench in Rajya Sabha during this Budget Session. Two of its five MPs --K K Ragesh and K Somaprasad -- are down with Covid-19. Somaprasad has been diagnosed with Covid-19 for the second time. Ragesh, also a leader of the All India Kisan Sabha, has been camping in the national capital and is a regular face at Delhi borders where farmers organisations are on a protest. He even drove a tractor during the tractor rally at Shahjahanabad border. Only days ago, he submitted a notice seeking to table three private members bills to repeal the three laws against which he and others are protesting. Following this, he attended the Opposition protest in Parliament on January 29. But the next morning, he woke up with a high fever and a subsequent test confirmed that he had Covid-19. Ragesh says he would miss the action in Parliament but would be glued to phone and TV to follow the developments. Shemin Joy, New Delhi A dig at Fadnavis  Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray may have praised the erstwhile BJP-led government but at the same time took a dig at his predecessor and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis. Last week, Uddhav, at a function of the Mumbai Metro said, “our government (Maha Vikas Aghadi) government is working very hard, we are giving a boost to infrastructure, that does not mean the previous government has not worked. I am not the type of person who would say that the previous government had not worked.”  Uddhav’s comments come a day after Fadnavis after a ride in Delhi Metro tweeted, “I travelled in Delhi Metro today to go back to the airport and reached in a very short span (of time) as compared to travel by road! (I) don’t know when I will be able to travel in Mumbai Metro to the airport, looking at the things messed up by MVA on carshed issues.” Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai An accusation  Often at the receiving end of the dynasty tag, Rahul Gandhi hit out at Jay Shah, the son of Home Minister Amit Shah, taking over as the President of the Asian Cricket Council. ‘Meritocracy BJP style’, Rahul said on tagging a report of Jay Shah’s new role. Rahul’s detractors were quick to point out that he better not raise the issue of meritocracy as he too could be questioned on the issue of qualification. Rahul, a fifth-generation leader from the Nehru-Gandhi family, quit as Congress President in 2019 after losing two consecutive Lok Sabha polls. Though he claims that he has little role in party affairs, he is accused by a section of calling the shots in the party without being accountable for his actions. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi  Chill in the Valley A day after the 40-day harshest winter period in Kashmir, locally known as ‘Chilai Kalan’ concluded, Srinagar recorded its coldest night in 30-years at minus 8.8 degrees Celsius. This year, the period was one of the most extreme witnessed in the last several decades, both in terms of record snowfall as well as the freezing temperatures. Freezing of supply lines and water storage units due to extremely low temperatures compounded the problems of people. Just as people were expecting some relief after the conclusion of ‘Chilai Kalan’, the very next day the temperatures plummeted further. ‘Chilai Kalan’, which begins on December 21 and ends on January 30, is known for having maximum chances of snowfall and low temperatures. However, it seems this time ‘Chilai Kalan’ has been granted an extension in service much to the annoyance of the residents. Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-january-31-945810.html
01-02-2021||Panorama||Frustrating times, and how to deal with it||Take a piece of wax, a piece of meat, some sand, some clay and some wood shavings- put them on fire and see how they react. Each of them is being acted on by the same agent, yet the wax melts, the meat fries, the sand dries up, the clay hardens, the wood shavings blaze. Just so, under identical influences of circumstances and environment, one person is made better and stronger, another weaker and another just withers away. This is the situation the world is in now, leaving everyone frustrated and dejected, with diseases death and uncertainties prevailing all over. Each one reacting differently - but one emotion common is ‘frustration’. Seems God is hammering the world, to shape it, mould it into a better shape which only his methods can. We have all become unruly, insincere and selfish. We call him the Master, but obey him not, we praise him as the eternal light, but see him not, we call him the most compassionate, but trust him not, we call him the Supreme most, but follow him not, we call him the very source of our life, but seek him not! If only we can understand and lift our hearts to see Him who knows our every action, our every despair, our every heartache - we will see that He keeps a special grace for each one of us. According to a Greek legend, Aesop, the great story-teller was found playing with small children and he was rebuked and laughed at by a man. So Aesop responded by picking up a bow, loosening its string and placing it on the ground and he asked the man what the unstrung bow means. The man looked clueless, so Aesop explained - if you keep a bow-tied and bent always, it will break, but if you let it slack it will be more fit for use when you want it. People are also like that- they all need to slacken a bit and rest for a while. I am enjoying and resting in the company of these children”. This pandemic taught us the value of family, friends and taught us to rest and contemplate. “ Just when the caterpillar thought the world was over, it became a butterfly.” When our frustration ends as does the pandemic, we shall all be free as butterflies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/frustrating-times-and-how-to-deal-with-it-945811.html
01-02-2021||Right in the Middle||A small gesture||It was the early years of the Indian Republic when I was in class five in a small inconspicuous vernacular school. Republic day was a grand festival, we had no classes but had a flag hoisting ceremony and were let off early. The highlight of the day was the distribution of sweets. The headmaster Adhikesavulu sir gave a long lecture on the importance of Republic day, which we didn’t understand, we were focused on the bag he had on his side. We knew it was full of 'Parry's' chocolates. When the time came for distribution of sweets and our dispersal, the headmaster said there was a small change in the routine and he was going to give away sweets first to the boys who were standing outside and knew about the goodies. There was a general grumble of discontent. Believe me, good deeds really didn’t reach us that much those days. Then our favourite teacher Abichael Williams went to the podium and whispered into the headmaster’s ears. He immediately brightened and announced, ‘boys, form a line and take one sweet each, and as you go out, give that to the boys outside. Then come back again and I will give you again one each which is for yourself’. This was better since we would be engaged otherwise and there was a general buzz of approval. The school peon ran away to the gate to discipline those boys outside. Well, we did as we're told, gave away the sweets to those eager boys, and collected our own sweets, dispersed and were going home. The roadside crowd also dispersed in the meantime. However, there was a small assembly of very disappointed, poor, young boys and girls who were pushed away by grownups. As I was going out with a few chums, there was this little boy, maybe in the first standard, where Abichael Williams was the class teacher and there was quite a flock around her. While we ignored the small assembly outside the gate, this little boy pulled out his own well preserved sweet from his pocket and gave it to a little girl who was even younger than him. We were all stunned. All the other small kids around the teacher did the same. To give, when you know you will have nothing, is a lesson that has no equivalence even with 40 years of my association with NGOs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-small-gesture-945807.html
01-02-2021||Second Edit||Economic Survey 2021 presents a rosy picture||The Economic Survey for 2020-21, tabled in the Lok Sabha by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitaraman, has made some debatable statements but also provided some broad hints about the directions the Union Budget might follow. After an estimated 7.7% contraction of the economy in the current year, the Survey projects real GDP to record an 11% growth in 2021-22. The nominal GDP growth may be 15.4%, implying a 4.4% inflation during the year. These figures are not based on fully verifiable data, and different estimates are available. The growth rate of the current year may only be of academic interest, but the projection for the coming year may be considered ambitious. In any case, the growth will be on a low base and so the impact will be different from growth of the same magnitude in a normal year. The self-congratulatory statement about the fight against Covid-19 and the effect of the lockdown may be another matter of debate.  The Survey expects the government to continue with an expansionary fiscal stance which "allows space for maintaining a fiscal impulse’’. It indicates more borrowing and fiscal spending and bigger public expenditure, which will increase demand and consumption. The fiscal deficit will be very high but indications from the Survey are that this will be financed by borrowing and not by higher taxation, though recovery will facilitate higher tax revenues. Repayment obligations may not present a big problem as long as growth is high. The Survey says this will generate and increase the resources available for development. However, a real GDP growth rate of 2.4% over the 2019-20 level means that the economy would take two years to reach and go past the pre-pandemic level. The Survey has proposed a privatisation push and a review of the banking sector asset quality. For the pandemic affected divestment plans for the current year, it says the government should embark on a significant privatisation exercise of Central public sector enterprises and speed up big ticket strategic sales. Disinvestment plans have not always worked well, and when too many sale offers are made in a short time, the market may not be able to absorb them, and the government may not get the right price. Banks will have to contend with a serious problem of bad loans in the coming months when the moratorium on debt service ends. While keeping the bank finances steady, ensuring adequate credit flow into the economy will be a major challenge. With all the challenges, the Survey presents a rosy picture of the future. The question is whether the budget to be presented on Monday will give a clear road map for that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/economic-survey-2021-presents-a-rosy-picture-945803.html
01-02-2021||South||Rajeev Ranjan takes over as Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu||Seasoned bureaucrat Rajeev Ranjan on Monday took over as Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu, succeeding K Shanmugam whose second extension in service ended on Sunday. Ranjan, a 1985-batch IAS officer, was repatriated to his parent cadre of Tamil Nadu by the Centre at the request of the state government. The seasoned bureaucrat assumed charge on Monday morning at Fort St. George, the seat of power of the Tamil Nadu Government. Beginning his career as Sub-Collector in Tiruvannamalai (1987-89), Ranjan was appointed as the Collector of Tiruchirapalli district in 1995. Later, he moved to the Centre for a few years before returning to his parent cadre. He had worked as Principal Secretary and later as Additional Chief Secretary (Highways) when Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was the Highways Minister. In 2018, he returned to Delhi and served as Secretary, Department of Fisheries, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, till he was repatriated to his parent cadre last week. Shanmugam appointed adviser Shanmugam, who retired on Sunday, had been appointed as adviser to the state government for a period of one year. The outgoing chief secretary got two extensions to his service period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajeev-ranjan-takes-over-as-chief-secretary-of-tamil-nadu-945960.html
01-02-2021||South||Yediyurappa hails Budget as 'speed booster'; Siddaramaiah calls it 'Aatma Barbaad'||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday hailed the Union Budget as “a speed booster” for the pandemic-hit economy. “It is impossible to expect a better budget amidst the pandemic. Despite that, this is a pro-poor and pro-middle class budget,” Yediyurappa said in a statement, calling the Union Budget a “catalyst that can revive this sluggish economy.”  According to Yediyurappa, the announcement of Rs 14,778 crore for 58 km of Bengaluru Metro is “the biggest gift to Karnataka from our own finance minister.”  “It is commendable to note Rs 3.30 lakh crore allocated under Bharat Mala to improve road connectivity in the country and Rs 3 lakh crore to the power sector,” Yediyurappa said, welcoming other announcements all other allocations such as Rs 35,000 crore for Covid-19 vaccination, Rs 16.5 lakh crore for agriculture credit, Rs 1.10 lakh for railway projects and Rs 18,000 crore for bus transport system that he said will help reduce traffic congestion in urban areas.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, however, panned the Union Budget, mocking it as ‘Aatma-barbara’ (barbarian). “There’s nothing in it for those who lost jobs and small, medium enterprises that shut shop during the lockdown,” he said.  Siddaramaiah also criticised the new Agri cess ranging from 2.5% to 100% on various commodities. “On one hand, they’ve reduced import duty. On the other hand, they’ve imposed agri cess on fertilizers, apples, equipment...I don’t understand this economy,” he said. “Instead, they could’ve provided interest-free loans to farmers.”  The Budget does not state what the Centre will do with the Agri cess as “no new programmes have been announced for farmers,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/yediyurappa-hails-budget-as-speed-booster-siddaramaiah-calls-it-aatma-barbaad-946143.html
01-02-2021||South||Three workers killed in TN building collapse||Three construction labourers were killed and as many injured when a decades-old building collapsed during renovation work here on Monday, police said. More than ten workers were engaged in the renovation work when one of the walls of the building with sub-divided apartments collapsed. Three of them were pulled out dead from the debris, Police said. Three others injured in the mishap were being treated at a government hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-workers-killed-in-tn-building-collapse-946145.html
01-02-2021||South||Poll-bound Tamil Nadu gets projects over Rs 1 lakh crore in Union Budget||Tamil Nadu, which will go to assembly polls in April-May this year, hit a jackpot on Monday when the Union Government announced a slew of projects, including new highways, worth Rs 1 lakh crore in the Budget presented for the 2021-2022 financial year. The Centre also announced that the controversial Chennai-Salem Green Express Corridor will be implemented and the construction for the same will begin in 2021-22. The move comes after the Supreme Court had in December upheld the notification for acquisition of the land for the project in a case filed by farmers who objected to “taking away” of their land. It also said that construction of a new highway between Chennai and Bengaluru will be taken up in 2021-22 fiscal, while the process will be initiated before the end of 2020-2021 fiscal. The Union Budget also announced that the Chennai Metro rail network will be expanded to cover an additional 119 km of the city. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the project will be carried out at a cost of Rs 63,246 crore. Other projects include Madurai-Kollam highway, and a corridor connecting Thatchur in Tamil Nadu to Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh. In her budget speech, Sitharaman said she was proposing substantial investments in the development of modern fishing harbours and fish landing centres. “To start with, five major fishing harbours – Kochi, Chennai, Visakhapatnam, Paradip, and Petuaghat – will be developed as hubs of economic activity. We will also develop inland fishing harbours and fish-landing centres along the banks of rivers and waterways,” she said. Farmers opposed the Centre's announcement on the Chennai-Salem highway saying they will not part with their land. The state is scheduled to go to polls in the first half of this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/poll-bound-tamil-nadu-gets-projects-over-rs-1-lakh-crore-in-union-budget-946177.html
01-02-2021||South||Rajeev Ranjan takes over as Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu||Seasoned bureaucrat Rajeev Ranjan on Monday took over as Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu, succeeding K Shanmugam whose second extension in service ended on Sunday. Ranjan, a 1985-batch IAS officer, was repatriated to his parent cadre of Tamil Nadu by the Centre on the request of the state government. The seasoned bureaucrat assumed charge on Monday morning at Fort St. George, the seat of power of the Tamil Nadu government. Ranjan began his career as sub-collector in Tiruvannamalai (1987-89), and later became the collector of the district in 1995. Later, he worked with the Centre for a few years before returning to his parent cadre. He had worked as Principal Secretary and later as Additional Chief Secretary (Highways) when Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami was the Highways Minister. In 2018, he went back to Delhi and was serving as Secretary, Department of Fisheries, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, till he was repatriated to his parent cadre last week. Shanmugam, who retired on Sunday, has been appointed as adviser to the state government for a period of one year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rajeev-ranjan-takes-over-as-chief-secretary-of-tamil-nadu-946225.html
01-02-2021||South||Kerala govt initiates 'adalat' to connect more with common public and youths ahead of polls||As part of enhancing its connect with the masses and youngsters ahead of the Assembly polls, the Kerala government has initiated an adalat to address the grievances of the people and interactions with students at universities seeking suggestions for state's developments. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is directly interacting with the students of five major universities in Kerala at an event titled 'New Kerala, Youth Kerala'. Vijayan interacted with the students at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (CUSAT) and gathered their opinion. He also urged the students to undertake researches that give new dimensions to the development of the state and also assured to introduce courses according to the changing times. The Chief Minister is scheduled to have interactions with students of four more university campuses in the state in the coming days. The suggestions from students would reflect on the CPM-led Left Democratic Front's election manifesto. Ministers have been assigned to conduct mass adalats in all districts for swift action into grievances of the people. The district-wise mass adalats also began on Monday with ministers heading them and taking swift decisions on grievances from the people. Thousands of petitions were handled online and directly at the adalats titled 'Swanthana Sparsam'. The Congress-led United Democratic Front is also initiating mass contacts for gathering opinion to prepare the election manifesto. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor was entrusted with the task of meeting representatives of various sections of the society to gather opinions to formulate the manifesto.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-initiates-adalat-to-connect-more-with-common-public-and-youths-ahead-of-polls-946309.html
01-02-2021||State||All rural households to get drinking water in 3 years: KSE||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K S Eshwarappa said that all households in rural areas in the state will receive pure drinking water under Jal Jeevan Mission in the next three years. In the state, it is being implemented under the slogan ‘Mane Manege Gange’ (Ganga to every house). He was speaking after inaugurating Sarapadi and Narikombu multi-village drinking water projects, implemented at a cost of Rs 62 crore in Bantwal. Pure drinking water should be supplied to households. Several districts in the state are facing acute shortage of water. To solve the woes, several projects are being implemented, the minister said. Zilla Panchayat president and members should identify the areas that are facing a water crisis and try to solve them, Eshwarappa said. Drinking water projects at a cost of Rs 60 crore in Bantwal and Rs 140 crore in Mangalore North constituency will be taken up shortly. The Cabinet has approved both the projects, the minister said. Bantwal MLA Rajesh Naik said that the multi-village drinking water project at Narikombu will supply water to Narikombu and 38 other habitations while Sarapadi project will supply water to Sarapadi and 95 other habitations. Out of 39 Gram Panchayats in Bantwal taluk, the two projects have covered 30 Gram Panchayats. The remaining Gram Panchayats of Veerakamba, Bolanthoor, Sajipamunnur, Sajipamooda and Manchi will get water from River Nethravathi shortly as the work is in progress, he added. An estimate of Rs 33.72 crore has been prepared to supply water to households in 46 villages under Jal Jeevan Mission.   District In-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary also spoke on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/all-rural-households-to-get-drinking-water-in-3-years-kse-945909.html
01-02-2021||State||Rs 1 lakh for accident-hit student's treatment: Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar on Monday visited a 10th standard girl who met with a road accident and was admitted at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) in Bengaluru. The minister directed the officials of the education department to provide financial aid of Rs 1 lakh towards the treatment of the girl. The minister even called the officials of the KSRTC from the hospital and requested them to release funds for the girl’s treatment. The student, identified as Yashaswini, daughter of a private security guard in Bengaluru, had met with a road accident near Kengeri on the outskirts of Bengaluru while she was heading to appear for the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE). Yashaswini suffered fractures in the spinal cord and has to undergo two surgeries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rs-1-lakh-for-accident-hit-students-treatment-primary-and-secondary-education-minister-s-suresh-kumar-946381.html
01-02-2021||State||Wait is over at last: Day 1 sees good turnout for I PU classes||The government’s decision to resume offline classes for the I PUC students witnessed an overwhelming response across the state. The government had last week announced that it would open the schools and colleges for 1 PUC students starting from February 1. Schools and colleges in various parts of the state reported high turnout of students on the first day. However, the response was tepid when it came to schools as most of the students studying in class 9 chose to attend only the online classes. Stepping into the college campus for the first time since clearing the school board exams in March-April and June 2020, several students were thrilled by the campus environment. The campuses were shut following nationwide lockdown against Covid-19 since March 2020. While many colleges had organised an orientation programme for the students, a few have deferred holding the same after a few days later. Prof Supreeth, principal, Oxford Independent PU College in Ullal, Bengaluru said, “It was an overwhelming response from the students and parents have also supported tremendously. We will be having an orientation programme on February 15.” D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS), said that the association had gathered information from member schools and colleges that the response was indeed positive. Joining a college and visiting the campus for the first time after passing out of school, students were also thrilled and anxious about college life. “It is my first day in college life and decided to start from on Day One itself. Unlike schools, the classes were flexible and we could walk all over the college,” said Prajwal Girish, a I PUC student in one of the colleges in Bengaluru. “Nothing can match the fun and joy of attending offline classes. We are glad that the government has finally decided to open colleges,” said Jeevita Chengappa, anotherstudent.  However, the students; turnout in several schools for class 9 was relatively low. Several students chose to continue with online classes. Some of the private schools have decided to continue with online classes for grade 9 to avoid crowding on campuses. “We have classes up to II PU. With Covid rules in place, the campus is just not enough to accommodate a large number of students. Hence, we chose to continue with online classes for now,” said the principal of a private unaided school in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/wait-is-over-at-last-day-1-sees-good-turnout-for-i-pu-classes-946383.html
01-02-2021||State||Measures to ensure houses for slum-dwellers soon||Following complaints of the slow pace of work carried out to ensure housing for those residing in slums, Housing Minister V Somanna assured to address the issue in the course of a week. Responding to a query by Congress MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed, Somanna said that at several places land title deeds to slum-dwellers were not issued yet. “We will take measures to fix uniform prices and to specify the boundaries of their property,” he said, adding that the steps will be implemented in a few days. Several MLAs also expressed dissatisfaction over the manner in which developmental activities were carried up in slums notified for improvement by the government. During the discussion, BJP MLA Araga Jnanendra alleged bias while sanctioning houses to slum dwellers during the previous government. “Not one house was sanctioned to my constituency,” the Thirthahalli MLA said. Meanwhile, JD(S) MLA Shivalingegowda urged the government to reduce the registration fees of properties regularised in slums, as many were unable to afford the steep fee levied by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/measures-to-ensure-houses-for-slum-dwellers-soon-946384.html
01-02-2021||State||Mysore Race Club land case: HC tells govt to file objections||The High Court on Monday directed the state government to file objections by February 18 in connection with a public interest litigation (PIL) filed challenging the extension of lease of almost 140 acres of land in favour of Mysore Race Club (MRC). The court also directed the Club to submit whether the state government has permitted it to further sub-lease a portion of the land to Jayachamarajendra Golf Club. During the hearing, it was pointed out that how could Mysore Race Club further sub-lease a portion of the total government land, leased to it by the government, to the Golf Club. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, orally observed that the Golf Club seems to be the luckiest to get government land on sub-lease from another lessee. It also asked how the rent equivalent to two per cent of the income is recoverable if the club claims loss. The lease was renewed on January 17, 2020 with effect from July 1, 2016 till July 31, 2046 fixing the lease rent at two per cent of the gross annual income of the club. The counsel, representing the Race Club, sought time to clarify whether, under the leasehold right, it has any provision to further sub-lease the property. “Finally, we grant time to the state government to file a statement of objections till 18 February. No further time shall be granted,” the court said. The petition is filed by a city-based advocate Umapathi S. The petitioner stated that 139.39 acres of land in survey number 4 and 74 in Kurubarahalli village of Mysuru was leased out in favour of Mysore Race Club in 1970. The lease was renewed from time to time and eventually expired in 2016. Since then the Mysore Race Club was allegedly occupying the land without the renewal of the lease. The petitioner alleged that the state suffered loss by way of lower rent on the government land and claimed that the grant of land was without any public interest and benefited only a few rich and influential persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysore-race-club-land-case-hc-tells-govt-to-file-objections-946385.html
01-02-2021||State||Appoint second Upalokayukta soon, High Court tells govt||The High Court has directed the state government to take steps to fill the post of second Upalokayukta at the earliest. A division bench headed by Justice Satish Chandra Sharma disposed of a PIL after the state government submitted that the post of second Upalokayukta had fallen vacant in December 2020. The petition was filed by city-based advocate S Umapathi in 2019. During the pendency of the petition, the state government appointed Justice B S Patil, retired High Court Judge, as the Upalokayukta. During the hearing, the state government informed the court that the other post of Upalokayukta fell vacant only in December 2020, following the retirement of Justice N Ananda. The government submitted that some reasonable time is required as there is a process of consultation with the Chief Justice of the High Court, Speaker of Legislative Assembly and the Chairman of Legislative Council. "The prayer appears to be a genuine prayer. Resultantly, the writ petition stands disposed of with a direction to the respondents to appoint and fill the second post of Upalokayukta as expeditiously as possible at an earlier date," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/appoint-second-upalokayukta-soon-high-court-tells-govt-946387.html
01-02-2021||State||CHRIST to introduce BBA in Decision Science course||The Bengaluru-based CHRIST (Deemed to be University) will launch an innovative and new course-integrated BBA in ‘Decision Science’ in association with the Mu Sigma—a leading global decision sciences company. The School of Business Management at the CHRIST and Mu Sigma have inked MoU to offer an apprenticeship-based and industry integrated BBA (Decision Science) programme. According to the university officials, this is for the first time that a course in ‘Decision Science’ is being introduced in India. The new course, which will be introduced from 2021-22 academic year, has been designed based on the UGC guidelines. The three-year programme with six semesters allows students to learn from the university and train as apprentices at Mu Sigma simultaneously. The curriculum will be jointly designed and delivered by the CHRIST School of Business and Management and Mu Sigma. At the end of the programme, all the graduates of the programme will be given employment offer by Mu Sigma, according to an official statement by the university. Deepa Mahesh, Director, Mu Sigma said, “Mu Sigma is happy to collaborate with CHRIST to work towards bridging the growing gap between the students’ talent pool and industry.” Prof Jain Mathew, Dean, School of Business and Management said, “The graduates of this programme will be able to contribute to businesses with interdisciplinary concepts and skills.” Students from science or commerce discipline at class 12 (II PUC) with mathematics, statistics, computer science as one of the subjects from any recognised board are eligible to apply for the programme. The admission, according to the university, will commence shortly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/christ-to-introduce-bba-in-decision-science-course-946396.html
01-02-2021||State||Mobile phones now banned in Karnataka Legislative Council||Following allegations of Congress MLC Prakash Rathod browsing obscene content on his mobile phone in the Legislative Council, the use of mobile phones has been banned in the Upper House.  While some MLCs have a practice of storing documents relevant to the discussion in their phones, Legislative Council chairperson Pratapchandra Shetty said such MLCs will have to take prior permission. Otherwise, the phones have to be switched off when the session is in progress, he directed all the legislators.  Last week, Rathod was allegedly browsing obscene content on his phone, which was captured by some television channels.  New Rules Committee The Legislative Council secretariat on Monday named a fresh Rules Committee headed by Congress MLC B K Hariprasad. The other members include MLCs Tejaswini Gowda, K T Srikante Gowda, S V Sankanur, N Appaji Gowda and P R Ramesh. This committee will look into allegations against Rathod.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mobile-phones-now-banned-in-karnataka-legislative-council-946402.html
01-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Twenty Karnataka doctors per batch go on relay 24 hour hunger strike every day till Feb 14||Twenty doctors per batch will go on a relay hunger strike at the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Karnataka State branch in Chamrajpet from February 1 to 14 for 24 hours from 10 am to 10 am before another batch of doctors takes over. During these two weeks, the doctors who mostly practice in private hospitals across the state will only have water. There are 161 IMA branches across the state. This is in solidarity with a similar hunger strike at the IMA headquarters in Delhi. The Association has condemned the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), which regulates the medical study and practice of Ayurveda. In a gazette notification, dated November 20, the CCIM has amended the Indian Medicine Central Council Regulations, 2016, to introduce formal training and practice of surgeries to PG students of Ayurveda. As per the amendment, the students would receive training in 'shalya' (general surgery) and 'shalakya' (diseases of ear, nose, throat, eye, head, oro-dentistry) specialisations. They will be given MS in Shalya. Such trained doctors of these two specialities would conduct 58 types of surgeries. Paediatrician Dr SM Prasad, State Secretary, IMA, told DH, "Only youngsters who are fit to go on a hunger strike are sitting in. Members of Indian Academy of Paediatrics, Karnataka, IMA Ballari, Udupi, Karkala, Hospete, and Gangavathi, are taking part in the first batch. They're mostly from private hospitals and are not having food. They will be having water though. We want the CCIM notification to be taken back. There is no anaesthesia and microbiology in Indian System of Medicine." IMA Karnataka State branch president Dr M Venkatachalapathy and State Secretary Dr SM Prasad will sit in the hunger strike on February 14. "If there are abscess and sepsis, how will they treat the patient? The patient won't even know who he was operated upon. An allopathic doctor or an Ayurvedic doctor with MS in Shalya. There are no antibiotics in Ayurveda. They have to depend on emergency medical equipment in the ICU of modern medicine," he said. He is a professor of paediatrics in BR Ambedkar Medical College.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/twenty-karnataka-doctors-per-batch-go-on-relay-24-hour-hunger-strike-every-day-till-feb-14-946112.html
01-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt tracking movement of explosives in Karnataka: Law and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai||Law and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday said that a detailed ‘mapping’ of the entry of explosives into Karnataka had been ordered in the wake of the recent Shivamogga blast that revealed a glaring lack of oversight on illegal mining.  Admitting that illegal mining, quarrying and crushing activities were taking place all over the state, Bommai said the government is taking legal measures to rein in the problem. Six people died after a truck full of explosives went off in Hunasodu near Shivamogga on January 21.  “There's a nexus between landholders, quarry leaseholders and explosive suppliers that we need to break,” Bommai said, replying to a debate on the incident in the Assembly. The government, he said, traced the source of the explosives that came to Shivamogga. “The original supplier is in Anantapur. With the help of the Andhra Pradesh police, we have seized 65,000 detonators, 1,275 gelatin sticks, 540 explosive boosters, 1,500 metres of safety fuse and 7,500 metres of detonator fuse,” he said.  “There’s a big godown that we’ve seized. Once safety experts go in, we will know totally how much explosives were supplied to Karnataka,” he said. In the Shivamogga incident, Bommai said illegal quarrying was found to have taken place where the explosion occurred. “The land belonged to one ST Kulkarni who leased it to Sudhakar BVM to run the SS Stone Crushers. The first case of illegal mining was booked in April 2018 and another one in March 2019, after which a crushing licence was given. So, in spite of knowing the illegality, the district administration gave the licence,” he said, suggesting that this was done when the Congress-JD(S) coalition was in power. “In October 2020, another illegal mining case was filed against the landowner,” Bommai added.  Asserting the government’s commitment to curb illegal mining and quarrying, Bommai said the penalty had been increased from 5 times to 20 times after including the value of the mineral with a two-year jail term. “For illegal crusher operations, the fine is Rs 2 lakh and two years in jail,” he said.  Thousands of cases against illegal mining have been booked since 2014, he said. Under the Explosives Act, authorities booked 58 cases in 2018, 52 in 2019 and 103 in 2020. “Despite efforts, we haven't been able to regulate this effectively,” he said.  Congress walks out The Siddaramaiah-led Congress staged a walkout unhappy with Bommai's reply. Siddaramaiah insisted on a judicial inquiry, but Bommai said the Shivamogga case will be probed by the revenue commissioner. “No judicial commission has seen the light of day. It will cause delay,” Bommai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-tracking-movement-of-explosives-in-karnataka-law-and-home-minister-basavaraj-bommai-946280.html
01-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka HC seeks report on stages of trial in UAPA cases||The High Court on Monday directed the Registrar General to call for a report from the courts regarding the stages at which the cases under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) are pending. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing a PIL filed seeking direction to constitute one more special court for NIA cases. The petition filed by Vaseemuddin A, a resident of Jayanagar, contended that there has been delay in conduct of trial into the cases registered under the UAP Act. The petitioner said mostly the accused in cases under UAPA are from different parts of the country and since they are not able to meet their family members they suffer psychologically because of the delay in trial. During the hearing, the court was informed that 56 cases under UAPA are pending in four different courts in Bengaluru Urban district. The Registrar General’s report dated December 10, 2020, said that all the 56 cases may be transferred and allotted to anyone court to exclusively deal with the cases instead of constituting an additional court. Meanwhile, P Prasanna Kumar, special public prosecutor for NIA, submitted that 15 cases handled by the agency are pending, while five cases are at different stages of investigation and charge sheet. The court directed the Registrar General to call for a report from the courts regarding stages at which the cases are pending. “The Registrar General will also consider if re-distribution of cases among four courts is necessary. Along with the data regarding the present status of the cases, the Registrar General will place necessary material on record within one month from today,” the court said.  The petition said the investigating agency and the prosecution do not show interest in conducting a speedy trial. In spite of express provision under Section 309 of CrPC and Section 19 of the NIA Act, the day-to-day trial is not taking place. The petition relied upon a Supreme Court constitution bench observed that the accused should not remain in jail longer than it is absolutely essential.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-hc-seeks-report-on-stages-of-trial-in-uapa-cases-946382.html
01-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||GST devolution: Double whammy for Karnataka||For the second consecutive year, Karnataka has suffered a setback on the GST devolution front. Apart from receiving less than the amount budgeted for devolution for 2020-21 fiscal, budget estimates of devolution for the 2021-22 fiscal for Karnataka is also reduced by around 14% than the amount budgeted for the previous fiscal. In total, the differences in the Budget estimate and revised estimates in the last two years resulted in losses to the tune of Rs 16,814 crore. According to sources in the Finance Department, revised estimates for 2020-21 fiscal according to budget documents will result in Karnataka receiving around Rs 7,900 crore less than the Rs 28,000 crore budgeted as GST devolution. The revised estimates project GST devolution for Karnataka at Rs 20,073 crore, resulting in a major blow to the cash-strapped B S Yediyurappa administration. Financial challenges of the government are expected to pile up in the coming days, as GST devolution for the next year is Rs 24,573 crore, which is lesser. This might come in the way of populist schemes in the next state budget. Karnataka, it can be recalled, was among the biggest losers in percentage terms considering the decline in the share of devolved taxes. As a result, Karnataka’s share dipped from around Rs 38,000 crore in 2019-20 fiscal to Rs 28,000 crore in 2020-21 fiscal. The Centre had come under attack for failing to release the budgeted amount in 2019-20 fiscal, a situation Karnataka has found itself in again. Sources noted that apart from the reduction in GST devolution, special grant announced to Karnataka worth Rs 5,495 crore to compensate for the reduction in devolved funds, funds budgeted for Centrally-sponsored schemes among others are yet to be released by the Centre. “The delay has already stretched the state’s finances. Reduction in GST devolution, which is one of the key resources for the state government, will have a clear bearing in the upcoming state budget,” a source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gst-devolution-double-whammy-for-karnataka-946400.html
01-02-2021||West||Goa: Opposition parties seek CM Pramod Sawant's resignation on Mahadayi issue||Opposition parties in Goa on Sunday demanded the resignation of state Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, accusing him of making a false statement in the Assembly over the Mahadayi river water diversion issue. Congress, Goa Forward Party (GFP) and Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte sought the resignation after advocate Arvind Datar, who represents the state government in the Supreme Court in connection with Mahadayi water dispute claimed that he did not oppose the notification of award of the Inter State Water Dispute Tribunal as he was instructed to do so. The lawyer's statement came in contradiction to the reply given by Sawant in the House, wherein he had blamed the lawyer for taking the decision of not opposing the notification of the award on his own. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, GFP leader Vijai Sardesai and Khaunte took to Twitter to criticise Sawant and seek his resignation, although the latter also tweeted that the government had not given any instructions to oppose the notification regarding Mahadayi award.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-opposition-parties-seek-cm-pramod-sawants-resignation-on-mahadayi-issue-945839.html
01-02-2021||West||No Covid-19 vaccine for private hospitals if found flouting rules||The Goa health department has warned of discontinuing the supply of Covid-19 vaccines to the private hospitals which are found to be inoculating people who are not healthcare workers. Besides various state-run facilities, around half-a-dozen private hospitals in Goa have also been empanelled to administer the Covid-19 vaccine to their healthcare workers and IMA members, since the drive began on January 16. State immunisation officer Dr Rajendra Borkar, in a release issued here late Sunday evening, said complaints have been received that some private hospitals have indulged in vaccinating those who are not healthcare workers and also those who are not registered on the Co-WIN portal. "This has been viewed seriously by the state government and the Government of India. The health department will be forced to stop providing the vaccines to such hospitals and institutions and the whole programme of Covid-19 vaccination may get disturbed," the official said. The Co-WIN app has been created by the Centre for managing registration for the inoculation. Borkar said the issue would be raised with all private hospitals and the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to ensure there is no deviation from the Centre's guidelines. State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane last week said he has ordered an inquiry into the allegation of a Margao-based hospital giving vaccine shots to people who are not healthcare workers. Till Sunday, Goa reported a total of 53,409 Covid-19 cases and 768 deaths due to the disease, as per official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-covid-19-vaccine-for-private-hospitals-if-found-flouting-rules-945900.html
01-02-2021||West||Mumbai suburban train services open for all after 10 months||After a gap of about 320 days, the Railways permitted all members of the general public to travel in local trains in Mumbai from Monday morning, though for limited hours. Local police are helping in crowd management and all authorised entry/exit points and ticket counters have been opened for smooth conduct of the services, Central Railway's Chief Public Relations officer Shivaji Sutar said. The general public is allowed to travel in the suburban trains from the time of start of services for the day till 7 am, from 12 noon to 4 pm, and from 9 pm till the closure of services for the day. From 7 am to 12 noon and from 4 pm to 9 pm, only employees of the essential services and categories of commuters specified by the Maharashtra government and the Ministry of Railways are permitted to travel in local trains. "Wearing of masks is compulsory and coordination will be ensured with civic authorities for collecting fines from those who violate the Covid-19 prevention norms," Sutar said. The suburban train services, considered as the lifeline of Mumbai, were suspended on the midnight of March 22 last year due to the Covid-19 outbreak and gradually resumed from June 15. Sutar said for resuming the local train services for all members of the general public now, they have opened all the authorised entry-exit gates, lifts, escalators and foot over-bridges on the suburban railway stations. All the commercial ticket counters and automatic ticket vending machines have also been opened. "There is more deployment of the security force at crowd- sensitive stations," the official said. Random checking of tickets will be done to see that people are travelling as per the time slots allotted to them, he said. After the resumption of local train services in June last year, initially, only essential and emergency services staff were allowed to travel in the suburban trains. Later, various other categories of commuters, including women, were allowed during restricted hours. Currently, a total of 2,985 local train services are being operated on the Mumbai suburban network. These constitute about 95 per cent of the total 3,141 services, which were being operated collectively by the Central Railway (CR) and the Western Railway (WR) before the coronavirus outbreak, railway officials said. Out of these, 204 special suburban services were added on Friday, they said. During normal times before the lockdown, the CR used to operate 1,774 services, while the WR ran 1,367 services on the suburban network.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-suburban-train-services-open-for-all-after-10-months-945920.html
01-02-2021||West||Maharashtra: Building collapses in Thane, 8 feared trapped||At least eight people were feared trapped after a building collapsed in a commercial complex in Bhiwandi town of Maharashtra's Thane district on Monday morning, a civic official said. The single-storey building, which served as a godown, collapsed at around 10.30 am in Harihar Compound at Mankoli Naka in Bhiwandi, Thane civic body's regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam said. "It is feared that at least seven to eight labourers working in the godown are trapped under the debris," he said. Personnel of the Thane district rescue force, disaster management cell, and fire services officials from Bhiwandi and Thane have rushed to the spot, he said. The official said they have also sought assistance from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). Rescue and relief operations are underway, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-building-collapses-in-thane-8-feared-trapped-945939.html
01-02-2021||West||Union Budget 2021: Goa CM hails Rs 300 crore allotment to mark Independence||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Monday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for allocating Rs 300 crore in the Union Budget to mark 60 years of the state's Independence. The state was liberated from Portuguese rule in 1961. "I thank Hon PM Shri @narendramodi ji, FM Smt @nsitharaman ji for the allocation of Rs 300 Cr in the budget to mark 60 years of Goa's Liberation," the CM tweeted. He also thanked Union Home Minister Amit Shah for "continued guidance and support".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/union-budget-2021-goa-cm-hails-rs-300-crore-allotment-to-mark-independence-946064.html
01-02-2021||West||12 children accidentally given sanitiser instead of polio drops in Maharashtra's Yavatmal||In a shocking incident, a dozen kids were accidentally given sanitiser instead of polio vaccine drops in Yavatmal district of Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. 12 children were administered hand sanitiser drops instead of oral polio vaccine drops at Bhanbora PHC (Primary Health Centre) in Kapsikopri village when the National Pulse Polio vaccination drive for children aged 1-5 years was underway, the district official told, according to PTI. The kids were taken ill after administering the dose on Sunday and admitted to the Vasantrao Naik Government Medical College & Hospital and they are okay, according to reports reaching here. All the kids are below five years of age and four among them are girls. A doctor, health worker and Asha worker of the Bhambora primary health centre have come under the scanner for negligence.   Yavatmal Zilla Parishad’s chief executive officer Shrikrishna Panchal is personally supervising the probe. He said as per preliminary information, three healthcare workers - a doctor, anganwadi sevika and an ASHA volunteer - were present at the PHC at the time of the incident. "An inquiry is underway and orders will be issued to suspend all the three healthcare workers," Panchal told PTI. Yavatmal collector MD Singh and superintendent of police Dilip Bhujbal have briefed the government of the developments and the action that is being taken.  The incident came a day after the Polio National Immunization Day, with President Ram Nath Kovind launching the drive on Saturday at Rashtrapati Bhavan.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/12-children-accidentally-given-sanitiser-instead-of-polio-drops-in-maharashtras-yavatmal-946281.html
01-02-2021||West||Vadodara santitation worker death not due to vaccine: Officials||More than 24 hours after a 30-year-old sanitation worker died in Vadodara hours after taking the vaccine against coronavirus, the bereaved family members accepted the body to conduct final rites with the local authority promising "job and appropriate monetary help". The officials reiterated that the worker, Jignesh Solanki, died due to pre-existing "cardiac ailments", citing a primary report. However, family members alleged that he died due to the vaccine. "The preliminary and post mortem report have suggested that he (Solanki) died due to cardiac ailments. I met the family members personally and assured them of giving a job to the legal heir, who is the wife, gratuity and other benefits since he was a permanent employee of the corporation for three years," Vadodara Municipal Commissioner P Swaroop told DH. He said that after assuring all help, the family members accepted the Solanki's body for the final rites. A primary report released by Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) Sunday night earlier had also stated that Solanki was suffering from "pulmonary arterial hypertension" and was advised diet control and physiotherapy which he was reportedly not adhering to. The report also cited family as saying that Solanki was not taking any medicine. Officials refused to comment on why his medical condition was not verified. The result of the primary report, released by VMC, had stated that Solanki was injected with Covishield at 10:24 AM and was permitted to leave 30 minutes later as per the protocol to check side effects. The report stated that the medical emergency service received a call at 1:33 PM which reached Solanki's home at 1:44 PM. At that time, the report said, "vital not recorded at the scene." The hospital probe found that there was "no pulse, no respiration" and the patient was declared "brought dead" at 2:38 PM. The note also stated that the Rapid Antigen test of the worker was negative. The note also claimed that Solanki had suffered a heart attack in January 2016. The report said that Solanki was not on medication despite being medically advice. Solanki's brother-in-law Jitesh told DH that "He (Solanki) had come to my home after getting injected with the vaccine. He complained of dizziness after he left for home with my sister. He was completely hale and hearty all this while but due to the vaccine he died. He has left behind his wife Divya and two daughters- the youngest one is barely four months old." VMC's health officer Devesh Patel told DH that viscera has been sent for forensic examination which will reveal the final cause of death. "But primary reports indicate that he died of cardiac arrest." Meanwhile, senior officials also said that "blood samples of Solanki are also being examined to confirm if he had consumed alcohol." Meanwhile, several policemen, who were vaccinated in Surat and Vadodara, were taken to hospitals after they developed "minor" symptoms of possible side effects. In Vadodara, two policemen were kept under observation while over a dozen were discharged after they were found fit. Similar cases were reported in Surat. A top official said, "They all are absolutely fine. I am in touch with civil hospital personally. Some people may experience cold, low fever, headache etc but the vaccine is safe...they may be discharged soon."  On the other hand, the state health department's bulletin stated that 34,440 more frontline workers were vaccinated on Monday, taking the total number to 3,51,904 in the state. It also claimed that "no major side effect of the vaccine was reported till date."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vadodara-santitation-worker-death-not-due-to-vaccine-officials-946300.html
