02-02-2021||First Edit||A 'no harm done' Union Budget 2021, on balance||There is no doubt that the Finance Minister had a difficult task at hand with the Union Budget for 2021-22. There has been a complete breakdown of the fiscal arithmetic, seen from the revised estimates for 2020-21: Fiscal deficit is at 9.5% against the budget estimate of 3.5%; revenue deficit is at 7.5% against the budgeted 2.7% as GDP is set to contract by 7.7%. The numbers speak to the pain of the people and what they have endured as businesses collapsed, tax collections plummeted, and more misery was heaped on the poorest. These shocks will continue to reverberate with roll-on effects, and they demand a careful look at the path ahead to put India on the road to recovery and growth that is balanced and sustainable. Yet, there have been some positive fallouts. One of them is the increased focus on health, which has been noted as the first of what the FM has called the six pillars of the Budget. There can be a debate on whether the amounts and schemes are good enough and well thought through, but that is the minutiae of what essentially is a directional push forced by the pandemic. If this direction can be built upon, public spending in this area can unlock benefits across the system and mark the beginning of the end of apathy on issues of primary health and related areas. Separately, the FM has done well to resist the temptation to add to the burden of the ordinary taxpayer -– not much has been given as relief, but no new taxes have been added either. This is on balance a positive. The government’s answer to the growth collapse is to go in for a massive increase in spending to revive demand. This means a massive government borrowing programme as we attempt to spend our way out of the crisis. But absent a clear roadmap for fiscal consolidation, this is entering a vicious cycle of deficit and debt that carries the risk of higher inflation, which is a tax on the poor and will imperil any efforts at inclusive growth. The Budget also envisages a bigger role for the private sector as it looks for an ambitious disinvestment programme, which will likely not be met given past record. Directionally, this push is significant. But what is urgently required to drive impact, credibility and sustainability is governance. It is lack of governance that has caused some of the problems the economy faced even before the pandemic hit. We can spend more, but we also need to do more to protect public funds if the full benefits of the schemes of the government are to bear fruit for the people of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-no-harm-done-union-budget-2021-on-balance-946434.html
02-02-2021||First Edit||Harassment of journalists||The registration of cases against a number of journalists and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor in various parts of the country for their tweets on the events that happened in Delhi on Republic Day is a clear act of harassment. They are being booked for their social media updates on the violence that happened during the farmers’ protest. Some of the tweets had incorrectly attributed the death of a farmer to police firing. Later, it turned out that he died when his tractor overturned. But the journalists are now being accused of having given misleading information to incite trouble. The correct facts were given later, but the initial posts are now being held against them. Everyone knows that in an evolving situation, journalists report from moment to moment, and events and information overtake themselves. They cannot be accused of malice for presenting versions of an event as it progresses, giving details as they are available at the time of reporting. But that is what is being done now.  The journalists are being charged with offences that range from sedition to promoting communal disharmony to harming national integrity. It is common practice now to invoke sedition laws against critics, dissenters and those who are not on the side of the government. It is surprising that journalists, who are only doing their job, are charged with sedition. It is also ridiculous to foist conspiracy charges on them. They were at different places and it is more than a stretch to say that all of them acted in concert at a particular moment and reported or commented in the same manner on an event that nobody was expecting to happen. But logic or common sense does not help to explain the actions of the police in such cases. They make sense only if it is realised that they are intended to harass people. That is also the reason for filing multiple cases from different places. Though the protester’s death happened in Delhi, it is the UP and Madhya Pradesh police that filed cases over it. Private complaints by individuals were filed in different places. This is what should actually raise questions about concerted action.  The message is that journalists are not free to report and the slightest opportunity will be used to vilify and harass them. A free media which can function without fear and obstruction and harassment is the lifeblood of democracy. It is being subjected to pressure now. There are other cases also of journalists being targeted and slapped with charges, including sedition charges, for doing their work. That shows why the country’s position in the Press Freedom Index is at 142 among 180 countries, lower than that of many authoritarian countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/harassment-of-journalists-946780.html
02-02-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||CBI files charge sheet against former minister Vinay Kulkarni||The CBI which is probing the Zilla Panchayat (ZP) member Yogeeshgouda Goudar murder case in Dharwad, has filed a supplementary charge sheet in the special CBI court in Dharwad on Tuesday against Congress leader and former minister Vinay Kulkarni and two others.     Yogeeshgouda Goudar, ZP member from BJP representing Hebballi constituency had been murdered by a gang at his gym in Saptapur of Dharwad on the morning of June 15, 2016.In the supplementary charge sheet, the CBI has named Vinay Kulkarni as the prime accused. Vinay’s close relative Chandrashekhar Indi of Vijaypura is the second accused and Shivanand Biradar has been named as the third. Vinay Kulkarni was arrested on November 5, 2020, and has been under judicial custody and lodged in Hindalaga Central Prison in Belagavi. His bail applications have been rejected by the lower court and High Court. His judicial custody is to end on February 5 and the CBI was to file the charge sheet within 90 days of arresting Kulkarni. The CBI has to produce him before the court on February 5. The CBI which took over the investigation into the murder on September 24, 2019, had identified and arrested eight other accused and filed charge sheet on May 20, 2020. Santosh Savadatti of Dharwad, Dinesh M, Sunil K S, Harshith, Aswath S, Nazeer Ahamad, Shanawaz and Nutan S all from Bengaluru and other places had been named as accused in the charge sheet. Earlier, the Karnataka Police on September 9, 2016, had charge-sheeted six persons, all residents of Dharwad. Basavaraj Mutagi, Vikram Ballari, Keerthi Kumar, Sandeep Savadatti, Vinayak Katagi and Mahabaleshwar Hongal alias Muduka were named as accused in the charge sheet filed by the Karnataka Police. According to the CBI, the investigation has disclosed the alleged role of Kulkarni and two others in the conspiracy. It was alleged that Kulkarni had personal enmity and political rivalry with Yogeeshgouda who had declined the request to step back from contesting the Zilla Panchayat election in 2016. “Investigations revealed that the Ex-minister allegedly conspired with his associates and in pursuance thereof, one of his associates agreed to execute the murder. It was further alleged that a land deal was entered by the accused and a purported land dispute was portrayed as a motive for the murder. Further, three-country pistols were also seized by the CBI,” said a CBI official. “CBI investigation revealed that an associate of the said accused (Ex-Minister) arranged other accused from Bengaluru and they visited Dharwad on two occasions. On the first occasion, they stayed in a Resort at Dandeli allegedly arranged by the said accused. They allegedly committed the murder during their second attempt. These accused fled after commission of crime” the charge sheet said. The CBI said further investigation into the role of the other accused and larger conspiracy, in this case, is continuing. The CBI has clarified that the above findings are based on the investigation done by the CBI and evidence collected by it. “Under the Indian Law, the accused are presumed to be innocent till their guilt is finally established after a fair trial,” the CBI said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/cbi-files-charge-sheet-against-former-minister-vinay-kulkarni-946613.html
02-02-2021||In Perspective||Special Marriage Act: HC ruling a win for individual rights||The January 12 judgement of the Allahabad High Court concerning the provisions of the Special Marriage Act (SMA), 1954, is historic in many ways. It is the first judgement which dealt with and tried to iron out the legal asymmetries that had crept into the SMA over time. Though the court was dealing with a habeas corpus petition, which has a limited scope, the judge decided to take on the challenging issue concerning the constitutional rights of individuals. In its judgement, the court held Section 6 and 7 of the SMA to be directive in nature and said it is optional for couples to have prior notice of their marriage published, and in case they choose against the publication of the notice, then the Marriage Officer shall proceed to solemnise their marriage. Even the Supreme Court is seized of a similar matter and earlier on September 16, 2020, it issued a notice on a petition filed by Nandini Praveen, a law student from Kerala, challenging various sections of the SMA, primarily on the ground that these sections violate the right to privacy of the marrying couple. The SMA was enacted as a secular law that allows any two consenting adults to marry regardless of caste and religion. However, the mandatory publication of notice to marry as per Section 6 of the SMA and the 30-day waiting period for objections from the general public afforded sufficient time to the parents as well as vigilante groups to prevent the marriage, often putting the life and liberty of the intending couple at risk. On the other hand, if one partner agrees to convert to the religion of the other, then the marriage can be solemnised as per the rites of the latter religion within a few hours and that is a perfectly valid and legal marriage. The Allahabad High Court has interpreted the provisions of the SMA in the light of recent decisions of the apex court and has given a progressive judgement.  The judgement strikes at the root of the cause for interfaith couples to opt for the conversion-to-marry route. The Uttar Pradesh government, which has followed its Hindutva agenda with missionary zeal, may not let go of things so easily and there is a good chance that the matter will finally end up in the Supreme Court. It is in this context that the observations of the Chief Justice of India while issuing notice in the petition filed by Nandini Praveen need attention. The CJI had orally remarked:   “For example, one or both persons intending to get married have run away from their respective spouses, should it be kept secret by the marriage officer, who has an obligation under law to inquire into the legitimacy of the alliance by inviting objections from the public by putting up the information on the notice board? The moment that provision is deleted, it could lead to abuse of existing marriages. You must also suggest a solution.”  In the spirit of the CJI’s call for solutions, here are some suggestions: A couple may approach the Marriage Officer along with witnesses and present the application/notice to marry. The couple shall furnish their valid proof of identity and age. The couple and witnesses shall sign a declaration as per Section 11 of the SMA that the couple fulfills the conditions to marry. The Marriage Officer shall solemnise the marriage as per Section 12 and issue a ‘Provisional Marriage Certificate’ immediately, which shall remain valid for 60 days. The required number of witnesses may be reduced to two. Thereafter, the Marriage Officer may proceed in terms of Section 5 to 14 of the SMA by publishing notice and entertaining objections. In case no objection is received, then the Marriage Certificate shall be issued after 30 days of publication of such notice. In case any objection is received, then that shall be dealt with by the Registrar in terms of provisions of the SMA. The couple and witnesses may be permitted to be represented by an advocate. The personal presence of the couple and witnesses should be ordered only when it is necessary. The cost to be imposed on objectors for filing false objections should be increased substantially from the present Rs 1,000. Once the legal sanction is granted, it is unlikely that any couple would like to keep their marriage a secret and any publication then should not bother them. It will be fallacy to assume that once a Provisional Marriage Certificate is issued, the marriage cannot be undone. Section 24 of the SMA itself provides for such eventuality wherein if any information provided by the couple is found to be false, then the marriage may be declared null and void.  (The writer is an advocate in the Punjab & Haryana High Court)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/special-marriage-act-hc-ruling-a-win-for-individual-rights-946435.html
02-02-2021||In Perspective||A growth-oriented fiscal stimulus||The government cannot spend even a rupee without the consent of Parliament. Hence, its annual spending plan, called the Union Budget, is tabled in the Lok Sabha, as required by the Constitution. The Budget proposals are examined for how they impact the common man, how resources are to be raised, how is the gap to be filled, how it will affect economic growth, and whether the proposals make sense and are credible. On the eve of the Budget presentation, the Prime Minister had said it would carry on the work of the previous year, when five mini-budgets were presented in the pandemic year, under the ‘Atmanirbhar’ package. By contrast, the Finance Minister had said this would be a “never before”, once in a century, kind of budget. What we have got is certainly very bold and ambitious. It is clearly focused on reviving growth. It makes up for the lack of fiscal stimulus that was mostly absent during the pandemic year. It now makes sense that the government chose to backload the fiscal stimulus, at a time when most of the lockdowns around the country are being dismantled. For if people are stuck in their homes, then fiscal spending would not bring a bigger bang for the buck. The big relief is that there are no new taxes, and the fiscal taps have been fully opened. The 2021-22 Budget size is nearly Rs 35 lakh crore, which is about 16% higher than last year’s Budget. But since we are just coming out of a recession, the tax revenues may not be very buoyant. Hence the gap between spending and revenue -- the fiscal deficit -- will widen. It is 9.5% of GDP this year, since the GDP itself has shrunk by nearly 8%. But next year, too, the fiscal deficit will be 6.8%, which is more than twice as high as what is allowed by the fiscal responsibility law passed by Parliament. The Finance Minister said in her speech that the fiscal deficit will come down to 4.5% only after four years, and even then it will be nowhere near the 3% limit specified by the fiscal responsibility law. If the deficit is so high, how does the government intend to finance the gap? By borrowing, of course. Today’s borrowing has to be paid back in the future, by taxing future citizens, who are basically unborn taxpayers. But today’s borrowing is going to be used to build roads, highways, metro rail systems, ports and airports. Those assets will last long and will probably be in use for decades. It’s just like when an individual buys a house (an asset), the home loan is repaid over the next 15-20 years. The individual repays the housing loan before he or she dies. But a government lives on, so even in the future, the government can borrow, and pay off old loans with new loans. That is not to say that this can be done recklessly. Even Mumbai’s Municipal Corporation wants to borrow by selling bonds, but its corporators are opposing it. In this case, however, the Finance Minister has presented a credible and realistic picture of the government’s finances, and that will go a long way in building trust with the taxpayers. Apart from the big spending thrust on infrastructure, we also have a decisive move toward privatising. The Finance Minister announced that two public sector banks, and one general insurance company will be privatised. Also, some of the government-owned assets, such as toll roads, or land owned by government companies, will be monetised. This is possibly the first such Budget which is showing conviction about government vacating space for the private sector. Indeed, the stated philosophy is that the government will get out of all non-strategic sectors like airlines, hotels, etc., and leave it for the private sector. This will certainly improve the efficiency of the usage of capital and lead to higher growth. India’s ranking in the world hunger index, or child malnutrition, is quite low. Hence, we need to substantially increase public spending on health, which is below our peer country average. This Budget aims to double the spending on health and nutrition. But to do more, we need higher economic growth which can generate tax revenues to fund the social sector. On health and education, surely the Finance Minister could have allocated more, but given that the size of the deficit is already high, the policy focus is clearly on growth rather than redistribution. If indeed the economy manages to generate 15.5% nominal growth next year, as predicted by the IMF, then the current Budget projections will turn out to be quite conservative and easily achievable.  So, we must commend the Budget for a growth-oriented fiscal stimulus, accompanied by some spending on social sectors, and deficit numbers which seem credible and achievable. On that count, kudos to the Finance Minister. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)(Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-growth-oriented-fiscal-stimulus-946782.html
02-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cesc starts Mysuru’s first EV charging station||Mysuru-based Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation Limited (Cesc), managing distribution of electric power in five districts of Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Mandya, Hassan and Kodagu, has taken up an initiative to encourage electric vehicles (EV) in Mysuru, which already has epithets like ‘clean’ and ‘green’. Cesc launched the first EV charging station of the Mysuru region, Kurrent, on its corporate office premises at Vijayanagar in Mysuru, to mark Republic Day, recently. EV users can download the app on Google Play to use the services of the charging station. Cesc Managing Director Manohar M Bevinamara, who inaugurated the charging station, said that the charging infrastructure for zero-emission vehicles will improve in Mysuru as two more stations will come up at Kuvempu Nagar and Rajendra Nagar, shortly. Cesc has taken up the initiative as the number of EVs on roads in Mysuru is on the rise, with the entry of new variants in both two-wheeler and four-wheeler segments. He said, “The charging station is established at a cost of Rs 8 lakh by Energy Efficiency Services, an agency of the Union Power Ministry, which has entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Cesc. “We supported the initiative by giving our land. Our idea is to help develop more such stations across Mysuru to promote the use of green vehicles. If the charging infrastructure is developed, people will think of buying EVs, which are eco-friendly, and save fuel costs,” Bevinamara said. He said, “Electric vehicles can be charged for free during the first three months. Thereafter, charging will be billed as per the tariff fixed by the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC). It may cost around Rs 8, a unit.” Stating that EVs are set to replace vehicles using fossil fuels as the cost works out cheaper, the MD said, “An EV (depending on the kind of vehicle variant) with a charge of three to four units can run up to 100 km. For covering the same distance, one may need at least six litres of petrol or diesel. EVs with latest technology promise more efficiency. This will encourage more road users to opt green vehicles”. Sources in the automobile sector said that electric cars are yet to catch up, unlike ‘green’ scooters, whose numbers are increasing. “Infrastructure for fast charging, like fuel stations, is needed. Filling a tank full of fuel will hardly take 10 minutes. But, even if it is fast charging, it will take a couple of hours. Under existing circumstances, people are not ready to wait for so much time. Technology should be developed to charge a vehicle in a few minutes, to give a boost to EVs,” said an automobile trader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cesc-starts-mysuru-s-first-ev-charging-station-946763.html
02-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kids find jumbo tusk thrown in trash||The Forest department has initiated a probe after a few children were seen playing with an elephant tusk that they found in garbage at Tambadigeri Hosakole near Male Mahadeshwara Hills in Hanur taluk of Chamarajanagar district on Tuesday. Eshwar, a resident of the village and former ZP member, alerted the Forest department personnel when he saw the children playing with the tusk. The Forest personnel, who rushed to the village, inspected the spot and recovered the tusk. The department has taken the matter seriously and has registered a case under the Forest Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kids-find-jumbo-tusk-thrown-in-trash-946765.html
02-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Activists urge people’s representatives to treat officials in civilised way||Social activists of Mysuru have urged the people’s representative to treat officials in a civilized way, following a few incidents, in the recent past. Bhamy V Shenoy, the founder of Mysuru Grahakara Parishad (MGP), said, “It is a shame that our elected representatives treat the officials with rudeness, the way the kings used to lord over their palace staff or colonial rulers bullied Indian babus. In a democracy, we the public, have every right and responsibility to ensure that every one is treated with dignity. Freedom from degrading treatment is one of the human rights.” “During the last few years, we are witness to this kind of shocking and shameful treatment by our elected leaders. Recently, Law Minister Madhuswamy abused the officials in Tumakuru. It is a pity that despite media publicity, no action was taken by the CM or Human Rights Commissions,” he said. “It is high-time, the public registers its protest against such incidents. Whenever an official is mistreated in the public, the citizens present there should quietly leave the meeting, to register their protest,” Shenoy said. He said, “The officials too, can either quietly leave the meeting or file a complaint with the authorities concerned. Some are of the view that the politicians get away without any protest, because the officials concerned are often guilty of dereliction of duty or get their job or transfer as either a favour or by bribing. Even assuming that the officials have failed to do their assigned task, it does not give any one the right to treat them rudely in public.” Shenoy said, “Often, it is just a drama for a photo op, rather than being really serious to serve the public. There are far better ways to serve the public rather than reprimanding the officials publicly." "Recently, in Mysuru an MLA treated the deputy commissioner rudely, by asking her to remove the mask during a meeting of a Legislative Sub-Committee. He must be knowing that Covid-19 rules impose on every one to wear a mask in the public and that too in a meeting hall. The reason given for his ‘request’ was that he could not hear what she was talking. There are decent ways to request one to make oneself audible, but not ordering to take mask. The MLA himself was guilty, by failing to wear the mask properly,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/activists-urge-people-s-representatives-to-treat-officials-in-civilised-way-946766.html
02-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two officers of Mysuru Prisons get president’s medal||Two officers of the Central Prisons Mysuru, have been conferred the Correctional Service Medal for their meritorious service, on the occasion of Republic Day. B Suresha, Assistant Superintendent of Central Prisons, Mysuru, and M S Kumar, Assistant Jailor, have been conferred with the President’s Medals, states a press release from the Ministry of Home Affairs, Women’s Safety Division. Suresha has served in various prisons, including Central Prisons in Ballari and Bengaluru and District Prisons in Mangaluru and Chamarajanagar, in the state, since 27 years. He did his MA in Journalism and Mass Communication, University of Mysore. He served Prajavani, the sister publication of Deccan Herald for a brief period. Son of late Bettaiah, Suresha is from Lalipalya village, Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district. M S Kumar, Assistant Jailor of Prisons, Central Prisons Mysuru, has 26 years of service and also served Prison Training Institute in Mysuru, District Prisons Ramanagar and Taluk Sub Jail in Nanjangud. Son of M S Siddegowda, Kumar is from Mothalli in Mandya taluk. The awards would be conferred by DGP (Prisons) Alok Mohan either at the head office in Bengaluru or at a government programme soon, said Suresha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-officers-of-mysuru-prisons-get-president-s-medal-946767.html
02-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Exhibitors not ready to open single screen film theaters'||President of Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Federation R R Oudugouder said, “Unless sharing of the revenue is not decided on the basis of the audience present for each show, like in the neighbouring states of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh, no film exhibition will be held in single-screen theatres.” Speaking to media persons here, on Tuesday, he said, “Film theatres are suffering loss due to various reasons and the Covid-crisis is the mother of all problems. Even management of film theatres is complicated. We have discussed about the revenue sharing with the producers. We appealed to them that revenue sharing can be like in the neighbouring states. Until they agree to our proposal, we will not exhibit the films.” “The revenue in multiplexes is on 50:50 basis. We do not need so much of the share. We need a share on the ticket cost,” he said. “Before 2004, there were 1,800 single screen theatres in Karnataka. But, at present, they have reduced to 589. However, in Tamil Nadu; Andhra Pradesh and Telangana; and Kerala the number of single screen theatres are 2,100, 2,150 and 1,950. This is possible as the revenue sharing is based on attendance of audience,” Oudugouder said. Federation vice-president M R Rajaram, said that they have retained the theatres with great difficulty, despite growing debts, due to the emotional attachment. “Our problems have reached the critical stage. We are only waiting for the response of the producers. If they cannot come to an agreement, we will convert our theatres into commercial complexes,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/exhibitors-not-ready-to-open-single-screen-film-theaters-946769.html
02-02-2021||Main Article||Union Budget 2021: Art of hiding the truth||Many of us have grown hearing the story of how Dronacharya is slain in the Mahabharata by a half-truth. On Krishna’s advice, Bhima kills an elephant that bears the same name as Ashwattama, Drona’s son, and Yudhishtira announces that Ashwattama, the elephant, is dead, as Krishna blows the conch loudly to drown out the words “the elephant.” Filled with grief, Drona lays down his weapons. Seizing the opportunity, Dhrishtadyumna beheads Drona. Whether it was an ethically and morally justifiable act to deceive Drona thus continues to be debated even today, but it is accepted that it was a brilliant way of hiding the truth. The Budget presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman seems to have taken this lesson well.   Let us start with the health budget. It is claimed that the allocation has been hiked by a whopping 137% from last year to over Rs 2.2 lakh crore. What the government didn’t say is that the rise in the allocation is largely due to the merger of the allocation for water and sanitation with the allocation for health, adding on to it the one-time expenditure on Covid-19 vaccination (Rs 35,000 crore) and showing the entire six-year initiative of a new health scheme (Rs 64,180 crore) as a part of an annual increase. Truth is, the health allocation has actually increased by only about 10% to over Rs 71,000 crore.   Next, move to food security, where more than a tripling of the allocation is due to payment of debt to the Food Corporation of India. Similarly, the allocation for agriculture has also declined, though references of this sector being a priority were amply present in the Budget speech. A country that witnessed unprecedented home-bound reverse-migration of millions of people in the post-lockdown phase and reports of jobs and income losses, hunger, a mass change towards consuming less-nutritious food, a massive drop in immunisation coverage and very limited reach of technology-based education, and higher incidence of child labour and child marriage, cannot afford to choose an economic path that is indifferent to these realities. The Budget, while rightfully placing its trust in choosing the infrastructure sector as a vehicle of economic recovery, has completely missed the opportunity to pay attention to other pathways that could have complemented it by helping rebuild the losses caused to education, livelihoods, food and nutrition among the low-income households that make up at least a third of the country’s population. The focus on infrastructure is a welcome step and it has potential to generate growth and jobs, but that alone is unlikely to be enough. The opening up of the insurance sector to higher FDI is also expected to generate higher off-Budget resources. However, health insurance utilisations are highest in the big cities and district headquarters, where the private hospitals are more in number. This trend will be strongly influenced by the higher FDI in insurance, and assuming that this will bring in higher investment in healthcare it may potentially result in higher density of hospitals in a few cities while the poor will be deprived of healthcare due to accessibility issues – not only in terms of transport but also because of information gaps and the absence of ability to deal with procedural requirements. No new taxes have been levied, not even a widely talked-about Covid-19 surcharge on corporate taxes or one on the super-rich, hoping that not doing so would lead to flow of higher capital investment in the economy. However, so far, the corporate sector has been cautious, and investments have not gone up despite low interest rates. Also, a focus on protectionism and hike in custom duties for a number of intermediate products to give to push to ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ does not align with this otherwise open-door policy. While there is no expansion of the tax base that could contribute to the pool that is shared with states, two new cesses, which do not go to the divisible pool, have been introduced. The agri-infrastructure cess imposition by way of reducing excise duties results in lower tax share for the states and can increase their borrowing and interest payment burden. The cess imposed on petrol (Rs 2.5 per litre) and diesel (Rs 4 per litre) are high, and with high inflationary potential, this may adversely affect demand for goods at a time when what is needed most is an increase in demand.  The Budget offers almost nothing for reviving MSMEs despite the fact that they have been the worst-hit even during the pre-pandemic days because of demonetisation. No measure exists even for reviving the pandemic-hit hospitality sector; a few incentives with linkages to jobs could have served two purposes together. The expenditure on employment guarantee scheme in rural areas, MGNREGA, soared during the pandemic, acting as a shock absorber for thousands of families. The allocation for this has been reduced by about 45% as compared to this year’s expenditure, of course, with the rationale that the economy is reviving and therefore this measure would not be needed. This seems a bit too optimistic an assumption given the trends so far. Also important to note is that these are not only social security measures, but the income is entirely spent, with no savings component, and therefore would play a major role in pushing up aggregate demand in the economy and thus its revival. The share of the ‘Child Budget’ has declined: the allocation for the Department of School Education and Literacy has declined as compared to last year’s allocations by nearly 10%, not reflecting the need for new measures to revive the public school sector to face the challenge of millions of children migrating from private schools due to affordability and reverse migration. The allocation for Women and Child Development has also declined by nearly 20% as compared to last year’s allocation despite widespread reports of adverse and gendered impact of the pandemic on women’s education, health and work. Budget presentation is indeed an art of hiding the truth. (The writer is Director, Centre for Budget and Policy Studies, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/union-budget-2021-art-of-hiding-the-truth-946783.html
02-02-2021||National||Indian-American Bhavya Lal appointed Acting Chief of Staff of NASA||Indian-American Bhavya Lal was on Monday appointed by NASA as the Acting Chief of Staff of the US space agency. Lal served as a member of the Biden Presidential Transition Agency Review Team for the agency and oversaw the agency’s transition under the administration of President Joe Biden. In a statement, NASA said Lal brings extensive experience in engineering and space technology, serving as a member of the research staff at the Institute for Defence Analyses Science and Technology Policy Institute (STPI) from 2005 to 2020. There, she led analysis of space technology, strategy, and policy for the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Space Council, as well as federal space-oriented organisations, including NASA, the Department of Defence, and the intelligence community. Lal is an active member of the space technology and policy community, having chaired, co-chaired, or served on five high-impact National Academy of Science committees. She served two consecutive terms on the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Federal Advisory Committee on Commercial Remote Sensing and was an External Council member of NASA’s Innovative Advanced Concepts Program and the Technology, Innovation and Engineering Advisory Committee of the NASA Advisory Council. Before joining STPI, Lal was president of C-STPS LLC, a science and technology policy research and consulting firm. Prior to that, she was the director of the Center for Science and Technology Policy Studies at Abt Associates, a global policy research consultancy based in Cambridge, Massachusetts. She co-founded and is co-chair of the policy track of the American Nuclear Society’s annual conference on Nuclear and Emerging Technologies in Space (NETS) and co-organises a seminar series on space history and policy with the Smithsonian National Air and Space Museum. For her many contributions to the space sector, she was nominated and selected to be a Corresponding Member of the International Academy of Astronautics, the statement said. Lal earned Bachelor of Science and Master of Science degrees in nuclear engineering, as well as a Master of Science degree in technology and policy, from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and holds a doctorate in public policy and public administration from George Washington University. She is a member of both the nuclear engineering and public policy honor societies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-american-bhavya-lal-appointed-acting-chief-of-staff-of-nasa-946455.html
02-02-2021||National||Disruption is Indian Parliamentary innovation: Hamid Ansari||M Hamid Ansari was the vice-president of the country for two successive terms, the only person to be in that post twice after S Radhakrishnan. The 83-year-old Ansari, who was also the Rajya Sabha Chairman, has come out with a memoir titled By Many a Happy Accident: Recollection of a Life. His autobiography is an account of a life of "unplanned happenings" that took him from academia to diplomacy and then to public life. Incidentally, the Congress leadership had toyed with the idea of elevating Ansari in 2012 to the post of President but Pranab Mukherjee made the cut instead. Ansari spoke to DH's Shemin Joy about the book, his career and his relationship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Parliament. You had a very hectic life as a diplomat before you became the Vice President of the country. What prompted you to write a memoir? When I was finishing my term as Vice President, I was asked if I intended to write a memoir. My answer was an emphatic no. But then, my children prevailed on me. Their argument was - how would we know what you did? So, I said yes. I never kept any notes. No diaries. No notes. Because of that, I had to rely on recall. At times, my wife helped me with her recollection of events. But this is a recall exercise. No more than that. You recall the telephone call from top CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury in 2007 asking whether you would be amenable to the idea of becoming Vice President. Five years later, your name came up for the post of the Presidentship but Pranab Mukherjee was chosen. Do you think you missed being the President? I neither volunteered for the first nor for the second. This was nowhere near my scheme of things. Both came as a surprise to me. I had nothing to contribute to the process. So I took it as it came. You refer to a 2012 episode when your name was dragged into the Presidential race without consulting you. You were upset that your name was unnecessarily dragged into it. Could you elaborate it a little more? Every time it (Presidential election) happens, media speculation starts. All kinds of names, plausible, not so plausible names float. Late President APJ Abdul Kalam's name was mentioned. He quickly quashed the rumours. As the numbers were with the UPA, the decision has to be with the UPA. If you look at the history of Indian Vice Presidents, there have been about 13 Vice Presidents up to my time. Out of that, half or so went on to become Presidents and half for a variety of reasons did not. They didn't ask me if they wanted to consider my name. These things happen. It is all right. The last three years of your Vice Presidency was when the Narendra Modi government was in power. You call your book By Many a Happy Accident but there are mentions about certain incidents that appear to show that there was tension between you and the government or the Prime Minister. What is your comment? No. My personal relations with the leader of the NDA government are very cordial before and after he became the Prime Minister. As Vice President, I visited Gujarat on a number of occasions. You have mentioned incidents like Modi coming to your office and asking you about not allowing the passing of Bills amid a din in the Rajya Sabha. How do you see that? Every government tries to rush things through. Then, you will have to tell them that this is the way. That's all. If you recall the newspapers of those days, there were always these reports about the government being not happy about Bills (getting not passed). It is true. But it is for them to work on the numbers. It is not for me to deliver the numbers. The view was very clear and it was said publicly that if there is general agreement that there is no need for lengthy discussion and voting and that it can be done without it, I did not have a problem. But these things were indicated to me in all-party meetings that were held outside the formal chamber. On your last day, certain remarks were made by Prime Minister Modi in the Rajya Sabha about your work as a diplomat as in - your assignments in Islamic countries were commented upon as a departure from accepted practice. What's your take? Nothing. You made a mention about this in your book also. I also made a speech there and recited an Urdu couplet – So much have I been accused of/that proving my innocence has deserted me. It is all right but the Prime Minister made two speeches that day – one in the Rajya Sabha and the other at the farewell function at Balayogi Auditorium in Parliament House. Modiji made a speech at the second function also. Very generous and said that nothing adverse has come to his notice...that's on record. Media did not pick up that speech. Why? But these remarks were made in the House. I won't comment on this. It is his view. I had a career before I came to Parliament. For a long time, I was an Ambassador of India in difficult places. I was Ambassador in Kabul during times of trouble. I was an Ambassador in Iran, Saudi Arabia. Apart from that, I was Ambassador in Australia, UAE and all that. But the crowning piece was Ambassador to the United Nations at a time when we were under pressure. This is the 1993-1995 period. Pakistan was gung-ho. They were trying their best to have a resolution passed in a certain committee against India. We fought. We were successful. I didn't fight alone as I had very competent officials. The political establishment under late P V Narasimha Rao was there. There was the late Dinesh Singh, then last but not the least, Pranab Mukherjee. It was a team effort. It was a successful team effort. The best evidence was the United States' assessment, which was not meant to be made public. I am talking about WikiLeaks. I had a full career. Why did he not mention it or mention it in a tangential way? He mentioned that you spent your time in countries who by religion are Muslim. It is not my fault. The government sent me there. The government also sent me to Australia. Australia was not Muslim. These are part of the normal duties of a diplomat. When you join the Indian Foreign Service, you commit to serve anywhere the government sends you. You have worked with several Prime Ministers. What are your recollections about them? I have good, pleasant recollections. I have seen Indira Gandhi in her different phases. From the point of view of a senior official, she was hands-on, very sharp, observed everything and if you deviate, you are in trouble. Then Rajiv Gandhi came to Australia, Iran etc. when I was in the field. Then Narasimha Rao, with whom I worked for a long time as he was also External Affairs Minister. I had a very close relationship with him. Similarly, other Prime Ministers also like I K Gujral. I didn't know Chandrashekhar. AB Vajpayee was impeccable. I had no problems with anyone. As Vice President, you worked with Manmohan Singh and Modi. How do you see these two periods? They are two different personalities and have different agendas also. The agendas did not concern me. Personalities, one had to interact. Very pleasant. I knew Manmohan Singh before he became Prime Minister. I met Modiji only when I became Vice President. We had very cordial conversations. As Rajya Sabha Chairman, you have taken a position that Bills will not be taken up for passage in the din. There is an argument that the Opposition will have an upper hand in such a scenario. Will this end up with the Opposition stalling anything and everything? It does not work that way in actual practice. When Parliament was in session, there used to be a meeting of leaders of parties with me at around 10 a.m. After some time, I made an assessment that what was committed to me in those meetings was sometimes not honoured in the House. So, I started calling it my tea club. But it was there. It was helpful because the leaders could talk there. Compromises were made. The whole game is of trying to accommodate the other person. Sometimes you accommodate, sometimes you don't accommodate. It was a platform, in my presence, that they could seek accommodation and I would urge accommodation. There were other things also. When you enter the House, there will be something uppermost in your mind. It may be an incident in your state or something like that. You would want the earliest opportunity to draw attention to it. And that earliest opportunity under the operative rules then was the Question Hour. So Question Hour often became the victim of individual concerns. My argument was twofold. One, Question Hour is an instrument of accountability. Whose accountability? The Executive's accountability. And having been an official in the government, I know the efforts that were put in to prepare answers. I remember when I was a junior officer, there was an occasion when Swaran Singh gave a dressing down to senior officials. He told them, 'I will forgive all your sins but never a sin in relation to Parliament'. Then the seniormost official formally apologised to which he added, 'It is not that I cannot answer, it is a matter of discipline you should be there'. Question Hour was a very serious matter. The ministers always took the questions very seriously. So did the questioners. That is something on which you can take on the government. So when Question Hour was being disturbed again and again, I told a meeting of leaders one day that we have to look at something. The usual argument was - this is the tradition and we cannot change it. I said yes but what is lost? With a lot of persuasion, they agreed that the Question Hour be moved from 11 a.m. to 12 noon. The Question Hour was saved. Some reforms work. But it requires a great deal of persuasion. Obviously, things big and small will come to your notice that will need correctives. I did that, nothing dramatic about it. And I had excellent relations with every member of the House. Arun Jaitley used to say that the second Zero Hour used to be held in your chamber. Yes, yes. One day, so much noise was being made. I said, 'You are behaving like a federation of anarchists'. Jaitleyji was a well-read man. He got up and said that by definition, anarchists could not have an association. Next day, I said to him that there were instances when anarchists do have federations in some European countries. It ended there. There was one occasion when he pointed out something I had said. I said, 'Take it off the record'. He accepted that also as a unique case when a chairman had expunged his own record. So, it was a cosy relationship. I have no bitterness at all. We see a disruption in Parliament. You were upset about these disruptions. It is said that disruption is also a legitimate Parliament tactic. You were the presiding officer of a House. Is disruption a legitimate Parliamentary tactic? It is an Indian Parliamentary innovation. You watch the debates in the British Parliament. Very good debates, very contentious debates. But disruption is not part of it. I have been High Commissioner in Australia and I have watched their Parliament. There also, the debates were very contentious but no disruptions. If you look at the Indian Parliamentary history, it was not so in the 1950s, less so in the 1960s at least in the first part. Part of it is because the ruling party leaders have to have the patience to listen to criticism. Now, you go back to the earlier records. Ram Manohar Lohia taking Jawaharlal Nehru to bits. And Nehru was sitting there. It is not that he wasn't there. These are things that I think are to do with individual personalities. Take the criticism, take it on the chest. Don't turn your back to it. Pranab Mukherjee also wrote about this in the fourth volume of his autobiography. He has written about it. He said the same thing. He was immensely knowledgeable about it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disruption-is-indian-parliamentary-innovation-hamid-ansari-946134.html
02-02-2021||National||India sees lowest Covid-19 toll since May, new cases below 9,000 after 7 months||India on Tuesday reported the lowest daily Covid-19 cases since June. With 8,635 new cases, the tally climbed to 1,07,66,245.  The nation reported 94 new fatalities in the last 24 hours -- lowest since May.     The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,04,48,406 with 13,423  recoveries in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The national recovery rate has climbed to 97 per cent. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.44 per cent. The total Covid-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh for the 14th consecutive day. There are 1,63,353 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.56 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 19,77,52,057 samples have been tested up to February 1 with 6,59,422 samples being tested on Monday. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-lowest-covid-19-toll-since-may-new-cases-below-9000-after-7-months-946460.html
02-02-2021||National||Aero India set for February 3 take-off amid Covid-19, buzz centred around 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'||The country's premier aerospace and defence exhibition, Aero India 2021 takes off here on Wednesday amidst the Covid-19 pandemic with buzz around "AatmaNirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan" and "Make in India" push. With a combination of both physical and virtual exhibition, the 13th edition of the biennial international event at Air Force Station Yelahanka will be the world's first hybrid aerospace show, officials said. A negative Covid-19 RT-PCR test report (dated January 31, 9 am or later) is a must to attend the three-day event, where each day only 3,000 visitors will be allowed at the flight display venue in view of the pandemic. As many as 601 exhibitors -- 523 Indian and 78 foreign -- and 14 countries have confirmed participation, they said. Companies are showcasing their capabilities, latest technologies, solutions, products and services at the show. Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) will exhibit its latest defence technologies and demonstrate many systems. "We will continue to support 'Make-in-India' policy and 'Aatma-Nirbhar Bharat Mission' of the Indian government, to promote indigenous production, knowledge transfer and global industrial cooperation, to facilitate Indian export of high- end defence technology," said Eli Hefets, Corporate Regional Director, India, Rafael Advanced Defense Systems Ltd. Director & Industry lead for Aerospace & Defense in India, Dassault Systemes, Ravikiran Pothukuchi said the aerospace & defence sector in India is at an inflection point, given the large scale modernisation and indigenisation programmes being undertaken by the government. Alex Zino, Executive Vice President Business Development & Future Programmes (Defence), Rolls-Royce said: "We recognise that India's defence requirements are evolving, making indigenous development of modern defence hardware and technology a top priority for the Indian government". "Aligned with the Indian governments Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan and the Make in India initiative, we look forward to participating in Aero India 2021 and reinforcing our commitment to supporting the growth of an indigenous defence manufacturing ecosystem while continuing to deliver our best capabilities to support the Indian MoD and Services, said William (Bill) Blair, vice president and chief executive, Lockheed Martin India. Among the key attractions will be flight display by 'Surya Kiran' aircraft and 'Sarang' helicopters. Don Heflin, US Charg dAffaires, will lead a high-level delegation of US Government officials and defence industry representatives to Aero India 2021. One of the highlights of the show, a B-1B Lancer heavy bomber, of the 28th Bomb Wing based out of Ellsworth Air Force Base in South Dakota, will perform a "fly-by." Bengaluru-headquartered Hindustan Aeronautics Limited would showcase Aatmanirbhar Formation Flight. The 'Aatmanirbhar Formation Flight' consisting HAL products such as LCA trainer (LIFT Trainer), HTT-40, IJT, Advanced Hawk Mk 132 and Civil Do-228 will fly in a special formation showcasing the spectrum of trainers and signifying self-sufficiency in the trainer segment, it said. According to officials, besides global leaders and investors in the aerospace industry, the show will also see participation by think-tanks from different parts of the world. "Aero India will provide a unique opportunity for exchange of information, ideas and new developments in the aviation industry. In addition to giving a fillip to the domestic aviation industry it would further the cause of 'Make in India'", they said. Aero India is a platform for aerospace enthusiasts, prospective defence industries, aspirant start-ups and all other stakeholders to participate and witness the advances in global defence and aerospace fields and interact with many national and international delegations and industries, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aero-india-set-for-february-3-take-off-amid-covid-19-buzz-centred-around-aatmanirbhar-bharat-946529.html
02-02-2021||National||'Aatmanirbharta' named Oxford Hindi word of 2020||'Aatmanirbharta' implying self-reliance has been named by Oxford Languages as its Hindi word of the year 2020 as it "validated the day-to-day achievements of the countless Indians who dealt with and survived the perils of a pandemic." The word was chosen by an advisory panel of language experts Kritika Agrawal, Poonam Nigam Sahay and Imogen Foxell. The Oxford Hindi word of the year is a word or expression that is chosen to reflect the ethos, mood, or preoccupations of the passing year, and have lasting potential as a term of cultural significance. In a statement, Oxford Languages said in the early months of the pandemic when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced India's Covid-19 recovery package, he emphasised the need to become self-reliant as a country, as an economy, as a society and as individuals, in a bid to navigate the perils of the pandemic. There was a massive increase in the usage of 'aatmanirbharta' following the prime minister's address, highlighting its increased prominence as a phrase and concept in the public lexicon of India, it said. One of the standout successes of the entire Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign is the large-scale manufacturing of Covid-19 vaccine in India. During the Republic Day parade, the Department of Biotechnology highlighted the Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign and showcased the Covid-19 vaccine development process in its tableau at Rajpath. "In an unprecedented year, 'aatmanirbharta' found resonance with a wide cross-section of people as it is seen to be an answer to the revival of a Covid-impacted economy," said Oxford University Press India managing director Sivaramakrishnan Venkateswaran. Agrawal said amid a number of interesting and topical entries received, 'aatmanirbharta' stood out because it validated the day-to-day achievements of the countless Indians who dealt with and survived the perils of a pandemic. This word "gives a voice to the strength displayed by young and old alike in dealing with extended periods of isolation, lack of familial support, loss of livelihoods and other difficulties through sheer determination and self-reliance," she said. Previous Hindi words of the year are 'Aadhaar' (2017), 'Nari Shakti' (2018) and 'Samvidhaan' (2019). While the Hindi word of the year has great resonance for the year in which it was chosen, it doesn't mean that the word will automatically go into any Oxford dictionaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aatmanirbharta-named-oxford-hindi-word-of-2020-946530.html
02-02-2021||National||Delhi Police announces compensation for personnel injured during tractor parade violence||The Delhi Police Monday (February 1) announced Rs 25,000 compensation for its personnel grievously injured during the Republic Day tractor parade violence and Rs 10,000 for those seriously injured, officials said. As many as 394 personnel of the force were injured while 30 police vehicles were damaged during the violent protests on that day, the Delhi Police has said. In appreciation of their efforts, the Commissioner of Police has approved a grant of financial assistance from the Delhi Police Welfare Society Fund, the Delhi Police said in a statement Monday. A sum of Rs 25,000 has been approved for grievously injured personnel and Rs 10,000 for those with serious injuries, it stated, adding the District Commissioners of Police can propose enhanced financial assistance in special cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-announces-compensation-for-personnel-injured-during-tractor-parade-violence-946531.html
02-02-2021||National||ED attaches Rs 130 cr assets of Hyderabad-based jewellers in demonetisation case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth over Rs 130 crore of various Hyderabad-based jewellery houses and their promoters in a money laundering probe linked to alleged financial irregularities done during the 2016 demonetisation exercise, the agency said on Tuesday. The action has been taken against Musaddilal Gems and Jewels Pvt Ltd, Vaishnavi Bullion Pvt Ltd and Musaddilal Jewellers Pvt Ltd, according to the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The attached assets include 41 immovable properties, investments made in shares and jewellery, and bullion worth Rs 83.30 crore, seized in raids conducted some years back. The total value of these properties is Rs 130.57 crore, it said. The attachment has been undertaken under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and the ED case is based on an FIR registered by the Telangana Police against the jewellery houses post the demonetisation of two high-value banknotes -- Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 -- by the government in November 2016. In a statement, the ED said during probe it was found that the three jewellery and bullion firms had deposited Rs 111 crore worth of demonetised notes in their bank accounts immediately after the note ban was announced on November 8, 2016. "They had raised fake cash receipts and sale invoices showing that around 6,000 fictitious customers visited their showrooms to purchase gold jewellery between 8 pm to midnight on 8.11.2016 immediately after the announcement of demonetisation," the ED alleged. The agency claimed that "the companies of Kailash Chand Gupta and his sons (promoters of Musaddilal Gems) in connivance with his chartered accountant (CA) Sanjay Sarda fabricated invoices to justify the fictitious sources of income and the large amounts of cash deposits." "Sarda advised them to raise fabricated invoices below Rs 2 lakh so that there would be no requirement of recording the KYC or PAN of the customers," the agency alleged. The CA also contributed demonetised cash for conversion and also received a "hefty commission" for rendering advice, it claimed. The ED said immediately after depositing the said amount of cash in their bank accounts, a major portion of these deposits were transferred to gold bullion dealers to buy bullion, which was delivered to various jewellers, individuals and entities. "Thus, the demonetised notes were successfully placed, layered and finally integrated into the financial system," it alleged. The ED said the Rs 111 crore was pooled from various jewellers, individuals and entities. "Majority of the jewellers admitted that they had contributed cash," it said. "They again claimed that the demonetised notes were sourced from unknown customers. But they could neither provide the list of customers nor explain the reasons for depositing it in the accounts of Mussadilal Jewellers instead of their own," the agency said. The ED said that it was found that by selling the converted gold at an exorbitant profit, the Gupta family derived profits of around Rs 28 crore. The agency has filed two charge sheets in the case, the latest being in September last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-rs-130-cr-assets-of-hyderabad-based-jewellers-in-demonetisation-case-946534.html
02-02-2021||National||India showing declining trend in Covid-19 cases since last 4 months, says Ashwini Choubey in RS||The country is showing a declining trend of Covid-19 cases since the last four months and compared to similarly placed nations, the cases and deaths per million population in India is among the lowest, the government told Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey was responding to a question on the reasons for exponential multiplication of coronavirus cases in the country and whether there was a wrong approach at the initial stage by the government in focusing on testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine management. "The country is showing a declining trend of Covid-19 cases since the last four months. Recovery rate and case fatality rate for the country is 96.94 per cent and 1.44 per cent respectively. Compared to similarly placed countries, the cases and deaths per million population in India is among the lowest (7,778 cases and 112 deaths per million population)," he said in a written reply. The government's strategy of focusing on testing, contact tracing, isolation and quarantine-containment is the fundamental approach for managing infectious disease outbreaks of epidemic or pandemic in nature, Choubey said, adding that the strategy has been recommended globally and by the World Health Organisation for suppressing transmission or breaking the cycle of transmission of Covid-19. Such a strategy combined with non-pharmaceutical interventions such as physical distancing, hand hygiene, respiratory etiquettes and use of mask or face covers, closure of schools and work places, complements the containment strategy in preventing the disease from spreading, the minister said. The government periodically issued guidelines, protocols and standard operating procedures based on existing scientific evidence, Choubey said. To another question on whether geo-tagging was done for areas with high Covid-19 cases, Choubey said all states and union territories followed mapping of cases and clusters digitally to demarcate containment and buffer zones. In addition, the Aarogya Setu ITIHAS interface, which uses location data, and the Aarogya Setu analytics to predict emerging hotspots were used effectively to support surveillance and case finding, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-showing-declining-trend-in-covid-19-cases-since-last-4-months-says-ashwini-choubey-in-rs-946550.html
02-02-2021||National||SC refuses to grant protection to MP Sanjay Singh against NBW issued on FIR lodged in Lucknow||The Supreme Court Tuesday refused to grant protection to Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh against whom a non-bailable warrant (NBW) has been issued on an FIR lodged in Lucknow after his press conference on August 12 last year at which he alleged that the UP government was favouring a certain class of society. The AAP leader has moved the apex court seeking quashing of multiple FIRs lodged against him in various districts of Uttar Pradesh after the press conference, saying they have been “maliciously instituted to unleash political vendetta”. In a separate petition, Singh has also challenged the January 21 order of the Allahabad High Court which refused to quash the FIR in Lucknow. The matter came up for hearing on Tuesday before a bench, comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy, which said it would not pass any order without going through the high court verdict. The top court asked senior lawyer Vivek Tankha and advocate Sumeer Sodhi, who appeared for Singh, to place before it the copy of the high court’s verdict. When Tankha urged the apex court that Singh should be protected as an NBW has been issued against him in the FIR lodged in Lucknow, the bench said he can seek exemption from appearance before the trial court. The bench, which also refused to issue any notice on Singh’s plea at this stage, has posted the matter for hearing next week. In one of his pleas filed in the apex court seeking quashing of multiple FIRs, Singh said, “In the said press conference, the petitioner (Singh) had merely raised certain social issues, namely neglect and apathy of the government towards a certain class of society.” He alleged that after the press conference, multiple FIRs were registered against him at the instance of BJP's members at various police stations in different districts of the state. Singh said they are “manifestly attended with mala fides and have been maliciously instituted to unleash political vendetta against the petitioner and to harass him”.   “The said FIRs have been filed against the petitioner out of the malice and sheer political vendetta with intent to coerce, harass and intimidate the petitioner as a part of larger ploy to muzzle the opposition leaders, from speaking up against the government of Uttar Pradesh,” he said. Singh further alleged that content in the FIRs is same verbatim and they have been filed across several districts across more than 700 kilometres in Uttar Pradesh on the same day within a span of a few hours. He said he is aware of eight FIRs filed in eight districts including at Lucknow, Sant Kabir Nagar, Khiri, Bagpat, Muzaffarnagar, Basti and at Aligarh. He has contended that these FIRs are a threat to his exercise of the right to free speech, right to assemble peacefully; right to move freely throughout the territory of India which are guaranteed under Article 19 of the Indian Constitution. “The press conference was an exercise through which the petitioner was raising pertinent social and political issues, and the said FIRs have been filed with the sole intention to stifle the voice of opposition which is fundamental to a functional democracy,” he said, adding that these FIRs filed against him are "frivolous, baseless, vexatious and are figments of imagination of the complainant and the police department". He has alleged that sole aim of the state machinery is to prevent him from campaigning in Uttar Pradesh and from carrying out political activities there in the run up to the elections in 2022. “The state machinery in complete derogation of their duties and responsibilities conferred upon it by law have been involved in mounting undue pressure upon the petitioner by threatening to take coercive action against the petitioner in order to make him succumb to their unbridled envy,” he has claimed. “In light of the aforesaid, the petitioner prays that the aforesaid FIRs registered against him be quashed as they are nothing but an abuse of process aimed at stifling the voice of opposition in a democracy and the petitioner's fundamental rights," he has claimed. Alternatively, he has sought transfer of the FIRs lodged in connection with the press conference of August 12, 2020 and related political activities of the petitioner outside of Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-grant-protection-to-mp-sanjay-singh-against-nbw-issued-on-fir-lodged-in-lucknow-946553.html
02-02-2021||National||The Lead: Healthcare and insurance in the Budget and what it means for the industry||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, Executive Chairman of Asia Healthcare Holdings Vishal Bali talks about the healthcare factor in the latest Budget  Ahmed Shariff: Hi and welcome to DH Radio. Yesterday, the Finance Minister laid the Union Budget. Since it was presented at a time when we are approaching the pandemic's end, the motive was clear: Health is a priority. Rs 35,000 crore outside the purview of the Budget was allocated to the Covid-19 vaccine and the section under health and wellbeing saw a 137% jump in fund allocation. But, what does it mean? Will the funds be enough? To talk about this and more, we are joined by Vishal Bali, Executive Chairman of Asia Healthcare Holdings who was former Group CEO for Fortis Healthcare Limited and CEO and Managing Director of Wockhardt Hospitals. Mr Bali has also been a past member of the Global Agenda Healthcare Council of the World Economic Forum.Hi, Mr Bali and welcome to DH Radio. Vishal Bali: Hi, Mohamed. Good to be with you. Ahmed: It's wonderful to have you on our show. My first question to you is how do you see this Budget? Did it meet your expectations? Vishal: Given the fact that the industry, particularly the healthcare sector, has for the last many years been talking to the government about giving priority to healthcare in the Budget, from that context, I think, the Budget 2020-21 definitely lays that out... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-healthcare-and-insurance-in-the-budget-and-what-it-means-for-the-industry-946555.html
02-02-2021||National||Farmers' agitation at Delhi borders reverberates in RS; House adjourned as Oppn seeks discussion on farm laws||Farmers' agitation at Delhi borders reverberated in Parliament on Tuesday with the Opposition stalling the proceedings in both the Houses after its notice to suspend the business and discuss the issue was not accepted. Rajya Sabha witnessed three adjournments before finally calling it a day at 12:31 pm as Opposition MPs trooped to the Well of the House as and when the House re-assembled after adjournments raising slogans against the Narendra Modi government and demanding discussion. Lok Sabha too witnessed noisy scenes with MPs waving placards and shouting slogans trooped to the Well demanding an immediate discussion. The Lower House was to start the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's speech but could not do so as Opposition MPs forced three adjournments, the last at around 7 PM. Soon after Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu made his remarks and official papers were laid on the table, Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad referred to his notice for suspending the business. Naidu said that he has received notices from Azad, Tiruchi Siva (DMK), Sukhendu Shekhar Roy (Trinamool Congress), Elamaram Kareem (CPIM) and Binoy Vishwam (CPI) but said that he was not able to accept it as members can avail the opportunity to raise the issue during the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address for which 10 hours have been allotted. He said he understood the concerns raised by the MPs for the need to resolve the issue at the earliest date. While disallowing the demand for suspension of business, he allowed MPs who submitted notices to make very brief mentions. Azad said the farmers have been camping for more than two months and the issue needs to be discussed while Roy said the House is not aware of what is going on between the government and farmers and the House should discuss the issue separately from the Motion of Thanks. Kareem said thousands of farmers were at Delhi borders amid the authorities cutting water and power supply. Calling it  "inhuman", he demanded that the government immediately resume water and power supply to the protest sites, pointing out that the elderly, women and children are present there. Siva said farmers have been sitting on roads for over two months in the cold and the issue needs to be discussed separately. Naidu did not agree and as he went ahead with Question Hour, Opposition MPs walked out of the House. However, they returned soon and started shouting slogans following which Naidu first adjourned the House till 10:30 am. Similar scenes were witnessed at 11:30 AM when the House re-assembled, prompting Deputy Chairman Harivansh to adjourn the House again till 12:30 am. The Opposition MPs were in no mood to budge as they rushed to the Well at 12:30 pm again and Harivansh then adjourned the House for the day. DH had on Sunday reported that Opposition would demand suspension of business to discuss farmers' issue on February 2. The government had not agreed to its demand for an immediate discussion on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-agitation-at-delhi-borders-reverberates-in-rs-house-adjourned-as-oppn-seeks-discussion-on-farm-laws-946565.html
02-02-2021||National||No blood banks in 63 districts of India||Sixty-three districts in the country are without blood banks as per reports received till September 2020, Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Responding to a question on whether the government has taken any steps or will take steps to ensure that all districts in the country have at least one blood bank, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey said public health, being a state subject, it is the primary responsibility of state governments to ensure the establishment of blood banks as per their need.  However, support is provided to states and UTs to strengthen their healthcare system including strengthening existing blood banks/establishing new blood banks based on proposals submitted by the states through the National Health Mission, Choubey said in a written reply. The 63 districts include 14 from Arunachal Pradesh, 5 each from Assam and Bihar, 12 from Manipur, 7 from Meghalaya, and 9 from Nagaland.  The National Blood Transfusion Council, MOHFW has formulated the blood bank policy according to which there should be at least one blood bank per district, Choubey said. The adequate infrastructure required for establishing a blood bank is laid down in the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and Rules thereunder, compliance to which is mandatory to obtain a license to run a blood bank. There are 3,321 licensed blood banks in the country which collected 1.27 crore blood Units in 2019-20.  On whether there have been reports of a shortage of blood in those banks currently functional in the country, Choubey said, "No such instances have been reported regarding shortage of blood supply." Some of the measures to ensure 24X7 availability of blood in blood centres include promoting voluntary blood donation through state Blood Transfusion Councils set up in each state and union territory in coordination with non-governmental organizations, Indian Red Cross, Rotary Lions Club and other Civil Society Organization.  The blood banks are mandated to update the daily stock position of blood and blood products according to blood groups in eRaktKosh portal.  They are permitted to transfer blood and blood components between licensed blood bank and blood storage centres to ensure timely supply of blood to patients.  To ensure equitable availability of blood units in the country, the states have been supported with the blood collection and transportation vans with dedicated human resources, Choubey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-blood-banks-in-63-districts-of-india-946569.html
02-02-2021||National||Treat as representation PIL against Jan Dhan account as sole criterion for relief under PMGKY: Delhi HC to Centre||The Delhi High Court Tuesday asked the Centre to treat as representation a PIL which has contended that having a Jan Dhan account should not be the only criterion for identifying the poor for receiving ex-gratia under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh asked the Finance Ministry or the authority concerned to treat the petition as a representation and to decide it as expeditiously as possible. With the direction the court disposed of the plea by Delhi resident Akash Goel who had contended that the condition of having a PMJDY account as a pre-requisite for availing the ex-gratia of Rs 500 under the PMGKY was an "exclusionary" criterion. Advocate Ajit Sharma, appearing for Goel, told the bench that while PMGKY was a good scheme, it excluded those economically backward women or persons who do not have a Jan Dhan account. "The exclusionary nature of using PMJDY as the sole identifier/criterion of poor persons for the purpose of welfare schemes is emphasized by the fact that PMJDY is a scheme to bank the 'unbanked' hence persons who were already account holders when PMJDY was announced in 2014 are/were ineligible to open a PMJDY account. "Consequently, such persons have been rendered ineligible to avail benefits of welfare schemes including the cash transfer announced for poor women under PMGKY, 2020 announced by the Finance Minister wherein cash would be transferred only in accounts of women who are active PMJDY account holders," said the petition, filed through advocate Mayank Aggarwal. Goel had also said in his plea that since the government was directly transferring funds, subsidy or welfare measures into the accounts of poor and needy persons, "there is an immediate need to ease the process of opening of or conversion into PMJDY accounts". "Alternatively, an SOP for dealing with exceptions should be mandatorily created to ensure that poor persons who do not possess an active PMJDY account may also avail benefits of government welfare measures/schemes by use of some other identification criteria," the petition had said. It had contended that the said scheme (PMGKY) "in its current form is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India as it unjustifiably and illegally excludes persons in the same class i.e. poor women" who are the intended beneficiaries of the said scheme from claiming benefit of the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/treat-as-representation-pil-against-jan-dhan-account-as-sole-criterion-for-relief-under-pmgky-delhi-hc-to-centre-946570.html
02-02-2021||National||ED takes possession of attached assets in PMLA case against Naxal leader||The Enforcement Directorate has taken possession of assets worth Rs 16 lakh belonging to the wife of a Maoist commander operating in Jharkhand and Bihar, the central probe agency said on Tuesday. The action was taken in a money laundering case against Abhijeet Yadav alias Mahavir Yadav, an active member and sub-zonal commander of the banned CPI (Maoist), the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said. The adjudicating authority for the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) had recently approved the attachment of assets action and this enabled the ED to take "possession" of such properties, the agency said. The attached assets include a land in Jharkhand's Palamu district and bank deposits of Rs 16.49 lakh in the name of Yadav's wife Gita Devi. The ED had booked Yadav, who is absconding, under the PMLA after studying various state police FIRs registered against him. Yadav has been charged for collection of levy, criminal conspiracy, attempt to murder and extortion, the ED said. "The top Maoist leader is stated to be threatening and recovering levy forcibly and illegally from various development works going on in Gaya and Aurangabad districts of Bihar and in neighbouring Jharkhand's Palamu district," the agency said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-takes-possession-of-attached-assets-in-pmla-case-against-naxal-leader-946571.html
02-02-2021||National||SC seeks Centre's reply on plea for transfer of PILs on uniform marriage age from Delhi, Raj HCs||The Supreme Court Tuesday sought response from the Centre on a plea seeking transfer of two petitions from the high courts of Delhi and Rajasthan to it on the issue of 'Uniform Minimum Age of Marriage for Men and Women' to so as to avoid "multiplicity of litigations and conflicting views". The bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde took note of the submissions of senior advocate Geeta Luthra, appearing for lawyer and BJP leader Ashwini Upadhyay, that similar pleas are pending in the two high courts and they be transferred to the apex court for an authoritative pronouncement on the issue. "Issue notice," said the bench which also comprised Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian in the proceedings conducted through video conferencing.   After the transfer of the petitions from the the high courts, it can be tagged with other two pending PILs in the apex court in which uniform grounds of divorce,  maintenance, alimony, adoption and guardianship have been sought to be implemented, said Luthra who was assisting by lawyer Priya Hingorani. In October last year the plea seeking transfer of PILs from Delhi and Rajasthan High Courts were filed.   The Delhi High Court had in August, 2019 issued notice to the Centre and the Law Commission of India on BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Upadhyay's plea seeking uniform marriage age for men and women. On February 5, last year the Rajasthan High Court sought response from the Centre and others on a similar PIL filed by one Abdul Mannan. The transfer plea, filed through Ashwani Kumar Dubey, has sought an authoritative pronouncement from the top court itself to avoid multiplicity of litigation. The plea has sought to "gender justice, gender equality and dignity of women". Currently various laws state that minimum age for getting married should be 18 in case of women and 21 for men, it said. "Petitioner is compelled to approach this Court as more PILs may be filed in other High Courts seeking 'Uniform Minimum Age of Marriage for Men and Women'. Therefore, in order to avoid multiplicity of the litigations and conflicting views on interpretation of Articles 14, 15, 21 and judgments on gender justice and gender equality, the Court may be pleased to transfer these PILs and decide them collectively," said the transfer plea filed under Article 139A of the Constitution. Alternatively, the plea has sought a direction to the Centre to take appropriate steps to remove the anomalies in the minimum age of marriage and make it 'gender neutral, religion neutral and uniform for all citizens' in spirit of the fundamental rights of equality and right to life and International conventions. "Alternatively, being custodian of the Constitution and protector of the fundamental rights, declare that the discriminatory minimum age of marriage offends Articles 14, 15, 21 and international conventions. Hence, minimum age of marriage shall be 21 years for all citizens," it said. While men are permitted to get married at the age of 21, women are married when they are just 18, it said. "The distinction is based on patriarchal stereotypes, has no scientific backing, perpetrates de jure and de facto inequality against women, and goes completely against the global trends," it said. The differential bar discriminates against women thus contravenes the fundamental principles of gender equality, gender justice and dignity of women and offend Articles 14, 15, 21 of the Constitution and international conventions, it said. The petitioner said more than 125 countries in the world have a uniform age of marriage for men and women and the National Human Rights Commission, pursuant to the National Conference on Child Marriage held in New Delhi in August 2018, had also recommended that India follow suit. It also referred to relevant provisions of the Indian Christian Marriage Act, the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, the Special Marriage Act, the Hindu Marriage Act and the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act and said that they are "responsible for this discriminatory bar". Under section 60 of the Indian Christian Marriage Act, 1872, the age of the man intending to be a married shall not be under 21 years, and the age of the woman intending to be married shall not be under 18 years, it said. As per the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act of 1936, the age of male has to be 21 years and a female has must completed 18 years of age, it said. The other laws also have the same anomalies with regard to the age of marriage for male and female, it said. The plea said, "The fundamental basis of the legal system is that the dispute should be finally settled and when the same/similar facts are placed in different petitions before different Courts for the judicial test, there is a likelihood of divergence of views, different interpretations and contradictory appreciation of the materials placed before such Courts and in such a case, the aspiration of litigants to find finality to the disputes may be reduced more to a mirage than reality."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centres-reply-on-plea-for-transfer-of-pils-on-uniform-marriage-age-from-delhi-raj-hcs-946578.html
02-02-2021||National||India's Covid-19-related deaths per million higher than South Asian nations||Multiple factors may have contributed to India reporting higher Covid-19-related deaths per million population than other South Asian countries such as Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Pakistan, the government said on Tuesday. According to Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey, the comparison of deaths per million might not be apt as there were factors such as varied geography, case definitions, surveillance, testing and reporting protocols. To a question on whether it is a fact that Covid-19-related deaths per million population in India is much higher than that in other South Asian countries such as Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Pakistan, he said in the Rajya Sabha, "Yes. Comparison of deaths per million may not be apt as there are multiple factors that may contribute to this observation." These factors are "varied geographies, island nation, case definitions, surveillance, testing and reporting protocols, attribution of death etc.", he said in a written reply. Choubey said an analysis of countries that had reported higher number of cases, however, indicated that the deaths per million population in India was among the lowest. India has recorded 112 deaths per million population, while the US has reported 1,347, the UK 1,533, Spain 1,247, Brazil 1,044 and Russia 495.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-related-deaths-per-million-higher-than-south-asian-nations-946582.html
02-02-2021||National||Covid-19 killed 162 doctors, 107 nurses and 44 ASHA workers killed in India: Data||Covid-19 has so far claimed the lives of 162 doctors, 107 nurses and 44 ASHA workers in the country, Rajya Sabha was told on Tuesday. The figures are based on the intimations received from the states till January 22. This was stated by Minister of State for Health Ashwini Kumar Choubey in the House in response to a question on the number of healthcare staff, including doctors, nurses and ASHA workers who have been affected died due to Covid-19. On whether the data presented by the Indian Medical Association regarding the number of healthcare workers who have died due to COVID-19 has been taken note of by the Ministry and any follow up verification of the same done, Choubey said the process of insurance disbursement has been de-centralized under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP: Insurance Scheme).   Accordingly, the verification of a person affected and died to Covid-19 vests with state governments/Central government authorities concerned. The necessary certification for claims is done by healthcare Institution, organization or office where the deceased was an employee of/engaged by the institution. They submit the documents to the competent authority for state and UT, or the competent authority for Central Government, Central Autonomous /PSU hospitals, AIIMS, INIs and hospitals of other central ministries, as the case may be. The competent authorities then forward and submit claim to the insurance company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-killed-162-doctors-107-nurses-and-44-asha-workers-killed-in-india-data-946586.html
02-02-2021||National||PIL seeks clear MRP, seller details of products sold on ecommerce sites, Delhi HC asks for Centre's response||The Delhi High Court Tuesday sought response of the Centre on a PIL seeking a direction to e-commerce websites to prominently display names of manufacturers, country of origin and MRP of products sold on their platforms. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notices to the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution and Fashnear Technologies Pvt Ltd, Sociofy Enterprise Pvt Ltd and O (1) India Pvt Ltd, which own e-commerce websites, and sought their stand on the plea by March 12. Fashnear, Sociofy and O(1) own e-commerce websites Meesho, Glowroad and Shop101, respectively. The petition, by Ghaziabad resident Ajay Kumar Singh, has claimed that the consumers are facing great difficulty due to such details not being mentioned on e-commerce platforms. Singh has said he regularly shops from e-commerce websites and according to research done by him, the requirements mandated under the Consumer Protection (Ecommerce) Rules, 2020 and Legal Metrology (Packaged Commodities) Rules, 2011 are not complied with by these e-commerce websites. "Economy of the entire nation would suffer in the event the e-commerce websites continue not to mention the MRP, seller details, manufacturing country/country of origin of products on e-commerce websites. Since the MRP of the product is not displayed the customers are forced to buy the product at a higher cost fixed by the manufacturers. "Important rights of consumers are also being violated as they are not made aware of the seller at the time of purchase," the petition, filed through advocate Rajesh K Pandit, has claimed. It has sought directions to the ministry and the owners of the three e-commerce sites to ensure that mandatory declarations of products offered for sale are displayed on websites and Legal Metrology Act, 2009 and Consumer Protection Act, 2019 complied with.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-seeks-clear-mrp-seller-details-of-products-sold-on-ecommerce-sites-delhi-hc-asks-for-centres-response-946596.html
02-02-2021||National||Government aims to inoculate 92.6 lakh healthcare workers against Covid-19||The government aims to inoculate over 92.6 lakh healthcare workers employed in Central, state and private facilities through its Covid-19 vaccination drive launched on January 16, Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. All states and Union Territories have been provided with Covid-19 vaccines, Minister of State for Health Ashwin Kumar Choubey said in a written reply to a question raised in the Upper House. "The 92,61,227 healthcare workers (excluding 200 null) who will be vaccinated against Covid-19 include 4,38,990 from Andhra Pradesh, 2,10,359 from Assam, 4,68,790 from Bihar, 2,78,343 from Delhi, 5,16,425 from Gujarat, 7,73,362 from Karnataka, 4,07,016 from Kerala, 4,29,981 from Madhya Pradesh, 9,36,857 from Maharashtra, 5,24,218 from Rajasthan, 5,32,605 from Tamil Nadu, 9,06,752 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,00,418 from West Bengal."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-aims-to-inoculate-926-lakh-healthcare-workers-against-covid-19-946597.html
02-02-2021||National||75% dip in foreign tourist arrival in Covid-19-hit 2020||India witnessed a dip of 75.5% in foreign tourist arrival last year due to travel restrictions to control the Covid-19 pandemic, the government informed Rajya Sabha on Monday. Only 2.68 million or 26.8 lakh foreign tourists came to India last year as against 10.93 million in 2019, 10.56 million in 2018 and 10.04 million in 2017, Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel said in a written reply in Rajya Sabha. Though the data on domestic tourists for 2020 yet to be compiled, he said, there were 2,321.98 million domestic tourists in 2019 and 1,854.9 million in 2018. The Ministry does not have an assessment of loss of revenue in 2020 as no formal study has been instituted. "However, several rounds of discussions and brainstorming sessions with industry stakeholders indicate massive loss of revenue, foreign exchange and jobs. In view of the highly unorganized nature of the sector, the impact in numerical terms can only be ascertained in due course," Patel said. To a separate question, Patel said the record of the revenue generated through tourism was not maintained by the Ministry of Tourism. He also said the ministry has no plans to approach the GST Council for reducing the goods and services tax on all hotel rooms to 12%. The ministry is aware of the tax levied on various tourism products and services, including hotels, as the same directly impacts the country's tourism competitiveness vis-a-vis other countries, he said. "At present, the Ministry of Tourism has no plan to approach the GST Council for reducing GST (goods and services tax) on all hotel rooms to 12 per cent, since the GST Council decides the rate of taxation after taking into consideration the factors affecting various segments of business as well as to ensure optimum revenue generation required for overall development of the economy," Patel said. He also informed the House that the tourism ministry has taken up the issue of GST with the Ministry of Finance from time to time and some changes have been made to the GST slabs for the sector. The threshold limit for applicability of 28% GST rate was increased from Rs 5,000 to Rs 7,500 per room per day by the Ministry of Finance. The basis for determination of the applicable rate has been changed from declared tariff to actual tariff, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/75-dip-in-foreign-tourist-arrival-in-covid-19-hit-2020-946601.html
02-02-2021||National||Centre to send teams to help curb Covid-19 cases in Kerala, Maharashtra||The Union Health Ministry has decided to depute two multi-disciplinary teams to Kerala and Maharashtra, which are contributing to almost 70 per cent of total Covid-19 active cases, to collaborate with state health authorities in instituting public health measures for virus management. At a time when almost all states and union territories are showing a declining trend in the number of cases and deaths due to Covid-19, Kerala and Maharashtra continue to report a large number of cases, the ministry said. "At present, these two states alone are contributing to almost 70 per cent of active Covid-19 cases in the country," it said. As on Tuesday Maharashtra has 44,944 active cases while Kerala has 69,456 active cases, according to the health ministry data updated at 8 am. The Central team to Maharashtra comprises experts drawn from National Center for Disease Control (NCDC) and RML Hospital, New Delhi.  The Kerala team shall comprise senior officials from the Ministry of Health along with experts from Regional Office of Health and Family Welfare, Thiruvananthapuram and Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi. The teams shall work closely with the state health departments, take stock of on ground situations and recommend necessary public health interventions to contain the large number of cases being reported by these states, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-send-teams-to-help-curb-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-maharashtra-946616.html
02-02-2021||National||Govt to explore use of blockchain tech for ushering in digital economy||The government will explore the use of blockchain technology proactively for ushering in the digital economy, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said it was announced in the Budget Speech of 2018-19 that the government does not consider crypto-currencies legal tender or coins and will take all measures to eliminate the use of these crypto-assets in financing illegitimate activities or as part of the payment system. "The government will explore the use of the blockchain technology proactively for ushering in the digital economy," Thakur said in a written reply to a question on introduction of India's own crypto-currency. On cash circulation in the country, he said that as per weekly statistical supplement of the RBI, the Notes in Circulation (NIC) was Rs 17,741.87 billion as on November 04, 2016, and Rs 27,712.43 billion as on January 08, 2021, thereby recording an increase of 56.2 per cent in a span of around 4 years 2 months. The growth in NIC depends on various macro-economic factors such as expected growth in GDP, inflation, interest rates, and growth in non-cash modes of payment, the minister added. The total transaction volume increased from 2,071 crore in FY2017-18 to 3,134 crore in FY2018-19, which corresponds to a growth rate of 51 per cent, Thakur informed. During 2019-20, the number of card payment transactions carried out through credit cards and debit cards increased by 23.5 per cent and 16.1 per cent, respectively, while the value increased by 21.1 per cent and 35.6 per cent to Rs 7.3 lakh crore and Rs 8 lakh crore, respectively. Prepaid Payment Instruments (PPIs) recorded a volume growth of 15.7 per cent on top of the 33.2 per cent a year ago, while transactions value at Rs 2.2 lakh crore increased by little more than 1 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-explore-use-of-blockchain-tech-for-ushering-in-digital-economy-946626.html
02-02-2021||National||TRP case: HC adjourns hearing on bail plea of ex-BARC CEO||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday adjourned till February 9 the hearing on the bail plea of former BARC (Broadcast Audience Research Council) CEO Partho Dasgupta, who is an accused in the alleged fake Television Rating Point (TRP) scam. Dasgupta, who was arrested by the crime branch of the Mumbai Police on December 24 last year, sought bail on parity arguing that all other accused persons in the case were out on bail. On Tuesday, Dasgupta's counsels Abad Ponda and Shardul Singh told the HC that the former BARC CEO suffered from a spinal problem and needed a medical attention. "He (Dasgupta) is not dying but it (health) is precarious and he needs a medical attention," Ponda said. Special Public Prosecutor Shishir Hire asked the HC to grant some time since he was appointed to the case only on Monday. He told the high court that a similar bail plea filed by Dasgupta was pending hearing in the Supreme Court. Dasgupta's counsels, however, assured a bench presided over by Justice PD Naik that they will not go ahead with the plea in the apex court. Justice Naik took the statement on record and adjourned the hearing till February 9. Dasgupta had sought bail on parity arguing that all other accused persons in the TRP case are out on bail. He had told the HC last week that Republic TV editor- in-chief Arnab Goswami was the prime accused in this scam. Dasgupta is accused of misusing his official position and conniving with ARG Outlier Media, the company that runs all Republic TV channels, and with Goswami to manipulate TRPs. On January 19, a sessions court in Mumbai rejected Dasgupta's bail plea. At that time, sessions court judge MA Bhosale recorded in his order that though other accused persons were out on bail, Dasgupta's custodial interrogation was required since as per the case papers, he seemed to be the "mastermind" of the case. Judge Bhosale had stated that Dasgupta's custody was required as the police would need him to explain his WhatsApp chats with others accused, or those named in the chargesheet in the case. "From the case paper it is reflected that he (Dasgupta) is the mastermind of the entire crime," the sessions judge had said in his order. "He (Dasgupta) is acting in capacity of CEO to manipulate television ratings through mechanical device..and it is disclosed that he was in contact with a television channel owner," he said. The judge, however, said that before drawing any conclusions, a thorough probe into the case, and a "face to face" interrogation of Dasgupta was required, and therefore, he could not be let out on bail. Last month, Dasgupta had been rushed to the state-run JJ hospital in Mumbai from the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai, after his blood sugar levels went up and he fell unconscious. He was discharged from the hospital ICU on the evening of January 22. Following his discharge, Dasgupta's lawyers had moved the HC seeking an urgent hearing on his bail plea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trp-case-hc-adjourns-hearing-on-bail-plea-of-ex-barc-ceo-946629.html
02-02-2021||National||Farmers' protest: Delhi court grants bail to journalist Mandeep Punia||A Delhi court Tuesday granted bail to freelance journalist Mandeep Punia who was arrested by Delhi Police from farmers' protest site at Singhu border.  Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Satvir Singh Lamba observed that the complainant, victims and witnesses are police personnel only. “Hence, there is no possibility that accused/ applicant can influence any of the police officials,” the judge said. Punia was arrested by police on Sunday in an FIR registered under various sections including 186 (Obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (Assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 332 (Voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) of IPC. The court directed Punia not to leave the country without its prior permission. “Accused shall not indulge into similar offence or any other offence in the event of release on bail. Accused shall not tamper with the evidences in any manner,” it said. It further directed that the accused shall join the investigations as and when required by the investigating agency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-delhi-court-grants-bail-to-journalist-mandeep-punia-946635.html
02-02-2021||National||UP cop makes woman pay for fuel to find kidnapped child||In an incident reflective of gross insensitivity on part of the Uttar Pradesh police, a differently-abled woman was allegedly forced to pay for fuel of the cops in Kanpur district to get them to look for her daughter, who had been missing for around a month. The woman did not have to pay a bribe, but the cops asked her to fill diesel in their cars so they could look for her missing daughter. "I did pay them for diesel four-five times,'' she said, in a video she released narrating her plight. The woman, who walks with the help of crutches, said her daughter was kidnapped by one of her distant relatives. The woman is a resident of Sanigawan village in the district. She said that the cops at the local police outpost used to shoo her away, whenever she approached them for help to search for her missing daughter. ''Kya lene aayi ho...chalo bhago yehan se'' (what have you come here for?...Get lost from here), the cops would shout, the woman said. As the video went viral on social media, the district police swung into action and suspended the in-charge of the police outpost Rajpal Singh. ''The woman was brought to the police station in the police jeep and her complaint was registered....we have formed four separate police teams to trace her missing daughter,'' a senior police official said in Kanpur on Tuesday. He also said that a departmental inquiry had been ordered into the complaint of paying for filling diesel into the vehicles. ''We will take action if the allegation is found to be true,'' the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-cop-makes-woman-pay-for-fuel-to-find-kidnapped-child-946636.html
02-02-2021||National||CBSE announces dates for classes 10, 12 Board exams: Check schedule here||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) exams for Class 10 and 12 will begin on May 4, with Class 12 exams to be conducted in two shifts to reduce the number of exam days. Exams will be conducted for 75 subjects in Class 10 and 111 subjects in Class 12 for which over 34 lakh students have registered this year. According to the datasheet, released by the CBSE on Tuesday, the exams for Class 10 will conclude on June 7, while those for class 12 will end on June 11. The CBSE exams, usually conducted in February-March, were scheduled for May-June this year, giving students adequate time to complete studies that were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Schools across the country were closed in March last year to contain the spread of Covid-19 and partially reopened in some states from October 15. “The exam date sheet has been prepared in such a manner that on any day, the total number of students in an examination centre is limited. This will help the examination centres to strictly follow the Covid-19 safety norms,” the CBSE said. For Class 12, in the second shift, examinations will be conducted in subjects which are not opted by students in schools situated abroad. The timings for the two shifts will be 10:30 am to 1:30 pm and 2:30 pm-5:30 pm. “In the second shift, examinations will be conducted on four days. On those days exams for Class 10 will be conducted in the morning shift,” the CBSE said. It said the exam date sheet has been prepared in such a manner that on any day, the total number of students in an examination centre is limited and no school staff who has worked on morning shift will be given duty on afternoon shift following safety guidelines. The exam schedule for 2021 spread over 39 days, as against the 45 days taken the previous year. For Class 12, the exam will begin with English subject on May 4 followed by additional subjects like Taxation, Carnatic Vocal Music and Hindustani Music on May 5. For Class 10, the exam will begin with Odia, Kannada and Lepcha subjects on May 4, followed by English on May 6 and Hindi on May 10. Sanyam Bhardwaj, Controller of Examination of CBSE, told PTI, "This year, fewer days are taken to conduct the examinations from last years. In 2020, examination schedule was of 45 days. However, in 2021, examination schedule is of 39 days. Sufficient time has been given between the examinations of two main subjects in both the classes. This will reduce the stress of the students and help them in better preparations for the examinations."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-announces-dates-for-classes-10-12-board-exams-check-schedule-here-946637.html
02-02-2021||National||Trade unions call for nationwide protest on Wed against privatisation, other policies in Budget||A joint platform of 10 central trade unions on Tuesday gave a call for a nationwide protest on February 3 against privatisation and other "anti-people" policies proposed in the Budget for 2021-22 and to press for scrapping labour codes and providing income and food support to the families of poor workers. The ten central trade unions are Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), Self-Employed Women's Association (SEWA), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC). "The joint platform of Central Trade Unions and the independent sectoral federations/associations calls upon the unions and working class to observe nationwide protest on 3rd February demanding, scrapping of labour codes and electricity bill 2020, No privatisation, Income support and food support to all poor workers’ households and (to protest) against anti-people policies as reflected by union budget ( presented on Feb1, 2021)," a statement by joint forum said. According to statement protest day to be observed through massive demonstrations/mobilizations at the workplaces, and industrial centres/areas and also burning the copies of the Labour Codes. The Joint Platform of Central Trade Unions and Independent Federations has called upon the trade unions and workers in general to carry on an intensive campaign in all the workplaces and in residential areas throughout the country against the destructive anti-worker, anti-farmer and anti-national policies of the government and make the programme a massive success to pave the way for further combative struggles including multiple day’s strike in the days to come to fight, defy and resist the destructive and anti-national policy regime. The unions said that the budget presented by the Finance Minister is full of rhetoric and far away from the ground realities. It is totally deceptive and destructive for the national economy, besides being cruelly insensitive to the suffering of the mass of the toiling people. The Finance Minister has repeated the claim of the government's economic survey that the labour codes are good for the workers, similarly, the farm laws were also praised. "There is no relief to the farmers’ rather the government has only announced the increase of the threshold for taking loans. It is a cruel joke on the farming community which is already finding itself in a tight corner and is already entrenched in debt. The demands of the farmers are totally ignored rather the farm laws are being praised by the government as a boon to them, when they are braving all odds seeking their total repeal," they highlighted.  The budget has totally ignored the poor masses and their needs. The government has stood for the Corporates and abandoned the common masses pushing Indian economy further into mess, the unions added. She has actually extended, rather repeated her presentation of the same deceptive packages announced in the month of may 2020, they added. The budget is friendly to Indian and foreign Corporate and continues to give huge concessions, reduction in tax for them and increase in the cess on the common man. The common masses are burdened more when there is a crisis for their livelihood itself, the unions opined.  The budget continues its policy of selling our public sector banks, enhancing FDI in the Insurance sector to 74 per cent besides pushing through aggressive disinvestment in LIC, and pursuing privatisation in almost all profit-making public sector enterprises while announcing the closure in all loss-making PSUs including those in core and strategic sectors, they stated.   The stated target of raising up to Rs 1.75 lakh crore from disinvestment of profit-making Public Sector Enterprises exposes the destructive motives and bankruptcy of the government, they pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trade-unions-call-for-nationwide-protest-on-wed-against-privatisation-other-policies-in-budget-946647.html
02-02-2021||National||Soon, consumers can select their electricity distribution company||Soon electricity consumers will have an option to choose their power distribution company as the Centre announced sweeping reforms in the power sector. At present, distribution companies across the country are monopolies, either government or private. "There is a need to provide choice to consumers by promoting competition. A framework will be put in place to give consumers alternatives to choose from among more than one," Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said while presenting Union Budget 2021. Welcoming the reforms, Union Power Minister R K Singh said, "The policy announced in Budget will provide choices to the consumers, bring competition and eliminate monopoly of discoms. It is a big change." The Finance Minister also announced a revamped reforms-based result-linked power distribution sector scheme with an outlay of Rs 3,05,984 crores over 5 years. The scheme will provide assistance to discoms for infrastructure creation including prepaid smart metering and feeder separation, upgradation of systems, etc., tied to financial improvements, the Finance Minister said. These announcements are aimed at ensuring 24X7 power for all as envisaged by the Centre. Last year, the government had enforced rules for the power sector to ensure delivery of services. But cash-strapped discoms - which are mostly owned and run by the state - are unable to buy sufficient power to provide round the clock supply. Total outstanding dues of the discoms towards power generating firms stood at over Rs 1.35 lakh crore as of December 2020. To revive discoms, the Centre in November 2015 introduced the UDAY (Ujjwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana). According to the scheme, discoms were envisaged to turn around financially within three years from signing agreements under it. "The past 6 years have seen a number of reforms and achievements in the power sector. We have added 139 Giga Watts of installed capacity, connected an additional 2.8 crores households and added 1.41 lakh circuit km of transmission lines," Sitharaman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/soon-consumers-can-select-their-electricity-distribution-company-946655.html
02-02-2021||National||No formal talks with govt until harassment stops, detained farmers freed: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||Toughening the stand, the agitating farmers on Tuesday ruled out any “formal” talks with the government until “harassment” by police and administration stops and detained farmers are released. The legal cell of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) met Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal with a plea for help in finding more than 100 farmers who, they claimed, were missing since the Republic Day violence during the tractor rally. In a late evening press conference on Tuesday, the SKM also announced that it has formed a team of leading lawyers to handle court cases related to the January 26 violence and help trace the missing farmers. The farmers' issue also rocked Parliament, where Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the Modi government was ready for talks on the issue both inside and outside Parliament In reply to a Parliament question, Tomar ruled out any compensation to families of farmers who have died during the agitation on Delhi borders since November 26. “Our slogan is 'no returning home till laws are repealed',” Rakesh Tikait, leader of the Bhartiya Kisan Union said declaring that he was ready to continue the agitation till October. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh chaired an all-party meeting in Chandigarh and demanded announced that the government would once again pass bills in the state assembly to negate the three farm laws. In Delhi, the legal cell of the AICC decided to form teams of lawyers to assist farmers to trace missing persons and mount legal challenges to the cases registered against them. SKM, the umbrella body guiding the 70-day old farmers' agitation, slammed the Modi government for “frequent Internet shutdown” at protest sites and blocking of many Twitter accounts related to the farmers' movement. “It appears the government is extremely fearful of the rising tide of support for the ongoing protest from different states,” the SKM said. “The SKM decided in its meeting on Monday that there can be no formal talks with the government until police and administration's harassment of different kinds against the farmers' movement is immediately stopped,” the SKM said. “Though no formal proposal for talks came from the government, we clearly state that the talks will be held only after the unconditional release of farmers who are in illegal police custody,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-formal-talks-with-govt-until-harassment-stops-detained-farmers-freed-samyukt-kisan-morcha-946658.html
02-02-2021||National||'Illegal' merger of flats by Kangana: HC continues interim protection||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday continued an interim order passed by a lower court restraining the Mumbai civic body from taking action against alleged irregularities at actor Kangana Ranaut's flats here till February 5. The high court directed her to inform by that date if she would apply to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) seeking regularisation of alleged unauthorised changes. The BMC in March 2018 had issued a notice to Ranaut for the alleged illegal merger of three flats owned by her at Orchid Breeze building in suburban Khar. The Dindoshi civil court dismissed her suit against the notice in December 2020, so she moved the HC. The civil court, while dismissing the suit, had noted that there was "grave violation of the sanctioned plan" while amalgamating the three flats. The actor's lawyer Birendra Saraf on Tuesday told the high court that "vendetta" was being pursued against her. The illegal construction had been made by the developer and not Ranaut, he contended. Senior counsel Aspi Chinoy and advocate Joel Carlos, appearing for the BMC, argued that there were at least eight irregularities in the flat. Advocate Saraf then told the court that he would take instructions from the actor on whether she was willing to approach the BMC seeking regularization. In the meanwhile, the court should grant her protection from any coercive action, he said. The high court asked BMC lawyers if there was any bar for regularization. Advocate Chinoy said an application for regularization is normally filed within 30 days from receiving the notice. "In this case, she is already three years late. But the court can condone the delay," the lawyer said. The court then adjourned the hearing to Friday. "...the civil court order dated December 22, 2020 shall remain in abeyance until February 5 and the interim order (about not taking coercive action) shall continue till then," the court said. Ranaut's petition said since she bought the flats in 2013 she had not made any structural changes. She had carried out only "certain cosmetic changes", said the appeal filed through advocates Aseem Naphade, Monisha Bhangale and Prasanna Bhangale. Last year, the BMC had initiated demolition of alleged unauthorized construction at Ranaut's bungalow in Pali Hill area. The HC held the BMC's action illegal and malicious.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/illegal-merger-of-flats-by-kangana-hc-continues-interim-protection-946660.html
02-02-2021||National||India can't remain dependent on other countries for its defence: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday that India cannot remain dependent on other countries for its defence and that the indigenously developed Tejas was better than its foreign equivalents on several parameters and also comparitively cheaper. Under the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, India is looking forward to increase its defence manufacturing capabilities, said Singh, who inaugurated Hindustan Aeronautics Limited's second LCA-Tejas production plant here. "India cannot remain dependent on other countries for its defence", he said. Singh said Tejas is not only indigenous, but better than its foreign equivalents on several parameters and also comparatively cheaper. "Many countries have shown interest in Tejas. India will achieve the target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore in the field of defence manufacturing in (a) few years", he said. The delivery of the Tejas LCA to the Indian Air Force under a Rs 48,000-crore deal will begin from March 2024 and around 16 aircraft will be rolled out annually till the completion of the total supply of 83 jets, Chairman and Managing Director of HAL, R Madhavan said recently. He had also said that a number of countries have shown keen interest in procurement of the Tejas and that the first export order is likely to come by in the next couple of years. The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS), chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on January 13 approved the Rs 48,000- crore deal to procure 73 Tejas Mk-1A variants and 10 LCA Tejas Mk-1 trainer aircraft from HAL to boost the Indian Air Force's combat prowess. An HAL statement said Singh lauded the company's efforts to increase the production capacity of LCA, which is going to be the backbone of IAF fighter fleet in years to come. 'HALs new LCA facility is example of how 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' is shaping and HAL deserves the largest indigenous order of 83 LCA Mk-IA. LCA is the pride of India and sends the right message to others that India can make fighters of class in-house", he was quoted as saying in the HAL statement. "The fighter is superior in many ways when compared to other fighters in its category, besides being cost effective. I compliment HAL for working through the COVID times and bringing out this facility. The Company has a lot of talent and more orders should come in its way in future. We cannot depend on others on security issues and therefore will make HAL stronger, whatever it takes", Singh added, according to the statement. Madhavan said on Tuesday that phase -1 of the facility, getting ready on 35 acres, will enable HAL enhance its production capacity to 16 from the current eight aircraft every year. HAL said the 83 LCA Mk1A aircraft will be produced in two production lines here with over 500 plus production partners across India. "All the 83 aircraft would be delivered to the Indian Air Force in the next decade, commencing 36 months from contract signing. HAL would be delivering 16 aircraft in a year to the Air Force. The programne will catalyze the aerospace ecosystem in India and would enable India to be an epitome in Prime Ministers vision for 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'", HAL said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-cant-remain-dependent-on-other-countries-for-its-defence-rajnath-singh-946665.html
02-02-2021||National||No data on vaccine efficacy against UK strain: Govt||The Government on Tuesday told Parliament that no data has been generated on the efficacy of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines against the European strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19. “At present, there is no data generated with the above vaccines specifically on new European Covid-19 virus strain,” Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey said in a written reply. He was responding to a question on whether Covishield and Covaxin were able to provide protection from the new coronavirus variant that was traced in Britain. Two strains of SARs-CoV-2 that originated in Britain and South Africa have already spread in several countries around the globe. Covishield vaccine has been developed by Oxford-AstraZeneca and manufactured in India by Serum Institute, while Covaxin has been developed indigenously by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the National Institute of Virology. The minister said that during the consultation, the Subject Expert Committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) had noted that the Inactivated Whole Virion Coronavirus vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech has the potential to target mutated coronavirus strains. In reply to a separate question, the CDSCO said it had received information about any specific severe adverse event causally linked to the administration of Covid-19 vaccines. Common adverse events which have been reported from Covid-19 vaccines approved for restricted use in emergency situation include headache, rash, chills, myalgia, fatigue, fever, dizziness, inflammation and pain, swelling or redness at the site of injection, erythema, pruritus and others, Choubey said. "The National Coordination Centre-Pharmacovigilance Programme of India (NCC– PvPI)/Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has not received information about any specific severe adverse events causally linked to administration of Covid-19 vaccines," he said. He further said a communication strategy has been prepared to raise awareness about Covid-19 vaccines and address misinformation against vaccination.  The strategy aims to disseminate factual information about the vaccines and the vaccination process. This is being done through multimedia platforms and to reach out to the last mile the community leaders and influencers are being engaged, Choubey said.  The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has been established, which provides guidance on all aspects of Covid-19 vaccination including prioritization of population groups, procurement and inventory management, vaccine selection, vaccine delivery and tracking mechanism. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-data-on-vaccine-efficacy-against-uk-strain-govt-946671.html
02-02-2021||National||Atrocities commited against farmers, similar to British rule: Opposition attacks Tomar||Opposition in Lok Sabha attacked the government on Tuesday even as Centre asserted that it was ready to discuss issues related to farmers both inside and outside Parliament amid vociferous protests which forced the House to adjourn twice, first for almost an hour and then for nearly two hours. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said during Zero Hour, which began at 5 pm, that the Modi government is always committed to discuss the farmer's issues. "Government is ready to discuss issues related to farmers inside and outside Parliament," he said amid sloganeering by opposition members. Tomar's reply came after Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury claimed that 170 farmers have died during the ongoing agitation against the three contentious farm laws. "Atrocities are being committed on farmers. Situation is similar to British rule," he alleged. As opposition members, including from Congress, DMK, Trinamool Congress, SP and BSP, trooped near the well, Speaker Om Birla appealed to them to go back to their seats so that House can taken up normal business. "This House is for debate and discussions. Please go back to your seats," he said. However, the unrelenting opposition continued their protests, leading to the Speaking announcing the second adjournment till 7 pm. Earlier, as soon as the House met at 4 pm, opposition members disrupted the Question Hour to press for repeal of the three "black" laws and raised slogans. Members from the Shiv Sena were seen raising slogans from the aisles. Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal was also seen holding a poster demanding repeal of the contentious agriculture legislations. The Speaker urged the members to return to their seats and follow the COVID-19 protocol. He said in the ongoing Question Hour, questions related to farmers were listed and members can raise their issues at that time. He also said during the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's address, members can raise these issues. But opposition members refused to relent forcing him to adjourn the proceedings around 4.10 pm. Several farmers unions have been staging protests at various border points of Delhi demanding repeal of the farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atrocities-commited-against-farmers-similar-to-british-rule-opposition-attacks-tomar-946672.html
02-02-2021||National||Bihar court summons Ekta Kapoor over web series||A local court in Bihar’s Begusarai district has issued summons to film producer Ekta Kapoor and her mother Shobha Kapoor and asked them to personally appear before the court on February 8. The orders were issued by the First Class Judicial Magistrate Rajeev Kumar after a former Army personnel Shambhu Kumar lodged an FIR against actor Jeetandra’s daughter (Ekta) and his wife (Shoba) in Begusarai for making a web series Triple X – Season 2, portraying defence personnel and their wives in poor light. The ex-Army man, a resident of Barauni, has submitted a written complaint that the web series – Triple X – Season 2, produced by Balaji Films, have depicted “Indian soldiers and their wives in a disgraceful and shameful manner.” The retired defence personnel, in his complaint, has alleged that producers of Triple X series have portrayed that wives of Indian soldiers were having illicit relationships with other men while their husbands were on duty at the borders “which was highly objectionable and an insult to the armed forces.” “A case (524 C/2020) has been registered against Ekta Kapoor and Shobha Kapoor. Both the producers have been charged under under Sections 500 and 504 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and asked to appear before the court on February 8,” said lawyer Rishikesh Pathak, representing the complainant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-court-summons-ekta-kapoor-over-web-series-946679.html
02-02-2021||National||No info on losses incurred by farmers for not being able to sell produce in Delhi due to protest: Tomar||The Centre has not received any information on losses incurred by farmers for not being able to sell their produce in the national capital owing to the farmers' protest at various border points of the city against new farm laws, Parliament was informed on Tuesday. Thousands of farmers, especially from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, are agitating for over two months now seeking repeal of the three new farm laws enacted by the central government as well as a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) for crops. "Government of India has not received any information of loss to the farmers due to closed borders barring them to sell their produce to the national capital. Hence, the question of compensation for loss of produce does not arise," Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said in a written reply in the Lok Sabha. The minister said that some of the farmer unions have been agitating against the newly enacted laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement On Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The agitating unions are demanding the repeal of these three laws. So far, 11 rounds of negotiations have been held between the government and the agitating farmer unions to resolve the issues, he said in a separate reply. The government's 11 rounds of talks held with 41 farmers' unions to end the protest have not yielded concrete results so far. The Centre has offered concessions including keeping the laws on hold for 1-1.5 years, which unions have rejected. The government, however, in the last meeting had asked the unions to reconsider its offer and convey their final decision. Meanwhile, a Supreme Court-appointed committee is also looking into the matter. The panel, which has to submit its report in two months, has so far held two rounds of consultations with the farmers. There is no clarity when the talks will resume, although the government has made it clear that its doors are always open for discussion with farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-info-on-losses-incurred-by-farmers-for-not-being-able-to-sell-produce-in-delhi-due-to-protest-tomar-946680.html
02-02-2021||National||No new policy, support to gas-based power plants at present: Govt||The government has decided not to bring any new policy or provide support to gas-based power plants at the moment because states are reluctant to offer certain concessions for these projects, Parliament was informed on Tuesday. To revive and improve utilisation of gas-based capacity in the country, the Government of India had sanctioned a scheme of e-RLNG (e-auction of Re-gasified Liquefied Natural Gas) for utilisation of gas-based power generation capacity during the years 2015-16 and 2016-17. The scheme envisaged supply of imported spot RLNG to the stranded gas-based plants as well as plants receiving domestic gas, selected through a reverse e-bidding process. The scheme also envisaged waivers and concessions to be made collectively by all stakeholders including state governments and support from Power System Development Fund (PSDF). The scheme ended on March 31, 2017. "In the light of the reluctance of the states to give any waiver/concession, and the fact that gas-based power generation grew without any support, it was decided that there may not be any need to have any policy on providing support to the gas-based power plants at the moment," said Power Minister R K Singh in a written reply to Rajya Sabha. The minister told the house, "The proposal to revive e-RLNG scheme to provide support to the gas based plants was examined. The views of the state regarding waivers and concessions of State Government taxes and levies were sought. “State governments expressed their views that the proposed concessions/waivers for the revival of gas based plants are not feasible/viable in the current scenarios and they are not in favour of exemption of goods and services tax (GST) on transportation of the scheme gas." Further, the minister explained that the gas prices were in the falling trend since last year and in 2019-20 the plant load factor (PLF or capacity utilisation) of gas based power generating stations was 22.15 per cent and until August 2020, despite lower demand due to COVID-19, the PLF of gas-based power plants had risen to 26.64 per cent. This has happened without any support due to lower LNG price, the minister added. According to industry estimates, there are 24 GW of stranded gas-based assets in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-new-policy-support-to-gas-based-power-plants-at-present-govt-946684.html
02-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Russia's Sputnik V vaccine 91.6% effective||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Peer reviewed results say that  Russia's Sputnik V vaccine 91.6% effective; Police beef up security and build cement barriers near Delhi borders and CBSE announces board exam schedule. Here is the top news of February 2, 2021: Russia's Sputnik V vaccine was 91.6 per cent effective in preventing people from developing Covid-19, according to peer-reviewed results from its late-stage clinical trial published in The Lancet international medical journal on Tuesday. Scientists said the Phase III trial results meant the world had another effective weapon to fight the deadly pandemic and justified to some extent Moscow's decision to roll out the vaccine before final data had been released. Security has been stepped up with the deployment of extra personnel and strengthening of barricades near farmers’ protest sites at Delhi’s borders, leading to traffic congestions on many key roads in the national capital. Workers under the watch of police personnel on Monday were seen hooking iron rods between two rows of cement barriers on a flank of the main highway at the Singhu border to further restrict the movement of protesters A Delhi court Tuesday granted bail to freelance journalist Mandeep Punia who was arrested by Delhi Police from farmers' protest site at Singhu border.  The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced on Tuesday the schedule for classes 10 and 12 board exams which will begin on May 4. As per the date sheet, the exams for class 10 will conclude on June 7, while those for class 12 will conclude on June 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-russias-sputnik-v-vaccine-916-effective-946687.html
02-02-2021||National||Franklin Templeton case: SC directs Rs 9,122 crore disbursement to unit holders||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed that a sum of Rs 9,122 crore should be disbursed to the unit holders in Franklin Templeton six mutual fund schemes.  A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna said that Rs 9,122 crore (the figure as on January 15, 2021) should be distributed to unit holders in proportion to the respective interest in the assets of the scheme.  The top court asked SBI mutual funds to carry out the exercise of disbursement, after counsel for all parties agreed to this arrangement.   Advocate Pratap Venugopal, representing the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), submitted before the bench that if SBI mutual funds is involved then the disbursal would be completed equitably within 12 to 18 months.  The counsel representing Franklin Templeton Trusts Services Limited and Asset Management Company Limited agreed to fully cooperate with SBI mutual funds.  The bench also allowed the parties to move applications in case of any difficulty in the overall process.  On January 25, the court had said it would first deal with the "contentious" issue of the objection to the e-voting process for winding up Franklin Templeton's six mutual fund schemes, and of distribution of money to unit holders. The court had earlier asked the SEBI to appoint an observer to oversee the e-voting process. This voting took place in the last week of December, and it was approved by the majority of unit holders. The court had also directed that the SEBI should file a copy of the final Forensic Audit Report before it, in a sealed cover. The top court, on January 18, had granted three days for filing objections to the e-voting on winding up of six mutual fund schemes of the fund house. The court had also asked fund house counsel if an order could be passed to allow distribution of money to the unit holders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/franklin-templeton-case-sc-directs-rs-9122-crore-disbursement-to-unit-holders-946688.html
02-02-2021||National||Iron nails, barbed wires turn farmers' protest sites into fortresses||With multi-layered barricading, iron nails on road, barbed wires, iron rods between cemented barriers and deployment of DTC buses and extra personnel on ground, the tremendous security cover at and near the farmers' protest locations have now become sites of unusual attraction. The strengthened security measures at the agitation sites across the borders come after the violence during the Republic day tractor parade by protesting farmers' in which 394 security personnel were injured. Even media persons covering the agitation manage to reach the protest sites with difficulty as they first have to pass through checking and then cross multiple layers of barricading. A BKU office-bearer at Ghazipur border, which now resembles a highly-secured fortress, said despite the odds, supporters from far-off places are reaching the site to express solidarity with farmers. "Andolan to hota hi hai mushqil mein, aaraam se kaun sa andolan hota hai (A movement happens in adverse conditions only, it never happens in comfort)," BKU's Uttar Pradesh unit spokesperson Pawan Khatana told PTI. He said so far supporters from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand have come to Ghazipur, while small groups of people from states like Maharashtra, Karnataka and Bihar too have reached here. "But what does this security arrangement by the government mean? Layers of barricading, iron nails on road, barbed wires all around us. Forget humans, nobody keeps even animals in this manner," Khatana, also the BKU's Meerut Zone chief, said. At Singhu border, Delhi Police, along with paramilitary forces, are stationed in large numbers along with multilayered barricades. Palwinder Singh, a protesting farmer from Amritsar district in Punjab said the Internet ban was to disconnect the farmers from the public. "The government banned Internet and blocked the roads with concrete dividers so that the public would not get any information regarding the protest and no one would turn up here. We are facing issue of interest, however, food and water supply is as fine as earlier. The sanitation facility is also normal," he said. Workers under the watch of police personnel on Monday were seen hooking iron rods between two rows of cement barriers on a flank of the main highway at the Singhu border to further restrict the movement of protesters agitating against the Centre's new farm laws at the site. Another portion of the highway at the Delhi-Haryana border is practically blocked now as a makeshift cement wall has come up there. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the closure of borders and suggested alternative roads for travel. Security has also been tightened at the Delhi-Ghazipur border, where protesting farmers are also camping for over two months. "Ghazipur border is closed. Traffic diverted from NH 24, NH 9, Road no 56, 57 A, Kondli, Paper market, Telco T point, EDM Mall, Akshardham & Nizammudin Khatta. Traffic is heavy on Vikas Marg, IP Extention, NH 24. Pl(ease) commute from other borders," the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. According to the police, Delhi-Ghazipur border remains closed for traffic due to the farmers’ protests. The commuters are suggested to take alternate routes via Anand Vihar, Chilla, DND, Apsara, Bhopra and Loni borders, it added. "Singhu, Saboli, Piau Maniyari borders are closed. Auchandi, Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school & Palla toll tax borders are open. Pl(ease) Take alternate route(s)," the traffic said in another tweet. The police said traffic was diverted from NH-44 and suggested commuters to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road and NH 44. On Monday, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Srivastava and other senior police officers visited Ghazipur border to take stock of the security arrangements. Security arrangements continue to be strengthened at the Delhi-UP border site, which is galvanising farmers from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, days after an emotional appeal by Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait. Drones have also been deployed to monitor the protesters. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been camping at Delhi's borders for weeks, seeking a repeal of the three agriculture laws. They claim that the new laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system. But the Centre says the laws will only give farmers more options to sell their produce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iron-nails-barbed-wires-turn-farmers-protest-sites-into-fortresses-946695.html
02-02-2021||National||Over 2 cr farmers benefitted from govt's MSP procurement in 2019-20: Narendra Singh Tomar||More than 2 crore farmers benefited from the government's procurement of seven commodities at the minimum support price (MSP) during 2019-20, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed Parliament on Tuesday. Tomar, in a written reply in the Lok Sabha, however added that it is difficult to assess the accurate number of farmers benefitting from MSP as the procurement is done by government agencies under various schemes. "Besides, the overall market also responds to declaration of MSP and Government's procurement operations which results in private procurement on or above the MSP for various notified crops. Therefore, accurate number of farmers benefiting from MSP declaration is difficult to assess," Tomar said. However, about 2,01,16,575 farmers benefitted from the government's MSP procurement during 2019-20, he said. Of this, 1.24 crore were paddy growers, 35.57 lakh wheat growers, 21.50 lakh cotton farmers, 11 lakh pulses growers, 8.42 lakh oilseeds farmers, 3,744 jute growers and 3,439 copra growers. Further, Tomar said the government declares MSP for 22 major agri-commodities of fair average quality (FAQ) each year in both crop seasons after taking into account the recommendations of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP). The government also extends remunerative price to farmers through its various intervention schemes. The minister explained that the government extends price support for paddy and wheat through the Food Corporation of India (FCI) and state agencies. Under this policy, whatever foodgrains are offered by farmers within the stipulated period and conforming to the specifications prescribed by government are purchased at MSP by the state government agencies as well as FCI for the central pool. It aims to service the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and other welfare schemes of the government so that subsidised foodgrains are supplied to the poor and needy, and to build up buffer stock to ensure foodgrain security. Further, different types of nutri-cereals and maize are procured by state governments in consultation with FCI to the extent that the concerned state government may utilise the same for distribution under the Targeted Public Distribution System (TPDS) and Other Welfare Schemes (OWS). The minister also mentioned that oilseeds, pulses and copra of fair average quality (FAQ) are procured from registered farmers at MSP as part of the Price Support Scheme (PSS) under the umbrella scheme of Pradhan Mantri Annadata Aay Sanrakshan Abhiyan (PM-AASHA) in consultation with the concerned state government as and when market prices of these items fall below the MSP. Under PM-AASHA, states are offered to choose either PSS or Price Deficiency Payment Scheme (PDPS) in a given procurement season with respect to particular oilseeds crop for the entire state. Further, states have the option to roll out Private Procurement and Stockist Scheme (PPSS) on pilot basis in a district/selected APMCs of district involving the participation of private stockist for oilseeds. Tomar said cotton and jute are also procured by the government at MSP through the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) and the Jute Corporation of India (JCI). For making effective procurement by government agencies at MSP and providing maximum benefits to the farmers, the minister said procurement centres are opened by respective state government agencies and central nodal bodies like NAFED and FCI after taking into account the production, marketable surplus, convenience of farmers and availability of other logistics/ infrastructure such as storage and transportation. Large number of the purchase centres in addition to the existing mandis and depots/godowns are also established at key points for the convenience of farmers to ensure procurement and also to prevent sale below MSP, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-2-cr-farmers-benefitted-from-govts-msp-procurement-in-2019-20-narendra-singh-tomar-946700.html
02-02-2021||National||Farmers aggressively resorted to rioting during protests: Govt||The government on Tuesday informed Lok Sabha that 39 cases were registered between September and December 2020 against farmers protesting against the agri laws at Delhi's borders and said they "aggressively resorted to rioting, damage to property and used criminal force" against public servants. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy also said that the protesting farmers were not following social distancing and gathered in large numbers without face masks amid the Covid-19 pandemic. "Insofar NCT of Delhi is concerned, the Delhi Police has informed that 39 cases have been registered against the farmers protesting the recently passed 'farm laws' between September and December, 2020 at Delhi border," he said in a written reply. Reddy's reply implies that these 39 cases were excluding those registered after the farmers' tractor rally violence on January 26. He said the Delhi Police has also informed that one suicide case has been reported to it during the protest against the contentious farm laws. On police using tear gas and resorting to baton charge against protesting farmers, the minister said it has been reported that at Delhi borders, large convoys of agitating farmers in tractor trolleys tried to furiously force their way and go past police barricades to enter Delhi. "They aggressively resorted to rioting, damage to government property and used criminal force to deter public servants from the discharge of their duty, thereby inflicting injuries to the on-duty police personnel. "Moreover, social distancing was not followed by the farmers and protestors and they gathered in large numbers without face masks amid Covid-19 pandemic. The farmers' actions left the Delhi Police with no option but to use tear gas, water cannons and mild force to control the crowd," Reddy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-aggressively-resorted-to-rioting-during-protests-govt-946719.html
02-02-2021||National||Rs 48,000 crore Tejas aircraft deal to be signed on February 3||The government is set to formally seal on February 3 the Rs 48,000 crore deal to procure 83 Tejas light combat aircraft from state-run aerospace major Hindustan Aeronautics Limited for the Indian Air Force, officials said on Wednesday. The mega-contract will be signed at the Aero India air show in Bengaluru in presence of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, the top brass of the IAF and senior officials of the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), they said. Tejas is a single-engine and highly agile multi-role supersonic fighter capable of operating in high-threat air environments. The aircraft, manufactured by the HAL, is a potent platform for air combat and offensive air support with reconnaissance and anti-ship operations as its secondary roles. The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 13 approved the deal for procurement of the 73 Tejas Mk-1A variant and 10 LCA Tejas Mk-1 trainer aircraft from the HAL to boost Indian Air Force's combat prowess. The Tejas Mk-IA will be equipped with an active electronically scanned array radar, beyond visual range missile, electronic warfare suite and air-to-air refuelling system. Chairman and Managing Director of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited R Madhavan told PTI last month that the delivery of the Tejas aircraft to the IAF will begin from March 2024 and around 16 aircraft will be rolled out annually till completion of the total supply of 83 jets. Madhavan said the basic price of the aircraft will be around Rs 25,000 crore while Rs 11,000 crore will be used for ground support equipment and other required infrastructure at the bases and around Rs 7,000 for basic customs duty and output GST. The HAL chairman and managing director said the cost for each fighter version of the four-and-half generation aircraft will be Rs 309 crore and Rs 280 crore for the trainer version. The total cost of Rs 48,000 crore includes design and development cost of Rs 2,500 crore to be given to Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA) and around Rs 2,250 crore set aside for variations in foreign currency exchange rate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-48000-crore-tejas-aircraft-deal-to-be-signed-on-february-3-946734.html
02-02-2021||National||Govt examining proposals on raising penalty for animal cruelty||The government is examining several representations received on raising the penalty for animal cruelty from the existing Rs 50 for such an offence, Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Sanjeev Kumar Balyan informed Parliament on Tuesday. Balyan, in a written reply to the Lok Sabha, said the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying has been receiving number of representations from various animal welfare organizations, animal lovers and persons regarding increase in current penalty prescribed in the Prevention of Cruelty to Animal Act (PCA), 1960. "The Department is examining those representation regarding possibility of increasing the existing penalty," he said. The PCA currently stipulates a penalty up to Rs 50 for any act of cruelty against animals, including starving, torturing, beating, kicking and mutilating the animal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-examining-proposals-on-raising-penalty-for-animal-cruelty-946735.html
02-02-2021||National||Amid difficulties, locals extend helping hand to farmers||Many locals are coming forward and extending a helping hand to protesting farmers who are facing difficulties like power outage, unavailability of water and lack of sanitation at Singhu border, the epicenter of the ongoing farmers against the three contentious agri laws. Be it providing electricity connection from their houses or giving access to toilets and washrooms to the women protestors, farmers staying put at the Delhi-Haryana Highway say the good samaritans have been helping them in these dire circumstances. "We are facing power cuts at night since January 27. If not for the locals, we would have to do without electricity the whole night. They are the one helping us with lights and other things, that too without charging us anything," said Dharmendra Singh, from Punjab's Patiala district. Initially worried that miscreants might take advantage of the dark at night, Singh thanked God for the help provided by the locals and team of volunteers who are working round-the-clock to maintain vigil against any untoward incident. Another protestor Avtar Singh, also from Patiala, echoed the same sentiments and said that the locals are standing with them in this "fight for rights". "People in the nearby areas are helping our women in all possible ways. They are letting them use their washrooms and toilets. They know that the government is trying to suppress our movement and are supporting us wholeheartedly," said Singh, adding that they won't move an inch till their demands are met by the government. He further stated that the locals have always been nice to them and their cause, and alleged that the attack that took place a few days ago at the site was not done by the locals but by goons sent by a political party. On January 30, a section of the highway at the Singhu border witnessed a clash between farmers and a group of people who claimed to be local residents. Insufficient lighting, solid waste disposal, water stagnation and shortage of warm clothes have been listed down as primary concerns of the farmers as per a survey done by NGO Jan Swasthya Abhiyan in December as well. Many farmers have complained that the situation has worsened further after the Republic Day incident, with heightened security measures and restrictions imposed for movement of people and vehicles ensuring that they don't have access to even the most basic necessities like food, water and electricity. The suspension of the internet has only added to the problem as they feel cordoned off from the outer world -- both virtually and physically. "The government banned the internet and blocked the roads with concrete dividers so that the public would not get any information regarding the protest and no one would turn up here," complained Palwinder Singh, from Punjab's Amritsar. Even on Monday, the Budget Day, most farmers at Singhu blamed the lack of Internet for not getting to keep a tab on the details of the budget and if it has anything for the agriculture sector. The central government on Monday extended the temporary suspension of Internet at Delhi's borders at Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri till February 2. Earlier, the Internet services at Delhi borders had been suspended for 48 hours till 11 pm on January 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-difficulties-locals-extend-helping-hand-to-farmers-946739.html
02-02-2021||National||9,357 people get jabs in Delhi; Covid-19 vaccine days increased||Coronavirus vaccine jabs will be given six days a week in Delhi from now on instead of the earlier four days, officials said on Tuesday. A total of 9,357 people were administered vaccine against the coronavirus in Delhi on Tuesday. Seventeen cases of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) were reported during the day and around 51 per cent of the targeted beneficiaries were inoculated, they said. Four cases of AEFI each were reported from South Delhi and West Delhi districts. Vaccines were administered at 183 centres, up from 106 on Monday. Each centre has a target of 100 vaccinations per day, a Delhi government official said. Coronavirus vaccination in Delhi is held on four days a week, barring Wednesday, Friday and Sunday. Now, it will be conducted four times a week, an official said. Under the nationwide coronavirus vaccination programme, health workers are being administered the shots first. The priority group who will receive the vaccine include health workers, frontline workers, people above 50 years of age and those with co-morbidities. Earlier in the day, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said frontline workers would start getting Covid-19 vaccine jabs this week. Nearly six lakh frontline workers, including government school teachers, civic employees, police personnel, community health workers, are expected to be administered the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/9357-people-get-jabs-in-delhi-covid-19-vaccine-days-increased-946743.html
02-02-2021||National||BJP appoints in-charges for poll-bound Assam, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry||Ahead of the Assembly Elections in four states, the BJP appointed senior party leaders as election in-chargers of Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi has been appointed as election in charge of Kerala, and Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister M Ashwath Narayan was appointed as a co-in charge for the states, said BJP in a statement. Union Minister for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy and Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways V K Singh have been appointed as in-charge and co-in charge of election in Tamil Nadu. On the other hand, MoS Arjun Ram Meghwal and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar have been appointed as in-charge of Puducherry and Assam respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-appoints-in-charges-for-poll-bound-assam-tamil-nadu-puducherry-946751.html
02-02-2021||National||SC to hear on Wednesday pleas against violence during tractor rally on R-Day||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Wednesday a clutch of petitions in connection with incidents of violence during the tractor rally on Republic Day.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian will take up the petitions, including the one for directions to the NIA to initiate court-monitored investigation against anti-social elements, part of the tractor rally, who engaged in violence on the streets of the national capital on Republic Day.   The plea, filed through advocates Shashank Shekhar Jha contended that the attack on the Red Fort and the national flag on the Republic Day required immediate attention.  “The protestors cannot be allowed to put the government and people at ransom and undertake violence in the name of protest….the freedom of expression and protest cannot be absolute and must consider the rights of others," the plea said. The petition also sought directions for the constitution of a judicial commission headed by a retired judge of the Supreme Court or a Special Investigation Team, which should be monitored by the top court.    A petition was filed by advocate Vishal Tiwari asking the top court to issue directions to register FIR against persons or organisation responsible for dishonouring of the national flag.  “Unfortunately, the Tractor march took a violent turn leaving injuries and destruction of public property. This incident also affected the daily life of the public. The Internet services were interrupted as the government ordered the operators to suspend the same,'" his plea said. This petition is also to come up for hearing on Wednesday. A Mumbai-based law student has also written to CJI Bobde to take suo moto cognisance of the incident at Red Fort.  On Tuesday, a PIL by K K Ramesh was filed for NIA probe ascertain the role of alleged extremist elements into the farmers' protests. It also sought a direction to make strict rules and guidelines against agitation, and processions by political parties or any other organisation. On Republic Day, protesting farmers barged into the 17th-century monument, climbed up its ramparts and waved farmer union flags and banners and even hoisted a pennant. Police and other security personnel deployed at the Red Fort had resorted to baton charging the protesters even as they were clearly outnumbered by the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-on-wednesday-pleas-against-violence-during-tractor-rally-on-r-day-946775.html
02-02-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Agri Cess: Funds for farmers or barricades?||Worrying signs in Budget fine print for agri sector The Union Budget 2021 is a mixed bag: High on rhetoric with worrisome outlays in the budget document’s fine print. The most important takeaway is that agriculture and allied activities have been given an important place in the Budget speech. Indeed, taxes imposed for their cause.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-agri-cess-funds-for-farmers-or-barricades-946458.html
02-02-2021||National Politics||Farm Laws: Oppn parties walk out of Rajya Sabha demanding discussion on farmers' agitation||Opposition parties including the Congress, Left, TMC and DMK on Tuesday staged a walkout from the Rajya Sabha after their demand for suspension of business of the day to take up a discussion on more than two-month-old farmers' agitation was rejected by the Chairman. The opposition parties had given notice under rule 267 calling for the suspension of business of the day to take up discussion on the ongoing agitation by farmers on Delhi borders against three new farm laws. When the House met for the day, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said he has received notice under rule 267 from various members but the issue can be raised during the discussion on motion of thanks to the President's address to the joint sitting of both House of Parliament. The President, he said, had referred to the farmer's agitation in his address made at the start of the Budget session of Parliament last week. While the Lok Sabha is scheduled to start a discussion on the motion on Tuesday, the Rajya Sabha will do so on Wednesday. "As we are going to start a discussion on Motion of Thanks to President's Address tomorrow, members can participate and raise their concerns," he said rejecting the 267 notice. He said several rounds of discussions have happened between the government and the farmers' group. "I understand the concern (of members) for the need to resolve the issue at the earliest date," he said. Farmers have been camping on Delhi's border with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for over two months now, protesting against three farm laws that they say would favour corporate entities and would bring down the curtain on minimum support price (MSP) based procurement by the government. The government has vehemently denied these allegations and stated that MSP will continue. Naidu, however, allowed members who gave notices to make very brief mentions. Leader of the Opposition and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said the farmers have been camping for more than two months and the issue needs to be discussed. Sukhendu Sekhar Roy (TMC) said the House is not aware of what is going on between the government and farmers and the House should discuss the issue separately from the Motion of Thanks. "We want a discussion on a specific issue," he said. While CPI leader Elamaram Kareem said water and electricity supply to the protest sites has been cut, DMK's Tiruchi Siva said farmers have been sitting on roads for over two months in the bitter cold and the issue needs to be discussed separately. Manoj Jha (RJD) said Parliament should at least discuss the issue. However, Naidu did not agree to their motion after which the members of Congress, Left, TMC, DMK and RJD staged a walkout. "No one is stopping you from discussing the issue tomorrow. Tomorrow you will get an opportunity," he said. Naidu said 10 hours have been allocated for discussion on Motion of Thanks to the President's address and an equivalent amount given for discussion on the Budget. "Please take the opportunity tomorrow," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-laws-oppn-parties-walk-out-of-rajya-sabha-demanding-discussion-on-farmers-agitation-946518.html
02-02-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha adjourned thrice as Opposition stage protest over discussion on farm laws||Congress and other opposition parties on Tuesday forced adjournment of Rajya Sabha proceedings for the third time in the pre-noon session as they insisted on taking up a discussion on the issue of farmers' protest over the three new farm bills. The House was first adjourned for about 40 minutes till 10:30 am. As soon as the House met again, similar scenes were witnessed leading to another adjournment till 11:30 am. When the Upper House re-assembled at 11.30 am, the uproar continued as several protesting members trooped in Well prompting Deputy Chairman Harivansh to adjourn the proceedings till 12:30 pm. The Deputy Chairman appealed to the opposition members to return their seats and follow Covid-19 protocols. However, they did not heed to his requests. Congress, Left, TMC, DMK and RJD members first walked out from Rajya Sabha after their demand for suspension of business of the day for taking up the discussion was rejected by the Chair. Opposition members shouted slogans to disrupt the Question Hour, forcing Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to adjourn the proceedings till 10:30 am. As the protesting members continued sloganeering, Naidu asked them to return to their seats. "Please go to your seats and allow the House to function. Some of you said the last time that not having question hour is 'murder of democracy'. This is a statement made outside," he said. "Members who have walked out and again coming to the Well is not fair," Naidu said before adjourning the House for the first time. When the House met at 10:30 am, the sloganeering continued and the Deputy Chairman, who was in the Chair, tried to persuade members to allow the House to function. However, as the opposition members did not yield, he adjourned the proceedings till 11:30 am. At the time of adjournment, ports, shipping and waterways minister Mansukh Mandaviya was speaking on The Major Port Authorities Bill, 2020. Earlier, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said opposition members themselves were demanding Question Hour and the government agreed. "Question Hour is going on....whether they (protesting members) want Question Hour or not, let them place it on record," he said, as opposition members were raising slogans. Opposition parties including the Congress, Left, TMC and DMK had given a notice under rule 267 that calls for setting aside of business of the day to take up a discussion on the issue pressed. Chairman Naidu had, however, disallowed the motion saying the members were free to raise the issue during the discussion on Motion of Thanks to the President's address. When the House met for the day, Naidu said he has received notice under rule 267 from various members but the issue can be raised during the discussion on Motion of Thanks to the President's address to the joint sitting of both houses of Parliament. The President, he said, had referred to the farmer's agitation in his address made at the start of the Budget session of Parliament last week. While Lok Sabha is scheduled to start a discussion on the motion on Tuesday, Rajya Sabha will do so on Wednesday. "As we are going to start a discussion on Motion of Thanks to President's Address tomorrow, members can participate and raise their concerns," he said rejecting the 267 notice. He said several rounds of discussions have happened between the government and the farmers' group. "I understand the concern (of members) for the need to resolve the issue at the earliest date," he said. Naidu, however, allowed members who gave notices to make very brief mentions. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. Leader of the Opposition and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said the farmers have been camping for more than two months and the issue needs to be discussed. Sukhendu Sekhar Roy (TMC) said the House is not aware of what is going on between the government and farmers and the House should discuss the issue separately from the Motion of Thanks. "We want a discussion on a specific issue," he said. While CPI leader Elamaram Kareem said water and electricity supply to the protests sites has been cut, DMK's Tiruchi Siva said farmers have been sitting on roads for over two months in the cold and the issue needs to be discussed separately. Manoj Jha (RJD) said Parliament should at least discuss the issue. However, Naidu did not agree to their motion after which the members of Congress, Left, TMC, DMK and RJD staged a walkout. "No one is stopping you from discussing the issue tomorrow. Tomorrow you will get an opportunity," he said. Naidu said 10 hours have been allocated for discussion on Motion of Thanks to the President's address and an equivalent amount given for discussion on Budget. "Please take the opportunity tomorrow,"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-adjourned-thrice-as-opposition-stage-protest-over-discussion-on-farm-laws-946535.html
02-02-2021||National Politics||How right is it to use Budget as tool to win polls? asks Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday claimed Union Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has announced big packages in the budget for some poll-bound states, and asked how right is it to use the budget as a "tool" to win elections. Accusing the Centre of setting a new trend of playing "dirty politics" for votes through the budget, an editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said the allocation of more funds to poll-bound states is a kind of "bribery". It also accused the Centre of ignoring Maharashtra which, it said, contributes highest revenue to the Union government's coffers. Finance Minister Sitharaman presented the 2021-22 Union Budget on Monday. "...what is unfortunate is that the (central) government has set a new trend of playing dirty politics of votes through budget," the editorial said. The Assembly polls are due in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Hence, the finance minister has allocated big packages and projects to these states, it said. The Marathi daily said new projects must be undertaken as they are required for development. "But it is a kind of bribery to allocate more funds only to the poll-bound states, eyeing elections there. How right is it to use the budget as a tool to woo the people to win elections?" it asked. The editorial said except for the provisions made for Nashik and Nagpur Metro projects, Mumbai and Maharashtra have got "nothing" in the budget. The Centre has made a provision of Rs 2,092 crore in its budget for Nashik Metro, while the Nagpur Metro phase-2 also got Rs 5,976 crore. "Why this discrimination?" the editorial asked, and said the Centre's finance department should think about the entire country. Sitharaman is the finance minister of the entire country and not some select states, it added. The Shiv Sena also claimed that the budget shows dreams and brings politics in economics. "The budget is unjust to states which are not poll- bound. Roads, railways, airplanes, petroleum companies and a lot have been sold," it claimed. "The government which sold this and that, has now decided to sell the insurance sector as well," it alleged. It noted that Sitharaman did mention in her budget speech the closing down of "thousands" of businesses, unemployment caused during the COVID-19 period and how jobs will be restored. The editorial, however, welcomed the Rs 35,000 crore budgetary provision for Covid-19 vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/how-right-is-it-to-use-budget-as-tool-to-win-polls-asks-shiv-sena-946537.html
02-02-2021||National Politics||Singhu Border row: 'Build bridges, not walls', Rahul Gandhi tells Modi govt||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday attacked the government over barricades and road blocks set up at farmer agitation sites at Delhi's borders, and asked the Centre to "build bridges and not walls". He also attacked the government over the blocking of Twitter accounts of all those who are tweeting on the ongoing farmer agitation. Farmer protest sites at Delhi's borders have turned into fortresses with police beefing up security and strengthening barricades. Iron rods have been hooked between two rows of cement barriers on a flank of the main highway at the Singhu border to further restrict the movement of protesters, agitating against the Centre's new farm laws. Another portion of the highway at the Delhi-Haryana border is practically blocked as a makeshift cement wall has come up there. At Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, there are multi-layer barricades to stop the movement of vehicles. Barbed wire has also been put up to keep off people on foot. "GOI, Build bridges, not walls!" Gandhi said on Twitter posting pictures of barricades and road blocks at the farmer protest sites. "Modi style of governance -- Shut them up. Cut them off. Crush them down," he said in another tweet, sharing a report that Twitter has helped the government block accounts of those tweeting on farmers protests, including that of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. The Congress has been demanding that the Centre should talk to the protesting farmers and repeal the three farm laws, against which they have been protesting. Farmer unions on Monday announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways for three hours in protest against the Internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues.  GOI,||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/singhu-border-row-build-bridges-not-walls-rahul-gandhi-tells-modi-govt-946545.html
02-02-2021||National Politics||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut to meet farmers at Ghazipur border as per Uddhav Thackeray's 'instructions'||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Tuesday said he will visit farmers who are protesting at the Ghazipur border near Delhi, as per the instruction of Maharashtra Chief Minister and party head Uddhav Thackeray. The Shiv Sena has been supporting the farmers who are agitating at Delhi's border points for over two months against the Centre's three new farm laws. "The Maha Vikas Aghadi government took decisions in the interest of farmers. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray stood with farmers when they were in pain. Will visit the farmers protesting at Ghazipur border on his instruction," Raut tweeted, adding he will reach there at 1 pm. Farmers' protest sites at Delhi's borders turned into fortresses Monday as police beefed up security and strengthened barricades. Workers under the watch of police personnel hooked iron rods between two rows of cement barriers on a flank of the main highway at the Singhu border to further restrict the movement of protesters. Another portion of the highway at the Delhi-Haryana border is practically blocked now as a makeshift cement wall has come up there. At Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, there are multi-layer barricades to stop the movement of vehicles. Barbed wire has also been put up to keep off people on foot. Protesters have been pouring in as the Bharatiya Kisan Union members and its leader Rakesh Tikait have stayed pitched at Ghazipur's UP Gate, occupying a stretch of the Delhi-Meerut highway since November last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/shiv-sena-mp-sanjay-raut-to-meet-farmers-at-ghazipur-border-as-per-uddhav-thackerays-instructions-946546.html
02-02-2021||National Politics||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu calls for disruption-free, orderly discussions in Rajya Sabha||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday appealed to MPs to make the Budget Session "more purposeful" by discussing issues "threadbare in an orderly and dignified manner" and not repeat "unfortunate incidents" that took place in the previous session. Making his observations in the Upper House on the first functional day in the Budget Session, Naidu said that India has crossed an important landmark, which is the completion of 100 years of representative democracy with the first direct elections to the imperial and provincial legislative councils held during the winter of 1920. "Democracy is all about the participation of people in the management of public affairs and policy-making through their elected representatives. The occasion of being a 100-year-old modern representative democracy calls for serious reflection on the state of democracy and the functioning of legislatures in our country," he said. On the first full-day functioning of the House in the current Budget session which started on Friday, Naidu said the nation has completed 100 years of representative democracy. The first direct elections to the imperial and provincial legislative councils were held during the winter of 1920. "Democracy is all about the participation of people in the management of public affairs and policy-making through their elected representatives," he said. "The occasion of being a 100-year-old modern representative democracy calls for serious reflection on the state of democracy and the functioning of legislatures in our country, he said. On this occasion, the House should resolve to enhance the dignity through "disruption-free proceedings as per rules and conventions," Naidu said. Over 20 hours have been allocated for discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the President for his address to members of both houses and the Union Budget for 2021-2022, offering ample opportunities to raise and discuss a wide range of issues of public concern to which the Government will respond, he said and referred to discussions he had with leaders of all parties on Sunday. "My appeal to all is to try to make the session more purposeful. Issues that can be discussed will be discussed threadbare in an orderly and dignified manner. Last time some unfortunate incidents happened, I don't want to recall them, but it is all binding on us to see the House run properly, members follow rules and regulations and maintain discipline and dignity and also participate in debates in a meaningful manner," he said. In an apparent reference to the unruly scenes during the passage of farm bills during Monsoon Session, he said that he was appealing to MPs to prevent "such situations" which will affect the interest of the nation and parliament. He suggested that the MPs resolve to enhance the dignity of the House through "disruption-free proceedings". He said 20 hours of discussion on the President's address and budget offers ample opportunities to raise and discuss a wide range of issues of public concern to which the Government will respond. He sincerely hoped that the Budget session would turn out to be highly productive in the spirit of the last four sessions. However, soon after, Opposition MPs were on their feet shouting slogans and rushing to the Well after Naidu refused to allow suspension of business to discuss farmers' agitation. Naidu said the MPs could raise the issue during the debate on Motion of Thanks to the President but MPs insisted that they want it to happen today itself leading to frequent adjournments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-calls-for-disruption-free-orderly-discussions-in-rajya-sabha-946551.html
02-02-2021||National Politics||Electoral bonds sale dips to lowest in January||Electoral bonds worth just Rs 42.10 crore were sold during the latest round of bond sale in early January, the lowest since its inception, with the maximum being sold from poll-bound West Bengal, according to an RTI response. Political parties that received the bonds from donors encashed Rs 42.07 crore in January, while the remaining Rs 3 lakh was transferred to the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF). This is the lowest (in value) electoral bonds that have been sold in the last 15 editions. Electoral bonds are sold by 29 SBI branches and eligible parties could encash only in these facilities.  The government had opened a sale window for bonds between January 1 and 10 this year. Most of the bonds -- valued at Rs 35.75 crore -- were sold from the Kolkata branch of SBI, according to the RTI response received by transparency activist Commodore Lokesh Batra (retired). Incidentally, West Bengal will be going to Assembly polls in April-May. The Jaipur branch sold Rs 5 crore while the New Delhi branch sold Rs 1.25 crore. The branch in Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, which is also a poll-bound state, sold bonds worth Rs 10 lakh. When it comes to encashing bonds, Kolkata branch topped the list with Rs 26 lakh, followed by Rs 9.82 crore in New Delhi and the rest in Hyderabad. Since 2018 when the electoral bond came into being, there were 14 phases of sales during which bonds worth Rs 6,544.78 crore were sold while Rs 6,514.50 crore were encashed. The bonds which were not encashed amounting to around Rs 20.28 crore were transferred to the PMNRF. In the 15th phase, no bonds were sold from the Mumbai branch, which has so far sold the highest value of bonds. Mumbai, which is home to several corporates, accounted for 31.16% (Rs 2,022.29 crore) of the electoral bonds that were sold, followed by Kolkata (22.98% or Rs 1491.70 crore) and Delhi (14.67% or Rs 952.62 crore). When it came to encashing the bonds, the authorised SBI branch in New Delhi topped the list (77.31% or Rs 5,003.70 crore), followed by Hyderabad (9.31% or Rs 602.30 crore) and Bhubaneswar (4.84% or 313.50 crore). On the other hand, the encashment in Mumbai, which sold the highest value of electoral bonds, was only 2.34% or Rs 151.13 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/electoral-bonds-sale-dips-to-lowest-in-january-946554.html
02-02-2021||National Politics||SAD alleges Congress goons 'made an attempt on the life' of Sukhbir Singh Badal||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal's car was damaged and four persons were injured on Tuesday in a clash between Congress and Akali workers during filing of nomination papers for Jalalabad municipal polls in Fazilka district, officials said. Badal, however, escaped unhurt in the violence, they said. Akali Dal Chief and Ferozepur MP Badal and his supporters reached Jalalabad administrative complex to file nomination forms of their party nominees for the municipal polls. In the meantime, Congressmen accompanied by Jalalabad party MLA Raminder Awla’s son also reached there to file nomination papers of their party men, SAD workers claimed. The two groups got engaged in a verbal spat and the Congressmen later 'gheroed' Badal’s vehicle to oppose him, triggering a violent clash during which the two groups pelted stones at each other, police said, adding some gunshots too were fired but it was yet to be ascertained who fired them. The two groups also attacked each other with sticks, police said, adding several vehicles, including Sukhbir's car, were damaged. Videos of stone-pelting on Sukhbir's car went viral on social media. Police lathi-charged the mob to disperse it. MLA Raminder Awla, when contacted, accused Akali supporters of initiating the clash by breaking down the barricades and pushing Congressmen to intimidate them. Akalis fired gun-shots and used sticks, injuring two Congressmen, he alleged. In his counter-allegation, Badal accused Awla of being behind the violence, adding that being a member of parliament from the area, he had gone there to boost the morale of party candidates at Jalalabad but the Congressmen attacked his car besides injuring three Akali workers. Fazilka’s Senior Superintendent of Police Harjit Singh said four people suffered injuries. One critically injured man was referred to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital, Faridkot, he added. “We have controlled the situation and now all the aspirants are filing their nomination papers in a peaceful atmosphere,” the SSP said. “Further investigation is going on and accused will be taken to task,” he added. Later While addressing workers, Badal lashed at the local Congress MLA as well as police. He sat on a 'dharna' at Shaheed Udham Singh Chowk, demanding the registration of a case against the “guilty”. Meanwhile, SAD condemned the "murderous attack" on Akali workers and Badal by "police-backed Congress goons” at Jalalabad and demanded Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's resignation over the alleged breakdown in the law and order situation in the state. In a statement here, party spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said, “It seems there was a premeditated attempt on the SAD president's life and the Jalalabad police was complicit in this crime as it allowed attackers a free run.” Alleging that the attack enjoyed state patronage, he also demanded a high-level judicial inquiry under the supervision of the chief justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court. Asserting that democracy was being “murdered” in the state under Amarinder Singh's leadership with criminals ruling the roost, Cheema said the chief minister had lost the moral right to continue in his post. “He should put in his papers immediately,” the SAD leader asserted while accusing the chief minister of being directly responsible for disturbing the peace and communal harmony of the state. Elections to the eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and Nagar Panchayats in Punjab will be held on February 14. Cheema said it was clear now that free and fair elections could not be held to the municipal bodies under these circumstances. “The State Election Commission has also utterly failed to rein in rogue Congress elements. The SAD demands immediate deployment of paramilitary forces in the state as the Punjab police could not be trusted to do its duty. The Ferozepur SSP and all other police officials complicit in this crime should also be proceeded against immediately,” Cheema added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sad-alleges-congress-goons-made-an-attempt-on-the-life-of-sukhbir-singh-badal-946566.html
02-02-2021||National Politics||All-party meet demands withdrawal of Centre's farm laws||An all-party meeting convened by Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday demanded immediate withdrawal of the three farm laws while holding the BJP-led central government responsible for a “substantial delay” in resolving the crisis. Terming the violence during the tractor rally on Republic Day in Delhi as “sponsored”, the meeting also demanded a judicial probe into the “laxity and complicity” of those responsible for maintaining peace at the Red Fort. The meeting also decided to send an all-party delegation to Delhi to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and raise various issues relating to farmers' agitation. While the BJP boycotted the meeting, the Aam Aadmi Party walked out over their demand for deployment of the Punjab police personnel to protect farmers protesting at Delhi borders. The Congress, SAD, Lok Insaaf Party, SAD (Democratic), BSP, CPI and CPI (M) attended the meeting, a government release said. Amarinder had called the meeting to evolve a consensus on the way forward on the issue of the farm laws and the farmers' agitation. Representatives of all parties appreciated the position taken by the farmers' unions and the meeting passed a resolution to this effect. Accusing miscreants of seeking to sabotage the “historic and unparallel” farmer agitation through untoward incidents at the Red Fort on the Republic Day, the resolution said these acts “are truly condemnable and need to be probed thoroughly. These incidents, however, should not be made a pretext to victimize agitating farmers, farmworkers and others, including the media persons, the resolution said. It also called upon the central government “to take steps to ensure that the farmers and farmworkers participating in the agitation are not victimized in any manner.” Through the resolution, the Punjab parties asked the Centre “to withdraw all cases registered against farmers, farmworkers, journalists and other peaceful agitators and release all those detained by the police or any other agency". The missing agitators should also be traced and restored to their respective families without any delay, they said. During the farmers' tractor rally on January 26 in Delhi, thousands of tractor-borne protesters had trampled police barricades on roads, clashed with police and hoisted a religious flag at the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. The resolution also called upon the Centre “to make the Minimum Support Price a statutory right of the farmers. The resolution lauded farmer leader Rakesh Tikait for his contribution to the struggle and thanked Haryana farmers for their support to their Punjab counterparts in the agitation. Amarinder Singh promised to look into SAD's Prem Singh Chandumajra's suggestion that the state government should provide loan waiver to the families of all those killed during the ongoing farmers' agitation. The meeting got a host of suggestions from participants of all parties, ranging from an independent probe into the Red Fort violence to a joint meeting with the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister for their intervention for the resolution of the crisis, among others. The meeting started with a two-minute silence to pay tributes to those who died during the agitation. As of date, 88 farmers from Punjab have lost their lives in these protests, the chief minister said. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar hit out at the central government over the situation prevailing at Delhi borders, pointing to Tuesday's photographs in the media about the Delhi police personnel standing with steel rods besides those of armed protectors, cemented roadblocks and spikes on roads. Terming the images as "appalling", he said these were reminiscent of the Chinese troops standing at the Galwan Valley. What happened at the Red Fort was condemnable but it has to be investigated properly to identify and expose those responsible for the violence and for bringing a bad name to the farmers' agitation, he said. Jakhar also ridiculed the Sangh Parivar for raising a hue and cry over the 'Nishan Sahib' at Red Fort, alleging that the RSS, which did not allow the national flag to fly over their headquarters for decades, was raising a ruckus now with the sole purpose of alienating Punjab. AAP MP Bhagwant Mann suggested that representatives of all Punjab parties should jointly go and meet the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister to put pressure on them. SAD leader Prem Singh Chandumajra said an independent commission should be set up, under a retired judge, to expose the “entire conspiracy” behind the Red Fort violence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/all-party-meet-demands-withdrawal-of-centres-farm-laws-946724.html
02-02-2021||National Politics||Parliamentary standing committees give MHA more time to frame CAA rules||Thirteen months have passed after the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act came into force but its implementation is delayed as the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) yet to frame rules. The MHA has now got more time for framing rules from the Parliamentary Standing Committees on Subordinate Legislation of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. "The rules under The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (CAA) are under preparation. The Committees on Subordinate Legislation, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have granted extension of time up to April 9 and July 9 (this year) respectively to frame these rules under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (CAA)," the MHA said in a written reply. The MHA response came in a written reply by Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai to questions raised by Congress MP from Kerala V K Sreekandan. With the MHA not notifying the rules, the Act cannot be implemented. According to the Manual of Parliamentary Procedure, rules have to be framed within six months from the date on which the statute came into force. If not, the Ministry will have to seek permission for an extension of time. The MHA has been seeking an extension for framing the rules from the Parliamentary Standing Committees on Subordinate Legislation. The CAA, passed in December 2019 and came into force on January 10, provides citizenship to six non-Muslim minorities from Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan who entered in India before 31 December 2014. The amended law had triggered huge protests across the country. "In case the Ministries/Departments are not able to frame the rules within the prescribed period of six months, they should seek extension of time from the Committee on Subordinate Legislation stating reasons for such extension; such extension being not more than for a period of three months at a time. The request should be made after obtaining the approval of the Minister," the Parliamentary manual said. In January last year, reports, including in DH, had suggested that the MHA may include a provision for seeking documents to prove their religion and their entry into India before the cut-off date from people seeking citizenship under the CAA. Those applying will also have to provide proof that they came from Pakistan, Afghanistan or Bangladesh. According to the report of the Joint Committee of Parliament that vetted a previous version of the Bill, there were 31,313 people belonging to minority communities from these countries will be "immediate beneficiaries", as they had been given Long Term Visas on the basis of their claim of religious persecution in their respective countries and want Indian citizenship. Among 31,313, the Intelligence Bureau told the panel, 25,447 are Hindus, 5,807 are Sikhs, 55 Christians and two each Buddhists and Parsis. For citizenship, the IB said, they will have to prove that they came to India due to religious persecution. "If they had not declared so at the time of arrival in India, it would be difficult for them to make such a claim now. Any future claim will be enquired into, including through RAW before a decision is taken," the IB had told the panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliamentary-standing-committees-give-mha-more-time-to-frame-caa-rules-946728.html
02-02-2021||National Politics||Farmer agitation rocks Lok Sabha||The issue of ongoing farmer agitation against three farm laws rocked the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, resulting in repeated disruptions and forcing Speaker Om Birla to adjourn the House for the day. When the House reassembled after initial adjournments at 7 pm, Birla asked BJP member Locket Chatterjee to initiate the discussion on the Motion of Thanks on the president's address amid sloganeering by the opposition members. Chatterjee began her speech by praising the government for deciding to celebrate the birthday of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose on January 23 as 'Prakram Diwas' every year. The member from the poll-bound state of West Bengal continued her address amid the din. After repeated appeals by the speaker and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi failed to calm the agitated members, Birla adjourned the House for the day. Earlier, the proceedings of the House were adjourned for about an hour till 7 pm after opposition members disrupted the Question Hour to press for repeal of the farm laws. As soon as the proceedings started, opposition members from parties including the Congress, DMK and the Trinamool Congress trooped into the Well of the House, raising slogans demanding the repeal of the three "black" laws. Members from the Shiv Sena were seen raising slogans from the aisles. Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal was also seen holding a poster demanding repeal of the contentious agriculture legislations. Birla urged the members to return to their seats and follow the COVID-19 protocol. He said that in the ongoing Question Hour, questions related to farmers were listed and members can raise their issues at that time. He also said during the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the president's address, members can raise these issues. But opposition members refused to relent, forcing him to adjourn the proceedings repeatedly. Several farmers' unions have been staging protests on various border points of Delhi demanding the repeal of the farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmer-agitation-rocks-lok-sabha-946740.html
02-02-2021||National Politics||Haryana extends mobile internet suspension in seven districts till February 3||The Haryana government on Tuesday further extended the suspension of mobile Internet services till 5 pm on February 3 in seven districts of the state amid a protest by farmers against the Centre’s three farm laws. “The Haryana government has extended the suspension of mobile Internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), SMS services (only bulk SMS) and all dongle services etc provided on mobile networks except the voice calls in seven districts--Kaithal, Panipat, Jind, Rohtak, Charkhi Dadri, Sonipat and Jhajjar--till 5 pm on February 3,” an official statement said here. It said that the order has been issued to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of these districts of Haryana and shall be in force with immediate effect. Any person found guilty of a violation of the aforesaid order will be liable for legal action under relevant provisions, it said. The government's move to suspend mobile Internet services in 17 districts earlier and later on keeping these suspended at a few places saw protests by farmers in the state. Farmers on Tuesday blocked the national highway near the Khatkar toll plaza near Narwana in Jind to protest against the curbs. Azad Singh Palwa, a Khap leader, alleged that the suspension of Internet services is adversely affecting various sections, particularly students. “The final examinations of students are approaching. Many students are preparing for entrance exams, but their studies are being hit due to Internet suspension,” he said. INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala told reporters in Jind that the suspension of the mobile internet services in some parts had affected office work and the studies of the students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/haryana-extends-mobile-internet-suspension-in-seven-districts-till-february-3-946756.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||UP man sentenced to 10 years in jail for rape||A court here has sentenced a man to 10 years imprisonment for raping his teenage cousin in 2016. Additional District Session Court (POCSO) Judge Pawan Kumar Sharma on Monday also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on 26-year-old Lakhanlal. The girl was raped on August 22, 2016. She was 13 years old then, Public Prosecutor Ramsufal Singh said. He said a case was registered on August 25, 2016, at Girwan and Lakhanlal was arrested three days later. The girl's mother in her complaint had said that her daughter was raped several times, Singh said. The medical report of the girl had confirmed rape, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-man-sentenced-to-10-years-in-jail-for-rape-946541.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||Farmers' protests: Security beefed up at Delhi borders; traffic congestions on key roads in city||Security has been stepped up with the deployment of extra personnel and strengthening of barricades near farmers’ protest sites at Delhi’s borders, leading to traffic congestions on many key roads in the national capital. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police alerted commuters about the closure of borders and suggested alternative roads for travel. Workers under the watch of police personnel on Monday were seen hooking iron rods between two rows of cement barriers on a flank of the main highway at the Singhu border to further restrict the movement of protesters agitating against the Centre’s new farm laws at the site. Another portion of the highway at the Delhi-Haryana border is practically blocked now as a makeshift cement wall has come up there. Security has also been tightened at the Delhi-Ghazipur border, where protesting farmers are also camping for over two months. "Ghazipur border is closed. Traffic diverted from NH 24, NH 9, Road no 56, 57 A, Kondli, Paper market, Telco T point, EDM Mall, Akshardham & Nizammudin Khatta. Traffic is heavy on Vikas marg, IP extention, NH 24. Pl(ease) commute from other borders," the Delhi Traffic Police tweeted. According to the police, Delhi-Ghazipur border remains closed for traffic due to the farmers’ protests. The commuters are suggested to take alternate routes via Anad Vihar, Chilla, DND, Apsara, bhopra and Loni borders, it added. "Singhu, Saboli, piau Maniyari borders are closed. Auchandi, Lampur, Safiabad, Singhu school & Palla toll tax borders are open. Pl(ease) Take alternate route(s)," the traffic said in another tweet. The police said traffic was diverted from NH-44 and suggested commuters to avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK road and NH 44. On Monday, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Srivastava and other senior police officers visited Ghazipur border to take stock of the security arrangements. Security arrangements continue to be strengthened at the Delhi-UP border site, which is galvanising farmers from Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, days after an emotional appeal by Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait. Drones have also been deployed to monitor the protesters. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been camping at Delhi's borders for weeks, seeking a repeal of the three agriculture laws. They claim that the new laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system. But the Centre says the laws will only give farmers more options to sell their produce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protests-security-beefed-up-at-delhi-borders-traffic-congestions-on-key-roads-in-city-946547.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||NIA to probe into blast near Israel Embassy in Delhi||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Tuesday transferred the probe into the "very low-intensity" explosion near Israel embassy in Delhi to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), officials said on Monday. Earlier, a letter recovered from the site claimed that such attacks would not stop and warned to prepare for a big strike. Sources seek to link the explosion to Iran. The security establishment is also looking into whether the latest incident has any links to the February 13, 2012, attack when a motorcycle-borne youth tailed a car of the Israel embassy on Aurangzeb Road, which was renamed as APJ Abdul Kalam Road, and placed explosives. Within seconds, the car went up in flames and investigators had put the blame on Iranian spies.   On January 29, Delhi Police said that the "initial impressions suggest a mischievous attempt to create a sensation (sic)". No one was injured in the incident but windshields of three vehicles parked on the APJ Abdul Kalam Road, where the embassy is located, were damaged. However, the entry of NIA shows that the security establishment is viewing the incident as a terror strike. Investigators had earlier checked CCTV footage near the embassy. Reports said that investigators were looking at around 180 people who had walked on the pavements near the embassy prior to the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-to-probe-into-blast-near-israel-embassy-in-delhi-946557.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi’s minimum temperature likely to rise in next two days||Delhi's minimum temperature is likely to rise by at least three degrees Celsius over the next two days under the influence of a fresh western disturbance, the India Meteorological Department said on Tuesday. The western disturbance will also lead to light rain in the national capital on Thursday and Friday, it said. Thunderstorms, lightning and hail could also accompany the unseasonal rains, the IMD added. The minimum temperature is predicted to rise to 10 degrees Celsius by Thursday, the weather department said. On Tuesday, the minimum temperature in the city settled at 6.2 degrees Celsius as against 5.3 degrees Celsius on Monday. A cold wave had swept Delhi on Sunday morning, with the minimum temperature dipping to 3.1 degrees Celsius. Cold wave conditions had prevailed in the city on Tuesday, Thursday and Friday too due to the cold and dry northwesterly winds barreling through the plains, the IMD said. In the plains, the IMD declares a cold wave if the minimum temperature dips to 4 degrees Celsius. A severe cold wave is when the minimum is 2 degrees Celsius or less. The IMD on Sunday had said Delhi recorded seven "cold wave" days in January this year, the maximum in the month since 2008.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-s-minimum-temperature-likely-to-rise-in-next-two-days-946560.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||Bus overturns in Uttar Pradesh, 18 passengers injured||At least 18 passengers were injured when a double-decker bus overturned near Jumka trisection in Rauja area here, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Monday night when the bus was going to Patiala in Punjab from Ambedkar Nagar, SHO, Rauja, Dinesh Kumar Sharma, said. The injured have been admitted to a hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bus-overturns-in-uttar-pradesh-18-passengers-injured-946562.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh youth held for collecting money in name of PM Modi's brother||A youth was arrested for allegedly collecting money in the name of the prime minister’s brother, police said on Tuesday. Police had received information from the Prime Minister's Office that one Jitendra Tiwari alias Jitu was involved in forgery in the name of the PM's brother, Station House Officer, City police station, Bhupendra Singh said. Acting on the input, Tiwari was arrested near Vikas Bhavan on Monday, he said. Tiwari's car had a poster of a proposed programme of prime minister’s brother Prahlad Modi in Madhavpur, Gujarat, on February 4, police said. BJP district president R A Verma said a youth had come to him but he did not entertain him. Police said they are probing the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-youth-held-for-collecting-money-in-name-of-pm-modis-brother-946604.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||BJP MLA writes to Priyanka, accuses Punjab, Rajasthan govts of shielding Mukhtar Ansari||BJP’s Mohammadabad MLA Alka Rai has written to Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, accusing her party’s governments in Punjab and Rajasthan of shielding gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari and his son Abbas Ansari. Alka Rai is the wife of the slain MLA Krishnanand Rai, who was shot dead in 2005. Mukhtar Ansari was accused of killing her husband but was later acquitted in the case. Currently, Mukhtar Ansari, a BSP MLA from Mau, is lodged in a Punjab jail in an extortion case and has several criminal cases registered against him. "I have to tell you with grief that your governments in Punjab and Rajasthan have given guest status to my husband's killer Mukhtar Ansari and his son Abbas Ansari, who carry reward for their arrest,” Rai alleged in the letter to Priyanka Gandhi on January 30. The letter was shared with the media on Tuesday. Pointing at some photos said to be published in newspapers, the Mohammadabad (Ghazipur) MLA alleged that the Abbas’s marriage took place under the Rajasthan government’s patronage. "After seeing these pictures, my family and I felt pain,” she said, claiming that earlier the Uttar Pradesh government had sent vehicles 32 times to bring Mukhtar Ansari back to the state but the Punjab government shielded him. "Being a woman, I thought you will feel my pain. You talk against crime and criminals regularly but you neither replied me nor took any initiative to ensure justice to me. It is clear that you and your governments are standing with Muktar and his crime. I will wait for your reply," Rai said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mla-writes-to-priyanka-accuses-punjab-rajasthan-govts-of-shielding-mukhtar-ansari-946608.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||Budgetary allocations will boost development in Madhya Pradesh: Scindia||BJP MP Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday said allocations made in the Union Budget 2021-22 for various schemes in the Gwalior-Chambal region and Ujjain's famous Mahakaleshwar temple will boost development in these areas in Madhya Pradesh. The annual financial plan was presented in Parliament on Monday by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. In a statement, Scindia said he had written a letter to 15th Finance Commission chairman NK Singh seeking funds for the water supply scheme from the Chambal river to Gwalior and Morena, for weavers of Chanderi sarees, and for the maintenance of the Mahakaleshwar temple. "It is a matter of happiness that in the Union budget, Rs 250 crore is allocated for the water supply scheme from Chambal river to Gwalior and Morena, Rs 75 crore for the the development of the famous Chanderi (sari) weavers and for the tourism of Gwalior-Shivpuri-Chanderi area, and Rs 75 crore for the maintenance of the Mahakaleshwar temple," Scindia said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/budgetary-allocations-will-boost-development-in-madhya-pradesh-scindia-946617.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||56.13% people in Delhi have antibodies against Covid-19: Sero-survey||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday that 56.13 per cent of those covered under the latest serological survey in the city in January have developed antibodies against coronavirus. The minister also said Delhi was "moving towards herd immunity, but only experts will be able to give a clear picture". The fifth sero survey -- the largest in the country so far -- was conducted from January 15 to January 23, he said. At 62.18 per cent, Southwest Delhi district reported maximum seroprevalence. North Delhi at 49.09 per cent recorded the lowest, Jain said. "A new, better technology was used during the survey. Samples were collected from every ward. In all, 28,000 samples were taken," a senior official said. The minister said the number of cases, fatalities and hospital admissions have declined significantly, but insisted that people should continue to use masks for a few more months and maintain "Covid-19-appropriate behavior". Jain said that three major changes were incorporated during the latest survey. "We increased the sample size. Samples were collected on the basis of socio-economic conditions. A new, more sensitive kit was used and the testing was conducted at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences," he said. The minister also informed that frontline workers will start getting Covid-19 vaccine jabs this week. Nearly six lakh frontline workers, including government school teachers, MCD employees, police personnel, ASHA and ANM workers, are expected to be administered the vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5613-people-in-delhi-have-antibodies-against-covid-19-sero-survey-946619.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||PM to inaugurate 'Chauri Chaura' centenary celebrations on Thursday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the 'Chauri Chaura' centenary celebrations at Chauri Chaura in Uttar Pradesh on February 4 via video conferencing.  The day marks the beginning of the 100th year of the 'Chauri Chaura' incident, a landmark event in the country's fight for Independence, the PMO noted in a statement. Modi will also release a postal stamp dedicated to the centenary during the event. "The centenary celebrations and various events planned by the state government will begin in all 75 districts of the state from February 4 and will continue till February 4, 2022," it said.  A group of freedom fighters participating in the non-cooperation movement launched by Mahatma Gandhi in 1922 were fired upon by police, leading to the death of many of them. In retaliation, protestors attacked and set fire to the Chauri Chaura police station, killing many of its occupants. The colonial administration tried a large number of people, with many of them executed and many more condemned to life in prison for the incident.  Gandhi had called off the movement due to the violence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-to-inaugurate-chauri-chaura-centenary-celebrations-on-thursday-946622.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||SC declines to grant interim relief to AAP MP in NBW in Lucknow FIR||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to grant immediate relief to AAP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh in a matter pertaining to non-bailable warrant (NBW) issued in connection with an FIR lodged in Lucknow.  The case was registered after his press conference on August 12 last year, where he alleged the UP government was favouring a certain class of society. The MP approached the top court seeking quashing of multiple FIRs against him in various districts of UP after the press conference and claimed these cases were the result of political vendetta.  In a separate plea, Singh also challenged the January 21 of the Allahabad High Court which declined to quash the FIR in Lucknow.  On Tuesday, a bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan refused to pass any order in the case without examining the High Court order in the matter. The bench asked senior advocate Vivek Tankha and advocate Sumeer Sodhi, representing Singh, to bring on record High Court order copy in the matter. Singh's counsel requested the bench that he should be protected in the backdrop of NBW, which has been issued against him. The bench replied that Singh can seek exemption before the trial court and also declined to issue any notice in the matter at this stage. The top court adjourned the case for further hearing next week. Singh said that in the press conference he merely highlighted certain social issues and apathy of the government against certain class in society. Singh contended eight FIRs filed in eight districts including at Lucknow, Sant Kabir Nagar, Khiri, Bagpat, Muzaffarnagar, Basti and at Aligarh at the instance of BJP workers as a result of political vendetta and also with an intent to intimidate him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-declines-to-grant-interim-relief-to-aap-mp-in-nbw-in-lucknow-fir-946644.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||LS proceedings adjourned after opposition disrupts Question Hour over farm laws||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned for about an hour till 5 pm on Tuesday after opposition members disrupted the Question Hour to press for repeal of three new farm laws. As soon as the proceedings started at 4 pm, opposition members from parties including the Congress, DMK and the Trinamool Congress trooped into the Well, raising slogans demanding the repeal of the three "black" laws. Members from the Shiv Sena were seen raising slogans from the aisles. Former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal of the Shiromani Akali Dal was also seen holding a poster demanding the repeal of the contentious agriculture legislations. Speaker Om Birla urged the members to return to their seats and follow the Covid-19 protocol. He said that in the ongoing Question Hour, questions related to farmers were listed and members can raise their issues at that time. He also said during the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's address, members can raise these issues. But opposition members refused to relent forcing him to adjourn the proceedings at around 4.10 pm. Several farmers unions have been staging protests on various border points of Delhi demanding the repeal of the farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ls-proceedings-adjourned-after-opposition-disrupts-question-hour-over-farm-laws-946648.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||Herd immunity inference from Delhi’s serosurvey to be taken with pinch of salt, say scientists||Has Delhi achieved herd immunity against Covid-19? It is tempting to say yes given the dipping case count assessed in tandem with the latest sero survey that shows 56.13 per cent of people in the city have antibodies against the infection but scientists are wary. On Tuesday, the Delhi government announced the results of the fifth sero survey, with a sample of 28,000 across 11 districts in Delhi. The score of 56.13 per cent seroprevalence -- with Southwest Delhi highest at 62.18 per cent and North Delhi lowest at 49.09 per cent – indicates perhaps that the national capital could be the first in the country to achieve herd immunity. The sero survey is the largest in the country so far and also the largest seropositivity number reported for any Indian city. Health Minister Satyender Jain said Delhi was moving towards herd immunity, adding that it "better not to get into this... only experts will be able to give a clear picture".  The findings are helpful to assess the rate of spread of the disease but need to be taken with caveats, said immunologist Satish Devadas. "Even if the sample size is relatively small, it must be taken to account. However, the conclusions on herd immunity have to be taken with a pinch of salt," Devadas, a scientist with the Institute of Life Sciences in Odisha, told PTI. Other scientists also advise abundant caution. Though the results suggest the possibility that herd immunity may break the chain of Covid-19 transmission and the findings are insightful to get an idea of the community spread of the coronavirus in the city, several experts said the dangers may be far from over. The number of daily reported Covid-19 cases has been on a steady decline since the city’s highest single-day spike of 8,593 cases on November 11. On Monday, the city reported 121 fresh cases and three deaths, the lowest in 10 months. Herd immunity occurs when a significantly large number of people in a community become immune to a contagious disease after recovering from infection, thereby curbing its spread across the population.   Experts noted that it is not known what the number of recovered individuals need to be in a community to break the chain of viral transmission with herd immunity. "Our best bet is still in the 60-70 per cent range but this is based on theory, and not on specific information we have about duration of immune protection following infection," epidemiologist Ramanan Laxminarayan told PTI. Laxminarayan, founder and director of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy (CDDEP) in the US, said many pockets within urban India may have already reached this threshold.   However, it remains unclear if even herd immunity with a 60-70 per cent seropositivity in a population could still prevent a subsequent wave of Covid-19. Scientists cited the example of the Brazilian city of Manaus, where immunity against the infection may have begun to wane already. A study of blood donors in the city, published in the journal Science, indicated that about 76 per cent of the population may have been infected with SARS-CoV-2 by October 2020 -- an infection rate that would have been above the theoretical herd immunity threshold.    Coinciding with this, Covid-19 hospitalisations in the city peaked in late April and also remained stable and "fairly low" from May to November, noted a commentary published in The Lancet journal on Thursday. While some experts noted that this may have been due to the population attaining herd immunity, the scientists, including those from Universidade de Sao Paulo in Brazil, said a sudden abrupt increase in the number of Covid-19 hospital admissions in Manaus this month has been unexpected and a "cause for concern". One of the reasons cited by the scientists in the commentary was that immunity against infection observed in the Manaus population might have begun to wane by December 2020 after initial exposure to the coronavirus. The scientists also highlighted the possibility of new lineages of the coronavirus driving a resurgence of cases in places with high seropositivity if these virus variants have increased transmissibility compared with pre-existing circulating strains. "If resurgence in Manaus is due to waning of protective immunity, then similar resurgence scenarios should be expected in other locations," the scientists wrote in the commentary.   Immunologist Satyajit Rath believes there is a possibility of a similar situation in cities across the world, including Delhi. "High rates of infection and seropositivity in the large Brazilian city of Manaus initially seemed to indicate effective 'herd immunity', but then case numbers began going up again in Manaus," Rath, who is affiliated with New Delhi's National Institute of Immunology, told PTI. "There is some indication that this may be accompanied by declining seropositivity because antibody responses may not be well sustained over time in all affected people. That would make them re-susceptible," he added. Rath said the infection and seropositivity patterns in the population are extremely variable for the novel coronavirus, and "a hundred samples per municipal ward in Delhi may not have captured this variation and may therefore be overestimating overall seropositivity". "Post lockdown the restrictions on movement have decreased and hence communities cannot remain in isolation. Thus a general comment about herd immunity or community immunity is unrealistic at this juncture," added immunologist Vineeta Bal, affiliated with the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Pune. Recent studies, including those from Rockefeller University in the US, have indicated that a declining count of antibodies in recovered individuals may still not suggest a risk of reinfection. Michel C. Nussenzweig, lead authors of one of these studies, noted that instead of the body producing antibodies all the time after recovering from the virus, the immune system creates memory B cells which recognise the coronavirus, and quickly unleash a new round of antibodies when they encounter it a second time. This study, published in the journal Nature, also noted that residual viral particles hiding within gut tissues could be driving the evolution of memory B cells in a way that may potentially train it to tackle emerging variants of the virus. With reliable estimates not available on the percentage of people that need to be immune-protected in order to halt the spread of the virus definitively, Rath said vaccination may be the way forward.   Bal agreed.   Since the number of vaccine doses currently available in the country is limited, and with the immunisation drive progressing very slowly, she believes the seroprevalence data does not provide any useful information for vaccination.    Research has also shown that recovered and vaccinated individuals may also not completely break the transmission of the virus. Experts, including Anthony Fauci, chief medical advisor to US President Joe Biden, have advised vaccinated and recovered individuals to continue wearing masks||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/herd-immunity-inference-from-delhi-s-serosurvey-to-be-taken-with-pinch-of-salt-say-scientists-946656.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||Tourism in Kashmir region hit hard after Article 370 revocation||The number of tourists arriving in Jammu and Kashmir declined after the revocation of special status to the erstwhile state with Kashmir receiving just 84,326 tourists and facing the brunt most compared to other regions, the government informed Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. However, Tourism Minister Prahlad Patel said, the tourist footfall in Jammu and Kashmir is gradually increasing since last few months. Since August 2019, Patel said in his written reply to queries raised by CPI(M) Parliamentary Party leader Elamaram Kareem, the number of tourist arrivals in Kashmir was 84,326 while Jammu had 87.94 lakh and Ladakh 1,00,931. The number of pilgrims who visited Jammu since August 2019 is 76,80,775. The government had revoked the special status under Article 370 of Jammu and Kashmir on 5 August 2019 and bifurcated it into two union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir as well as Ladakh. "Since 5 August 2019, the number of tourist arrivals in Jammu and Kashmir has declined. The impact was felt more severely in Kashmir valley than in the Jammu division. However, the tourist footfall in Jammu and Kashmir is gradually increasing since last few months," Patel said. "In respect of the handicraft sector, no noticeable job losses in J&K have happened since August 05, 2019. The artisans engaged in different handicrafts activities are continuing their job and the government is providing support through different schemes and steps taken by the central government," he added. He said the Ministry of Tourism has not conducted any formal study to assess the job losses of artisans and weavers, tour operators, houseboat owners, tourist transport, shikaras, hotel and restaurant industry, tour guides and other allied sectors. As per the information received from Jammu and Kashmir administration, he said, the government released a stimulus package of Rs 5.67 crore as relief in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic for its disbursement among the tourism stakeholders. The amount of relief which has been disbursed among the stakeholders is to the extent of Rs 1,000 per beneficiary per month for a period of three months, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tourism-in-kashmir-region-hit-hard-after-article-370-revocation-946673.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||Notice sent to Centre on plea to transfer PILs on uniform marriage age to SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Centre on a plea to transfer all PILs seeking uniform age of marriage for men and women pending in different High Courts, to the top court.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response from the Union government within four weeks on the petition filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. The petitioners, represented by senior advocates Geeta Luthra and Priya Hingorani, asked the court to transfer to itself pending petitions in Delhi and Rajasthan High Courts in order to avoid multiplicity of the litigations and conflicting views. They asked the court to transfer the pending matters and decide on them collectively as the matter related to gender justice and equality. At present, men are permitted to get married at the age of 21 and women at the age of 18. "This distinction is based on patriarchal stereotypes and has got no scientific backing. This perpetrates de jure and de facto inequality against women and goes completely against the global trends," his plea stated. The petitioner said 125 countries have a uniform age of marriage for men and women. In India too, the minimum age of men and women should be fixed as 21 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/notice-sent-to-centre-on-plea-to-transfer-pils-on-uniform-marriage-age-to-sc-946675.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut meets Tikait, extends party's support to farmers' stir||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Tuesday met Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait and extended “full support” of his party and the Maharashtra government to the farmers' protest against the contentious farm laws. The Rajya Sabha MP said that he reached Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border along with other Shiv Sena MPs on instructions of Maharashtra Chief Minister and party supremo Uddhav Thackeray, even as the protest site virtually remained a heavily secured fortress for a second day. The Shiv Sena has from day one opposed the new farm laws and supports all farmers' protests ongoing in the country, Raut said embracing Tikait as they spoke to the press inside a tarpaulin-covered shelter off the protest stage. “Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray has specially sent me here today to meet Tikait sahab and convey to him that we, Shiv Sena, and the Maharashtra government are in their full support with our full might. I have come here with all our party MPs,” Raut said. He added that Thackeray may “personally” talk to Tikait in one or two days. When told that Opposition parties are demanding that the new laws be discussed in the Rajya Sabha, the Shiv Sena spokesperson said, “Maang karne se kuch nahi hoga, ye andolan sadak ka hai sadak par rahega (Demands wont fetch anything. This movement started from roads and will stay here)”. He stressed that the farmers' movement is not political. Tikait also said, “The farmers' protest is apolitical and no politician, including Raut, has been given the mic or space on the stage.” Raut, one of the handful people wearing a face mask, met Tikait and other protesters off the stage after reaching here around 1 pm. “The way vandalism unfolded here after January 26 and an attempt made to suppress the movement and Tikait, we felt it is our responsibility to stand by the farmers and extend support of the whole of Maharashtra, Shiv Sena and Uddhav Thackeray sahab,” Raut told reporters. Raut said that Shiv Sena is not here to campaign for any elections but only to extend the party's support to the BKU, adding thousands of farmers from Maharashtra are already at Ghazipur to strengthen the protest while state leaders like NCP's Sharad Pawar have also supported it. On heavy security measures at Ghazipur, he said in a jibe, “itna road agar China border pe band karte to Cheen ka jo ghus gaya hai na Cheeni sena, wo Ladakh mein nahi ghus jaati (Had roads on China border been blocked this way, Chinese soldiers would not have been able to get into Ladakh).” A major Hindutva ally of the BJP-led NDA till 2019, the Shiv Sena was one of the 19 opposition parties which boycotted the President's address ahead of the Budget Session on January 29 and extended support to the agitation. Previously leaders of the Shiromani Akali Dal, Aam Aadmi Party, Congress, Rashtriya Lok Dal, Samajwadi Party visited Ghazipur, which has become the camping ground for BKU-led protesters for over two months now. Of late, thousands have converged in support of the ongoing stir against the contentious new farm laws. Rakesh Tikait on January 31 had said the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) had not allowed political parties in the movement against new central farm laws but took political support only after the democracy was mocked at protest sites. Meanwhile, concertina wires spread further around the UP Gate (Ghazipur border) on Tuesday, while multi-layered barricading of iron and concrete structures along with nails studded on roads made sure no protester movement towards Delhi. The Internet also remained suspended at the protest site. A BKU office-bearer at the Ghazipur border, which now resembles a highly-secured fortress, said despite the odds, supporters from far-off places are reaching there to express solidarity with farmers. “Andolan to hota hi hai mushqil mein, aaraam se kaun sa andolan hota hai (A movement happens in adverse conditions only, there is never a movement in comfort),” BKU's Uttar Pradesh unit spokesperson Pawan Khatana told PTI. He said so far supporters from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand have come to Ghazipur while small groups of people from states like Maharashtra, Karnataka and Bihar too have reached here.   “But what does this security arrangement by the government mean? Layers of barricading, iron nails on road, barbed wires all around us. Forget humans, nobody keeps even animals in this manner,” Khatana, also the BKU's Meerut zone chief, said. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/shiv-senas-sanjay-raut-meets-tikait-extends-partys-support-to-farmers-stir-946708.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||Noida Metro: 'Fast trains' to skip 10 stations during peak hours to reduce travel time||In order to reduce the travel time of Aqua Line commuters, the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) on Tuesday said it has decided to introduce "fast trains" which will skip stations having low ridership during peak hours. The initiative will be implemented in February, NMRC Managing Director Ritu Maheshwari said in a statement. She said Metro train services starting from terminal stations (Sector 51 Station and Depot Station) from 8 am to 11 am and 5 pm to 8 pm on weekdays i.e., Monday to Friday will be "fast trains". "Of the 21 stations on the Aqua Line, 10 stations will be skipped by these fast trains during peak hours," Maheshwari said. The stations which will be skipped are Sector - 50, Sector – 101, Sector - 81, Sector – 83, Sector - 143, Sector – 144, Sector – 145, Sector – 146, Sector – 147 and Sector 148 Metro Stations, she said. QR Tickets will not be sold at these stations and for these stations during 'fast trains' running hours, she added. "The average run time of the Aqua Line from Sector 51 Metro Station in Noida to Depot Station in Greater Noida and vice versa is 45 minutes 43 seconds (one way), which will be reduced to 36 minutes 40 seconds, thereby saving around 9 minutes of travel time for the Aqua Line commuters," the NMRC chief said. "The run time between Sector 51 Metro station (having highest ridership) and Pari Chowk Metro Station (having second highest ridership), which is presently 37 minutes, will also become 28 minutes 30 seconds with the skipping of stations,” she said. However, Maheshwari said the frequency of trains from Monday to Friday will remain the same i.e., 7.5 minutes during peak hours and 10 minutes in non-peak hours. On Saturdays and Sundays, Aqua Line trains will continue to run at a frequency of 15 minutes with no skipping of stations, she added. Adequate efforts are being made by NMRC to generate awareness among the general public regarding the schedule of Fast Trains and the stations that will be skipped, according to the statement. Signages indicating the timings of normal and fast trains and the list of stations that will be skipped will be displayed at all the Metro stations of the Aqua Line. Regular announcements in this regard will also be made inside the stations and the trains, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/noida-metro-fast-trains-to-skip-10-stations-during-peak-hours-to-reduce-travel-time-946730.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||SAD, Congress activists fire gunshots in Punjab||Gunshots were allegedly fired by activists of the SAD and the Congress at Bikhiwind village of Tarn Taran district during the filing of nomination papers for the upcoming municipal polls on Tuesday. Some public vehicles were also damaged as workers of both parties pelted each other with stones, said officials. However, no injury has been reported in the incident so far, they said. Tarn Taran Superintendent of Police Jagjit Singh Walia said no one has been arrested yet as the investigation is under way. However, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) alleged that nomination papers of their candidates were torn by some Congress activists. The party also alleged that their nominees were manhandled. Elections to eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in Punjab will be held on February 14. The last date for filing nominations is February 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-congress-activists-fire-gunshots-in-punjab-946746.html
02-02-2021||North and Central||Punjab to pass state amendment bills again to negate farm laws||With Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore refusing to send the state amendment bills aimed at negating the three central farm laws to President Ram Nath Kovind, the state government will again bring amendment bills to the central laws. “We will bring the Bills again as the Constitution provides that if Bills are passed twice by the Vidhan Sabha, they have to be sent by the Governor to the President,” said Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh in a statement here. “The governor should not have sat over the Bills. The state was empowered to amend the laws under Article 254 (ii) of the Constitution,” he added. Amarinder Singh had earlier convened an all-party meeting to evolve a consensus on the way forward on the issue of farm laws and farmers' agitation. Pointing out that the President had refused to meet the Punjab leaders following the passage of the Bills in the Vidhan Sabha on the ground that he had not received the Bills, the chief minister told the all-party meeting that he would seek time again from President Kovind. He said he was also constantly in touch with Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the issue of farm laws and farmers’ protests as suggested by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Last October, the Punjab assembly had passed four Bills and a resolution to counter the Centre's farm laws. It had provided for imprisonment of not less than three years and a fine for sale or purchase of wheat or paddy under a farming agreement below the minimum support price. The chief minister underlined the need for early resolution of the crisis and also warned that the threat from Pakistan could not be undermined. “We have to work to resolve this issue before things go out of hand,” he said, adding he knew how many drones, arms and ammunition were being smuggled into the state from across the border. “If anger builds up here, it will be exploited,” the chief minister warned. He said the voice of the people is the strongest in a democracy. “We will have to raise a united voice of Punjab,” he stated, adding if there is no peace here, no industry will come. Slammed the Centre for allegedly penalising Punjab, the chief minister said the Centre still owes the state Rs 13,000 crore of GST, which they have held back along with Rs 1,200 crore of the rural development fund. On the issue of missing people from Punjab since the Republic Day violence in the national capital, Amarinder Singh said 70 of them are in Delhi jails, while 14 of the remaining 19 have been located. As per the information received, five persons from Punjab are still missing, he said, adding all efforts are being made to trace them. The 70-member lawyers' team of Advocate General Atul Nanda, deputed to help out farmers with free legal aids, are reaching out to those in prison and those facing cases filed against them by the Delhi Police, the chief minister said. He said his government was extending all possible help to the agitating farmers, camping out at Delhi's borders for over two months now, and also to their families back home. “No effort would be spared to ensure the safe return of all the farmers to their homes in Punjab,” he added. The CM also said that 170 cases registered against farmers during agitations in Punjab were being withdrawn by his government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-to-pass-state-amendment-bills-again-to-negate-farm-laws-946759.html
02-02-2021||Panorama||'Disruption of Parliament occurs when ruling party is unwilling to listen'||M Hamid Ansari was Vice President of India for two successive terms, the only other VP to hold the post twice being S Radhakrishnan. At 83, Ansari has finally written his memoir By Many a Happy Accident: Recollection of a Life. Ansari spoke to DH's Shemin Joy. Excerpts Q. What prompted you to write the memoir? A. When I was finishing my term as Vice President, I was asked if I intended to write my memoir. My answer was an emphatic ‘no’. But then, my children prevailed over me. Their argument was, how would we know what you did otherwise. So, I said yes. I never kept any notes, no diaries. Because of that, I had to rely on recall. At times, my wife helped me, with her recollection of events. Q. You recall about the telephone call from Sitaram Yechury in 2007 asking whether you would be amenable to the idea of becoming Vice President. Your name came up for President also in 2012. Did you miss being President? A. I neither volunteered for the first nor for the second. This was nowhere near my scheme of things. I had nothing to contribute to the process. So, I took it as it came. Q. Could you elaborate a little more? A. Every time it (presidential election) happens, the media speculation starts. All kinds of names, plausible and not so plausible, float. As the numbers were with the UPA, the decision had to be with the UPA. If you look at the history of Vice Presidents, there had been, I think, 13 up to my time. Of them, about half went on to become President and half, for a variety of reasons, did not. They didn't ask me if they wanted to consider my name. These things happen. It is alright. Q. The last three years of your Vice Presidency was when the Modi government was in power. There are certain incidents that appear to show that there was tension between you and the Prime Minister. Was that the case? A. No. My personal relations with the leader of the NDA government were very cordial before and after he became the Prime Minister. Q. You have mentioned incidents like Modi once coming to your office and asking you about not allowing the passing of bills amid a din in the Rajya Sabha. A. Every government tries to rush things through. Then you will have to tell them, this is the way. It is for them to work on the numbers. It is not for me to deliver the numbers. The view was very clear, and it was said publicly that if there is general agreement that there is no need for a lengthy discussion and voting, I did not have a problem. Q. Certain remarks made by the Prime Minister in the Rajya Sabha on your last day as its Chairman about your work as a diplomat in Islamic countries were commented upon as a departure from accepted practice. What is your take? A. Nothing. Q. You made a mention about this in your book also. A. I also made a speech there and I recited an Urdu couplet – So much have I been accused of/That proving my innocence has deserted me. It is alright, but the Prime Minister made two speeches that day – one in Rajya Sabha and the other at the farewell function at Balayogi Auditorium in Parliament House. Modiji made a speech at the second function also -- very generous, and (he) said nothing adverse had come to notice. The media did not pick up that speech. Why? Q. But some remarks were made in the House. A. I won't comment on this. It is his view. I had a career before I came to Parliament. For a long time, I was an Ambassador of India in difficult places. I was Ambassador in Kabul during times of trouble. I was an Ambassador in Iran, Saudi Arabia, Australia, UAE, etc. But the crowning piece was Ambassador to the United Nations at a time when we were under pressure. Pakistan was gung-ho and was trying its best to have a resolution passed against India. We fought. We were successful. I had a full career. Why did he not mention it or mentioned it in a tangential way? He mentioned that I had spent time in Muslim countries. That’s not my fault. The government sent me there. The government also sent me to Australia. Q. As Vice President, you worked with Manmohan Singh and Modi. How do you see these two periods? A. They are two different personalities and have different agendas also. The agendas did not concern me. I knew Manmohan Singh before he became Prime Minister. I met Modiji only when I became Vice President. Q. It is said that disruption is a legitimate parliamentary tactic. Is it? A. It is an Indian parliamentary innovation. You watch the debates in British Parliament. Very good, very contentious debates. But disruption is not part of it. I have been High Commissioner in Australia. There also, debates are very contentious, but (there are) no disruptions. If you look at the Indian parliamentary history, it was not so in the 1950s, less so in the 1960s, at least in the first part. Part of it (disruptions) is because the ruling party leaders have to have the patience to listen to criticism. These are things which I think are to do with individual personalities. Take the criticism, take it on the chest. Don't turn your back to it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/disruption-of-parliament-occurs-when-ruling-party-is-unwilling-to-listen-946438.html
02-02-2021||Panorama||Teaching the teacher is key||Building an effective education system for a world after Covid-19 needs to include a collaborative stakeholder engagement and customized solution for all target groups. It is pertinent to note the plethora of challenges that Covid-19 has brought to the fore since March 2020-- a digital divide, gender-digital divide, and quality of training. Even before Covid-19, India’s education sector was already trailing with an insufficient number of teachers, quality of teachers, an ecosystem for training teachers, setting the ground for a digital education model. Students were at the receiving end of these sectoral issues. For educators across the world, the pandemic has been a quintessential adaptive and transformative challenge, a challenge with no predefined guide, but in the Indian context, the trouble is deep-rooted in the lack of innovative digital infrastructure for connecting students, teachers, parents, and institutions on a single platform. While there is an immense focus to find a solution on one end--students--there is less emphasis on teaching the teachers. Dialling it back a step, the infrastructure for education, sufficient budgetary allocation and quality of education and pupil-teacher ratio (30:1) were key issues of the sector. These resulted in warped primary education which created a domino effect for high education, students coming out of the higher education system also lacked the desired technical and managerial competency and skills and are often found unemployable. A study by Smile Foundation showed that 43.99% of surveyed children had access to smartphones and another 43.99% of students had access to basic phones while 12.02% do not have access to either smartphones or basic phones. A total of 56.01% of children were found to have no access to smartphones, the study said.  There is no such study or assessment on teachers' understanding of online education, online examination and online evaluation. This again needs to be looked at with various sub lenses--the urban-rural, socio-economic and gendered lens. The teachers are also new to the pandemic. They have no prior manual to function in this new world order. There are two ways to map the gap, a feedback study by parents or an online evaluation check for teachers. Either route will help the education sector define the problem. At the moment defining this problem means keeping a check on education success matrices in India. Over the past few years, we have tried to curb the drop-out rate, increase enrolment in schools and also worked on improving basic education. All these indices do not paint a pretty picture. A complete digitisation in the education industry has made upskilling in technology-use a prime necessity for teachers. A few challenges have been identified by a study conducted in Uttarakhand. It revealed four categories of barriers that are faced by teachers during online teaching and assessments. Under home environment settings, a lack of basic facilities, external distraction and family interruption during teaching and conducting assessments were major issues reported. Institutional support barriers such as the budget for purchasing advanced technologies, a lack of training, a lack of technical support and a lack of clarity and direction were also reported. Teachers also faced technical difficulties.  India is committed to achieving Sustainable Development Goals within the next decade. With the clock running, the sector needs swift action to train the teachers. This means there should be a robust collaboration between private and public institutions. The current teacher education system should include technological advancements, child-psychology and development, issues related to health, safety and nutrition of children. Teaching-learning and child development should go hand in hand. The solution seems to be training the guru for a future that is already here. The solution won’t be one size fits all. It will need a collaborative and inclusive approach by think tanks, government, ed-tech startups to understand the current efficiency level of teachers and then provide solutions to upskill them. (The writer is the Co-Founder and Executive Trustee of Smile Foundation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/teaching-the-teacher-is-key-946439.html
02-02-2021||Panorama||Inner harmony brings happiness||There are various hues of harmony in life. Of these, the prominent external ones are conjugal harmony, workplace harmony, relationship harmony, religious harmony, spiritual harmony, social harmony, harmony in nature and so on. However, the most important is inner harmony.  While the external harmony concerning a person may lead to inner harmony, there are exceptionally tranquil and spiritually evolved persons who live in harmony independent of the conflicts and complications in the external world.   Inner harmony is nothing but a feeling of peace of mind derived from self-acceptance, acceptance of the people and circumstances around, and acceptance of the past. Overall harmony is equivalent to the simple happiness that we always yearn for. Harmony is a necessary condition for development, progress, fulfilment, overall happiness and survival of both the individual and the group to which he or she belongs to. It unites people in spite of their diversity and prevents enmity, wars and conflicts.       Fortunately, harmony is a choice you can consciously opt for. It is a mental condition than the physical environment you are placed in. You can acquire and sustain your inner harmony simply by embracing an appropriate attitude towards life situations, like:  Become an embodiment of love, kindness and care. Love everyone and everything around you. Accept yourself and all others as they are and do not build expectations about them. Trust in God and honour His intelligence in organizing this world as we see.  Do yogasanas, meditate and pray regularly. Contribute your might for the well-being, welfare of all around you. Believe in the law of Karma – as you sow, so shall you reap.  Do not allow different opinions to escalate to the difference of opinion. Forget and forgive those who offended you.  If you are still bothered by events occurring in the world outside or tormented by unjust attacks by people around or haunted by unpleasant past memories, just look inwards and find the ever-flowing stream of peace and harmony that is your real self. You will never be disappointed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/inner-harmony-brings-happiness-946440.html
02-02-2021||Panorama||The future will see more pandemics, not less. Here is why||The World Health Organisation, in its March 2020 paper ‘Origin of SARS-CoV-2’, traced the initial amplification of the Covid-19 outbreak to the Hunan Wholesale Seafood Market in Wuhan city of China. It suspects that the SARS-CoV-2 virus, originally found in bats, jumped species and infected humans through an intermediary animal host. Covid-19 is neither the first nor will be the last epidemic to be caused by pathogens jumping species. The intense and profoundly disruptive consequences of anthropogenic activities are both the cause and consequence of pandemics. The number of disease outbreaks has tripled every decade since the 1980s. Evolutionary biologists believe that though communicable diseases existed during the early hunter-gatherer days, their spread and impact were localised because of the small and nomadic nature of these bands. The spiralling of these disease outbreaks into epidemics and pandemics was largely a consequence of human evolution and resultant developments. The emergence of large settlements some 11,000 years ago was a consequence of man shifting to an agrarian way of life. These settlements entailed proximity and frequent interactions, which proved to be fertile ground for man-to-man transmission of infectious diseases and made epidemics possible. The National Geographic Society says that around the same time, “people in Mesopotamia began to tame animals for meat, milk, and hides. Goats, sheep, and chicken were domesticated for consumption, while larger animals like oxen and horses for purposes of agriculture and transportation. Animal husbandry has today expanded manifold to cater to the dairy, meat, fish and poultry requirements of the world.” Close man-animal interaction has paved the way for pathogens to jump species and cause disease outbreaks in humans. Measles is believed to have originated from the cattle disease, Rinderpest. It infected more than 30 million people annually before vaccination contained it. The spread of Nipah virus in Malaysia in 1997 is attributed to the intense pig husbandry introduced there. Mango trees planted alongside pig enclosures attracted fruit bats in large numbers. Fruits contaminated with bat saliva were eaten by pigs. When this pork was eaten by humans, it led to disease outbreaks. The Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) outbreak in 2003 has been traced to a virus found in the cave-dwelling horseshoe bats in Xiyang Yi town of the Chinese province of Yunnan. It spread to humans through the intermediate host, palm civets. The Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) outbreak of 2012 in Saudi Arabia occurred when a virus normally found in dromedary camels jumped species to infect man. The dromedary camels are domesticated for their meat and milk. They are also used for riding and as a beast of burden. Diphtheria, Avian Influenza, Rotavirus and Mumps also have zoonotic origins. Rodent infestation of stored food grains led to the emergence of diseases like the Plague and Typhus. Contamination of food grains by rodent faeces or urine causes Salmonellosis, Leptospirosis and Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome. Some 10% of rat bites result in Rat-bite fever, which is common among people who work in rodent-infested grain storages or live in rat-infested areas. In India’s North-Eastern states, bamboo flowering and fruiting results in an exponential increase in the number of rodents and outbreak of rodent-borne diseases. Travel has been a crucial factor in the spread of diseases like SARS, MERS, Ebola, Influenza, Dengue, Chikungunya, Zika virus and Covid-19. The largest epidemic of Ebola started in a small village in Guinea when an 18-month-old boy was infected by bats. It spread to neighbouring Sierra Leone and Liberia within days through travellers. International air travel then carried the disease to the US, Italy, United Kingdom and many other countries. In 2009, the H1N1 Influenza emerged on a pig farm in Mexico, spread to other countries and resulted in more than two lakh deaths. The 2007 Chikungunya epidemic in Italy was started by a traveller returning from India. Climate change-induced extreme weather events like droughts and floods are a major cause of disease outbreaks. Water stagnation and mosquito breeding bring in their wake increased incidence of Malaria, Dengue, Japanese Encephalitis, Kala Azar, Chikungunya and Filariasis. Drought-induced food shortages drove people in Africa to increased consumption of bushmeat, which led to Ebola outbreaks. On the other hand, heavy rainfall led to an abundance of fruit, which attracted bats and apes, increasing the chances of Ebola outbreaks. As global warming melts ice and permafrost, ancient infectious agents long frozen are re-emerging. The anthrax outbreak in Siberia was a result of a heatwave that melted permafrost and the thawing of a reindeer that had died 75 years ago.  Wildlife habitat destruction due to agriculture, urbanisation, mining and industrialisation has increased the exposure of wild viruses to humans and increased the chances of virus transmission to humans. More than two thirds of the diseases in the last hundred years were directly transmitted from wildlife to people. In 1957, Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), a febrile haemorrhagic illness, was caused when the virus jumped species to infect people when local forests were destroyed. Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) crossed over to humans in the 1920s when chimpanzees were hunted and eaten by people in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Covid-19 is just the most recent example of zoonotic viruses and pandemics.   Environmental degradation, wildlife habitat destruction and loss of biodiversity have contributed to a surge in disease outbreaks and deadly pandemics like Covid-19. These depredations will be both a cause and a consequence of the many pandemics that the future portends for us. (The writer is an IAS officer with the Government of Tamil Nadu)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-future-will-see-more-pandemics-not-less-here-is-why-946785.html
02-02-2021||Panorama||Woeful lack of firefighting infrastructure||Two major fire incidents have smudged the nation’s copybook since the dawn of the New Year. Five workers perished in a fire that engulfed the Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune on Jan 21. The economic losses in this frontline vaccine-producing facility against the pandemic are estimated to be around Rs 1,000 crore. Prior to this, on Jan 9, nine newborns died in a fire that broke out in the neo-natal ward of a hospital in Bhandara town in Maharashtra.  Human casualty is higher when fires burn hotels, hostels, hospitals, school, old age homes, and theatres where people from diverse background share the space for a short time and coordinated rescue operations pose difficulties. Hospitals are particularly prone to fire as conduits for the supply of oxygen and other gases of hazardous run through walls and roofs. Fatalities are generally high as patients with varying degree of mobility (or lack of it) have to depend on rescuers.  Six major fire incidents were reported last year (2020) from across the country involving human casualties. These were: A fire in a battery factory in Delhi on Jan 03. A fireman died. Another one in Nandan Textile Factory, Ahmedabad where seven workers died on Feb 8. A fire in an apartment in Gwalior where seven residents died on March 1. One in Visakha Solvents factory, Vishakhapatnam one died on July 16. A fire in Shreya Hospital for Covid patients, Ahmedabad caused the death of eight patients on Aug 7. Another one in a temporary Covid-care facility in Vijayawada 10 patients died on Aug 1.   However, there were several other major fires that made headlines across the nation and caused massive loss of assets and good, but involved no casualties.  The also includes fires that were caused following blasts—in mines, factories and oil wells—which were aplenty. In many such cases, leak of poisonous gases from industrial units spewed death and diseases on people unrelated to the site of the inferno.   The risk of fire is growing with expanding cities, the rise of skyscrapers and growth of slums. Besides the loss of lives, goods and properties, fires in urban areas wreak havoc with city infrastructure, causing disruption of traffic and civic amenities for even those who are not directly affected by the fire. They may even afflict harm to the pulmonary health of the residents in adjoining areas. As fire incidents grow in public spaces, all that one hears by way of official response is that a judicial probe is ordered and that no one responsible for negligence will go unpunished. Public memory being proverbially short, such probes are hardly pursued and there rests the matter.  Experts attribute electrical short-circuits, the burst of gas cylinders or stoves, human negligence and tendency to be careless while discarding cigarette butts, firing crackers, storing flammable material and in the maintenance of fire safety apparatus, if any. Flagrant violation of fire safety regulations of the National Building Code in matters of construction and maintenance are responsible for human losses in most cases. Majority of buildings add more floors than authorised plans specify. Fire safety norms even recommend periodical monitoring of fire safety apparatus, the inspection of emergency exits, hydrants and drills for occupants for the evacuation of buildings. There is a callous disregard for all these, not merely in residential buildings, but even in matters of key facilities like hotels, hostels, hospitals and shopping malls. In case of large apartments, users feel no qualms in dumping junk at emergency exits. Rescue work is hindered by streets cluttered by parked vehicles and encroachments.  Urban firefighting infrastructure has not kept pace with the growth of high-rise living in our cities. For instance, while urban skyscrapers in cities like Mumbai are surpassing 50 floors, the pumps of the fire brigade hoses can barely push water beyond 30 floors. According to Home Ministry replies to a question in the Parliament in 2015, the nation had 2,087 fire stations against the requirement of 8,600; the gap between required fire fighting personnel and the ones available was 559,000; and, the fire fighting infrastructure was short of 9,337 firefighting vehicles than required. The figures pertain to the year 2012.  Safe public spaces and buildings call for effective and efficient facility management in commercial buildings and constant monitoring and maintenance of fire-fighting equipment and heightened awareness among occupants of especially large residential buildings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/woeful-lack-of-firefighting-infrastructure-946786.html
02-02-2021||Panorama||Leaving footprints on the sands of time||It is said that death could come like a thief in the night.  Yet, when it does come unexpectedly and untimely, how many of us would actually be prepared?  Only those, I reckon, who have been living for those values that they were ready to die for; values of love, service, justice, humility, kindness and integrity.  This, in short, is what I gathered at the recent demise of a beloved and much-revered pastor from Bengaluru, Fr. Xavier Sanjivi.   Fr. Xavier was in the thick of his ministry of preaching and helping scores of people to discover true meaning in life when out of the blue he took ill.  After a brief period of hospitalisation, he breathed his last.  And when he passed away, he left behind valuable lessons for all on how to leave footprints in the sands of time, as he had done.    He left the priceless message that while our earthly life is time-bound, the honour and good name we build for ourselves when we are alive is eternal. This message hit me as his 72-year life span was eulogised at his funeral by his Congregation, family and friends. He was applauded as the epitome of all the virtues that made a man truly holy and noble. Everyone remembered him as an exceptional person who always had something to give for everyone – a smile to the lonely, a word of appreciation to the dejected, a listening ear to him who wanted to be heard, a kind deed to him in need and good counsel to the wavered.  His well nurtured inner merits had won for him the reverence of all who crossed paths with him.  In his simple life of selfless service, he had exemplified the truth that contented people are those who serve.  For, living in total service of others, there was never a dull moment in his life.  So, when death came like a thief, he was prepared.  He passed away to the other world as joyfully as he had lived in this, leaving behind footprints in the sands of time that can never be erased.  They will remain evergreen as an illustrious illustration and immense inspiration for all posterity of a life well lived here on earth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/leaving-footprints-on-the-sands-of-time-946787.html
02-02-2021||Right in the Middle||Hospital humour||As a visitor to a hospital, it’s easy to be cheerful and say, “he took a turn for the nurse” (instead of worse) but it’s hard to find humour when you are a patient. During my recent hospitalisation, friends and relatives forwarded messages and songs to uplift my spirits. Sometimes, these did just the opposite. For instance, there was a melodious song expressing gratitude for the life lived, just in case that was it for me!  Not funny then, but now, I laugh at the incongruity.    I requested the housekeeping-in-charge to buy me chocolate to satiate my sweet tooth. When I saw the pencil-like chocolate that he’d bought, I was shocked! I was used to eating big slabs of chocolate at one go! When he asked if he could buy me another pencil, I almost rolled over with laughter. The doctor was coming in the afternoon for his rounds so I thought of sprucing up  a bit before he came. Just as I approached the sink to wash my face I heard a buzzing sound behind me. From the corner of my eye, I saw a huge bumblebee. I ran out of the bathroom and requested the ayah to shoo it away. She said she couldn't till she donned her protective gear. Summoning up courage, I managed to push it out of the ventilator with a rolled-up newspaper. Just then the doctor entered and asked what the buzz was about. He looked perplexed when I said “bumblebee.”  Coincidentally that evening my grandson called and said that he made a robot bee in his robotics class. When I told him about the bee in the hospital bathroom, he cutely asked, “a real one, Ajji?”  To keep us physically active we had to walk in half-hour stints before and after meals. I missed the after-dinner walk as I had to go for a CT scan. When I returned to the ward at 10 pm, a vigilant nurse said, “walk.” I thought “at this time?” But she did not concede. I came up with more excuses, complaining of a pain in my leg. She retorted that all that was happening because I didn’t walk and that my muscles had become stiff! I lost the argument.  For some inexplicable reason, I used to feel very hungry in hospital. I blamed the hunger pangs on the strong medication and used to order a pre-dinner snack from a cafeteria nearby.  In case there was a delay I’d make his life miserable by calling umpteen times. On the day of discharge, I thanked him profusely and said that whenever I would come to that side of town I would visit him. Immediately he said, “Let me know when you are coming, I’ll keep your garlic bread ready!” My hospital stay was certainly laced with humour!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/hospital-humour-946437.html
02-02-2021||Right in the Middle||An 'amoosing' conversation||When I read the news that the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA) will be holding an online exam on ‘gau vigyan (cow science), I was delighted. That certificates would be given to all and successful meritorious candidates will be awarded prizes plus certificates seemed just what the doctor ordered. The last time I ever got a certificate or won a prize was decades ago in college.  Besides, it would be a welcome diversion from the tedious Covid. I happily broke the news recently at the first 2021 party at a friend’s place, declaring I had the time and the inclination to take up the exam.  The simple, candid announcement was enough to provoke a volley of comments. “Holy Cow! Are you gone crazy? You rather devote your time to something more worthwhile,” began Ravi, a retired banker, sipping his drink. Ravi’s wife, a teacher, made no bones of her beef with the whole cow business and me. “In the time of a pandemic, it is ludicrous to focus on things such as cow science exams,” she lectured. Corroborating Mrs. Ravi’s views, Mohan, my architect friend intervened, “Is the focus of the government on this? Cows are more important than humans.” As the half-a-dozen in our group laughed uproariously, I decided to speak up, “I have read the 54-page document brought out by the RKA which says the cow is full of science and economics and that ‘gaumutra’ or cow urine acts as an antidote for various diseases.” Don’t give us such cock and bull stories, they chorused and guffawed. What else does the document say, asked Varun, our doctor friend. It also says that the local cow milk has traces of gold and earthquakes can occur because of cow slaughter, I responded matter-of-factly. Before I could continue, Varun interjected: “Has this been proven scientifically?” he asked dismissing it as nonsense. “Absolutely” some blurted. I had no answer but continued to narrate what the document said.  The local cows are hardy, respectful and clever while the Jersey cow is lazy, irreverent and prone to diseases. “Oh my goodness this is poppycock,” laughed Mrs. Ravi, nursing her drink. “The Jersey cow is back in the news eh! Reminds me of 2004 when our prime minister called Sonia Gandhi a Jersey cow and Rahul Gandhi a hybrid calf.  Some things never change”. You’ll can argue till the cows come home but dinner is ready with my special beef stroganoff, the host’s wife announced to our group. Not one to be cowed down, I said aloud, “It is good to be a first mover, who knows there may be a national award for excellence in cow science.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/an-amoosing-conversation-946784.html
02-02-2021||Second Edit||Coup in Myanmar should worry Delhi||The military coup in Myanmar is a devastating setback to the country’s efforts to build an inclusive democracy. In the early hours of Monday morning, the military seized control over power, declared a state of emergency for a year and detained Aung San Suu Kyi and other leaders. The National League for Democracy’s landslide victory in the December 2020 elections appears to have irked the generals. They have accused the NLD government of voter irregularities. Last week, a military spokesman refused to rule out the possibility of a military takeover. Days later, the military has ousted a democratically elected government. This is deeply distressing as Myanmar was slowly beginning to shake off the damaging impacts of decades of military rule. Now, the generals are back in the saddle. It was only in 2011 that the military began loosening its grip over power and although it put in place constitutional provisions to ensure that the generals would continue to be the main arbiter of Myanmar’s politics, still, a process of democratisation was set in motion. Elections in 2015 brought Suu Kyi’s NLD to power and although the military continued to call the shots on many issues during its first term, it did seem that it had come around to cohabiting with democratic politicians, processes and institutions. Monday’s coup indicates that the generals were simply biding their time before grabbing power. In the past, Myanmar’s generals have used extreme violence to quash protests. This is likely in the coming days as people come out on the streets to win back their political and democratic rights. Repression will only draw international condemnation and sanctions, which Myanmar’s fragile economy will not withstand. As in the past, the military can be expected to reach out to China to deal with global isolation over the coup. It will seek Beijing’s support, especially in the UN Security Council, where resolutions calling for a restoration of democracy can be expected in the coming weeks. The military takeover in Myanmar has serious implications for India. A likely pro-China tilt in Myanmar’s foreign policy could erode the influence India had managed to build in recent decades. New Delhi will have to deal with the fallout of crackdowns on pro-democracy activists as well as these could prompt a flight of refugees into India. While its foreign policy concerns will direct New Delhi to avoid ruffling the feathers of Myanmar’s generals, there are humanitarian concerns and democratic commitments that India must not ignore. India must push for the restoration of democracy at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/coup-in-myanmar-should-worry-delhi-946433.html
02-02-2021||Second Edit||Will women be safe under police gaze?||Two proposals that the Madhya Pradesh government is pursuing ostensibly to ensure the welfare and safety of women have become controversial as they may not lead to their intended results but may have an adverse effect. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan made two separate suggestions last week to increase the age of marriage for women and another for registration of women who live outside their parental homes with the police so that they can be tracked for their safety. Both proposals appear to address some issues and situations that women have to face. The idea of increasing the age of marriage has been discussed earlier also, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioned it in his 2020 Independence Day address. The central government has set up a committee and a 10-member task force to study the proposal. Though the proposal would seem to be a positive measure, the general view among organisations that work for women and children is that it would be counterproductive. Girls are married off early because of their parents’ poverty or for social and cultural reasons. Raising the marriage age will not help unless these reasons are tackled. It will also mean that women have no freedom to decide about their marriage till they are 21. Even now, the law that prohibits child marriage is mostly used to harass eloping daughters or for separation of couples in troubled marriages. Giving opportunities for education and employment and improving the social status of women is more important than enhancing the marriage age. The Law Commission has recommended a uniform marriage age of 18 for both girls and boys.  The proposal for registration of women is also unsound and may even be dangerous. It assumes that the right living place for women is their home, unless they have a need to work in another place. It seeks to restrict their movement instead of making public spaces safe for them. Registration with the police may also lead to the tracking of women and surveillance on them. The possibility of misuse and harmful consequences may well be imagined. When the proposal became controversial the government said that even young men could opt for it. All people —young and old and men and women — have equal stakes in and rights to public spaces and they should be safe for everyone. The government and police keeping tabs on women is the wrong way to ensure their safety. An even more ridiculous and worrying idea has been proposed in UP. The Yogi Adityanath government is planning to put in place a facial recognition system in Lucknow which will detect signs of distress on women's faces and alert the nearest police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/will-women-be-safe-under-police-gaze-946779.html
02-02-2021||South||Madrassa opens its door for Christian woman’s funeral in Kerala||Malappuram district in north Kerala that was once labelled as India’s most violent district by BJP leader Maneka Gandhi has yet another story of harmony to share as a madrassa has offered space to conduct the last rites of a Christian woman of the locality. The Tha’leemul Islam Higher Secondary Madrassa at Ponnad near Kondotty, about 20 kilometres from the town, even witnessed a Christian priest conducting prayers by reading the Bible and devotional songs being sung in the madrassa hall as part of the last rites. Bridget Richards, a local resident, died at the age of 82 on Friday. She has been living in the locality for over ten years after her husband passed away. The couple had no children. Bridget’s was the lone Christian family in the locality and she had a cordial relationship with member of the locality who used to fondly call her ‘Ammachi’. Most of her relatives are in Kozhikode and others are abroad. When her body was brought home, the freezer could not be taken inside her house. The funeral was scheduled for Saturday as her relatives need to arrive. As the locals and some of her relatives looked for other options authorities of the madrassa situated hardly 50 metres from her house offered space. Siddique Ponnad, an executive committee member of the madrassa, told Deccan Herald that arrangements for keeping the freezer with Ammachi’s body was made at a classroom of the madrassa. Arrangement for cleaning the body was also provided at the premises and local people, mostly from the Muslim community, performed the acts. Some relative of ‘Ammachi’ also turned up from her native place Kozhikode. The funeral prayers were performed on Saturday in the madrassa by Kozhikode CSI cathedral vicar T I James without any sorts of hesitation. The vicar was also quite overwhelmed by the harmony in the region as Bible and Christian devotional songs echoed in the madrassa, said Siddique, who is also a local leader of the Indian Union Muslim League. Local MLA T V Ibrahim who came across the heartening developments also turned up for the funeral prayers.  Last year, there was a strong campaign by some BJP leaders against the Muslim dominated district. Following some misleading reports that a wild elephant was killed in the forest areas by giving explosives packed pineapple, Maneka Gandhi termed the district as the most violent district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madrassa-opens-its-door-for-christian-woman-s-funeral-in-kerala-946452.html
02-02-2021||South||Cop murdered by mechanic in Tamil Nadu||Seizing the cargo auto rickshaw of a mechanic, who indulged in a ruckus at a market in Thoothukudi district, cost the life of a police sub-inspector who was knocked down by the former. 55-year-old V Balu was killed when R Murugavel, the mechanic, hit the two-wheeler in which the former was riding using another auto-rickshaw in Eral town in Thoothukudi district. “We have seized the vehicle which Murugavel used to kill the police sub-inspector,” S Jeyakumar, Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi district, told DH. Murugavel, who was absconding after the incident in the wee hours of Monday, surrendered before a court on Monday afternoon. Jeyakumar said Balu, the policeman, seized an autorickshaw of Murugavel after he indulged in a brawl with others at the Eral Bazaar on Sunday evening under the influence of alcohol. “The Sub-inspector seized the vehicle and told him to report at the police station on Monday morning and take back the vehicle,” the SP added. However, Murugavel hit Balu and his colleague Pon Subbiah, who were riding on a two-wheeler after finishing their night rounds at around 1 am. While Balu died on the spot, the other policeman is receiving treatment at a hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cop-murdered-by-mechanic-in-tamil-nadu-946453.html
02-02-2021||South||DMK walks out of Tamil Nadu Assembly after arguing with Governor||The DMK on Tuesday walked out of the Tamil Nadu Assembly after a heated argument with Governor Banwarilal Purohit ahead of his customary address to the House, over allowing them to raise some issues concerning the state. Even before the Governor could start his address, Leader of Opposition M K Stalin was on his feet and tried to raise some issues. Purohit, however, appealed to Stalin to listen to him and pointed out that the Central budget has allocated Rs 1.03 lakh crore for Tamil Nadu. A din ensued, with DMK Deputy leader Duraimurugan and other members objecting to Purohit making a mention of the budget allocation. There was a chorus from the opposition benches demanding he stuck to his address alone and not make any other remarks. "This is not good. Tell me what is wrong?" Purohit asked the agitated opposition members. He underscored that this was the last session of the current Assembly and urged them to take full advantage by participating in the proceedings and debates. Looking at Duraimurugan and Stalin, Purohit said, "You are all senior leaders and best orators." "This is my humble request. Please cooperate.. take full advantage of the session (to debate issues)." He wanted to know why they were angered and said: "Don't get angry." He said he had a suggestion to the DMK, saying they could register their protest if they wanted to do so and come back to the House. DMK's allies, including Congress MLAs who came with green headgear in support of agitating farmers outside Delhi who want the repeal of three Central laws, followed suit. When the Governor started his address, the Opposition benches were vacant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-walks-out-of-tamil-nadu-assembly-after-arguing-with-governor-946558.html
02-02-2021||South||TDP leader held in grampanchayat election case, Naidu condemns arrest||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Andhra Pradesh unit Chief Kinjarapu Atchannaidu was on Tuesday arrested in connection with a gram panchayat election-related case in which he was facing a charge of alleged criminal intimidation. Atchannaidu was listed an accused, along with 21 others, in the case in Nimmada village in Srikakulam district, police sources said. Already 11 other TDP workers have been arrested in the case, they said. The allegation against the accused was that they threatened the ruling YSR Congress candidate K Appanna against filing his nomination for the sarpanch post in Nimmada. An alleged telephonic conversation, wherein Atchannaidu threatened Appanna was also leaked. Atchannaidu and Appanna are closely related and some of the main accused in the case too are kinfolks. The sarpanch post was never contested in previous polls over the last three decades as Nimmada is the native village of Atchannaidu and his late brother and former Union Minister K Yerrannaidu. It was a TDP stronghold owing to the Kinjarapu family. In the ongoing elections to the gram panchayats, the YSRC sought to put up its candidate for the village sarpanch post and that caused a scuffle two days ago with both sides levelling allegations at each other of violent attacks. The nomination process for the first phase election, due on February 9, ended on January 31. Following Sunday's incident, a case was registered against Atchannaidu, some of his kin and followers but the YSRC activists were spared. TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu condemned his deputy's arrest and called it the height of (Chief Minister) Jagans vendetta politics. The YSRC leaders created a tense atmosphere in a village (Nimmada) that always remained peaceful for decades, Chandrababu Naidu said in a release. He sought to know why no case was registered against YSRC local in-charge D Srinivas, who was the man 'solely responsible' for the violence in Nimmada. Chandrababu Naidu demanded that the cases foisted on Atchannaidu be withdrawn and he be released forthwith.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tdp-leader-held-in-grampanchayat-election-case-naidu-condemns-arrest-946559.html
02-02-2021||South||Kerala to get its first human milk bank on February 5||Kerala's first Human Milk Bank (HMB), a state-of-art facility will be opened at the Ernakulam general hospital here on Friday by Health Minister K K Shailaja. Set up with the support of the Rotary Club of Cochin Global, the milk bank is to ensure breast milk for newborn babies, who are not being breastfed by their own mothers who may be sick, deceased or due to insufficient production of breast milk, in the hospital. Although approximately 3600 babies are born in the general hospital a year, 600 to 1,000 sick babies are admitted into the NICU. "Providing the low birth-weight premature babies, infants whose mothers are unable to provide sufficient milk and babies separated from mothers due to many reasons with the pasteurized breast milk from the bank will reduce the risk of infections and boost their immunity," said Dr Paul P G of Rotary Cochin Global. Though the concept had come to India 32 years back, Kerala did not have a milk bank till now. This is where Rotary took the lead to bring the project to the state with two such breast milk banks - one at Ernakulam and the other at Jubilee Medical Mission Hospital at Thrissur. All safety protocols and procedures for collecting, preserving and providing it to needy children will be ensured as per government guidelines. The collected milk can be stored up to 6 months safely in the bank, if needed, before it is given to an infant. In the beginning, the milk will be provided free of cost to only the babies admitted in the neonatal intensive care unit of the hospital. Later on, a network of hospitals for multiple collection and safe distribution points will be planned. The donors will be the mothers from the hospital who have delivered babies there and will have all their health statistics available at the hospital. "The mothers with excess milk will be encouraged to participate in the noble cause to save the life of other newborn babies," he said. The human milk bank, which consists of a pasteurization unit, refrigerators, deep freezers, RO plant, sterilizing equipment and computers, was set up at a cost of Rs 35 lakh. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between the state health department and Rotary Club of Cochin Global last year for setting up the bank. However, the project got delayed following the outbreak of Covid-19. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) together with the Indian Association of Pediatricians (IAP) has provided a trained nursing staff for operating the milk bank at the General Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-get-its-first-human-milk-bank-on-february-5-946593.html
02-02-2021||South||CPI(M)'s campaign against Muslim League suffers setback||CPI(M) Assembly election campaign in Kerala claiming that Indian Union Muslim League, which is a key coalition partner of the Congress, is a communal party suffered a setback with even a prominent Christian church leader condemning the CPI(M)'s line. Metropolitan Geevarghese Mar Coorilos of the prominent Jacobite faction of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church in Kerala said in social media post that the ongoing campaign that IUML was a communal party would lead to an unhealthy communal divide in society. Trying to create an impression that there was a communal divide between Christian and Muslim factions would cause considerable injury to the communal fabric of Kerala society. Whatever may be the reason, it was unfortunate that IUML was being termed as a communal party as IUML had upheld secular stand when highly explosive situations were prevailing, he said. Top CPI(M) leaders including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and CPI(M) state secretary in charge A Vijayaraghavan have been triggering a communal campaign against the IUML by alleging nexus with Jamaat-e-Islami. The CPI(M) was allegedly trying to polarise Christian voters in its favour by accusing that IUML was dictating terms of the Congress. Close on the heels of Christian church leaders condemning the CPI(M)'s campaign against IUML, CPI, which is the key ally of the CPI(M), preferred not to toe the CPI(M)'s line on the issue. CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran said it was for CPI(M) leaders to decide and think what they should say. The left-front always maintain secular values, he said. CPI(M) senior leader and Finance Minister Thomas Isaac also preferred not to go by the communal campaign against the IUML as he commented that IUML was part of mainstream politics in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpims-campaign-against-muslim-league-suffers-setback-946669.html
02-02-2021||South||IIT-M's 'Saarang' to go online for the first time, thanks to Covid-19||Saarang, the annual cultural festival of the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M), will go online this year due to Covid-19 restrictions. This year's theme is ‘Vintage Vogue’ with the students taking a trip down the memory lane this year, and going retro. The festival, to be held between February 4 and February 7, will be available for the public to view online free of cost. One of the largest student-run festivals in India, Saarang, which has ISO 9001:2015 certification, hosts more than 100 events and attracts a footfall of around 80,000 from over 500 colleges across the country. Being among the first student-run festivals in the country to go completely online, Saarang 2021 presents a unique experience to all its participants. The cultural festival kicks off with the ‘Classical Night’ on 4th February 2021 with a performance by ‘Carnatic 2.0.’ “It is quite exciting and challenging to arrange the Saarang event of such a kind online with the same spirit which we used to have in the past,” Prof Nilesh J. Vasa, Dean (Students), IIT-M, said. This year, the Saarang team has undertaken a Social Responsibility Campaign named ‘Mann,’ which aims to create awareness on mental health issues as a first step towards destigmatizing the issue through sustained efforts. As part of Mann, Saarang conducted various webinars with eminent therapists and psychologists. The Students Team also organized a live series with various mental health specialists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-ms-saarang-to-go-online-for-the-first-time-thanks-to-covid-19-946696.html
02-02-2021||South||JP Nadda to review poll preparations in Kerala||BJP's preparations for the upcoming Assembly polls in Kerala will get an impetus on Wednesday with party national president J P Nadda coming down to review the process. Differences among the party leaders could be one of the crucial issues to come up for discussions during the two-day meetings. Selection of candidates, especially for crucial constituencies like Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram, which is the lone sitting seat of the saffron seat in Kerala, and strategies for the election campaign would be discussed. There were reports that the BJP had evaluated that the party has high chances of winning in 40 of the 140 Assembly seats in Kerala. The visit of the national president also comes at a time when the Congress is triggering the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple women entry issue again and hence the BJP would have to devise counter-strategies. Differences among the state leaders are one of the biggest concern for the BJP at present. It was also said to be one reason for the unimpressive performance by the BJP in the recent local body polls. State vice president Sobha Surendran had openly expressed her differences. The elevation of K Surendran as state president and denial of posts at national level irked Sobha as well as some other senior leaders also. Sobha has been keeping off from party meetings also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jp-nadda-to-review-poll-preparations-in-kerala-946714.html
02-02-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh government hands Rs 50L compensation to family of ASHA worker who died days after vaccination||The Andhra Pradesh government has provided a compensation of Rs 50 lakh to the family of an ASHA worker who died days after receiving a Covid-19 vaccine in Guntur district. Vijaya Lakshmi, 43, an Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA), was given the first dose on 19 January as part of the ongoing Phase-1 vaccination programme covering the health workers. The ASHA worker reportedly developed fever etc. on January 21 and was subsequently admitted to the government general hospital in Guntur where she died on January 24. Authorities had then stated the cause as brain stroke. Following the death, her family, fellow ASHA workers and trade union activists staged a protest alleging the death was caused by the adverse effects of the vaccine. They demanded Rs 50 lakh as compensation like the amount being paid to Covid-19 government medical staff dying of Covid-19. On Tuesday, state health minister AKK Srinivas said that Rs 50 lakh was handed over to the family. However, the minister said that the post-mortem report, which could reveal the exact cause of the death is yet to be received by the health department. Srinivas said that the state government is extending all medical support in the case of Dr Dhana Lakshmi, a physician at the Ongole government hospital, who developed complications after receiving the vaccine dose and was hospitalised in a serious condition. The lady doctor is presently undergoing treatment at Apollo Hospitals in Chennai and is in a stable condition, the minister said. “We have put a special focus on the adverse effect instances being reported and taking necessary action in each case,” Srinivas told reporters at Amaravati. The minister admitted that the suspicions among the health workers regarding the vaccines have affected the drive. Against the target of 3.88 lakh beneficiaries, only about 1.89 lakh health workers received the dose since 16 January – which is about 49 per cent achievement. The second phase of vaccination would begin from Wednesday, for which about six lakh employees of departments like municipal, revenue, Panchayati Raj and police are registered. 3,181 session sites are set up for the vaccine administration purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-government-hands-rs-50l-compensation-to-family-of-asha-worker-who-died-days-after-vaccination-946720.html
02-02-2021||South||Congress leader in Kerala may face action for Ram Temple fundraiser||A Congress leader in Kerala is likely to face action from the party for having inaugurated a fundraiser drive for Ram temple. Vice-President of the Alappuzha district Congress committee Raghunatha Pillai participated in the fundraiser. He inaugurated the fundraiser by handing over the first donation. With the CPM triggering a row over the issue, the Congress leadership was learnt to have sought an explanation from Pillai on the incident. Meanwhile, Pillai justified that he participated in the fundraiser as he was the office bearer of a local temple that initiated the fundraiser. He also said that he was not afraid of any action from the party as he did not do anything wrong. The Congress is trying to counter the campaign by spreading the pictures of a local CPM activist contributing to the fundraiser for the Ram Temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-leader-in-kerala-may-face-action-for-ram-temple-fundraiser-946733.html
02-02-2021||South||As colleagues hesitate, locals refuse help, AP woman police officer carries beggar's corpse for over one kilometre||With her unflinching commitment towards duty and humanity, a woman sub-inspector of Andhra Pradesh police has become a role model for her fellow staff and the society at large. Kotturu Sirisha (27) carried an uncared-for and unclothed dead body of an aged person lying in the fields, on her shoulders for over a KM, with the aid of a volunteer at the other end of the stretcher, as her colleagues hesitated and locals refused to lend a helping hand for the last rites. “The body is of an unidentified beggar, about 70 years old, and was lying in a ditch. As the villagers were unwilling to come forward to shift the body for cremation, I called for the help of a charitable trust I am associated with. I could have ordered my men but did not want to compel them in such jobs associated with certain social stigmas,” Sirisha told DH. “As I do not carry such notions, I took the initiative. For me, even a dead body is a representation of the almighty. Besides, it was my duty. I could not leave the body there like that,” the 2017 batch officer says. A short video clip of Sirisha carrying the body trudging along the fields became viral, with the AP home minister M Sucharita and DGP Gautam Sawang lauding the policewoman's humanitarian effort and work commitment. “I am overwhelmed by the response, appreciation now. But there are incidents when I picked up the smashed body parts of road accident victims. In comparison, what I did now is much less agonizing,” The SI says that her inspiration in such situations comes from the teachings of her father — a mason. Sirisha with the help of the volunteers carried the body to the nearest motorable point from where the trust's vehicle transported the beggar's body for cremation. The SI suspects the person's death could be due to starvation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-colleagues-hesitate-locals-refuse-help-ap-woman-police-officer-carries-beggars-corpse-for-over-one-kilometre-946750.html
02-02-2021||State||Karnataka logs 388 new Covid-19 cases, three deaths||Karnataka logged 388 new Covid-19 cases and three related fatalities, taking the total infection count to 9,39,775 and the toll to 12,220, on Monday. The day also saw 470 patients getting discharged after recovery. The recoveries have reached 9,21,592 in the state. Of the 5,944 active cases, 145 are in Intensive Care Units. Bengaluru Urban registered 201 new infections. Tumakuru and Kodagu recorded next highest cases with 27 each followed by Dakshina Kannada 16 and Mysuru and Hassan 13 each. A total of over 1,70,87,246 samples have been tested, so far, out of which 53,316 were tested on Monday alone. Since the pulse polio programme has been scheduled from January 31 to February 3, Covid vaccines are not being administered on these days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-logs-388-new-covid-19-cases-three-deaths-946446.html
02-02-2021||State||ACB raid in Mangaluru Corporation official's residence, office||Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths on Tuesday raided the residence and office of a senior civic official in the city in connection with a disproportionate assets case. Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) town planning joint director K V Jayaraj is alleged to have amassed wealth disproportionate to his income in Mangaluru and Kerala, ACB sources said. The raid was conducted at four places including Jayarajs residences at Kapikad and Bejai in Mangaluru, father's residence, his wife's quaters in Mahe and his office at MCC building. ACB sleuths from Udupi and Chikkamagaluru also took part in the raid. Disproportionate asset cases were registered in Bengaluru, Bellary, Kolar, Dharwad, Dakshina Kannada, Chitradurga and Kalaburagi district against seven government servants. Searches have begun in 30 places under the supervision of ACB SPs, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/acb-raid-in-mangaluru-corporation-officials-residence-office-946579.html
02-02-2021||State||395 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, 412 recoveries||Karnataka's Covid-19 tally moved up marginally to 9.40 lakh with the addition of 395 new cases while three fatalities took the toll to 12,223, the Health department said on Tuesday. As many as 412 people were discharged after being cured of the disease as the cumulative recoveries rose to 9.22 lakh, leaving 5,924 active cases. Bengaluru Urban district accounted for 199 of the fresh cases, followed by Mysuru (28), Dakshina Kannada (23) and Tumakuru (18) while the remaining was scattered over the state. As of February 2 evening, cumulatively 9,40,170 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,223 deaths and 9,22,004 discharges, a Health department bulletin said. Of the active cases, 5,776 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 148 remained in intensive care units, it said. All the three fresh deaths were reported on from Bengaluru Urban, which topped the districts in positive cases at 3,99,286, followed by Mysuru 53,476 and Ballari 39,158. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 3,91,104, followed by Mysuru 52,236 and Ballari 38,518. A total of over 1,71,47,397 samples have been tested so far with 60,151 on Tuesday, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/395-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-412-recoveries-946770.html
02-02-2021||State||Nehru statue row goes to Privileges panel||Owing to a delay on the part of the government in relocating Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru's statue in Vidhana Soudha, Karnataka Legislative Council chairperson Pratapchandra Shetty on Tuesday referred the matter to the Privileges Committee. Originally located on the lawn near the South-East entrance of Vidhana Soudha, Nehru's statue was relocated to the North-West corner to make way for the metro station. On September 23, 2020, after a ruckus erupted in the Upper House with Congress leaders demanding relocation of the statue, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa had given a written statement that the statue would be relocated at the earliest. On Tuesday, MLC K Govindaraj pointed out that even though the then Chief Secretary had directed the concerned officials to relocate it before December 31, 2020, no action was taken. "This is a breach of privilege. I urge this matter to be referred to the Privileges Committee," he submitted in the House. It was Govindaraj who had raised the issue September last. Giving his approval to this, Shetty said, not only will this be referred to the committee, action will be initiated against those who have not properly recorded the proceedings in the House on the said day. "Since it was not recorded properly, audio and media reports may be considered," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nehru-statue-row-goes-to-privileges-panel-946781.html
02-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru's ‘hidden’ sites elude not only MLAs, but the CM, too||Not even Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has access to sites developed by the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA), which are kept hidden in one of the many land-related scams that came up for discussion in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday.  “You will be surprised...there are BDA sites for which no documents exist,” Yediyurappa said during the motion of thanks for the Governor’s address. “The documents are concealed, which we’ve started unearthing. You won’t believe the kind of scams! These sites will not be shown to you or even me. They will be shown only if officials are given money. That’s how systematic the scams are,” Yediyurappa said.  Yediyurappa was responding to senior BJP legislator Araga Jnanendra who said that the creation of fake land documents was rampant in a city like Bengaluru. Citing his own example, Jnanendra said even legislators were not spared by scamming officials. “In 2009, I was allotted a ‘G’ category site on which I still haven’t been able to build a house. Someone got a fake document and got a stay, which never gets vacated. The BDA gave the site, but an official testified in court that the land was not the BDA’s,” he said. Jnanendra, who heads the Karnataka Housing Board, had more beans to spill. “In Kengeri, we have an old project dating back to 1976. I asked the local engineer to check if there were any vacant sites. He said there weren’t any, but we found one that was kept hidden with debris. Eventually, we discovered 74 vacant sites,” he said. “Such hidden sites are revealed only if officials are bribed Rs 1,000-2,000 per feet!”  Over time, the BDA has become notorious for these reasons. In 2011, the High Court of Karnataka dubbed the BDA as ‘Bangalore Destruction Authority’.   BDA chairperson SR Vishwanath told the Assembly that he was wary when Yediyurappa picked him to head the agency. “It’s a good organisation that has given Bengaluru 65,000-70,000 sites. But, it has gone astray mostly due to officials,” he said.  Apparently, former JD(S) minister MC Managuli, who died recently, was made to run pillar-to-post by the BDA. “He came to see me a month ago. He said he got a site in BTM Layout 20 years ago. Because of some dispute, he sought an alternative site, which was not given to him all these years,” he said, adding that senior Congress leader KC Kondaiah, too, was made to wait 18 years.  “There is no digitization. They’re still sitting with old books. We’re fixing this,” Vishwanath said.  Yediyurappa promised the House that the BDA will be revamped. “You will see the changes in the next 4-5 months. I’ve ordered the transfer of people who have squatted there for years indulging in corrupt practices. We’re taking appropriate action on illegalities related to land,” he said.  If Yediyurappa has his way, then lands belonging to the BDA that are illegally occupied will be distributed to the poor. “This is what I’ve decided. At least the poor can build a house and live peacefully.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengalurus-hidden-sites-elude-not-only-mlas-but-the-cm-too-946615.html
02-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka mulls ban on hookah bars||Law and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said the state government is “seriously considering” a ban on hookah bars in Bengaluru and other major cities. “Some hookah bars are in restaurants whereas some are standalone in cities such as Bengaluru and Mysuru. Youngsters throng these places. We are seriously considering banning hookah bars,” Bommai told the Legislative Assembly during Question Hour. “We are studying other states that have banned hookah bars. We will need the cooperation of urban local bodies such as BBMP as they are the licensing authorities,” he said, adding that authorities had booked over 70 cases against hookah bars in Bengaluru alone so far this year. Bommai was responding to a question by Congress’ Jayanagar MLA Sowmya Reddy. “Drugs are still available in hookah bars and cafes. We need sustained action against drugs. It shouldn’t become seasonal when it gets media coverage only once in a while,” she said. JD(S) Magadi MLA A Manjunath also complained that his constituency had seen mushrooming of hookah bars and cafes after the police started a crackdown on drugs in Bengaluru. Bommai assured the Assembly that the government’s ‘war on drugs’ will continue. “Drug abuse is present from slums to the elites, educated to the illiterates,” he said. “Earlier, only ganja was seized. But, we’re going after synthetic drugs in the form of tablets and chocolates,” he said, adding that the number of cases against drugs has gone up from 127 in 2016 to 2,786 in 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mulls-ban-on-hookah-bars-946667.html
02-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Making efforts to resolve Toyota issue: Karnataka govt||Karnataka Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar assured the Legislative Assembly that the government will continue to make efforts to resolve the workers’ stir that reached its 85th day at the Toyota-Kirloskar facility in Bidadi near Bengaluru on Tuesday. “The government has taken enough steps to resolve the deadlock. Four meetings have been held so far, including one under the chief minister’s chairmanship,” Hebbar said. “There’s no prestige issue for the government and we want to take both the company and workers together.” Hebbar was responding to this issue raised by BJP legislator G Karunakar Reddy during Zero Hour. “Toyota has started an inquiry against 64 people. The workers say that the 64 people should be reinstated while the inquiry is on. But the company says they’ll be taken back after the inquiry is completed. This is the deadlock,” Hebbar said. According to Hebbar, as many as 1,896 workers out of the total 3,415 have reported back to work. “On Monday, 181 new workers came back to work,” he said. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah urged the government to put an end to the deadlock soon. “The complaint is that Toyota being a Japanese company is enforcing Japanese laws on the workers. Some 66 people have been suspended and eight people have been dismissed without a strong reason, according to the employees,” he said, urging Yediyurappa to chair one more meeting to resolve the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/making-efforts-to-resolve-toyota-issue-karnataka-govt-946683.html
02-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Functions can have 500 people, theatres' capacity capped at 50% in Karnataka||The state government on Tuesday permitted social events and functions to have up to 500 persons, but seating in cinema halls will remain capped at 50% for the time being as a precautionary measure considering "the possible second wave" of Covid-19. In a fresh set of guidelines, Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar said the cap of 50% seating capacity for theatres will continue till February 28 even as the Centre has permitted houseful shows. He said this was done "after reviewing the current scenario of Covid-19 and also considering the possible second wave" and as "a matter of abundant precaution and in the larger interest of public health." For marriages, birthday celebrations, death ceremonies and other such events, a maximum of 500 persons will be allowed, the circular stated. This has been decided to ensure physical distancing of 3.25 sqm per person. So, a 1,000 sqm area can have a maximum of 376 persons whereas a 500 sqm place should have not more than 158 people. This calculation - 3.25 sqm per person - will apply to yoga centres and gyms as well. Hotels and restaurants can operate without exceeding their full seating capacity. For offices, the government will allow full attendance while suggesting that the work-from-home system should continue wherever feasible. In industries and commercial establishments, full attendance is permitted. Entry into shops, malls, multiplexes and entertainment parks will depend on the size of the place, Kumar said in the circular. "Special events that attract crowds shall be avoided." "As the threat of Covid-19 pandemic is still not receded, but showing a declining trend in the recent times in the state, it would be prudent and advisable not to let the guard down and continue Covid-19 precautions in public areas..." Kumar said, referring to face masks, hand sanitiser, thermal screening and so on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/functions-can-have-500-people-theatres-capacity-capped-at-50-in-karnataka-946777.html
02-02-2021||West||Maharashtra kids given sanitiser drops instead of polio dose are now stable: Official||An inquiry has been completed into the incident, which took place on Sunday. A report will be submitted to the government and appropriate action will be taken at the state level, Yavatmal Collector M D Singh told PTI. The incident took place at Bhanbora Primary Health Centre in Kapsikopri village on Sunday when the National Pulse Polio vaccination drive for children aged 1-5 years was underway, an official said. Yavatmal Zilla Parishad CEO Shrikrishna Panchal on Monday said 12 children below 5 years of age were given two drops of sanitiser in place of polio drops. Subsequently, one of the children complained of vomiting and uneasiness, he said. The affected children were later admitted to a government hospital. "The children were kept under observation for 48 hours. They are ok and will be discharged today," said Singh, who visited the hospital on Sunday. He also said that an inquiry has been completed into the incident. "The employees concerned report to the Zilla Parishad CEO. Action is likely to be taken against two medical officers and three contractual employees. The action will be taken at the state level," he said. The incident came to light when the village sarpanch checked the drops and found them to be hand sanitiser and not polio doses, an official said on Monday. After the incident, parents in the area are under fear and have demanded action against those responsible for the shocking lapse, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-kids-given-sanitiser-drops-instead-of-polio-dose-are-now-stable-official-946567.html
02-02-2021||West||Fire in commercial building in Mumbai; no casualty||A fire broke out in a six-storey commercial building in Mumbai's Andheri area on Tuesday, a fire brigade official said. No one was injured in the blaze that erupted on the top floor of Laxmi Plaza building located in an industrial area in Andheri, he said. The fire brigade got a message about the blaze around 11.15 am. It was a "level-1" (minor) fire, the official said. Five water engines, four jumbo tankers and local police rushed to the spot. The fire was brought under control by around 1.30 pm, he said. The cause of the blaze is not yet known, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-in-commercial-building-in-mumbai-no-casualty-946568.html
02-02-2021||West||Drugs probe: Maharashtra ATS arrests Dawood's aide Chinku Pathan||The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad has arrested drug-peddler Parvez Khan alias Chinku Pathan, an associate of fugitive underworld don Dawood Ibrahim, in connection with a drugs case being probed by the ATS, an official said on Tuesday. Pathan (40), a relative of yesteryear don Karim Lala, was last month arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau from his home at Ghansoli in neighbouring Navi Mumbai after the NCB busted a drug syndicate allegedly being operated by him. In a follow-up operation, the NCB seized a large quantity of drugs, unaccounted cash worth over Rs 2 crore and two guns during raids at some places in Dongri and neighbouring areas in south Mumbai. The ATS in October last year arrested two persons -- Sohail Sayyad (34) and Zishan (32) -- in a drugs case. During an investigation into it, the role of Pathan, who was lodged at the Thane Central Prison following arrest by the NCB, also came to light, the ATS official said. The ATS took Pathan's custody from the NCB on Saturday on a transfer warrant and brought him here, the official said. The same day, Pathan was produced before a Mumbai court which remanded him in custody of the ATS till February 10, he said. Last month, the NCB had also arrested Pathan's associate Arif Bhujwala from neighbouring Raigad district in connection with a drugs case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/drugs-probe-maharashtra-ats-arrests-dawoods-aide-chinku-pathan-946577.html
02-02-2021||West||Maharashtra BJP demands action against Sharjeel Usmani||The comments of student leader Sharjeel Usmani against Hindu religion has snowballed into a major political issue in Maharashtra. Participating at the Elgar Parishad in Pune over the weekend, Usmani had reportedly said – “Aaj ka Hindu samaj, Hindustan me Hindu samaj buri tarike se saad chukka hai” – that suggested that the Hindu religion in today's times has “rotten”. The BJP has trained its guns on Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the Shiv Sena president, demanding action against Usmani. Meanwhile, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis has formally written to Thackeray demanding that a case be lodged against him and he must be brought to book in Maharashtra for the offensive comments. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said speeches made at Elgar Parishad would be examined by police. "If any objectionable statements are found, action will be taken accordingly. I can't comment more about it as the investigations are on," Deshmukh said. Usmani, a student leader of Aligarh Muslim University, was arrested by Uttar Pradesh police for his alleged role in the clashes that broke out at the university following a protest against the CAA and NRC. State BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye wanted to know if Thackeray would take action against Usmani or continue with his rhetoric that Shiv Sena has not abandoned Hindutva. The Elgar Parishad event this year was organised in Pune by 'Bhima Koregaon Shaurya Din Prerna Abhiyan' on January 30, which coincided with the birth anniversary of Rohith Vemula, the late Dalit research scholar at University of Hyderabad. Among those who attended the Elgar Parishad include writer-activist Arundhati Roy, former IAS officer Kanan Gopinathan, retired Judge BG Kolse-Patil and retired IPS officer SM Mushrif. Advocate Pradeep Gawade, state secretary of Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM)has filed a complaint at the Swargate police station in Pune- demanding an FIR against Usmani under section 153 (a), 295 (a) and 124 (a) for his speech condemning Hindus.   In his letter to Thackeray, Fadnavis has also pointed out that given the background of Elgar Parishad and the Koregaon Bhima incident it was wrong to give permission to hold the meeting. “We will not tolerate if anyone speaks such things in the land of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, who laid the foundation of ‘Hindavi-swaraj’...you will also not tolerate it,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bjp-demands-action-against-sharjeel-usmani-946643.html
02-02-2021||West||Permanent Kashmir trade & cultural centre in Pune||In a major initiative, a permanent Kashmir Trade and Cultural Centre would be established in Pune, the cultural capital of Maharashtra. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) would take a lead in this regard along with Sarhad, which is spearheaded by Sanjay Nahar. “The PMC will take lead in establishing a permanent Kashmir Trade and Cultural centre at Pune in accordance with a first of its kind Pune-Srinagar Sister City Agreement, and with collaboration with Sarhad,” Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said. “Farmers and handicraft artisans of Kashmir will be benefitted and a cultural bond between both the diverse cultures will be strengthened because of the initiative,” he said while inaugurating the Sarhad-organized Jammu-Kashmir handicraft sales festival at Ambar Hall in Kothrud. Those present at the inauguration were deputy commissioner of police Pournima Gaikwad-Kandhare and Wahid Malik, president of Kashmir Hotels and Restaurant Owners Federation. According to Nahar, Pune and Srinagar already enjoy strong academic bonds with around 250 students from the two Union Territories studying in various top educational institutions here, besides another 4,500-plus in Mumbai and other parts of the state. Mohol said further in his speech that after the abrogation of Article 370 and during the Covid-19 pandemic the farmers and artisans of Kashmir suffered heavily because of lack of the market places giving a boost to poverty and unemployment. Under the circumstances, Sarhad took initiative and actively helped the farmers by organizing farmers to consumer sales in Pune which helped Kashmiri farmers to some extent and boosted their confidence that they are not alone but nation is with them. To strengthen the emotional bond between the people of Kashmir and Pune, a permanent Kashmir Trade and Cultural Centre in need of time, said Mohol, adding that he will take necessary positive steps to start it in collaboration with Sarhad and PMC. Among present on this occasion was Sachin Jamge of Vandemataram Sanghatana, Yuvraj Shaha, Shailesh Wadekar of sarhad, film producer Nilesh Navalakha, Dr, Shailesh Pagaria, author Sanjay Sonawani, lawyer Asim Sarode, Dr Amol Deolekar, Anna Raut, Vijay Kumbhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/permanent-kashmir-trade-cultural-centre-in-pune-946682.html
02-02-2021||West||Budgetary package to Goa compensation for Mahadayi compromise: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party in Goa accused Chief Minister Pramod Sawant of compromising the state's interest in the ongoing Mahadayi water dispute with Karnataka, alleging that the Rs 300 crore package announced for Goa in the Union Budget was a mere compensation for this compromise. "This government has compromised on the Mahadayi issue. The river is regarded as a mother in Goa because of its water that flows through most of North Goa and sustains all life," Aam Aadmi Party Goa convenor Rahul Mahambre told reporters outside the Chief Minister's residence. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced a Rs 300 crore package to Goa for celebrations of the 60th anniversary of the state's liberation from the Portuguese. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant is under fire yet again for allegedly favouring Karnataka in the two-decade-long battle ensuing in the Supreme Court between the states regarding the Mahadayi river. Earlier this week, Arvind Datar, a senior counsel representing the Goa government in the issue, told the media that upon instruction from the Goa government, he had not objected to Karnataka's plea in the Supreme Court in 2019 seeking notification of the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal. The CM has denied giving Datar any such written instruction, and the counsel has now been sacked and replaced. The Opposition is now asking for Sawant's resignation. The issue is currently being heard in the SC as both parties expressed reservations about the award by the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal in 2018. Goa has also opposed the diversion of water from the Mahadayi river basin through the Kalasa-Banduri project claiming it would cause “ecological devastation” in Goa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/budgetary-package-to-goa-compensation-for-mahadayi-compromise-aap-946689.html
