03-02-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||Accused in murder case tries to commit suicide in Dharwad||Santosh Savadatti, one of the accused in the Yogeeshgouda Goudar murder case, allegedly tried to end his life by slitting his throat at his residence in Dharwad in the early hours of Wednesday. His family members, who noticed a bleeding Santosh, immediately shifted him to a private hospital, where he is being treated. The CBI, which is probing the ZP member Yogeeshgouda murder case, had arrested Santosh and filed a charge sheet against him and six others on May 20, 2020. He was named accused No 1 in the charge sheet. The suicide attempt by Santosh, who is out on bail, is said to be his second bid to end his own life. Dharwad Sub Urban police have registered a case and the investigation is on. However, Santosh's family members claimed that he was brought to the hospital after he sustained an injury after a fall while climbing down the steps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/accused-in-murder-case-tries-to-commit-suicide-in-dharwad-947103.html
03-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka Assembly clears Depositors’ Bill||The Assembly on Tuesday passed the Karnataka Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments Bill, 2020, amidst demands from Opposition parties to introduce provisions for a permanent authority to monitor such establishments. Congress MLA Rizwan Arshad noted that the amendments introduced by the government lacked provisions to prevent frauds, but only dealt with issues after a fraud was committed. “A permanent competent authority should be established where financial firms are certified,” he said. ‘Act against officials’ JD(S) MLA AT Ramaswamy demanded provisions in the Bill to Act against officials who turn a blind eye to fraudulent companies. “There is a nexus (between officials and fraudsters). If we cannot keep an eye on officials, such law will be of little use,” he said. Another Congress MLA Ramesh Kumar urged the government to ‘withdraw, revise and update the Bill’ with more stringent provisions.  Responding to the demands, DyCM Govind Karjol said that many of the concerns raised by legislators were addressed in the Banning of Unregulated Deposits Act, 2019. There are provisions in the Act for the Reserve Bank of India to regulate such establishments, he added. The Bill also increased penal provisions for those convicted for fraud. Imprisonment term was increased from three to seven years and fines which may extend up to Rs 10 lakh. Convicted financial establishments are also liable for a fine equivalent to Rs 5 lakh, or if deposits are “quantifiable in terms of money, twice the amount of aggregate funds collected” from members. Fine under Epidemics Act An amendment to the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Bill, 2020, was also cleared by the Assembly, which empowered the government to levy fines on those who violate guidelines during the epidemic. Earlier, to levy fines, the government had to file a criminal complaint against the errant party and penalise the person after permission from the jurisdictional court. The amendment introduced provisions for local authorities to levy fines while enforcing guidelines during an epidemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-assembly-clears-depositors-bill-946799.html
03-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||ACB raids properties of MCC top officer||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officers raided the properties of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) Joint Director (Town Planning) Jayaraj K V on Tuesday and verified the documents. The raid was carried out under the direction of ACB SP Bopaiah by DySP Prakash, Inspector Shyamasunder and others. The raid was conducted simultaneously on Jayaraj’s house in Bejai, his office, his father’s house in Padil and his wife’s house in Kerala. The raid was carried out following complaints of amassing wealth disproportionate to known sources of income. The officials have unearthed two houses and three sites at Kumpala, Mysuru and Ullal. The total amount spent on purchasing these properties is Rs 68 lakh. Around 7.79 lakh cash was found in the house of Jayaraj while Rs 3.50 lakh cash was found in the house of his wife at Mahe. About 191 grams of gold ornaments were unearthed in the house of Jayaraj, his wife’s house and in bank locker. In addition, 1,047 grams of silver were also found in houses and bank locker along with fixed deposits, deposit bonds in the name of Jayaraj and his wife. Jayaraj has been serving in the MCC for the last few years. Jayaraj had joined government service in 2004. Jayaraj’s wife is serving as a doctor in a government hospital in Mahe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/acb-raids-properties-of-mcc-top-officer-946866.html
03-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||LPG tanker topples on Mangaluru-Bengaluru highway; traffic hit for 10 hours||The movement of vehicles on National Highway 75 connecting Mangaluru with Bengaluru was hit for nearly 10 hours after a LPG- laden tanker toppled at Soorikumeru in Bantwal taluk in the wee hours of Tuesday. The traffic was restored and normalcy returned on the highway by 2 pm. The tanker was bound for Bengaluru from Mangaluru when the mishap occurred. The movement of vehicles on the highway from Mani to Kalladka was suspended and diverted to an alternative route as a precautionary measure. Vehicles from Mangaluru were diverted to move on the Kalladka-Vittal- Ananthadi road. Those coming from Bengaluru and Uppinangady were diverted to move on the Mani-Budoli-Kabaka stretch. Using the public addressing system of a mosque at Soorikumeru, the residents were alerted and asked not to light fire in the house, as a precautionary measure. Vehicles took the Mani-Kodaje-Mangalapadavu stretch to reach Kalladka-Kerala highway and move towards Mangaluru. As all these interior roads are narrow, there was traffic congestion, affecting office-goers and schoolchildren. People in Vittal experienced inconvenience due to the traffic.  Tankers and lorries were parked beside the road at Kalladka, Melkar and B C Road.  Two shops had been gutted in a fire after a tanker turned turtle at Soorikumeru junction in 2016. The tanker tragedy at Perne had resulted in deaths and houses being gutted on NH-75 in 2013. Expressing their displeasure at the movement of tankers during the night, residents said that the rules were being flouted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lpg-tanker-topples-on-mangaluru-bengaluru-highway-traffic-hit-for-10-hours-946891.html
03-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||K'taka woman becomes president of Vorkady GP in Kerala||A woman from Dakshina Kannada district has been elected as president of Vorkady gram panchayat in neighbouring Kerala's Kasargod district. Bharathi, born in Bantwal taluk, was felicitated by Sri Bhairava Sangha at Parari in Bantwal. Bharathi did her schooling at Infant Jesus Higher Primary School in Modankaup. She has been actively involved in Vorkady after her marriage. Later, she contested in the gram panchayat election representing CPM. Speaking during the felicitation programme, Infant Jesus Higher Primary School Retired head teacher Stella D’Sa said, “Bharathi was talented since her childhood days. She had shown exemplary leadership qualities as a student. It is a great honour that she is elected as the president of a gram panchayat in Kerala. In fact, she has been elected as gram panchayat member thrice.” “Acquiring property and wealth is not important in life. We should extend helping hands to the poor, thereby help them in solving their problems,” Stella said. Sangha Honourary President Ramakrishna Alva said, “It is a matter of pride that a woman hailing from Bantwal has been elected as a gram panchayat president in Kerala. In fact, her father was also an activist in a left party. Now, Bharathi is the voice of the downtrodden in Vorkady.” Sangha President Rajesh Belchada and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ktaka-woman-becomes-president-of-vorkady-gp-in-kerala-947042.html
03-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: 40 nursing students test Covid-19 positive, college sealed||Forty nursing students from neighbouring Kerala have tested positive for Covid-19, prompting authorities to seal their college here as a precautionary measure on Wednesday, official sources said. The direction to seal the Aaliyah Institute of Nursing at Ullal in coastal Dakshina Kannada district in Karnataka, bordering Kerala, was given by the city municipality. Municipal Commissioner Rayappa said 40 students from Kerala studying in the college tested positive for Covid-19 after which the district health officer, nodal officer and himself visited the college and issued the order. The area has been sealed and other students have been isolated from the infected, he said. The step has been taken as a precautionary measure and people need not panic, Rayyappa added. All students from Kerala, which is still witnessing high caseload compared to several other states, including Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, have been directed to take the mandatory Covid-19 test before attending college.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-40-nursing-students-test-covid-19-positive-college-sealed-947099.html
03-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Transgender elected as Gram Panchayat president in Karnataka's Mysuru||JD(S)-supported candidate Devika, a transgender, has been unanimously elected as the president of the Gram Panchayat and Sudha Revanna as the vice president at Saligrama, K R Nagar taluk, Mysuru district. In the election that was held for the post of president and vice president, here on Wednesday, Devika and Lakshmi Somashekar had filed their nominations. As Lakshmi withdrew her nominations, Devika was unanimously elected as the president. Speaking on the occasion, Devika, said that she will work for the development of the village, with the guidance of MLA Sa Ra Mahesh and other leaders. It may be mentioned that Devika won the Gram Panchayat election from Ward No 7 of Saligrama. She had contested from Ward 7, as it was reserved for women. She is a resident of Ambedkar Nagar in Saligrama town. She won with a margin of 30 votes, against her nearest rival.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/transgender-elected-as-gram-panchayat-president-in-karnatakas-mysuru-947201.html
03-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Forest department raze houses of tribals at BRT||The Forest department has irked the tribals by destroying two houses belonging to Soligas at Biligiri Ranganathaswamy Temple (BRT) Tiger Reserve area. The Soliga leaders alleged that the department has warned of vacating the remaining houses within 30 days. The demolished houses belonged to 85-year-old Masanamma and 40-year-old Parvathamma. The district tribal development association has condemned the Forest department, for demolishing the houses. Speaking to DH, BRT officials claimed that the Soligas were allowed to construct houses temporarily in the forest area, that belonged to the department and it is inevitable for them to vacate the place. Madegowda of the association said that around 12 families were living there for more than 20 years. Now, the officials want to vacate them. The tribals could have been given the land documents as per the Forest Act, or by the department itself. But, they have been forced to vacate. While the coffee estate owners have encroached thousands of acres of forest, the department has been harassing the tribals, they alleged. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi visited the spot and interacted with the Soligas. He has assured to speak with the Deputy Conservator of Forests, the tribals said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forest-department-raze-houses-of-tribals-at-brt-947202.html
03-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rangayana reaches out to tribal colonies||Rangayana Director Addanda C Cariyappa said that the repertory has launched ‘Adivasigalatta Rangayanada Chitta’, a programme to reach out to the tribal community people, from Wednesday. Addressing a media conference here, on Wednesday, he said, "There are two initiatives: Giri Rangapayana with a street-play ‘Arivinedge Adivasi’ (tribals towards knowledge) and Giri Janothsava, a convention with tagline ‘Namma Jana, Namma Samskruthi’ (our people, our culture)." “Under Giri Rangapayana, ‘Arivinedge Adivasi’ will be staged in the evenings in 15 tribal colonies (haadi) of Kodagu district, from Wednesday. The first street-play show was at Bommadu, near Nagarahole. Twelve artistes were chosen and trained in a 10-day camp at the Tribal Residential School at Bommadu for the street-play, based on social issues. While Radha Kodagu from the tribal community is the convener of the streetplay, Na Srinivas is the director,” he said. Cariyappa said, "Giri Janothsava is held at Karmadu in Kodagu district on February 23 to showcase the art and culture of the tribal people. Tribal people from various parts of the state will present their folk art. MLC Shantharam Siddi, MLA K G Bopaiah and Krishnamurthy of Vanavasi Kalyana will participate in a seminar."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rangayana-reaches-out-to-tribal-colonies-947203.html
03-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Don't compromise on issues related to women, children: SP||Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth on Wednesday directed the police to take tough action on complaints related to the protection of women and child marriage. Speaking at a training programme ‘Adoption under Juvenile Justice Act’, jointly organised by Directorate of Child Protection, Women and Child Development and Police department at his office, he directed the police not to compromise on complaints related to women and child protection, including child marriage. Cases should be filed and immediate action taken, he said. The SP issued warning to the police following complaints from a few taluk-level Child Development Project Officers (CDPO) that the police are reluctant to support them in many cases. They alleged that the police do not come on time and delays registering cases against child marriages, trying to compromise. The SP warned disciplinary action against the officials failing to co-operate with CDPOs. Child Protection Officer Dr S Diwakar urged the police to provide information to the officials concerned through Childline-1098 and Helpline-181 in connection with the complaints. Additional Superintendent of Police R Shivakumar, Women and Child Development Deputy Director K Padma and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dont-compromise-on-issues-related-to-women-children-sp-947205.html
03-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Seminar as preamble to ‘Parva’||As a preamble to ‘Parva’, the mega-production of Rangayana-Mysuru, ‘Parva: Virat Darshana’, a seminar, is organised on February 21, Sunday at Kalamandira from 10 am to 5 pm. Speaking to media persons, Rangayana Director Addanda C Cariyappa said, "Many professional and amateur troupes stage plays. But, Rangayana repertory and training institute should play the role of a theatre laboratory. The thought of staging literature of an unexplored writer occurred during lockdown, when Rangayana artistes had to stay within the premises and audience could not be allowed in large numbers." "Parva, a novel based on Mahabharata, sans miracles and divine intervention, is one of the best works of S L Bhyrappa. The preparations and rehearsals are underway since lockdown, for the play that would debut on March 12. The seminar is a part of the large exercise,” he said. Honorary secretary of S L Bhyrappa Sahitya Prathistana G L Shekar said, "The seminar is planned as ‘Purva Ranga’ for the play, in view of the vastness of Parva, which was published in 1979 to see 18 reprints. Kannada and Culture Minister Aravind Limbavali might inaugurate the seminar. But, his programme is not confirmed." "Scholar and critic Shathavadhani R Ganesh will deliver a talk on Parva in two sessions, from 10.30 to 11.30 am and from 11.45 am to 1 pm. He will elaborate on the differences between Mahabharata and Parva and deliberate on the deviations. Cariyappa and director of the play Prakash Belavadi will speak on their experiments and experiences on Parva,” he said. Cariyappa said, "The seminar is held in association with the Prathistana as Parva is the biggest ever project of Rangayana, since its inception 32 years ago. Bhyrappa himself will speak in the last session. A few more similar exercises would be conducted as part of the Parva project,” he said. Prakash Belavadi said, "A project like Parva cannot be experimented on the commercial format, either cinema or television. Theatre has an advantage to choose. There is expression and experience on the same platform. There are modifications to suit the format, from literature to theatre. But, the literature of the play is approved by Bhyrappa himself." "The ‘Rangapatya’ of Parva will be released in both Kannada and English, once the play is launched. Earlier, we thought of dividing Parva over five or six days. Finally, it is being staged in three parts and all three parts can be independent plays. While, it is staged in other states, it will have a sub-titles in English,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/seminar-as-preamble-to-parva-947206.html
03-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Shivamogga blast: Congress stages walkout in Council||Congress leaders in the Legislative Council staged a walkout on Tuesday over the Shivamogga quarry explosion incident alleging the state government’s laxity in handling the issue.  The MLCs had been discussing the incident in detail since Monday, demanding an inquiry by a sitting High Court judge and asking the government to hand over the case to NIA for a detailed investigation.  On Tuesday, opposition leader SR Patil and others reiterated their demand questioning why the government was afraid to hand over the case to a sitting judge. “You have appointed a revenue commissioner to inquire into this. This is not enough. You have to take this seriously,” Patil urged the government.  They charged that the government seemed to be lax about pinning the guilty after making a few initial arrests and also wanted to know when the government would begin taking action.  In response, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the state police were more than capable of handling the matter, “We will wait for the interim report. Once that comes out, we will consider handing it over to NIA if there is anything in the incident falling under the purview of Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). We have an open mind on this,” he said.  To this, the opposition leaders demanded the home minister to specify when the interim report would be ready. As the minister responded that the government could not impose a deadline on the interim report, the Congress leaders walked out of the House in protest.  Angered, the minister blamed the Congress for encouraging illegal mining. “Today’s situation is a result of your action over years. Congress is responsible for granting these licences. We are questioning your earlier decisions. Illegal mining is going unabated from 20 years. Why didn’t the Congress government take any action against this in the past?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/shivamogga-blast-congress-stages-walkout-in-council-946798.html
03-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||No-trust motion against Council chairperson: Delay in discussion irks BJP||The issue of the no-confidence motion against Legislative Council chairperson Pratapchandra Shetty yet again came up for discussion in the Upper House on Tuesday, leading to a heated argument between the ruling party and Opposition members. The Council had listed the discussion on the no-trust motion as part of the day’s agenda. However, owing to a delay in preceding discussions, it was yet to be taken up by Tuesday evening. Pointing this out, BJP member Ayanur Manjunath sought to know precisely when the issue would be discussed.  To this, chairperson Shetty said the chair would list it as part of the agenda within five days and that it was not possible to give an exact date or time. By listing it as part of the agenda on Tuesday, the House had already accepted the motion, he said.   Not satisfied by the reply, Manjunath and other BJP members insisted that the chairperson should let them know exactly when it would come up for discussion. Irked by this, Shetty asked the ruling party leaders why they were in such a hurry. “The House has approved the motion. We will give the date, If I don’t take it up within five days, then you can question me. Can’t you wait for three days? This subject is not up for interpretation,” he said.   Leader of the Opposition S R Patil too said that the discussion would be taken up, but demanding to know the exact date was “unfair”. After a heated exchange between the leaders, Shetty’s words prevailed in the and the BJP leaders agreed to wait until the matter came up for discussion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-trust-motion-against-council-chairperson-delay-in-discussion-irks-bjp-946801.html
03-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) MLCs allege discrimination against Mandya||JD(S) members in the Council on Tuesday rushed to the Well of the House, protesting “discrimination” against Mandya district by the government.  Marithibbe Gowda of the party raised the matter in the Zero Hour, alleging that all development works in Mandya had stopped since 2019. “The Zilla panchayat general body meeting has not taken place. All development works have come to a standstill and the government funds, close to Rs 311 crore, have gone unutilised,” he said.  Responding to this, Rural Development Minister K S Eshwarappa said the lack of development works was not owing to discrimination by the government, but due to local politics. “The government does not discriminate against any district. General body meetings were called, but they had to be cancelled as there was no quorum,” Eshwarappa said. “Why didn’t the members attend the meeting? Six meetings have been boycotted. Hence, the action plan could not be approved for 2020-21,” he said.   Mandya district incharge Minister K C Narayana Gowda too said the meetings were not held owing to local politics and discord between the members the panchayat president.  In between, a heated argument in this regard erupted between JD(S) leaders and the ruling party.  At this point, Marithibbe Gowda and Srikante Gowda rushed to the Well of theHouse.  Eventually, Eshwarappa relented and assured to call for a meeting at the earliest and resolve the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-mlcs-allege-discrimination-against-mandya-946802.html
03-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||What happened to your manifesto promises: Siddaramaiah attacks CM BS Yediyurappa||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Wednesday sought to corner the BS Yediyurappa administration by listing out some promises the BJP made in its 2018 election manifesto, which he said remain on paper. He also mounted an attack on the financial situation of the state, calling the government 'Dakota express'. “When taking the oath, Yediyurappa wore a green shawl to say he’s pro-farmer. The BJP’s first promise in the manifesto was to waive farm loans up to Rs 1 lakh. Then, Rs 5,000 crore Raitha Bandhu market intervention fund and Rs 100 crore Raitha Bandhu scholarship for farmers’ children were promised. What happened to these promises,” Siddaramaiah asked in the Assembly as he went on to reject the motion of thanks for the Governor’s address. The Congress leader trained his guns at the Modi administration over the devolution of funds to the state. “Do you know how much taxes the Centre collects from Karnataka? It is Rs 2.2 lakh crore through GST, income tax, customs and cess. Of this, 42% is to be given to us and they keep 58%,” Siddaramaiah said. “But Union Home Minister Amit Shah comes here and says the NDA gave Karnataka two times more than the UPA. How much do we get? About Rs 60,000 crore against Rs 2.2 lakh crore,” he said. The Centre, he said, cannot be defended. “You have 25 MPs. Why aren’t they fighting for the state’s right?” Intervening, Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that it was after Prime Minister Modi came to power that devolution of funds was increased from 32% to 42%. Former Congress minister Priyank Kharge countered this by saying that Karnataka received more when devolution was 32%. “What Kannadigas earn is going to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar,” he said. Bommai said ‘efficiency and equity’ formed the basis to decide devolution. “Efficient states like our should not be punished. I’ve said clearly in the GST Council that a separate category of tax-contributing states should be formed comprising Karnataka, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat,” he said. “What we should rightfully and lawfully get we haven't hesitated to ask on various platforms. But there are formulas that are followed, irrespective of who is in power.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/what-happened-to-your-manifesto-promises-siddaramaiah-attacks-cm-bs-yediyurappa-947164.html
03-02-2021||National||Rihanna tweets in support of India's farmers' protest||International pop star Rihanna on Tuesday extended her support to the ongoing farmers' agitation while criticising the Internet shutdown at the protest site. The 32-year-old singer became the first global star to voice her support to the protest. "Why aren’t we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest," Rihanna wrote on Twitter alongside a CNN news article headlined, "India cuts internet around New Delhi as protesting farmers clash with police.". Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November end, demanding the government to repeal the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The tweet by Rihanna, who has 100 million followers on the microblogging site, garned thousands of retweets and likes within an hour. Bollywood actor Swara Bhasker lauded the "Diamond" hitmaker's remarks, while Kangana Ranaut criticised her statement.   Farmer unions on Monday announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways for three hours in protest against the Internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. Sites of the farmer protest at Delhi's borders have turned into fortresses with the police beefing up security and putting up multi-layer barricades to stop the movement of vehicles. Barbed wire has also been put up to keep off people on foot. The strengthened security measures at the agitation sites across the Delhi borders come after the violence during the Republic day tractor parade by protesting farmers in which 394 security personnel were injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rihanna-tweets-in-support-of-indias-farmers-protest-946791.html
03-02-2021||National||India's Covid-19 vaccination drive still crawling after 17 days||After 17 days of vaccination, the Centre is still to reach the halfway mark in its target of inoculating nearly one crore healthcare workers. The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday informed Parliament that the government aimed to vaccinate over 92.6 lakh healthcare workers, including 7,73,362 from Karnataka. The details of such workers have already been fed into the Co-WIN software, which is informing the shortlisted candidates about the jab. Till Monday, more than 41 lakh healthcare workers had received the first shot, but the number is only about 54% of the people who are supposed to receive the vaccine as more than 40% of the healthcare workers are avoiding the shot due to vaccine hesitancy. As many as 41,20,741 persons have received the first dose of the vaccine in 76,516 sessions held so far. Two states — Gujarat and West Bengal — have begun vaccinating their frontline workers too, and on the first day, 19,902 such workers received their first shot in those two states. Those who received the vaccine would have to get the second shot after 28 days and the protective antibodies would generate 14 days after the second dose. Out of 92,61,227 healthcare workers identified by the state governments for vaccination, the maximum number of workers are from Maharashtra (9,36,857) followed by Uttar Pradesh (9,06,752), Karnataka (7,73,362), West Bengal (7,00,418) and Tamil Nadu (5,32,605). The ministry also informed Parliament that 162 doctors, 107 nurses and 44 ASHA workers died (up to January 22) due to Covid-19 infections. Asked about the expenses incurred by the government to fight the pandemic, the ministry told the lawmakers that the Union Cabinet in April sanctioned Rs 15,000 crore out of which Rs 11,362 crore was spent till January 15. From the central kitty, Rs 6,309 crore was sent to the states — Karnataka got Rs 303.69 crore — to improve their health systems. The vaccination drive continues even as the number of fresh cases continue to fall.  The country’s active caseload has shrunk further to 1.63 lakh (1,63,353), but 70% of such cases are restricted to only two states – Kerala and Maharashtra. The ministry on Tuesday once again deputed two high-level multi-disciplinary teams to these two states to collaborate with the local authorities in instituting public health measures for better Covid-19 management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-vaccination-drive-still-crawling-after-17-days-946804.html
03-02-2021||National||No plans for a central anti-conversion law: MHA in Lok Sabha||Amid BJP-ruled states enacting controversial 'anti-love jihad' laws, the Centre on Tuesday said it has no plans to bring a law at national level saying offences related to conversions are "primarily" the concerns of state administrations. This was disclosed by Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy in a written reply in Lok Sabha to questions raised by Congress MPs T N Prathapan, Anto Antony, K Sudhakaran, A Challakumar and Mohammed Jawed. "Public Order and Police are State subjects as per the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India. Hence prevention, detection, registration, investigation and prosecution of offences related to religious conversions are primarily the concerns of the State Governments/Union Territory (UT) Administrations," Reddy said. Action is taken as per existing laws by the law enforcing agencies whenever instances of violation come to notice, he said. In view of this, he said, the answer to the query on whether the Government intends to propose a central anti-conversion law to curb interfaith marriages is "no". The latest anti-conversion laws enacted by some states had raised controversy with a section claiming that the BJP-ruled states were targeting Muslims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-plans-for-a-central-anti-conversion-law-mha-in-lok-sabha-946827.html
03-02-2021||National||Sri Lanka halts port deal with India and Japan||Sri Lanka on Tuesday scrapped a deal to develop a major port terminal with India and Japan amid weeks-long protests by trade unions and opposition parties while India called on its neighbour to honour the agreement. Sri Lanka had previously agreed to develop the strategic East Container Terminal at the Colombo port with India and Japan. Under the deal, 49 per cent of the terminal's shares were to be owned by India and Japan while Sri Lanka's Ports Authority would retain the majority stake. But on Tuesday, Sri Lanka's government declared the East terminal “a wholly-owned container terminal of the Sri Lanka Ports Authority.” The government said it would instead develop the port's West Container terminal with investment from India and Japan. The Indian embassy in Colombo said India expects the timely implementation of the agreement the three countries signed in 2019. “The commitment of the Government of Sri Lanka in this regard has been conveyed several times in the recent past, including at the leadership level. Sri Lanka cabinet also took a decision three months ago to implement the project with foreign investors,” the embassy said in a response sent via WhatsApp. “All sides should continue to abide by the existing understandings and commitment” the embassy added. There was no immediate comment from Japan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sri-lanka-halts-port-deal-with-india-and-japan-946836.html
03-02-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Made in India' tools counter farmers' stir||With multi-layered barricading, iron nails on road, barbed wires, iron rods between cemented barriers and deployment of DTC buses and extra personnel on ground, the tremendous security cover at and near the farmers' protest locations have now become sites of unusual attraction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-made-in-india-tools-counter-farmers-stir-946848.html
03-02-2021||National||India sees 11,039 fresh Covid-19 cases, 110 deaths||India's Covid-19 tally of cases rose to 1,07,77,284 with 11,039 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries surged to 1,04,62,631, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday.  The death toll increased to 1,54,596 with 110 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.    The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,04,62,631 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.08 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent.   The total Covid-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,60,057 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.49 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,84,73,178 samples have been tested up to February 2 with 7,21,121 samples being tested on Tuesday||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-11039-fresh-covid-19-cases-110-deaths-946850.html
03-02-2021||National||Case registered against Sharjeel Usmani in Pune||Amid mounting pressure, the Pune police has booked students' leader Sharjeel Usmani for his controversial and anti-Hindu comments. Participating at the Elgar Parishad in Pune on 30 January, over the weekend, Usmani, a former student of Aligarh Muslim University, had reportedly said – “Aaj ka Hindu samaj, Hindustan me Hindu samaj buri tarike se saad chukka hai” – that suggested that the Hindu religion in today's times has “rotten”. The Pune speech of the Usmani has come as a major embarrassment for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government – as the public meeting where he spoke had the permission of authorities. The Swargate police station in Pune has registered an FIR against him under section 153A of the Indian Penal Code. The Pune police will now summon Usmani. State's Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said that an FIR has been lodged. "He is not in Maharashtra...he is outside the state, the police is searching him," he said, adding that the FIR was lodged after the video clipping  was analysed by police officials.  BJP youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha's regional secretary Pradeep Gawade has filed a complaint against Usmani. BJP's Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Devendra Fadnavis has written to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding action against Usmani. Fadnavis's counterpart in the Council Praveen Darekar too demanded action against the student's leader. Usmani's speech has gone viral on social media platforms. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta has confirmed that an FIR has been lodged against Usmani. This is for the second time that the Elgar Parishad has run into controversy – the other being the 31 December, 2017 meeting at Shaniwarwada in Pune that is being blamed for the 1 January, 2018 caste violence. The Elgar Parishad event this year was organised in Pune by 'Bhima Koregaon Shaurya Din Prerna Abhiyan' on January 30, which coincided with the birth anniversary of Rohith Vemula, the late Dalit research scholar at University of Hyderabad. Among those who attended the Elgar Parishad include writer-activist Arundhati Roy, former IAS officer Kanan Gopinathan, retired Judge BG Kolse-Patil and retired IPS officer SM Mushrif.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/case-registered-against-sharjeel-usmani-in-pune-946877.html
03-02-2021||National||Centre, Opposition reach consensus on farmers' issue debate, AAP MPs marshalled out of Rajya Sabha||The government and Opposition managed to reach a consensus on the thorny issue of discussing farmers' agitation in Rajya Sabha leading to the initiation of debate on Motion of Thanks to the President's speech on Wednesday but the AAP refused to join hands. In the Upper House, high drama was witnessed as the motion was taken up for discussion at 9:30 AM with three AAP MPs -- Sanjay Singh, N D Gupta and Sushil Gupta -- rushing to the Well of the House shouting slogans and demanding discussion on farmers' issue. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu ordered their removal from the House for the day. The formula -- adding five hours to the debate on the motion and use it for discussion on farmers' issues -- was arrived at after hectic consultations on Tuesday evening involving the government side and Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad among others. Azad spoke to several other Opposition floor leaders before committing to the consensus but AAP had other ideas. Sources said that the AAP is looking at Punjab politics and have taken a different stand. On Tuesday night, Opposition sources said if there was no dedicated time for discussing farmers' issues during the debate on the motion, it would continue their protest. The Opposition protest had resulted in the washout of proceedings on Tuesday. In the House, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said there has been a consensus over increasing the time for debate on the motion from 10 hours to 15 hours and that the consent of the Leader of Opposition has been taken. He also suggested that the Question Hour and Zero Hour and Private Members' business be dispensed with till Friday. Azad said the Opposition was made aware of the convention that no other business is taken up before the Motion of Thanks on the President's speech is concluded. He said he had consultations with other Opposition leaders on the issue and agreed for the increase in time, which could be used for "standalone" discussion on farmers' issues as part of the debate on the motion. Naidu had first warned them AAP MPs that he would be forced to take action against them for their behaviour. "This is nothing but one upmanship," Naidu said. When he asked Azad what should be done, the Opposition leader said they should go ahead as decided. As the three MPs continued their protest, Naidu invoked Rule 255 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Rajya Sabha and asked them to leave the House for the day. However, they refused to do so following which the House was adjourned for about six minutes till 9:40 AM. When the House re-assembled, the MPs stayed put in the House, prompting Naidu to ask marshals to "help" the MPs leave the House. However, they continued to shout slogans in the lobby following which the Chairman instructed that the lobby be cleared. According to Rule 255, the Chairman may direct any member whose conduct is in his opinion grossly disorderly to withdraw immediately from the Council and any member so ordered to withdraw shall do so forthwith and shall absent himself during the remainder of the day’s meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-opposition-reach-consensus-on-farmers-issue-debate-aap-mps-marshalled-out-of-rajya-sabha-946893.html
03-02-2021||National||The Lead: Aero India — What it's like to fly American B-1B Lancer||In this episode of The Lead from DH Radio, instructor-pilot Major Andrew Moenter talks about what it's like to fly American B-1B Lancer, a plane that holds almost 50 world records for speed, payload, range, and speed of climb in its class.  Hi and welcome to DH Radio. The three-day Aero India show beginning in Bengaluru today and the highlight would be the backbone of America's long-range bomber force— The B-1B Lancer. In today's episode, DH's Nina C George speaks to instructor-pilot Maj Andrew Moenter about what's its like to fly this sophisticated aircraft.Listen in. Nina C George: Did you always want to fly as a child? Major Andrew Moenter: As a child, I always loved aeroplanes. But, I didn’t know that I actually wanted to fly until I got a job at a local airport in my hometown. That’s where the love for flying actually started to take hold. Nina: Which were the first few aircraft that you flew? Major Andrew: I started by flying the T-6 Texan (an American single-engine advanced trainer aircraft used to train pilots), moved on to the T-38 Tower and then headed for B-1B Lancer heavy bomber. To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-aero-india-what-its-like-to-fly-american-b-1b-lancer-946895.html
03-02-2021||National||Gujarat: Fire at 3 shops in Ahmedabad building, 8 people rescued||A fire broke out in three shops located in a building in Ahmedabad's Naranpura locality on Wednesday morning, a fire official said. Eight people were rescued from the premises, he said. The blaze erupted around 6.30 am in the shops located on the ground floor of the three-storey building, he said. There are residential apartments on the top two floors of the building and smoke entered the flats following the fire on the ground floor, Ahmedabad's acting Chief Fire Officer Rajesh Bhatt said. "Eight people, including four women, trapped in the apartments of the building were rescued," he said, adding that no casualty was reported. The fire was brought under control after a couple of hours, the official said. The cause of the blaze was not immediately known, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-fire-at-3-shops-in-ahmedabad-building-8-people-rescued-946903.html
03-02-2021||National||3 AAP MPs marshalled out of Rajya Sabha after sloganeering on farm laws||Three Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MPs, including Sanjay Singh, were on Wednesday marshalled out of Rajya Sabha after they disrupted proceedings over the three contentious farm reform laws and refused to heed to Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu's plea for order. The slogan-shouting AAP members stormed into the Well of the House just as the Rajya Sabha took up a discussion on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Parliament. Naidu repeatedly asked them to return to their seats and not disrupt the proceedings. But with his requests going unheeded, the chairman invoked rules of the House to suspend them for the rest of the day and asked them to withdraw from the House. As they refused, he briefly adjourned the proceedings. The MPs, however, did not go out of the House and continued raising slogans when the Rajya Sabha resumed functioning. Naidu again asked them to withdraw from the House and upon their refusal, he ordered marshals to escort them out. The unruly scenes started soon after the Chair announced consensus between the government and the opposition on extending the duration of the debate on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha at the start of the Budget session last week. An extra five hours that took the duration to 15 hours was to allow members to raise the issue of farmers' protests. As the AAP MPs stormed into the Well, Naidu warned that he would name them if they did not go back to their places. When a member is named by the Chair, he or she has to withdraw from the House for the rest of the duration of the day. But the AAP members refused to heed to his pleas. "I am compelled to use Rule 255...Sanjay Singh, Sushil Kumar Gupta, N D Gupta, all of these members are named as per Rule 255. Please withdraw from the House. Please go out of the House," Naidu said as they continued raising slogans. Rule 255 of Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Council of States (Rajya Sabha) is regarding 'withdrawal of member'. Under the rule, the chairman may direct any member whose conduct is in his opinion grossly disorderly to withdraw immediately from the Council, and any member so ordered to withdraw shall do so forthwith and shall absent himself during the remainder of the day’s meeting. After asking the three members to withdraw, the Chairman briefly adjourned the House till 9.40 am. When the Rajya Sabha re-assembled, Naidu again asked the three AAP members to leave the House. "Please withdraw from the House, otherwise I will have to send you out...Please leave the House. Don't create a situation where I have to call the marshals and send you out. That is most unpleasant," Naidu said. As the AAP MPs did not withdraw, the Chairman said: "Please Marshals, help them to leave the House". As members continued to raise slogans from the lobby after they were removed from the House, Naidu said that they be cleared from there so as not to distract other MPs. The trouble started when Naidu called for taking up the 'Motion of Thanks on the President's Address'. Sanjay Singh started speaking, but Naidu asked him to return to his seat saying he would get a chance to speak. "This is not the way. One person disturbing the House and not allowing the discussion to take place, including on farmers issues," the chairman said. The other two AAP members too joined the issue with Singh. "You are not doing anything good to the kisans (farmers). You are hurting their interest by stopping the discussion. We are going to discuss President's address and also farmer issues," Naidu said and warned them. However, the AAP members continued to protest in the Well. "They want a discussion. When the discussion is going to begin, they obstruct the House, and the House, the entire country watches this. "And this is the behaviour of people who want to rule or are ruling in certain parts of the country. This is not fair for anybody, any party. I am not naming any party," Naidu said before adjourning the House briefly till 9.40 am. The chairman said stressed the debate on farmers issue should happen and the government and opposition together should find a solution. Later, members started speaking on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address. Bhubaneswar Kalita of BJP moved the motion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-aap-mps-marshalled-out-of-rajya-sabha-after-sloganeering-on-farm-laws-946912.html
03-02-2021||National||Shashi Tharoor, Rajdeep Sardesai move SC against FIRs over Republic Day tweets||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and senior journalist Rajdeep Sardesai have moved the Supreme Court against multiple FIRs registered against them over their alleged "misleading" tweets on the violence during the farmers' tractor rally here on Republic Day. Journalists Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Paresh Nath and Anant Nath also approached the top court on Tuesday evening against the FIRs. On January 30, Delhi Police had filed a case against Tharoor, Sardesai, The Caravan and others. Earlier, Tharoor and six journalists were booked by the Noida Police for sedition, among other charges, over the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi, officials had said. Madhya Pradesh police have also filed a case against Tharoor and the six journalists over their alleged ''misleading'' tweets on the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi.  On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for the repeal of the Centre's three farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shashi-tharoor-rajdeep-sardesai-move-sc-against-firs-over-republic-day-tweets-946916.html
03-02-2021||National||Don't shoot videos of proceedings in Rajya Sabha Chambers and circulate them on social media: Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu tells MPs||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday asked MPs not to record the proceedings of the House using their mobile phones and said that their circulation on social media amounted to breach of privilege and contempt of the House. Naidu said that there was a restriction on the usage of mobile phones within the Rajya Sabha Chambers which is notified in the Parliamentary Bulletin Part-II, issued prior to the commencement of the sittings of a Session. "It has been observed that some Members are using their mobile phones to record the proceedings of the House while sitting in the Chamber. Such conduct is against the Parliamentary etiquette and is not expected from the Members," he said. He said MPs should desist from such unwarranted activities inside the Chamber. "Such unauthorized recording of the proceedings of the House and its circulation in the social media may lead to breach of privilege and contempt of the House. Members are, therefore, advised to be careful in this regard," he said. He said that the media should also take note of this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-shoot-videos-of-proceedings-in-rajya-sabha-chambers-and-circulate-them-on-social-media-chairman-m-venkaiah-naidu-tells-mps-946921.html
03-02-2021||National||R-Day violence: Rs 1 lakh reward for information on Deep Sidhu||Police have announced cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information that can lead to the arrest of actor Deep Sidhu and three others in connection with the Red Fort incident in Delhi on Republic Day, officials said on Wednesday. A cash reward of Rs 50,000 each was also announced for Buta Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Jajbir Singh and Iqbal Singh for allegedly instigating protesters, police said. The reward of Rs 1 lakh was announced on Sidhu, Jugraj Singh, Gurjot Singh and Gurjant Singh who hoisted flags at the Red Fort or involved in the act, according to police. They were identified through CCTV and video clips, police said. Thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor parade called by farmer unions on January 26 to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and a flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/r-day-violence-rs-1-lakh-reward-for-information-on-deep-sidhu-946924.html
03-02-2021||National||Minimum temperature to remain within comfortable levels for next 2-3 days in Delhi: IMD||Delhi's minimum temperature rose to 10.4 degrees Celsius on Wednesday morning, and is expected to remain within comfortable levels for the next two to three days, the India Meteorological Department said. Easterly winds, which are not as cold as westerlies from snow-clad mountains, have been blowing in Delhi under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance (WD), it said. The WD will also lead to light rain in the national capital on Thursday and Friday, it said. Thunderstorms, lightning and hail could also accompany the unseasonal rains. The minimum temperature is predicted to rise to 11 degrees Celsius on Thursday, the weather department said. The minimum temperature had settled at 6.2 degrees Celsius on Tuesday and 5.3 degrees Celsius on Monday. The maximum temperature on Tuesday stood at 28.1 degrees Celsius, six notches more than normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minimum-temperature-to-remain-within-comfortable-levels-for-next-2-3-days-in-delhi-imd-946948.html
03-02-2021||National||16 Rajya Sabha MPs move 118 amendments to President Ram Nath Kovind's Budget session address||Sixteen MPs have submitted 118 amendments in the Rajya Sabha to the President's Address that kickstarted the Parliament's Budget Session with around two dozen "regretting" the omission of any mention of the three contentious farms laws and the protests being held by farmers against them. Except for YSR Congress floor leader V Vijayasai Reddy, the other 15 MPs had submitted one or more amendments related to the Bills, protest or general agriculture issues. Not all MPs moved the amendments when the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address began as three of  them -- K K Ragesh (CPIM), Reddy and N D Gupta (AAP) -- were not present when their names were called. Of the 15 Opposition MPs who included amendments related to farmers, Trinamool Congress' Nadimul Haque did not move any of his five amendments when he was called to move it in the House. There were at least 14 amendments that "regretted" the President not mentioning the repeal of the three laws and the Centre not intervening to repeal the laws. Five each dealt with the ongoing farmers' protests and general issues like suicide of farmers. Those who submitted amendments on farmer-related issues include Elamaram Kareem, KK Ragesh and Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya [CPI(M)], Tiruchi Siva (DMK), K C Venugopal and Digvijaya Singh (Congress), M V Shreyams Kumar (LJD), among others. One of the amendments by CPI(M)'s Ragesh said that the speech did not mention the "government's refusal" to repeal the laws despite the country witnessing "huge protests by farmers and workers as well as the general public". Siva's amendment talked about the "inability" of the government to resolve the problems of the protesting farmers and respond positively to their demands. Kareem and Bhattacharya sought the amendment of the speech to include that the government did not intervene to repeal the laws despite over 150 farmers losing their lives during the peaceful protest. Venugopal also moved an amendment on the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project and the Rs 900-crore Parliament Building, saying it would put "more economic burden" on the government when the economy is in "negative growth" and during the Covid-19 pandemic. There were over a dozen amendments on Covid-19-related issues and its management by the government, including "detrimental impact" of the "sudden" lockdown" while half a dozen mentioned about migrant workers affected by the pandemic. Other issues mentioned in amendments included job loss, unemployment, paid news, child abuse, "failure" to increase public investment, GST, demonetisation, MNREGA, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-rajya-sabha-mps-move-118-amendments-to-president-ram-nath-kovinds-budget-session-address-946953.html
03-02-2021||National||Opposition should not make farmers' stir another 'Shaheen Bagh', doors always open for farmers:BJP in Rajya Sabha||Asserting that the new farm laws were passed after extensive deliberations in Parliament, the BJP on Tuesday said in Rajya Sabha that doors are always open for farmers to resolve the issue amicably, and urged opposition parties not to make the farmers' agitation another Shaheen Bagh. Moving the Motion of Thanks to the President's address in the upper house, BJP member Bhubaneswar Kalita said the government respects farmers. He said the government has given new rights to farmers through these new farm laws and none of their rights or facilities have been taken away. Attacking the opposition members, who were trying to disrupt the proceedings of the House, he said, "Let me remind them that the three farm laws have been passed by both the houses of Parliament after much deliberations." "The benefits of these three important farm laws have started reaching more than 10 crore people and small farmers. There has been no reduction in the rights and facilities of farmers. Through these agriculture reforms, the government has given new rights to farmers," he said initiating the debate. The motion was seconded by another BJP member Vijay Pal Singh Tomar. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was in the House when the debate started. The opposition members moved as many as 118 amendments to the Motion of Thanks to the President's address. Kalita said even after opposition members are raising the issue to disrupt the House, "we have utmost respect for our farmers". He said Agriculture minister and Railways minister have been holding discussion with farmers and many rounds of discussions have already taken place. "The door is always open for farmers for discussion so that this issue of farm laws can be resolved amicably.The government is ready to discuss all issues concerning it, but my appeal to our friends, please do not make it another Shaheen Bagh," he said. Shaheen Bagh in the national capital was the the epicentre of the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). The BJP member from Assam cited the example of the Citizenship amendment bill which was passed by Parliament after the BJP returned to power with a decisive majority. "Now they have objections and they want to organise another Shaheen Bagh. The anti-CAA parties in Assam are forming new parties and let me remind you what Congress got in 2019 Lok Sabha elections by supporting CAA, the anti-CAA parties will lose in 2021 elections in Assam," Kalita said. "The BJP alliance will win and return to power in Assam," he asserted. He lauded the prime minister for his numerous visits to Assam, noting that Modi and central government officials have visited Assam and northeastern states 40 times during his two terms. This is probably the first time that any prime minister has paid so much attention to the northeast region, he said. He also noted that the government is committed to strengthen the underprivileged sections of society. This government believes in 100 percent implementation of its promises, he said. Kalita said the GST collection was picking up as the economy was on the path of recovery due to efforts taken by the government. Vijay Pal Singh Tomar said the farm laws were passed after extensive deliberations, noting that there have been 12 expert committees in the past two decades on farm reforms. He hit out at those criticising the farm laws, saying they are spreading misinformation. The new laws will help small farmers and the agricultural sector, he said. He also drew a comparison between the agriculture budgets during the UPA tenure and now. He aid one year budget provision for agriculture has been more than five years of that in UPA. He said the agriculture budget was Rs 1.21 lakh crore during 2009-2014 whereas the agriculture budget in 2019-20 was 1.51 lakh crore. "The way the prime minister has taken steps in the agriculture sector, we are sure the sector will grow and help make India a USD 5 trillion economy," he said. He stressed on value addition in farming, saying diversification is required in the sector and that is possible only with the new farm laws. Small and marginal farmers which comprise 86 per cent will benefit from new laws, he said. He said post harvesting losses to farmers is said to be 15-22 per cent and a survey attributes losses at Rs 92,000 crore per annum. Proper storage can save it, he said. Tomar said middlemen were eating into the profits of farmers and new laws were intended to benefit farmers. He pitched for diversification of agriculture and lauded Modi and the BJP government for recognising industrious farmers and conferring awards like Padmashri on them. Tomar also stressed on ethanol production by farmers and said the demand was bound to increase following government's decision to increase blending limit to 20 per cent by 2030. On farm laws, he said some people were creating confusion that farmers will not get MSP whereas during the BJP regime it has risen sharply. The children of farmers will become job providers after these laws and would not be required to work for petty sums, he said. Those who moved amendments included Tiruchi Siva, Digvijay Singh and Deependra Singh Hooda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-should-not-make-farmers-stir-another-shaheen-bagh-doors-always-open-for-farmersbjp-in-rajya-sabha-946958.html
03-02-2021||National||SC junks PIL seeking direction to CBI to submit status report in Sushant Singh death case||The Supreme Court Wednesday junked a PIL seeking direction to the CBI to submit a status report in Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput death case. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian dismissed the plea filed by advocate Puneet Kaur Dhanda. "We are not going to entertain this. You go to the High Court," the bench said. The petitioner had contended that the apex court passed an order for the CBI inquiry on August 19, 2020 and despite lapse of almost five months the probe agency is yet to conclude its investigation. “The CBI is not acting responsibly in the present case and there is a delay in the conclusion of the investigation of the case," it said. “Even in serious offences like murder, the law stipulates filing of charge sheet in 90 days but in the present case the premium investigating agency has failed miserably in their role and the unnecessary delay in the present case is bringing bad name to the administration of justice not only in our country but across the globe,” the plea said. It sought a direction to the CBI to complete its probe within two months and submit a final report in the concerned court. It said Rajput was found dead in mysterious circumstances and the probe was initially conducted by Mumbai Police. “On dissatisfaction being shown by the family of the late actor this Court directed the Central Bureau of Investigation to conduct an enquiry in the mysterious death of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput,” the plea said. The PIL said that a fair, competent, impartial and speedy investigation is the need of the hour. Rajput, 34, who made his silver screen debut in the critically acclaimed ''Kai Po Che'' seven years ago, was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14, 2020. The CBI had taken over the probe from Bihar Police into the alleged abetment to suicide case filed by the actor's father K K Singh in Patna against Rajput's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-junks-pil-seeking-direction-to-cbi-to-submit-status-report-in-sushant-singh-death-case-946959.html
03-02-2021||National||Delhi border blockade by farmers causing inconvenience to people: Centre tells Rajya Sabha||Blocking of borders by agitating farmers is causing inconvenience to residents of Delhi and neighbouring states, besides financial loss to the people and the exchequer, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said large convoys of protesting farmers in tractors tried to "furiously" force their way and go past police barricades to enter Delhi on January 26 in protest against the farm laws. "They aggressively resorted to rioting, damage to government property and used criminal force to deter public servants from discharge of their duty, thereby inflicting injuries to the on-duty police personnel," Reddy said. "The Delhi Police has informed that Gazipur, Chilla, Tikri and Singhu borders of the national capital are blocked by agitating farmers and it is inconvenient to the residents of Delhi and neighbouring states. In any agitation, there is financial loss incurred by people and governments,” he said in a written reply to a question. Reddy added that social distancing was not followed by the farmers and protesters, and they gathered in large numbers without face masks amid the coronavirus pandemic. "The farmers' actions left the Delhi Police with no option but to use tear gas, water cannons and mild force to control the crowd," he said. The minister denied that the National Investigation Agency and the Enforcement Directorate issued summons against 40 people related with voluntary agencies, groups and individuals who are providing humanitarian support to farmers agitation. However, he said, with a view to address the apprehensions of the farmers and resolving the issues raised by them, the government has held 11 rounds of meetings with the leaders of the farmer unions leading the agitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-border-blockade-by-farmers-causing-inconvenience-to-people-centre-tells-rajya-sabha-946961.html
03-02-2021||National||Delhi HC seeks Centre's stand on PIL against new WhatsApp privacy policy||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday sought response of the Centre on a plea challenging the new privacy policy of social networking platform WhatsApp. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and WhatsApp seeking their stand on the plea by March. The petitioners, Seema Singh and Meghan Singh, have contended that the new privacy policy indicates the "fissures" in Indian data protection and privacy laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-seeks-centres-stand-on-pil-against-new-whatsapp-privacy-policy-946964.html
03-02-2021||National||Just blaming farmers for Red Fort violence won't do, let there be SC judge probe: BJD in Rajya Sabha||Describing the violence in Red Fort during the tractor rally on January 26 as one of the "most unfortunate" incidents after Independence, BJD on Wednesday demanded an impartial enquiry, possibly by a sitting Supreme Court judge, saying one cannot stay silent by just pinning the blame on farmers. BJD Rajya Sabha leader Prasanna Acharya made the demand during the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address as he said the speech "did not inspire" people as it was just a "stereotype speech". He said nobody appreciated the incidents when a section of protesters indulged in violence and hoisted religious and farmers' association flags at the iconic monument. Acharya said putting the "whole blame" on some farmer associations or a few leaders is not going to help and his suggestion to the government was to constitute a "proper, impartial enquiry, possibly by a sitting Supreme Court judge" to "know the truth" about those behind the incident. "How thousands and thousands of people were allowed to enter the Red Fort. Who opened the gates of Red Fort? What was the role of the police? What was the role of local administration? What was the role of farmer leaders? What was the role of the farmers organisations spearheading the protest? What was the role of the government as a whole?," he said. "We cannot just sit silent by putting the blame on certain people or certain leaders...The truth has to come out. It is the right  of all countrymen that they know the truth. This is not a simple incident. It is an unprecedented incident,"he said. It was not just on January 26 that there was violence. There have been several incidents in the past couple of years, he said adding that he was not into a blame game. "We need to create a mindset of ahimsa. I appeal to the national leaders and parties to incorporate ahimsa in the Preamble of the Constitution," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/just-blaming-farmers-for-red-fort-violence-wont-do-let-there-be-sc-judge-probe-bjd-in-rajya-sabha-946970.html
03-02-2021||National||Ascertain facts before commenting: MEA reacts to Rihanna, Greta Thunberg's remarks||Accusing "vested interest groups" of trying to mobilise international support on protest against farm laws, Centre on Wednesday issued a terse statement asking celebrities to ascertain facts before commenting, an assertion that came in the backdrop of tweets by celebrities like American pop singer Rihanna and Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg on the ongoing protest. "Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken. The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible," the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement on Wednesday. MEA chief spokesperson Anurag Srivastava tweeted the statement with hashtags--- #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda--- in which the government insisted that the farmer protests must be seen in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity, and the efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse. Greta Thunberg, the youngest person of the year named by Time magazine had tweeted “We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India" while Rihanna had tweeted “Why aren’t we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest”.   Making a strong defence of the three contentious farm laws---Farmers'' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020---, the government said that Parliament had passed after a full debate and discussion the "reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector". Insisting that these reforms give expanded market access and provided greater flexibility to farmers and also pave the way for economically and ecologically sustainable farming, the MEA statement said "a very small section of farmers in parts of India have some reservations about these reforms. It said that respecting the sentiments of the protestors, the government has held eleven rounds of talks with farmer representatives in which Union Ministers have been part of the negotiations and the Centre even offered to keep the laws on hold, an offer iterated by no less than the Prime Minister of India. "Yet, it is unfortunate to see vested interest groups trying to enforce their agenda on these protests, and derail them," the MEA said and referred to the incident of January 26, when a group of protesting farmers had entered the Red Fort and unfurled a religious flag there kicking an outrage on social media. This was "egregiously" witnessed on January 26, India’s Republic Day when a cherished national commemoration, the anniversary of the inauguration of the Constitution of India, was "besmirched, and violence and vandalism took place" in the Indian capital, the statement said. "Some of these vested interest groups have also tried to mobilise international support against India. Instigated by such fringe elements, Mahatma Gandhi statues have been desecrated in parts of the world. This is extremely disturbing for India and for civilised society everywhere," the government said referring to the incident of the vandalisation of Gandhi's statue during a protest organised by Sikh-American youths in support of protesting Indian farmers in the US.  Indian Embassy in Washington DC had then strongly condemned the "mischievous act by hooligans masquerading as protesters" and had taken up the matter with US law enforcement agencies and the US Department of State, seeking an early investigation and action against the culprits under the applicable law. Responding to questions on the MEA's statement on foreign celebrities commenting on far laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said, "I have no opinion on it. It is our internal matter. It is an issue concerning the farmers" but felt the reputation of India has taken a massive hit (outside) not only in relation to how the issue of the protest of farmers has been dealt with but also how journalists have been treated. Meanwhile the MEA statement said that Indian police forces have handled the farmer protests with "utmost restraint" and flagged "it may be noted that hundreds of men and women serving in the police have been physically attacked, and in some cases stabbed and seriously wounded." The MEA statement came on a day when protesting farmers organised a Mahapanchayat in Jind in Haryana as their protest entered 70th day. On Wednesday, the government also sent a notice to the microblogging site Twitter asking it to comply with its order to remove accounts related to a controversial hashtag that alleged farmer genocide. The order came after Twitter unblocked several accounts and posts concerning this controversial hashtag after blocking them for some time.  In December last year also, India has reacted strongly to Canada PM Justin Trudeau's comment on farmers protest saying they were "ill-informed" "Such comments are unwarranted, especially when pertaining to the internal affairs of a democratic country. It is also best that diplomatic conversations are not misrepresented for political purposes," the MEA had said then. Earlier Trudeau had, addressing a Sikh gathering in Canada, which is very influential in that country, spoken about the protest by Indian farmers and said,"the situation is concerning" and assured "Canada will always be there to defend the rights of peaceful protesters."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ascertain-facts-before-commenting-mea-reacts-to-rihanna-greta-thunbergs-remarks-946972.html
03-02-2021||National||Killing of TN fishermen in Sri Lanka unacceptable: Jaishankar in RS||India has taken up with Sri Lanka in the strongest terms the killing of Tamil Nadu fishermen in the island nation, and has made it very clear that such incidents are unacceptable, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar told Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. The statement came after Tamil parties raised the issue of four fishermen from the state being allegedly killed by the Sri Lankan Navy while fishing mid-sea. "We have taken it up in strongest terms with the Sri Lankan government and this particular incident I think was particularly unacceptable and that has been made very very clear to them," Jaishankar said. Raising the issue through a Zero Hour mention, Tiruchi Siva of the DMK said four fishermen of Tamil Nadu were reported missing on January 19 and the Sri Lankan Navy informed that their bodies have been found in the Palk Strait four days later. While the Sri Lankan Navy claims that the boat of the fishermen rammed into their vessel, the fishermen were brutally attacked and killed by the island nation's Navy, he alleged. Fishermen from Tamil Nadu have continuously faced harassment at the hands of the Sri Lankan Navy and have been forced to quit the profession, he said. He sought condemnation of the incident by the prime minister and a quick and prompt response to ensure such incidents don't take place. The government and the prime minister should "take the issue seriously and give hope and confidence that nothing would happen when they go out fishing," he said. M Thambidurai of the AIADMK joined Siva in condemning the incident. He alleged that the Sri Lankan Navy has attacked and killed 245 fishermen from Tamil Nadu so far. Sri Lanka was previously arresting fishermen and India would bring them back but the killing of fishermen is condemnable, he said, adding Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has written to the prime minister for taking necessary action. "I request the external affairs minister to take necessary action and the prime minister to condemn this kind of activities," he said. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said this is an issue going on for a long time and it is not that nothing has been done. "Successive governments have been doing their best but the problem must be resolved is the suggestion of members and I hope the minister will take note," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/killing-of-tn-fishermen-in-sri-lanka-unacceptable-jaishankar-in-rs-946974.html
03-02-2021||National||Repeal farm laws without making it prestige issue: Azad to government||Leader of the Opposition and Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Wednesday asked the government to withdraw the three contentious farm bills without making it a prestige issue. Declaring that disrespect to the national flag cannot be tolerated, he also condemned the violence at Red Fort during the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day. Participating in the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address in the Rajya Sabha, he suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself should make the announcement on repeal of the bills. Modi was present in the House at the time. Azad also made a case for restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir and holding assembly elections, saying that people of the area were not happy and development work had come to halt. In 2019, the erstwhile state was bifurcated into the union territories of Ladakh, and Jammu and Kashmir following the abrogation of Article 370. Earlier in the day, five hours were added to the discussion on the president's address to also allow the raising of issues related to farm bills. The new farm laws have led to protests at border points of the national capital and several parts of the country. "I urge the government to withdraw these three bills," he said, and added that the government should set up a committee to find out the whereabouts of people "who have gone missing" during the farmers' protest. The senior Congress leader cited several examples, including one during his own party's rule in 1988, of the government giving in to the demands of farmers. Referring to the violence that broke out in Delhi during farmers tractor rally on January 26, the Congress leader said the entire opposition condemns the incident as "it is against democracy". "Disrespect to the national flag cannot be tolerated," he said while demanding the strictest of actions against the culprits. Highlighting the problems which farmers would face because of the new laws, Azad said government should see repealing of the legislations as an a "prestige issue". Describing farmers as "annadata", the Congress veteran said there was no point in confronting them. Instead, the government should focus on other important issues, including on revival of the economy. Azad also raised the issue of registration of cases under stringent provisions against certain media persons and also his party colleague Shashi Tharoor. "Shashi Tharoor was minister of state for external affairs. He has represented the country outside. How can he be an anti-national...then we all are anti-nationals," he said, and demanded withdrawal of sedation cases against them in the interest of democracy. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the three laws -- Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/repeal-farm-laws-without-making-it-prestige-issue-azad-to-government-946975.html
03-02-2021||National||Prepared to defeat any misadventures to defend territorial integrity: Rajnath Singh||India is vigilant in the face of attempts to change status quo at its border and prepared to defeat any misadventures to defend territorial integrity, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Wednesday, amid continued military standoff with China. "We have long witnessed unfortunate attempts to employ force to change the status quo at our unresolved borders", Singh said at the inaugural ceremony of Aero India-2021, the country's premier Defence and aerospace show, at Yelahanka Air Force Station here. "India is vigilant and prepared to counter and defeat any misadventures to defend our people and territorial integrity at all costs", the Minister said. China and India are locked in a military standoff in eastern Ladakh since May 5 last. The two countries have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks to resolve the face-off, but no significant headway has been made so far. Singh also said that India plans to spend USD 130 billion on Defence modernisation in the next seven to eight years with focus on domestic manufacturing of bigger and complex platforms. The government has since 2014 brought in many reforms in defence sector to create a conducive ecosystem for exports, Foreign Direct Investment and offset discharge, he noted. To achieve the twin goals of self-reliance and exports, the government has set a target o achieve a turnover of Rs 1,75,000 crore in the field of Defence manufacturing, including export of Rs 35,000 crore in Aerospace and Defence goods and services, by 2024, Singh said. "We plan to spend USD 130 billion on Defence modernisation in the next seven to eight years", he added. Like many of our friendly countries India also faces threats and challenges emanating from multiple fronts, the union minister said adding the country was a "victim of state-sponsored and state deflected terrorism which is now a global threat". The government has taken many steps to strengthen the country's security apparatus recently. Domestic manufacturing of bigger and complex defence platforms has now become the focus of our policy under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan. Singh said he has been informed that about 540 exhibitors including 80 foreign companies, Defence Ministers, Delegates, Service chiefs and officials from more than 55 nations are participating in the event. "It reflects the growing optimism of the global community", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prepared-to-defeat-any-misadventures-to-defend-territorial-integrity-rajnath-singh-946979.html
03-02-2021||National||India fastest country to reach 40-lakh Covid-19 vaccination mark||India has become the fastest country in the world to reach the 40 lakh Covid-19 vaccination mark, achieving this feat in 18 days, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. More than 41 lakh beneficiaries have been administered shots under the countrywide exercise till morning.   "As on February, 1, India was among the top five countries in terms of number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered to people. India continues to undertake its vaccination drive at a fast pace," the ministry highlighted.  India's fight against Covid-19 is bringing daily successes on other fronts as well, it said. Fourteen states and UTs have not reported any deaths in a span of 24 hours including Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Mizoram, Nagaland, Lakshadweep, Ladakh (UT), Sikkim, Manipur, Puducherry, Goa, Odisha and Assam. With a high number of Covid patients recovering every day and the sustained fall in the mortality rate, India's steady trend of registering dipping active cases continues, the ministry underlined. The country's active cases have declined further to 1,60,057 and dipped below 1.5 per cent of total infections. A total of 11,039 new confirmed cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours in the country, the lowest in seven months, the ministry said. Also, 14,225 new recoveries were registered in the same period. It has led to a net decline of 3,296 cases from the total active caseload, the ministry underlined. The total recovered have surged to 1,04,62,631. The National Recovery rate (97.08%) continues to be one of the highest globally, the ministry underscored. "The gap between active cases and recovered cases is continuously increasing and stands at 1,03,02,574," the ministry said adding 31 states and UTs have less than 5,000 active cases. Eight states and UTs have weekly positivity rate higher than the national average (1.91 per cent). Kerala has the highest weekly positivity rate of 12 per cent, followed by Chhattisgarh with 7 per cent, it said. Till Wednesday, 41,38,918 beneficiaries have received the vaccination under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise. In a span of 24 hours, 1,88,762 healthcare workers were vaccinated across 3,845 sessions. A total of 76,576 sessions have been conducted so far.   The number of beneficiaries being vaccinated every day has shown a progressive increase, the ministry stated. Over 85 per cent of the newly recovered cases are recorded in 8 states/UTs. Kerala has contributed the highest number to the newly recovered cases (5,747), followed by Maharashtra(4,011) and Tamil Nadu (521). The ministry further said that 83.01 per cent of the new cases are from six states and UTs. Kerala has reported the highest daily new cases at 5,716. It is followed by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu with 1,927 and 510 new cases each respectively. A total of 110 case fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours. Five states and UTs account for 66.36 per cent of these. Maharashtra reported maximum casualties with 30 new fatalities. It is followed by Kerala with 16 new daily deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-fastest-country-to-reach-40-lakh-covid-19-vaccination-mark-946980.html
03-02-2021||National||India invites global defence and aerospace companies to set up manufacturing units||India on Wednesday invited global defence and aerospace companies to set up manufacturing units in the country taking advantage of various initiatives taken by the government in the field. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India offers unlimited potential in defence and aerospace. "Aero India is a wonderful platform for collaborations in these areas. The Government of India has brought futuristic reforms in these sectors, which will add impetus to our quest to become Aatmanirbhar," Modi wrote on Twitter. Speaking at the inaugural ceremony of Aero India-2021, the country's premier defence and aerospace show, at Air Force Station at Yelahanka here, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh invited global companies in the field to set up manufacturing units in the country by taking advantage of various initiatives taken by the government. India offers unlimited potential in defence and aerospace. Aero India is a wonderful platform for collaborations in these areas. Since 2014, Singh said, the central government has brought in many reforms in defence sector to create a conducive ecosystem for exports, Foreign Direct Investment and offset discharge. "I have been informed that about 540 exhibitors including 80 foreign companies, Defence Ministers, Delegates, Service chiefs and officials from more than 55 nations are participating in the event. It reflects the growing optimism of the global community", he said. Despite the constraints posed by the global pandemic, Singh said he is pleased to see such a large number of participants in this years event. "The Aero India 21 will display the vast potential of India, and the multifarious opportunities that our country offers in the field of defence and aerospace sector. It also promises to be the World's First Ever Hybrid Aero and Defence exhibition", the Minister added on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-invites-global-defence-and-aerospace-companies-to-set-up-manufacturing-units-946982.html
03-02-2021||National||Rajnath Singh blasts foreign aggressors during Aero India||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh lambasted foreign aggressors during his inaugural speech on the opening day of Aero India 2021 on Wednesday. While he did not mention China or Ladakh by name, Singh said that India is prepared to defend the territorial integrity of the country at all costs. “India is vigilant and prepared to counter and defeat any misadventure. We will defend our people and our territorial integrity at all cost,” he said. The warning came as Singh praised the advancement of the Indian indigenous arms industry and suggested that the strides in arms manufacturing will be used to strengthen the country’s military while serving as a force of deterrence. While he described global terrorism as an ever-present threat, Singh said that India nevertheless faced military challenges across several fronts. “India also faces threats and challenges emanating from multiple fronts. India is a victim of state-sponsored and the use of force along our unresolved borders,” he said, however, adding that India’s modernization of its defense manufacturing and military also made it a force for good in the region. “We have a long coastline and with the indigenous development of aircraft and other technology we are able to serve, protect and help people in need of aid, while ensuring stability in the region,” he said. Domestic manufacturing of bigger and complex defence platforms has now become the focus of our police under ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. We plan to spend $130 billion to modernise the military over the next eight years,” he said. He also specified that the centre had enhanced foreign direct investment in the defence sector up to 74% through the domestic route and the 100% through the government route. This should “act as a catalyst for foreign players to invest in India,” he said. The minister also said that India is keen to forge new relationships with friendly countries while “deepening existing relationships.” He expressed confidence that Aero India 2021 will showcase the country’s commitments. He also acknowledged the physical presence of defence ministers from other countries who were attending a special Defence Minister Conclave due to be Thursday. Defence Ministers from the Comoros, Sudan, Ukraine, Madagascar, Iran and Equatorial Guinea were in attendance at the air show.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-blasts-foreign-aggressors-during-aero-india-946988.html
03-02-2021||National||With social media solidarity, protesting Indian farmers win global attention||Protesting Indian farmers won global attention on Wednesday with prominent Western activists joining pop superstar Rihanna in support of their months-long campaign against agriculture reforms they say will benefit big business at their expense. Tens of thousands of farmers have been camped out on the outskirts of the capital, New Delhi, since late last year, braving the winter chill to show opposition to three new laws the government says will make the sector more efficient. Their largely peaceful campaign turned violent last week when a farmers' procession of tractors entered the heart of Delhi and some protesters confronted police, who responded with tear gas and batons. Police have since heavily barricaded three main protest sites with concertina wire fences and obstructions on roads and shut off the internet in some areas. "We ALL should be outraged by India's internet shutdowns and paramilitary violence against farmer protesters," U.S. lawyer and activist Meena Harris, the niece of Vice-President Kamala Harris, said on Twitter. Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg also posted a message of support on Twitter, sharing a news report about the internet shutdowns. "We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India," Thunberg wrote. Hours earlier, singer Rihanna created a flutter in India by posting an article on the demonstrations to her 101 million Twitter followers, also using the #FarmersProtest tag. Some supporters of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government hit back at the foreign comment. Actress Kangana Ranaut described the protesting farmers as "terrorists who are trying to divide India". "Sit down you fool, we are not selling our nation," Ranaut said in reply to Rihanna's post. The government insists the reforms, which will allow big retailers to buy directly from growers, will benefit farmers and draw investment to a sector that makes up nearly 15% of India's $2.9 trillion economy and employs about half its 1.3 billion people. The farmers say the reforms will mean the end of long-standing guaranteed prices for their crops and leave them vulnerable to the whims of big business. The farmers are demanding the withdrawal of the three laws, introduced in September. The government has offered some concessions but has ruled out abandoning the reforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-social-media-solidarity-protesting-indian-farmers-win-global-attention-946989.html
03-02-2021||National||Dr Reddy's to seek emergency use authorisation for Russia's Sputnik V vaccine by March||India's Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd will seek emergency-use authorisation for Russia's Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine by next month, a company official said on Wednesday, after peer-reviewed trial data confirmed its effectiveness. A source close to the drug regulator said the application could come within days and when approved, bolster India's 18-day-old immunisation campaign which has covered more than 4 million people with two other shots. Dr Reddy's has been working with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to hold small clinical trials of Sputnik V in India. On Tuesday, RDIF told Indian news agency ANI that it expected to get approval for the vaccine this month or the next. "We will be applying for emergency-use authorisation (EUA) by March 2021," a Dr Reddy's spokeswoman told Reuters in an email, adding that the company had partnered with RDIF to distribute 250 million doses. Indian regulator the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) had no immediate comment on a potential application. The vaccine has proved 91.6% effective against Covid-19, based on late-stage trials in Russia, results published in the Lancet medical journal showed on Tuesday. More than a million people in Russia have received Sputnik V, which is marketed abroad by the RDIF and has been approved for emergency use in Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, Mexico and Serbia. RDIF expects India, the world's biggest vaccine maker, to produce about 300 million doses of Sputnik V this year. Hetero Biopharma is making more than 100 million doses. India's regulator has approved for emergency use the AstraZeneca vaccine and another developed at home by Bharat Biotech and the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research. A similar request from Pfizer and partner BioNTech for their vaccine is pending with the regulator. India says it is the nation fastest to reach the milestone of 4 million vaccinations, with the United States taking 18 days and Israel and Britain 39 days each. Reuters could not find comparable data for China. Except for the United States, India has the most virus infections, reporting 11,039 new cases on Wednesday, taking its tally to 10.78 million. Deaths rose 110 to stand at 154,596.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dr-reddys-to-seek-emergency-use-authorisation-for-russias-sputnik-v-vaccine-by-march-946995.html
03-02-2021||National||India falls to 53rd position in EIU's Democracy Index||India slipped two places to 53rd position in the 2020 Democracy Index's global ranking, according to The Economist Intelligence Unit, which said the "democratic backsliding" by authorities and "crackdowns" on civil liberties has led to a further decline in the country's ranking. However, India is ranked higher than most of its neighbouring countries. India's overall score fell from 6.9 in 2019 to 6.61 in the Index that provides a snapshot of the current state of democracy worldwide for 167 countries. "With mounting pressure on India’s democratic norms, India’s score fell from a peak of 7.92 in 2014 to 6.61 in 2020 and its global ranking slipped from 27th (in 2014) to 53rd as a result of democratic backsliding" under the current regime, The Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) said. Norway topped The Economist Intelligence Unit's latest Democracy Index report titled "Democracy in sickness and in health?", with Iceland, Sweden, New Zealand and Canada making up the top five. Out of 167 countries, the Democracy Index classifies 23 countries as full democracies, 52 as flawed democracies, 35 as hybrid regimes and 57 as authoritarian regimes. India has been classified as a 'flawed democracy' along with countries such as the US, France, Belgium and Brazil. The EIU report said that in India and Thailand, "democratic backsliding by the authorities and crackdowns on civil liberties led to a further decline in their global rankings". It further alleged that the Narendra Modi-led government has "introduced a religious element to the conceptualisation of Indian citizenship, a step that many critics see as undermining the secular basis of the Indian state". "The authorities’ handling of the coronavirus pandemic led to a further erosion of civil liberties in 2020," the report said. India was ranked 51st in the 2019 Democracy Index. Among India's neighbours, while Sri Lanka, at 68th rank, is classified as a flawed democracy, Bangladesh (76), Bhutan (84) and Pakistan (105) are classified in the 'hybrid regime' category. Afghanistan is ranked 139th and classified as an 'authoritarian regime' in the index. The EIU report looks at the impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on freedom and democracy around the world. The Asia and Australasia region includes top-scoring New Zealand, which retained its fourth position in the global ranking (out of 167 countries), and persistent laggard North Korea at the bottom of the global ranking in 167th place, the EIU said in a statement. The region’s overall score fell in 2020, but it now has five “full democracies” with Japan, South Korea and Taiwan moving up the rankings compared with 2019. Australia retains its “full democracy” status and high ranking (9th). Japan and South Korea both returned to the “full democracy” fold for the first time since 2014. Taiwan attained “full democracy” status for the first time following a spectacular jump up the rankings. Despite these upgrades, Asia’s average regional score deteriorated to its lowest level since 2013 as official measures taken to combat the coronavirus pandemic led to some of the most severe constraints on individual freedoms and civil liberties in the world, the EIU said. China, Singapore and others went much further than the rest of the world in tracking and policing their citizens and locking them down in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, it said. Joan Hoey, Editor of The Economist Intelligence Unit's annual Democracy Index report, said, "The symbolism of Asia gaining three new 'full democracies' in 2020 and western Europe losing two (France and Portugal) was apt, as the coronavirus pandemic has accelerated the shift in the global balance of power from the West to the East." "Asia continues to lag behind the West in democratic terms having only five 'full democracies', compared with western Europe’s 13, but the region has, so far, handled the pandemic much better than virtually any other, with lower infection and mortality rates and a fast economic rebound," she said. Asian governments reacted decisively (albeit deploying coercive powers in some cases), benefited from well-organised health systems and retained the confidence of their populations, she said. By contrast, European governments were slow to act, some health systems came close to collapse and public trust in government declined, Hoey added. The Economist Intelligence Unit (The EIU) is the world's leading resource for economic and business research, forecasting and analysis, a statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-falls-to-53rd-position-in-eius-democracy-index-946996.html
03-02-2021||National||Govt formally seals Rs 48,000 cr deal to procure 83 Tejas LCA from HAL||The government on Wednesday formally sealedthe Rs 48,000 crore deal to procure 83 Tejas light combat aircraft from state-run aerospace behemoth Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. The contract was handed over by Director General (Acquisition), Ministry of Defence, V L Kantha Rao to Chairman and Managing Director of HAL, R Madhavan, at the inaugural ceremony of Aero India-2021, the country's premier defence and aerospace show, here, in the presence of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Tejas, manufactured by the HAL, is a single engine and highly agile multi-role supersonic fighter aircraft capable of operating in high-threat air environments. The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month approved the deal for procurement of the 73 Tejas Mk-IA variant and 10 LCA Tejas Mk-I trainer aircraft from the HAL to boost IAF's combat prowess.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-formally-seals-rs-48000-cr-deal-to-procure-83-tejas-lca-from-hal-946997.html
03-02-2021||National||Academicians seek repeal of farm laws, says these pose major threat to farming communities||Over 400 academicians from across the country and several universities abroad have urged the central government to immediately abandon the three new farm reform laws which they said, "pose a major threat to farming communities all over India". In a joint statement issued on Wednesday, the academicians have expressed concerns about the ongoing farmers' protests and their suffering at the borders of Delhi. Last month, over 850 academicians from various educational institutions across the country had signed an open letter backing the legislations. The 400-odd academicians in their statement said, "The three new laws that have been enacted by the government are aimed at bringing in fundamental changes in the way farming will be done in the country and they pose a major threat to farming communities all over India." "The government must re-look at these issues. A nationwide debate should be launched starting at the village level, involving stakeholders from all sections of society before framing laws and policies which will help farming communities and other marginalised communities in the long-term. To pave the way for solving farmers issues, the current laws should be abandoned without any further delay," it added. The 413 signatories to the statement include academicians from universities and institutions including Jawaharlal Nehru University, Jadavpur University, IIT Kanpur, IIT Madras, IISc Bangalore, Indian Statistical Institute Kolkata, Delhi University, Panjab University, Tezpur University, Central University of Punjab, IIT Bombay and IIM Calcutta. A few signatories are from foreign universities including University of Zagreb, Croatia; London Film School, University of Johannesburg, University of Oslo, University of Massachusetts and University of Pittsburgh. The academicians recommended that farming could be made into a sustainable and profitable activity by announcing minimum support price (MSP) for a large number of crops, specifying state-wise quotas for government procurement, and making the MSP rate legally binding for all other buyers as well. The statement also called for price control on farm inputs such as manure, seeds and power, farm loan waivers, and a revival of the village-based development model so that migration to cities could be curtailed. It warned that the Centre's proposed “commodity market model” was not viable in India as it could lead to food instability and exploitation of small farmers. "The winding up of government-controlled markets allowing contract farming by companies will lead to land-owning farmers slowly being forced to become tenants, the way they were in the older feudal system of land holdings," said the statement. Thousands of farmers have been camping at several Delhi border points, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws -- the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act -- and legal guarantee of minimum support price for their crops. Enacted in September 2020, the government has presented these laws as major farm reforms aimed at increasing farmers' income, but the protesting farmers have raised concerns that these legislations would weaken the minimum support price (MSP) and "mandi" (wholesale market) systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporations. The government has maintained that these apprehensions are misplaced and has ruled out a repeal of the laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/academicians-seek-repeal-of-farm-laws-says-these-pose-major-threat-to-farming-communities-946998.html
03-02-2021||National||Govt notice to Twitter after it unblocks accounts over farm protests||The Centre has asked Twitter to remove posts and accounts related to the 'farmer genocide' hashtag and threatened to take penal action if it failed to follow the direction. The Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) issued a fresh notice to Twitter after the micro-blogging platform reinstated a number of accounts posting about ‘farmer genocide’ despite the government's earlier directive to block them.  After the Centre's direction under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act on Monday morning, the US-based company had blocked several accounts including those that posted under #ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide. Accounts belonging to the Kisan Ekta Morcha and Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), Aam Aadmi Party MLA Jarnail Singh and activist Hansraj Meena were blocked. However, many accounts were reinstated the same night. Taking objection to Twitter unilaterally reinstating those accounts, the government told the social media firm that it is an intermediary which is obliged to obey the directions of the government. The refusal to do so will invite penal action, the Centre said. The content posted under the hashtag was designed to inflame passions, hatred, create tensions, and was factually incorrect, the government said. “Incitement to genocide is not freedom of speech but a threat to law and order," it said. The ministry insisted that Twitter cannot assume the role of the court and justify non-compliance. “Twitter cannot sit as an appellate authority over the satisfaction of the authorities about its potential impact on derailing public order. It is only an intermediary,” the notice said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-notice-to-twitter-after-it-unblocks-accounts-over-farm-protests-946999.html
03-02-2021||National||J&K, Ladakh fully integrated into mainstream of India, G Kishan Reddy tells Rajya Sabha||The Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have been fully integrated into the mainstream of the nation after the abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy told Parliament on Wednesday. He told Rajya Sabha that as many as 613 separatists, overground workers and stone pelters were detained in Jammu and Kashmir since August 2019 and 430 of them have been released so far. Replying to another question, Reddy said after the constitutional changes and reorganisation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, the UTs of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have been fully integrated into the mainstream of the nation. "As a result, all the rights enshrined in the Constitution of India and benefits of all the central laws that were being enjoyed by other citizens of the country are now available to the people of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh," he said. Reddy said the change has brought about socio-economic development in both union territories, empowerment of people, removal of unjust laws, bringing in equity and fairness to those discriminated since ages who are now getting their due. These, along with comprehensive development, are a few of the important changes that are ushering both the new UTs towards the path of peace and progress. With the conduct of elections of Panchayati Raj Institutions such as Panches and Sarpanches, Block Development Councils and District Development Councils, the three-tier system of grassroots level democracy has now been established in Jammu and Kashmir, he said. The minister said various measures were taken in the interest of security and public order which included preventive detention of certain persons. "Since August 1, 2019, 613 persons including separatists, overground workers, stone pelters, etc. were detained at various points of time. Out of these, based on regular review and ground situation, 430 persons have been released till date,” he said in written reply to a question. The minister also said that the Jammu and Kashmir administration has further reported that no person is under house arrest in the UT. Reddy also said the Jammu and Kashmir administration has approved a business revival package of Rs 1,352.99 crore on September 25, 2020. An amount of Rs 434.08 crore was released up to December 31, 2020, out of which Rs 250 crore was as economic package and Rs 184.08 crore as COVID-19 relief. The amount of Rs 434.08 crore has been fully utilised by December 31, 2020, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-ladakh-fully-integrated-into-mainstream-of-india-g-kishan-reddy-tells-rajya-sabha-947003.html
03-02-2021||National||Arrested PDP youth leader Para being kept under 'inhuman conditions and tortured', alleges Mehbooba||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday alleged her party's youth wing president Waheed Para, arrested by the Jammu and Kashmir Police last month, was being kept under "inhuman conditions and tortured" to compel him to admit to false charges. However, the Jammu and Kashmir Police without naming the former chief minister termed the comments "unfortunate" and said the "CID is answerable to the courts on all aspects including whether amenities and rights available to a person under custodial investigation and his legal obligations to cooperate in the investigation are being complied." In a series of tweets, Mehbooba said it was “shameful and appalling” and that such actions discredit and bring disrepute to the institutions meant to uphold law and order. "J&K CID has joined the list of central agencies that work to terrorise Kashmiris & falsely implicate them.... Waheed is being persecuted & tortured to admit the false allegations. Since an admission didn't happen he is being kept under inhuman conditions. This investigation has been fraudulent & politically motivated from day one," she alleged. "The norm dictating such deceitful investigations is 'Show me the man & I'll show you the crime'. Shameful & appalling that these actions discredit & bring disrepute to the institutions meant to uphold law & order," the former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir further alleged. Para was first arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on November 25 last year in a case related to his alleged links to the Hizbul Mujahideen terror outfit. He was later granted bail by an NIA court on January 9. However, the PDP youth leader, who won the District Development Council (DDC) elections held in November-December last year, was arrested by the police shortly after he walked out of a jail in Jammu and continues to remain in custody. In an apparent reference to Mehbooba's remarks, the Jammu and Kashmir Police said, "Recent comments about CID investigations in the public domain through social media are unfortunate for two reasons: for being factually incorrect and making CID officers vulnerable to increased threats and enhanced risks." "It is also fraught with the risks of adversely influencing the witnesses and the course of investigation. It is factually incorrect that an under investigation person was tortured. CID investigations are done professionally and as per law,” the police said in a statement in Jammu. The police said each and every arrested person is presented before competent court periodically as per law. "Every arrested suspect has access to health care and doctors. It is neither proper nor lawful to discuss and pass verdict like remarks in the public domain about ongoing complex investigations,” it said. It said, "The CID is answerable to the courts on all aspects including whether amenities and rights available to a person under custodial investigation and his legal obligations to cooperate in the investigation are being complied.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arrested-pdp-youth-leader-para-being-kept-under-inhuman-conditions-and-tortured-alleges-mehbooba-947004.html
03-02-2021||National||Desecration of temples in Andhra Pradesh raised in Rajya Sabha||A BJP member raised the recent spate of attacks on Hindu temples in Andhra Pradesh in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday and demanded that the Union Home Ministry seek a report from the state. Raising the issue through a zero-hour mention, GVL Narasimha Rao of the BJP said more than 140 incidents of attacks on Hindu temples have taken place in Andhra Pradesh. Stating that there has been a spate of attacks on Hindu temples in the state, he said there have "either (been) attacks or some kind of activities which cause grievous harm to the sacred nature of places of worship." He mentioned a recent incident of desecration of Lord Ram idol in Sri Rama Swamy Devasthanam in Vizianagaram district. "Idol of Bhagwan Ram was severed, it was beheaded" at Ramateerth -- a temple considered North Andhra's Ayodhya -- he said, adding the temple is 400 years old. "Several such incidents have happened," he said, adding a 70-year-old wooden chariot belonging to Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Temple in Antarvedi town in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh was burnt. Similarly, a chariot of Sri Prasanna Venkateswara Swamy temple at Bitragunta of Nellore district was burnt last year. "The state government had not acted in time for last year and a half. As a result, several such incidents have happened," he alleged. He said even recently when the state government swung into action after a massive uproar, it blamed some political individuals for posting against such incidents on social media rather than catching the culprits involved in such acts of sacrilege. "This is something that has deeply hurt not only Hindus in Andhra Pradesh but all over the country and also dharmacharyas," he said. "Rather than taking it as a political episode, it is incumbent upon the state administration to identify the real culprits and punish them in a manner that really sends a strong message." He appealed to the Union Home Ministry to get into action and ask the state government for a report. During the Zero Hour, Fauzia Khan of the NCP demanded recruiting more officers through the UPSC Civil Services and Grade A exams so as to lessen the burden on the bureaucracy and bring more accountability and transparency. P Subhash Chandra Bose (YSR-Congress) raised the issue of GST on handlooms making them expensive, his party colleague Ayodhya Rami Reddy wanted the government to take steps to support companies in the infrastructure sector which have faced cost and time overruns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/desecration-of-temples-in-andhra-pradesh-raised-in-rajya-sabha-947007.html
03-02-2021||National||SC declines to consider fresh plea on 'Love Jihad' law||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to entertain a fresh petition against the laws to regulate inter-faith marriage and check incidents of alleged 'Love Jihad' in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked NGO People's Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL) to rather go to the high courts concerned. "We would like to have views of the High Court," the bench said, even as senior advocate Sanjay Parikh contended that similar laws were in the process of being passed in Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. Notably, acting on a plea by advocate Vishal Thakre and others, the court had on January 6 issued notice to the Uttarakhand and the Uttar Pradesh governments challenging validity of the laws. The court, however, had then refused stay on operations of 'Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020' and 'the Uttarakhand Freedom Of Religion Act, 2018', saying the petitioners should have ideally approached the High Courts. In their plea, Thakre and others claimed the move was against the public policy and society at large, besides curtailing fundamental rights of the citizen. The move by the two state governments was also against the provisions of the Special Marriage Act, 1954, they claimed. The Yogi Adityanath government's Ordinance carried maximum punishment of 10 years jail for conversion brought on fraud, deceit and misrepresentation of facts, for the purpose of marriage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-to-consider-fresh-plea-on-love-jihad-law-947015.html
03-02-2021||National||One of the most vital innovations: Anand Mahindra calls for Nobel for innovators of new Covid-19 vaccine 'pill'||Mahindra Group Chairman Anand Mahindra on Tuesday called for a Nobel Prize for the innovators of a new Covid-19 vaccine 'pill' being developed in the UK.  Mahindra tweeted an image of a report about a small biotech firm from the UK's West Sussex working on a Covid-19 vaccine pill. "IosBio, which is based in Burgess Hill, has developed a method of putting vaccines into pill form and is working with a US firm that has made an injectable vaccine that is going through human trials," reads the report.  "This would revolutionise vaccination efforts, eliminating the need for complicated logistics to deliver fragile vials and for armies of healthcare workers and volunteers to do the inoculation," it further read. "Don’t know if there’s any validity in this report. But would the Nobel Academy please give them a Nobel if they succeed? Probably one of the most vital innovations the world needs right now," said Mahindra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-of-the-most-vital-innovations-anand-mahindra-calls-for-nobel-for-innovators-of-new-covid-19-vaccine-pill-947021.html
03-02-2021||National||Stage collapses at Rakesh Tikait's mahapanchayat in Haryana's Jind||The stage on which BKU chief Rakesh Tikait and other farmer leaders were sitting collapsed at a “mahapanchayat” held in Haryana’s Jind to drum up support for the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws on Wednesday. The congregation was held at Jind’s Kandela village with several khap leaders in attendance. The event was organised by the Sarv Jatiya Kandela Khap headed by Tekram Kandela.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stage-collapses-at-rakesh-tikaits-mahapanchayat-in-haryanas-jind-947031.html
03-02-2021||National||Sharad Yadav's confidant quits Loktantrik Janata Dal||A close associate of Loktantrik Janata Dal patron Sharad Yadav has resigned from the party. Arun Srivastava, the party's general secretary who had been a confidant of Yadav for decades, said on Wednesday that the Loktantrik Janata Dal is fading away, and the decision of its patron's daughter to fight the recent Bihar assembly polls on a Congress ticket has raised a question mark over its existence. Yadav has not been politically active for months due to health reasons. His daughter Subhashini Raj Rao had contested the assembly polls as a Congress candidate. Srivastava is likely to join the Nationalist Congress Party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sharad-yadavs-confidant-quits-loktantrik-janata-dal-947032.html
03-02-2021||National||Crimes against SCs, STs increased in 2019: Govt tells Rajya Sabha||The government on Wednesday told Rajya Sabha that crimes against members of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the country increased by 7.3 per cent and 26.5 per cent respectively in 2019. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy, however, said police and public order are state subjects under the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution and the responsibilities to maintain law and order, protection of life and property of citizens including investigation and prosecution of crime against members of SCs and STs rest with respective state governments. “Yes, sir,” was the reply of Reddy when asked whether it is a fact that crimes against members of SCs and STs communities have increased by 7.3 per cent and 26.5 per cent respectively in 2019 as per the latest 'Crime in India-2019' report of the National Crime Records Bureau. The written question was asked by Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge. Reddy said the state governments are competent to deal with such offences under the extant provisions of laws. However, he said, the central government is committed to ensure the protection of SCs and STs and the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 (PoA Act) has been amended in 2015 to make it more effective. The amendments include new offences, expanded scope of presumptions, institutional strengthening, which includes the establishment of exclusive special courts and specification of exclusive special public prosecutors to exclusively try the offences under the PoA Act to enable expeditious disposal of cases, power of special courts and exclusive special courts to take direct cognizance of offence and as far as possible, completion of trial within two months from the date of filing of the charge sheet besides others, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crimes-against-scs-sts-increased-in-2019-govt-tells-rajya-sabha-947033.html
03-02-2021||National||Bird census to be held at Bandipur from Feb 5-7||The Forest Department is conducting a bird census in the Bandipur Tiger Reserve from February 5 to 7, after 18 years. The department has made all necessary preparations for the three-day census. More than 300 people will be participating in the census, including employees of 13 ranges of Bandipur, volunteers and 20 students from Ponnampet. The census will be done on all three days from 6 am to 10 am and from 3 pm to 6 pm. Speaking to DH, Bandipur Tiger Project Director S R Natesh said, "A large number of birds from North India migrate to the southern parts during the winter. Kabini, Nugu backwaters and Bandipur forests attract a large number of birds. A survey is being conducted to study the birds during the three days. Arrangements have been made for the participants to stay at the anti-poaching camps," he said. Bird watchers can spot more than 150 birds like pelicans, storks, bulbul, water crows and several rare species in Bandipur Reserve. The census is aimed at getting information on the variety of birds and also details on local and migratory birds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bird-census-to-be-held-at-bandipur-from-feb-5-7-947034.html
03-02-2021||National||Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn and others say 'India against propaganda' after Rihanna, Greta support farmers protest||Bollywood stars Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, filmmaker Karan Johar and Suniel Shetty on Wednesday said citizens should focus on the government's efforts to resolve the ongoing farmer crisis rather than paying attention to "half truths" and those "creating differences." Their comments came after the Ministry of External Affairs reacted sharply to comments by international pop star Rihanna, teen climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on farmers' protests. In a statement, the MEA said a very small section of farmers in parts of the country have some reservations about the farm reforms and a proper understanding of the issue is needed before rushing to comment on the agitation. Rihanna, who has 100 million followers on Twitter and is among the most followed people on the microblogging site, on Tuesday tweeted, "why aren’t we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest, linking a CNN report on the internet shutdown near the protest site. Sharing the MEA statement on Twitter, Akshay said that the efforts by the government to solve the issue are "evident". "Farmers constitute an extremely important part of our country. And the efforts being undertaken to resolve their issues are evident. Let’s support an amicable resolution, rather than paying attention to anyone creating differences. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda," Kumar wrote. Devgn urged the people to be wary of "false propaganda against India or Indian policies". "Don’t fall for any false propaganda against India or Indian policies. Its important to stand united at this hour w/o any infighting #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda" he posted. Johar said the country shouldn't let "anyone divide us". "We live in turbulent times and the need of the hour is prudence and patience at every turn. Let us together, make every effort we can to find solutions that work for everyone—our farmers are the backbone of India. Let us not let anyone divide us. #IndiaTogether" he said. Shetty also shared the MEA on Twitter, saying nothing is "more dangerous than half truth". "We must always take a comprehensive view of things, as there is nothing more dangerous than half truth. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda" he said. Without naming anyone, singer Kailesh Kher said that anti-India can stoop to any level to defame the country. "Even in this sad phase of pandemic,India is helping all nations with vaccine supply for the sake of Humanity.Let all realise that India is ONE & will not tolerate comments against it. #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda" he tweeted. On Tuesday night, international pop star Rihanna became the first global name to voice her support to the ongoing farmers agitation while criticising the internet shutdown at the protest site. Later, Thunberg, Swedish environmental activist, also backed the agitation, tweeting, "We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India." In its response, the MEA said the Parliament of India passed the reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector, and noted that some of the vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against India. "We would like to emphasise that these protests must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity, and the efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse. The minister asserted that facts should be ascertained and a proper understanding of the issues must be taken "before rushing to comment on such matters". "The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible," the statement said. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November last year, demanding the government to repeal the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Sites of the farmer protest at Delhi's borders have turned into fortresses with the police beefing up security and putting up multi-layer barricades to stop the movement of vehicles. Barbed wire has also been put up to keep off people on foot. The strengthened security measures at the agitation sites across the Delhi borders come after the violence during the Republic day tractor parade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akshay-kumar-ajay-devgn-and-others-say-india-against-propaganda-after-rihanna-greta-support-farmers-protest-947036.html
03-02-2021||National||India doesn't agree with USTR's report on ecommerce tax: Commerce Secretary||India does not agree with the United States Trade Representative (USTR) report that the country's two per cent equalisation levy on foreign ecommerce firms discriminates against American companies, Commerce Secretary Anup Wadhawan said on Wednesday. Last month, a USTR investigation had concluded that India's two per cent digital services tax on ecommerce supply discriminates against US companies and is inconsistent with international tax principles. "We do not agree with that conclusion," Wadhawan told reporters when asked whether India has responded to the USTR report. "Basically, if there is an economic benefit from a certain jurisdiction then there has to be some taxation in that jurisdiction...OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) is also moving in that direction that if you have an economic presence and economic gain, then you must have taxation in that jurisdiction. You have billions of dollars of revenue in a certain jurisdiction, you have to pay taxes," he said. Some countries are protesting because they have huge domination in that kind of activity whether it is Facebook or Google or Amazon, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-doesnt-agree-with-ustrs-report-on-ecommerce-tax-commerce-secretary-947037.html
03-02-2021||National||10% of LIC IPO to be kept aside for policyholders: Centre||DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey has said that 10 per cent of insurance behemoth Life Insurance Corporation's Initial Public Offering (IPO) would be set aside for policyholders. On Monday, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced that LIC's IPO will take place in 2021-22, likely after October 2021. Currently, the government owns a 100 per cent stake in LIC. Once listed, LIC is likely to become the country's biggest company by market capitalisation with an estimated valuation of Rs 8-10 lakh crore. LIC Amendment Act and Amendment to IDBI Bank (Transfer of Undertaking and Repeal) Act have been made part of the Finance Bill. There will be no separate Bill.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-of-lic-ipo-to-be-kept-aside-for-policyholders-centre-947039.html
03-02-2021||National||Jal Jeevan Mission proposes to meet 20% of water demand from recycled water||Jal Jeevan Mission (Urban), the tap water supply scheme for individual households in cities announced in the Union Budget, proposes to meet 20% of water demand by supplying reused water. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, in the Budget, had announced that the Jal Jeevan Mission (Urban) will provide tap water to 2.68 crore households in cities in the next five years. The total outlay proposed for JJM(U) was Rs 2,87,000 crore. "Major reforms of the scheme are reducing non-revenue water to below 20%; recycle of treated used water to meet at least 20% of total city water demand and 40% of industrial water demand at the state level," said the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. "In five years, a total of 2.68 crore households will be provided with tap water. Likewise, the estimated gap in sewer connections/septage in 500 AMRUT cities proposed to be covered in JJM(U) is 2.64 crore,'' the Ministry said. Rejuvenation of water bodies to augment sustainable fresh water supply and creating green spaces and sponge cities to reduce floods and enhance amenity value through an Urban Aquifer Management plan are the other key areas of the Mission. The Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaign has been proposed to spread awareness among the masses about the conservation of water. To promote public-private partnership, it has been mandated for cities having million-plus population to take up PPP projects worth a minimum of 10 per cent of their total project fund allocation, the Housing Ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jal-jeevan-mission-proposes-to-meet-20-of-water-demand-from-recycled-water-947043.html
03-02-2021||National||Power engineers, employees stage nationwide protest against privatisation||Power engineers and employees on Wednesday staged a nationwide protest against privatisation policies of the central government and demanded to scrap the process to privatise discoms in states and Union territories. "Power engineers and employees observed nationwide protest against privatisation policies of the government of India and demanded the withdrawal process of privatisation of electricity from the public sector to private companies in states and Union territories without further delay," All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) spokesperson V K Gupta said. Thousands of power sector employees and engineers under the banner of the National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers held protest meetings, seeking withdrawal of Electricity Amendment Bill 2021, which has been listed for introduction in the budget session of Parliament, according to a statement by AIPEF. "We do not now know what amendments have been introduced in the original draft bill 2020," Gupta said. In a rally in Chandigarh, AIPEF Chairman Shailendra Dubey said the Chandigarh electricity department is the best-managed power department and is making profit for the last five years and there is no justification for privatising the same since it has low losses, low tariff, and good consumer service. The privatisation move has been started to benefit a few industrialists of the country, he alleged. Padamjit Singh Chief Patron AIPEF said the finance minister in her budget speech mentioned that there will be competition in power distribution. In the case of Chandigarh privatisation proposal, there is 100 per cent sale of the electricity department, then where will be the competition, he quipped. Gupta said the government is simply privatising the power sector at the cost of the state sector in the name of reforms. The last three decades of market-oriented power sector reforms have exposed the inefficiency of the central government's reform programme, he added. The present set of reforms is nothing but a desperate attempt by the government to cover up the policy miscalculations of the past decades, while simultaneously protecting the interests of private power generators at the cost of state distribution companies, AIPEF said. The protesting engineers and employees demanded scrapping of electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 and standard bidding document for total privatisation of distribution of electricity. "The draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill in its current form is unacceptable. The proposed reforms should be discussed with engineers and employees to see whether they will address challenges or aggravate them," Gupta said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-engineers-employees-stage-nationwide-protest-against-privatisation-947051.html
03-02-2021||National||Delhi Police issues notice to activist Yogita Bhayana over her tweets on Jan 26 violence||The Delhi Police has sent a notice to social activist Yogita Bhayana over her "fake" Twitter posts on the Republic Day violence in the national capital asking her to appear for questioning, officials said on Wednesday. Responding to the development, Bhayana accused the Delhi Police of "suppressing" her voice, and said her only "crime" was that she had been supporting the farmers protesting against three Central agricultural laws. The notice has been sent to Bhayana asking her to appear before the police in a case registered under Indian Penal Code sections 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 153A (promoting enmity between different groups), and 505(1)(b) (circulating statement, rumour that may induce somebody to commit an offence against the State or against the public tranquility). "This is to inform you that investigation of the above said case is being carried out. During investigation, it was found that the two allegedly fake posts were uploaded from your Twitter account," the notice says. "You are requested to inform the source and reason for uploading the posts. You are also requested to inform the date, time of place where you will be available for the investigation. Please inform the said details within two days from the receipt of this notice," it stated. In a tweet in Hindi, which she has pinned on her wall, Bhayana said, "The Delhi Police has registered an FIR against me. My crime is that I have been supporting the farmers in their protest. The Delhi Police wants to suppress my voice." In another tweet, she said, "I feel Delhi Police is misgoverned and doing exactly opposite of what we expect from them. I am with farmers and I know I am fighting for truth." On January 30, the Delhi Police had filed a case against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, senior journalist Rajdeep Sardesai, The Caravan magazine and others for allegedly misleading public regarding the death of a protester at ITO during a tractor parade by farmers on January 26 which had turned violent. Earlier, Tharoor and six journalists were booked by the Noida Police for sedition, among other charges, over the violence during the farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi. The Madhya Pradesh police has also filed a case against Tharoor and the six journalists over their alleged "misleading" tweets on the violence during the farmers' tractor rally in Delhi. On January 26, thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally called by farmer unions to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. One protesting farmers had died at ITO during the march, with the Delhi Police saying he was killed after his tractor overturned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-issues-notice-to-activist-yogita-bhayana-over-her-tweets-on-jan-26-violence-947064.html
03-02-2021||National||Over 30 crore Indians may have Covid-19, says source citing government study||About one in four of India's 135 crore people may have been infected with coronavirus, said a source with direct knowledge of a government serological survey, suggesting the country's real caseload was many times higher than reported. India has confirmed 1.08 crore Covid-19 infections, the most anywhere outside the United States. But the survey, whose findings are much more conservative than a private one from last week, indicates India's actual cases may have crossed 30 crore. The state-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which conducted the survey, said it would only share the findings at a news conference on Thursday. The source declined to be named ahead of the official announcement. It was not immediately clear how many people participated in the latest survey. Following another survey done in August and September using blood samples of more than 29,000 people older than 10, ICMR had concluded that one in 15 Indians had Covid-19 antibodies. The figure jumped to one in six in densely-populated urban slums. A survey released by the government of the capital New Delhi this week found that more than half of its 20 million inhabitants may have been infected with the coronavirus. Separate tests done on more than 7,00,000 people across India by diagnostics company Thyrocare Technologies showed 55% of the population may have already been infected, its chief told Reuters last week. The World Health Organization says at least 60% to 70% of a population needs to have immunity to break the chain of transmission. India reported 11,039 new cases on Wednesday. Deaths rose by 110 to 1,54,596. Infections and fatalities have come down significantly since a mid-September peak of nearly 1,00,000 a day. Its vaccination programme, touted by the government as the world's biggest, has covered more than 4 million people in 18 days, with the aim to reach 300 million by August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-30-crore-indians-may-have-covid-19-says-source-citing-government-study-947067.html
03-02-2021||National||If needed, there is provision to revise budget allocation for sports: Kiren Rijiju||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Wednesday said the amount allocated for sports for the financial year 2021-22 could be revised if it is needed, asserting that all requirements of athletes heading into Tokyo Olympics are being met. The central government on Monday allocated Rs 2596.14 crore for sports -- a reduction of Rs 230.78 crore when compared to the amount earmarked initially for the previous year, that was derailed by the Covid-19 pandemic across the world. "...if needed, there is a provision for asking for revised allocation," Rijiju said on the sidelines of the launch of Fit India office at the Jawahar Lal Nehru stadium here. In the last financial year, the government had allocated Rs 2826.92 crore for sports, which was later revised to Rs 1800.15 crore because of the lack of activity caused by the pandemic. This year's allocated amount is Rs 795.99 crore more than the revised budget of 2020-21. Rijiju said, "The sports ministry is there to take care and support athletes and National Sports Federations (NSFs). We are there to look after the requirement of athletes and demand of NSFs. "The funding is for athletes, not NSFs. There will be no shortage of funds for players as and when they require. "Whatever is the requirement of athletes is always met, be it foreign training or hiring of overseas coaches. Sports is a state subject and the sports ministry is there to provide support to state governments." The sports ministry bears the cost of all foreign training and competition, including participation in the Olympics. The government's flagship Khelo India programme was handed the biggest reduction -- of Rs 232.71 crore -- among all sports heads for the 2021-22 budget, presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday. During Wednesday's event, Sports Secretary Ravi Mittal said, "If you look at the budget of 2021-22 as against 2019-2020 there is an increase of 19.13 percent. We are not considering the initial budget of 2020-21 because it was an unprecedented year hit by Covid." "From the revised figures also there is an increase of nearly 40 percent. Khelo India also got a boost of 72 per cent compared to 2019-2020. "The contributions towards NSFs has also increased, just in infrastructure development there was slight reduction," Mittal added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/if-needed-there-is-provision-to-revise-budget-allocation-for-sports-kiren-rijiju-947068.html
03-02-2021||National||Supreme Court stays Rs 120 cr penalty on 'Gutkha' maker||The Supreme Court has stayed about Rs 120 crore penalty imposed by the Commissioner of Central GST on a man for "clandestinely manufacturing and clearing gutkha" with a brand name 'Aryan Gutkha' at his two properties in Ichalkaranji, Maharasthra between March 2013 to August 2018. A bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman suspended the order imposing penalty while admitting a plea by Raju Laxman Pachhapure against it. The court issued notice to the Commissioner, Central GST and others as advocate Sanjay Nuli, appearing for the petitioner, contended an arbitrary order was passed on August 21, 2019 demanding a payment of excise duty of Rs 59,60,68,224 and additionally a collective penalty of Rs 59,60,53,224 which was highly imaginary. The petitioner challenged the validity of the Bombay HC's order of December 8, 2020 which dismissed his plea on computation of excise duty and penalty. Among others, the plea contended that the constitutional validity of Section 3A of the Central Excise Act, 1944 (which is the genesis of Rule 17(2) of the Pan Masala Packaging Machines Rules 2008) and the notifications issued there under was currently pending before this court and the outcome of the said issue will have a direct impact on the case of the petitioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-stays-rs-120-cr-penalty-on-gutkha-maker-947071.html
03-02-2021||National||Air India employees' interest will be protected: Hardeep Singh Puri||The interest of Air India employees will be safeguarded in accordance with the guidance of the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management, Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Wednesday. The disinvestment process of Air India, which had a total debt of over Rs 38,366 crore in the last fiscal is in progress. "The interest of the employees of Air India will be safeguarded in accordance with the guidance of the Department of Investment and Public Asset Management, Ministry of Finance and same will be reflected in the Share Purchase Agreement to be signed with new owner post disinvestment," Puri said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha. The civil aviation minister was responding to a query on whether current employees of Air India will remain employed with the airline post its strategic disinvestment. The Preliminary Information Memorandum (PIM) for inviting Expression of Interest (EoI) for strategic disinvestment of the government's 100 per cent stakes in Air India and Air India Express and 50 per cent shareholding in Air India SATS was issued on January 27, 2020. In the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the EoI deadline was extended from time to time and the last date was December 14, 2020. As per audited accounts of FY 2019-20 (provisional), the airline's total debt was Rs 38,366.39 crore. "The above amount is after the transfer of debt amounting to Rs 22,064 crore during the FY 2019-20 to Air India Assets Holding Limited being a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV)," Puri said. In another written reply, the minister said that as on December 31, 2020, the airline's total dues against various government departments on accounts of airfare, "including dues towards VVIP Operations were Rs 498.17 crore". "Usually, the credit period for Government of India Departments varies from 15 to 30 days from the receipt of invoice and no interest is paid to Air India in case of non-payment within the credit period," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-employees-interest-will-be-protected-hardeep-singh-puri-947083.html
03-02-2021||National||Strictly implement regulations to curb unsolicited commercial calls, HC tells Trai||The Delhi High Court Wednesday directed telecom regulator Trai to ensure "complete and strict" implementation of the regulation issued by it in 2018 for curbing unsolicited commercial communications (UCC). The high court also directed the telecom service providers (TSPs), which included state-run Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL), Reliance Jio, Airtel and Vodafone, to ensure they strictly comply with the Telecom Commercial Communications Customer Preferences Regulations (TCCCPR) 2018 issued by Trai. With these directions, a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh disposed of a plea by One97 Communications Ltd, which runs online payment platform Paytm, alleging that telecom operators are not blocking "phishing" activities over various mobile networks. Phishing is a cybercrime where people are contacted by e-mail, phone calls or text messages by someone posing as a legitimate representative of an organisation to lure them to part with their sensitive data, including banking and credit card details and passwords. The direction by the bench came after senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for One97 Communications, told the court that it may dispose of the matter by directing Trai and the TSPs to implement and comply with the TCCCP Regulations. The counsels for the TSPs, during the brief hearing, told the bench that they were complying with the regulations and would continue to do so. The bench, thereafter, said, "We direct Respondent 2 (Trai) to ensure complete and strict implementation of the TCCCP Regulations of 2018 and other related regulations issued from time to time to prevent unsolicited commercial communications over the networks of the TSPs. "We expect Respondent 2 to strictly implement the regulations and in case of any violation, action would be initiated in accordance with the regulations". In November last year, Trai had told the court that it has imposed financial disincentives ranging from Rs 34,000 to Rs 30 crore on telecom companies like BSNL, Reliance Jio, Airtel and Vodafone for not preventing UCC over their networks between April to June 2020. The submission by Trai had come pursuant to the court's direction in September 2020 to start taking action in accordance with law against unregistered entities and those persons not complying with its regulations to curb the problem of UCCs. Paytm, in its plea filed through advocate Karuna Nandy, had claimed that millions of its customers have been defrauded by the phishing activities over the mobile networks and the failure of the telecom companies to prevent the same has "caused financial and reputational loss" to it for which it had also sought damages of Rs 100 crore from them. Paytm had contended that the telecom majors are violating their obligations under the TCCCPR 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/strictly-implement-regulations-to-curb-unsolicited-commercial-calls-hc-tells-trai-947086.html
03-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Farm laws dominate debate in Parliament||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Farm laws dominated debate in Parliament; Bengaluru’s local communities upset over the state government's decision to create tree park inside Turahalli forest and Reserve Bank of India’s rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee likely to hold interest rate.  Here is the top news of February 3, 2021: The farm laws dominated the debate during the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday with the ruling BJP urging opponents not to make the farmers' agitation "another Shaheen Bagh" while the Opposition asked the government to repeal the legislation without making it a prestige issue. Several speakers referred to the violence at Red Fort on Republic Day following the tractor rally and cases of sedition slapped against journalists and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor. Meanwhile, Accusing "vested interest groups" of trying to mobilise international support on protest against farm laws, Centre on Wednesday issued a terse statement asking celebrities to ascertain facts before commenting, an assertion that came in the backdrop of tweets by celebrities like American pop singer Rihanna and Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg on the ongoing protest. Promising ‘Hasiru Bengaluru’ and creating ‘Greener Neighbourhoods’ as part of its ambitious Bengaluru Mission-2022, the state government’s move to create a tree park inside the Turahalli Reserve Forest off Kanakapura Road has left the local communities enraged. Several people stormed the forest area, spread across 600 acres, in protest against the state government's decision. The Reserve Bank's rate-setting Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) began its meeting on Wednesday and is likely to hold interest rates and continue with accommodative policy stance so that necessary monetary action could be taken to push growth. This is the first MPC meeting after the presentation of the Union Budget 2021-22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-farm-laws-dominate-debate-in-parliament-947105.html
03-02-2021||National||Kisan mahapanchayats in Haryana, west UP to support farm protests||Mass gathering of farmers – mahapanchayats – have been taking place across western Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, firing up support for the agitation on the national capital's borders against the agriculture reforms. Kisan mahapanchayats have been organised at Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat and Mathura districts of western Uttar Pradesh and parts of Haryana – considered a stronghold of the Jat community. Rakesh Tikait, who is emerging as a leader of the farmers' agitation, attended a massive mahapanchayat in Jind in Haryana on Wednesday and demanded the repeal of the three farm laws and warned the Modi government of tough days ahead. Tikait is the son of veteran farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait and leads the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Arajnaitik). “We have so far talked about 'bill wapsi' (repealing the farm laws). The government should listen carefully. What will you do if the youth call for “gaddi wapsi” (removal from power),” he asked at the gathering where the stage collapsed under the weight of farmer leaders. Similar gatherings were also held in Dabra and Phoolbagh in Madhya Pradesh and Mehndipur in Rajasthan from where farmers were expected to join protests in the national capital. The 'mahapanchayat' in Jind, considered as the political heartland of Haryana, was attended by Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) Haryana leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni and BKU(Punjab) leader Balbir Singh Rajewal. “When the king is scared, he secures his fortresses,” Tikait said at the mahapanchayat in Jind. The agitating farmers, meanwhile, welcomed the support from international celebrities such as Rihanna, Greta Thunberg and others, to their protests. “On the one hand, it is a matter of pride that eminent personalities of the world are showing sensitivity towards the cause of farmers, while on the other hand, it is unfortunate that the Government of India is not understanding the pain of the farmers and some people are even calling peaceful farmers terrorists,” Darshan Pal, leader of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha said. The support for Tikait has also helped mend the rupture in the relations between the Jats and Muslims after the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots which helped the BJP win big in Uttar Pradesh in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kisan-mahapanchayats-in-haryana-west-up-to-support-farm-protests-947113.html
03-02-2021||National||External forces can be spectators not participants: Tendulkar backs government on farmers' issues||Cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar was the latest among celebrities to slam those spreading "propaganda."  His reaction came after the Ministry of External Affairs put out a strong statement on India's sovereignty after comments by international pop star Rihanna, teen climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on farmers' protests. "India’s sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let's remain united as a nation," Tendulkar tweeted on Wednesday. Several celebrities on Wednesday took to Twitter to show solidarity with the government on the issue with the hashtags  #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda. Rihanna, who has 100 million followers on Twitter and is among the most-followed people on the microblogging site, on Tuesday tweeted, "why aren’t we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest, linking a CNN report on the internet shutdown near the protest site. On Tuesday, international pop star Rihanna became the first global name to voice her support to the ongoing farmers' agitation while criticising the internet shutdown at the protest site. Later, Thunberg, Swedish environmental activist, also backed the agitation, tweeting, "We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India." In its response, the MEA said the Parliament of India passed the reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector, and noted that some of the vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against India. "We would like to emphasise that these protests must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity, and the efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse. The minister asserted that facts should be ascertained and a proper understanding of the issues must be taken "before rushing to comment on such matters". (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/external-forces-can-be-spectators-not-participants-tendulkar-backs-government-on-farmers-issues-947118.html
03-02-2021||National||Praveen Sinha given charge of CBI as Director R K Shukla retires||With the process to find a successor to retiring CBI Director Rishi Kumar Shukla yet to be initiated, the government on Wednesday gave the charge of the premier investigating agency to its Additional Director Praveen Sinha, a Gujarat cadre IPS officer. Shukla, a 1983-batch IPS officer of Madhya Pradesh cadre, retired on Wednesday. According to the Department of Personnel and Training, 1988-batch IPS officer Sinha "shall with immediate effect look after the duties of Director CBI" in place of Shukla "till the appointment of new Director CBI, or until further orders, whichever is earlier".  A CBI Director, who has a fixed tenure of two years, is selected by a three-member panel headed by the Prime Minister, having Chief Justice of India and Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Lok Sabha as its members. However, the Selection Committee has not met yet and may take some time to finalise the CBI chief. The panel this time will choose the CBI Director from a panel of officers belonging to 1984-1987 batches of IPS officers on the basis of seniority, integrity and experience in handling vigilance and anti-corruption cases. The process for choosing the agency chief starts with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and DoPT preparing a list of probable candidates in consultation with the Chief Vigilance Commission (CVC). This forms the basis of the Selection Committee's deliberations. Among the contenders are NIA Director General Y C Modi, BSF Director General Rakesh Asthana and CISF Director General S K Jaiswal. Shukla was appointed as CBI Director on February 4, 2019 after the then chief Alok Verma was removed by the government following a continuing spat with his deputy Asthana. Both were shifted out of CBI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/praveen-sinha-given-charge-of-cbi-as-director-r-k-shukla-retires-947120.html
03-02-2021||National||Vardhan seeks cooperation from youth in providing right information about Covid-19 vaccination drive||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday sought cooperation and assistance from the country's youth in providing right information about the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive and other related policy actions of the government regarding the pandemic. Vardhan virtually addressed the students of Shri Ram College of Commerce on their 94th annual foundation day and said that the pandemic has not only turned the clock back in some ways but also derailed development plans temporarily, according to a health ministry statement. Elaborating on the role of the youth in lifting the country out of the gloom of the pandemic, Vardhan said this period needs strategised advocacy, leadership and disruptive social entrepreneurship. It needs mass mobilisation, aggressive campaigns, powerful partners and deep commitments, he stressed. And most of all, it needs a powerful societal commitment, he said.  "In these critical times, the youth should assist by providing the right information about the vaccination drive and other related policy actions of the government regarding Covid-19," he was quoted as saying in the statement. Applauding the efforts of scientists and health professionals, Vardhan observed, “Indian scientists and healthcare professionals have stood the test of time. While our Covid warriors have sacrificed themselves to ensure the safety of all of us, our scientists have done a laudable job by developing the Covid-19 vaccine. I can assure you that the government is working overtime to meet the challenge of vaccinating 1.35 billion people.” Lauding the college on its achievements, Vardhan appreciated the unwavering determination of the institute, its faculty members and all stakeholders in contributing towards nation building by churning out globally responsible citizens, conscientious of their community, society and the country as a whole, it said. He congratulated SRCC for being one of the best colleges for commerce in the continent and for producing notable alumni in every field like corporate affairs, law, and politics, the statement said. Emphasising on the vision of seeing India as a 'Vishwa Guru' and the potential of the youth of the country which serves as its bedrock, Vardhan said the government places maximum emphasis on the youth of the nation, the statement said. The New Education Policy introduced by the government led by Prime Minister  Narendra Modi will surely change the quality of education services in the country for generations to come, he asserted. "In fact, ensuring the highest standards of education is a top priority for our government because education forms the apex of the social pyramid. India is a country which has huge untapped potential of our youth," Vardhan said. "Our beloved prime minister has given a clarion call for building a strong and self-reliant India, an 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' that is already rubbing shoulders with global superpowers. The dream of a self-reliant India can only be met if we encourage our youth to 'innovate, patent, produce and prosper' and lead our country towards faster development," he was quoted as saying in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vardhan-seeks-cooperation-from-youth-in-providing-right-information-about-covid-19-vaccination-drive-947124.html
03-02-2021||National||Looks like ‘international border', farmers on unprecedented barricading at Delhi entry points||Farmers' agitation sites just outside Delhi resemble "international border" now with authorities building makeshift walls, planting huge metal spikes on roads and deploying concertina wire fences, protesters alleged on Wednesday, even as officials defended the heavy-barricading citing law and order issues. The heightened security measures and various restrictions have been imposed at the three protest sites -- Singhu (Delhi-Haryana border), Ghazipur (Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border) and Tikri (Delhi-Haryana border) -- since the Republic Day violence that had left over 500 police personnel injured and one protestor dead. On January 26, breaking away from the designated routes for a tractor parade, hundreds of protestors clashed with police in various points to lay siege to the Red Fort and climb the flagpole. While at the Singhu border, the epicenter of the ongoing farmers' agitation, shipping containers, iron rods between barriers and cement slabs have been used to seal the entry points, the tried-and-tested barbed wires, stone boulders and iron nails have been deployed at Tikri and Ghazipur borders to block people's entry into Delhi or to the protest sites. "The protest sites are looking like international borders. It is as if we have come from Pakistan. On one hand, they (the government) want us to talk, and on the other hand they are doing everything to de-link us (from the city)," farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu told PTI. "This shows the restlessness of the government," he said. In addition to heavy-metal barricades and concrete slabs, measures like digging trenches and using DTC buses as roadblocks have been deployed at the said Delhi-Uttar Pradesh and the Delhi-Haryana borders. Zamhoori Kisan Sabha General Secretary Sandhu claimed the barricading of national highways and stopping the movement of people and vehicles is the authorities' "strategy" to "irritate" the common people and try to make them stand against the protesting farmers. "But the farmers won't budge," he said. “No matter how much obstructions they create in our path. They are stopping people so that they get irritated and turn against us." "They (the authorities) don't know that the locals and people across the country support our movement. Sadly, the government has not learnt its lesson from the Ghazipur incident," he said. Mandeep Singh (26), who has been camping at the Singhu border for the past 15 days, echoed his leader's sentiment and said the show of force and blocking the roads pose problems for the locals, not the protesting farmers. "These multiple-barriers cannot dampen our spirit or affect our movement. We are following the instructions of our leaders, who have clearly told us to stay put at our respective places. We won't move ahead or take a step back. So, ultimately it is the locals who have to face trouble in commuting, not us," said Singh, from Punjab's Ludhiana district. Another protestor Sadaker Singh, who has been camping at the Singhu border for the last 10 days, questioned authorities’ intention. "We will not relent. We are protesting peacefully and will continue our protests until our demands are met," he said. Several locals, the protesting farmers said, have been helping them, be it by providing electricity connection from their houses, giving access to toilets and washrooms to the women protestors, or by sharing their shop's wi-fi connection as the Central government has suspended internet at the protest sites. Thousands of security personnel -- including the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and Rapid Action Force (RAF) -- armed with batons, teargas shells and ammunition are seen maintaining a strict vigil at the protest sites throughout the day. Delhi Police Commissioner S N Srivastava had on Tuesday defended the heightened security measures, saying the force has "strengthened" the barricading so that it cannot be broken again. "I am surprised that when tractors were used on January 26 to attack policemen and barricades were broken, no questions were raised at that time. What have we done now? We have just strengthened the barricades so that they are not broken again," he had said. Referring to the multi-layered barricading and roadblocks at protest sites, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday asked why the national capital was being converted into a "fortress", and asserted that farmers work hard for the country and should not be treated in this manners. Gandhi said that the farmers' issue needs to be resolved as soon as possible and the government needs to listen to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/looks-like-international-border-farmers-on-unprecedented-barricading-at-delhi-entry-points-947125.html
03-02-2021||National||SC stresses on adopting less environmentally damaging alternatives for projects||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stressed on adopting less environmentally damaging alternatives to big projects. It also took an exception to the rules framed by the Union government which stated the road projects upto 100 km would not require Environment Impact Assessment (EIA). Maintaining that such a provision was not tenable, a bench presided over by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde also said that the court would draw a protocol where governments have to explore a possibility where cost of trees, to be cut, have to be included in the project cost of Railways. The top court was hearing a plea by NGO 'Association for Protection of Democratic Rights' against felling of trees for constructing railway over ridge and widening of National Highway 112 from Barasat to Petrapole on the Indo-Bangladesh Border in West Bengal. The petition sought to protect 4,036 trees (including heritage trees aged about 200 years or more and endangered trees) which are to be cut for the road widening project and construction of Railway Over Bridge (ROB). The court said trees of greater girth can be translocated. The bench asked advocate Prashant Bhushan to help the court develop the protocol where alternatives, which are less environmentally damaging, are considered. Bhushan said when such projects are sanctioned, environmental impact assessment is carried out and it is taken into account for giving a environmental clearance. The court asked the advocate to give it a note on protocol showing provisions of environmental law. During the hearing, the court also suggested the government should strengthen sea and rail routes instead of roads which required felling of trees. As per a report by an expert committee-appointed by the court, the value of 300 full grown trees, which are cut 100 years before their natural age, is at least Rs 2.2 billion (Rs 220 crores).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stresses-on-adopting-less-environmentally-damaging-alternatives-for-projects-947143.html
03-02-2021||National||India can take on the role of net security provider in Indian Ocean Region: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Wednesday said India can take on the role of being the net security provider in the Indian Ocean Region as geopolitically it is a reliable partner in the IOR. "We live in a challenging geo-political landscape where countries not only have to face the threat of military aggression, but natural calamities which include pandemics like Covid-19 which has wreaked havoc in the last one year," Singh said. Therefore, when faced with threats across multiple dimensions, it is imperative for the nation to strengthen relations with countries with whom it shared converging views on key global issues, he said, addressing the inaugural session of Chiefs of the Air Staff Conclave at Aero India here. "Geopolitically, India is a reliable partner in the Indian Ocean Region and can take on the role of being the net security provider in the region," he added. Noting that air power has and would continue to play a critical role in maintaining regional stability and peace in the region, Singh said freedom of manoeuvre provided by air and space capabilities enables the nation to influence in a sustainable and clearly escalable manner. The Indian Air Force is at the very forefront of offensive capabilities with its reach, speed and precision, he said. Indias unique disposition in the IOR, complimented by a potent airlift capability of IAF, enables it to contribute significantly in Humanitarian Aid and Disaster Relief (HADR) missions, he said. Singh noted that India has been regularly conducting exercises to deepen HADR cooperation and coordination among its neighbours with a focus on sharing expertise and assisting building capabilities. He also said that the recent conflicts had shown the potency of emerging technologies and India is heavily focused on building these capabilities. "We are keen to cooperate with our defence partners in these niche technologies with focus on knowledge sharing and co-production," he added. The Chiefs of the Air Staff Conclave had physical representation from 26 countries, while 14 were in attendance virtually, officials said. The Conclave has been planned with three sessions to address the themes of disruptive technologies and innovations, air power in Indo-Pacific region and air power and airspace strategies, they said. Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria, in his keynote address, said "we have witnessed a paradigm change in the Geo-political landscape in recent years and globally, we are facing unprecedented levels of uncertainty, volatility and interconnected threats." While the world was grappling with complications and control of the pandemic, the worsening inter-state relations, rising mistrust and geopolitical tensions have only reinforced the importance of mature and balanced cooperation at international level, he said. "We need to strengthen our mutual understanding and existing security frameworks based on the principles of Cooperation, Collaboration and Coexistence," he said, adding that for India, the security challenges are as varied as its geography and as unpredictable as the nation's threats. Noting that the nature of warfare has changed significantly in the last few years, the air chief said advent of new technologies and cross linking of 'Physical', 'Digital' and 'Cognitive' domains has complicated the art of war fighting considerably. "Our understanding of national boundaries has shifted well beyond the classical definitions of airspaces, land borders and shorelines. An attack may originate without warning, several time zones away, and its effect may proliferate rapidly across several domains." Also, the exponential technological progress made in the last few years has made the realm of sub-con warfare more complex, Bhadauria said. The low cost and easy availability of simple disruptive technology like drones with small state and non-state actors have made them more lethal, agile and capable of generating disproportionate effects, he said. "We are closely observing these developments and are focusing on developing capabilities in unmanned, and optionally manned platforms, manned-unmanned teaming, and anti-drone technologies," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-can-take-on-the-role-of-net-security-provider-in-indian-ocean-region-rajnath-singh-947150.html
03-02-2021||National||Lawyers urge CJI to take cognizance of MHA's direction of Internet shutdown at Delhi borders||A group of 140 lawyers has urged Chief Justice of India (CJI) S A Bobde to suspend the order of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on internet shutdown and ensure that farmers' rights are protected. The letter has also urged the CJI to set up a Commission of Enquiry to probe into alleged police inaction in controlling the violence and its role in allegedly facilitating the mob attack on protesting farmers on January 29. Farmers are protesting at Delhi borders seeking repeal of three controversial farm laws. The lawyers have suggested to the CJI that the apex judiciary should direct the MHA to “restrain from imposing further Internet shutdowns at the protest sites and adjoining areas.” The MHA had announced suspension of internet services at the three border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur and their adjoining areas from 11 pm on January 29 effective till 11 pm on January 31. Later it extended the suspension till 11 pm on February 2. “There has been no further extension of internet suspension at these sites as of now,” a Home Ministry official said on Wednesday. The lawyers, in the letter, have said that the Commission of Enquiry should also probe and suggest action against local “hoodlums” who had allegedly engaged in the manhandling of protestors, and journalists at the Singhu protest venue.  “Strict action against the journalists and the news channels who are spreading provocative content and fake rumors about the farmers and their protest,” the letter said. The suspension of internet order issued by the MHA is a “gross misuse of power by the Central government and is causing disruption to the protestors and individuals in exercising their fundamental conferred under Article 19 (1) (a) which had been upheld by the Supreme Court in…,” said the letter written by lawyers Sitwat Nabi and Abhisht Hela, which purportedly contained signatures of 140 advocates. “The 'state-of-the-art' political scenario of the year 2021 is witnessing a paradigm shift wherein there has been incessant vilification and ostracization of the farmers protesting against the three Farm Laws for over 6 months. Aggravating the issue further, many mainstream media channels are determined to change their names from 'Farmers' or “'Ann-daatas' to 'Terrorists' or 'Khalistanis',”  it said. The farmers are protesting at three Delhi borders for almost two months seeking repeal of three laws. They are:  the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act. On January 12, the apex court had already stayed the implementation of the contentious new farm laws till further orders and had constituted a committee to make recommendations to resolve the impasse over them between the Centre and farmers' unions protesting at Delhi borders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyers-urge-cji-to-take-cognizance-of-mhas-direction-of-internet-shutdown-at-delhi-borders-947153.html
03-02-2021||National||WHO-led COVAX vaccine scheme agrees new supply deal with Serum Institute of India||Pune-based Serum Institute will supply 1.1 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines developed by AstraZeneca and Novavax to the COVAX vaccine scheme as part of a new long-term deal, the head of the UN Children's Fund said on Wednesday. UNICEF chief Henrietta Fore said the shots would be delivered over a number of years at the cost of about $3 per dose for low- and middle-income countries. They would be produced by Serum under a technology transfer agreement, she said in a briefing. The deal is on top of the goal of distributing 2 billion doses of vaccines to poor countries this year under the COVAX facility, which is co-led by GAVI, the World Health Organization, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) and UNICEF. UNICEF has also stockpiled 500 million syringes among other equipment in preparation for the roll-out of shots starting in the next few weeks, Fore said. CEPI is working with vaccine developers to be as ready as possible to deal with changes needed to vaccines to ensure they work against more infectious Covid-19 variants that have emerged in the past few months, deputy CEO of CEPI Frederik Kristensen told the briefing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-led-covax-vaccine-scheme-agrees-new-supply-deal-with-serum-institute-of-india-947154.html
03-02-2021||National||Supply of special pink sandstone for Ayodhya’s Ram temple to be eased soon||A standing committee of the Rajasthan Wildlife Board has cleared a proposal to allow the mining of a special sandstone, much sought after by builders including those constructing the Ram temple in Ayodhya, from Bharatpur’s Bandh Baretha sanctuary. The proposal to denotify the sanctuary for the mining of the pink sandstone from there will now be put up before the Rajasthan Wildlife Board, headed by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Chief Wildlife Warden Mohan Meena told PTI on Wednesday. “The standing committee has given the approval and the matter will be now taken up by the state wildlife board for consideration after which it will be sent for the approval by the National Wildlife Board," he said. Thousands of tonnes of the pink sandstone mined in Bharatpur’s Bansi Paharpur have been sourced for the temple over the years, but much more is needed, he added. There were concerns in Ayodhya that supplies of this stone with a unique pink hue would dry up. Since blocks of this sandstone had already been carved -- ready to be put in place as the temple comes up -- switching over to a lesser grade of stone would have caused problems. The Dholpur variant is said to be no match to the Bansi Paharpur stone. Authorities in Congress-run Rajasthan, however, denied that the move to denotify the Bansi Paharpur block in Bharatpur’s Bandh Baretha wildlife sanctuary has anything specific to do with the Ram temple. A senior district administration official said the stone is in high demand across the country and the process for the denotification was not started only because the particular sandstone is required for the Ram Temple. "There is rampant illegal mining in the area. There is no forest left there and if it is delinked from the sanctuary, the state government will get the revenue from any mining there," he said. Mining was banned after 2016 but illegal operations continued and the Bansi Paharpur (pink stone) sandstone remained available in the grey market. Supply of the stone took a hit after the Bharatpur administration seized 25 trucks loaded with illegally mined pink sandstone last September.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supply-of-special-pink-sandstone-for-ayodhya-s-ram-temple-to-be-eased-soon-947166.html
03-02-2021||National||Railways' revenue declined by Rs 36,993 crore in 2020 due to Covid-19: Govt||The railways' revenue in 2020 declined by Rs 36,993 crore as compared to the previous year due to the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal informed Parliament on Wednesday. In written reply to a question in Lok Sabha, the minister said this decline in revenue was due to the adverse impact of Covid-19 pandemic, consequential lockdown and partial operation of passenger services. "Total traffic revenue of railways in the current year to end of December 2020 has declined by Rs 36,993.82 crore compared to corresponding period of last year. Out of this, Rs 32,768.97 crore is on account of decline in passenger revenues during this period," he said. The minister also provided a list of losses incurred by zonal railways. "In view of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, Indian Railways has not been encouraging movement of passengers to effectively manage the pandemic and contain its spread. Keeping in view the concerns and suggestions of state governments to efficiently manage Covid-19 pandemic, special trains are operated," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-revenue-declined-by-rs-36993-crore-in-2020-due-to-covid-19-govt-947169.html
03-02-2021||National||Swiss say more data needed on AstraZeneca vaccine||Swiss regulators said Wednesday that data submitted by AstraZeneca were not sufficient for it to authorise use of the Anglo-Swedish firm's Covid-19 vaccine and "new studies" were needed. The Swissmedic regulatory authority said it had been examining information from AstraZeneca but that was "not yet sufficient to permit authorisation". "To obtain more information about safety, efficacy and quality, additional data from new studies are needed," it said in a statement. Switzerland has so far given the green light to Covid-19 vaccines made by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna. It had been expected to authorise the AstraZeneca jab soon, after the neighbouring European Union last week gave the vaccine the go ahead. But while the EU granted approval for use in all people over the age of 18, several European countries have advised against giving the jabs to people over 65, citing lack of evidence that it was effective among the elderly. Swissmedic said a meeting of its external advisory body on Tuesday had confirmed its interim assessment of the AstraZeneca vaccine data. "The data currently available do not point to a positive decision regarding benefits and risks," it said. "To obtain a conclusive assessment, the applicant will among other things have to submit additional efficacy data from a Phase 3 trial under way in North and South America, and these will have to be analysed. "As soon as the results have been received, a temporary authorisation according to the rolling procedure could be issued at very short notice," it added. Switzerland, which kicked off vaccination against the deadly coronavirus in late December, meanwhile announced Wednesday that it had signed three more contracts to acquire another 17 million vaccine doses. The country of 8.5 million people said it had reached an agreement with Germany's Curevac, whose vaccine is in Phase 3 trials, and the Swedish government for the delivery of five million doses. It said it had also signed a preliminary agreement with US firm Novavax for six million doses. These will add two new vaccines to the Swiss portfolio, if they are approved by regulators. At the same time, the Swiss government had also signed a deal to acquire an additional six million doses of the Moderna vaccine, bringing the total number of those jabs available in Switzerland to 13.5 million. In addition, the government has signed deals for access to around three million Pfizer-BioNTech doses and 5.3 million AstraZeneca doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/swiss-say-more-data-needed-on-astrazeneca-vaccine-947176.html
03-02-2021||National||Over 127 crore Aadhaar IDs generated as on January 15: Dhotre||Over 127 crore Aadhaar biometric IDs have been generated as on January 15, against the projected population of about 137 crore, Parliament was informed on Wednesday. The actual number of Aadhaar holders is, however, lesser due to deaths, and hence the concept of 'Live Aadhaar' has been introduced to estimate the number of persons holding the biometric ID who are alive, Minister of State for Electronics and IT Sanjay Dhotre said in a written reply in the Lok Sabha. It is estimated that the number of 'Live Aadhaar' stands at 123.49 crore, he added. "As on 15th January 2021, a total of 127.83 Crore Aadhaar have been generated against the projected population (2020) of about 137.05 crore," the minister said. Overall, 'Live Aadhaar' saturation in the country is 90.1 per cent. As on January 15, 2021, more than 50,000 Aadhaar counters are operational, that includes 23,706 of state registrars, 11,270 of banks, 10,003 of India Post, 4,617 of Common Service Centres e-Gov, and 488 of Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) Aadhaar Seva Kendras. Aadhaar is a twelve-digit identification number that enables holders to establish their identity. To another question, Dhotre said there is no proposal to incorporate caste and domicile details in the Aadhaar card of a resident, including students. Replying to a separate question on Aarogya Setu, Dhotre said the contact tracing app has more than 16 crore registered users. "This makes Aarogya Setu the largest app based contact tracing platform in the world," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-127-crore-aadhaar-ids-generated-as-on-january-15-dhotre-947180.html
03-02-2021||National||Google removed about 100 personal loan apps violating user safety between Dec 2020-Jan 2021: Dhotre||Google removed about 100 money lending apps that were "possibly not in compliance with the applicable legal and regulatory framework" from December 2020 till January 20, 2021, Parliament was informed on Wednesday. The Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY) has received a number of public grievances against frauds and the malpractices by few online instant loan applications available on internet, including Google Playstore, Minister of State for Electronics and IT Sanjay Dhotre said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. He added that the complaints are mainly related to high-interest rates, alleged collection of personal data and its misuse, fraudulent and unlawful practices of physical threats and use of other coercive methods for recovery of loan and that few cases have also been filed in the courts. "Upon being notified by law enforcement agencies of the availability of certain money lending apps that were possibly not in compliance with the applicable legal and regulatory framework, Google has already removed about 100 such apps since December 2020 till January 20, 2021," he said. While Google has stated that it has removed certain money lending apps that found to be violating its user safety policies, it has not disclosed the number of these apps or their names. The minister pointed that the Reserve Bank of India also issued a press release in December 2020 stating that legitimate public lending activities can be undertaken by banks, NBFCs registered with the RBI and other entities who are regulated by the state governments under appropriate statutory provisions such as the money lending Acts. Members of public were cautioned not to fall prey to such unscrupulous activities and were requested to verify the antecedents of a company offering loans online or through mobile apps, he said. On a separate question on governing social media, Dhotre said social media platforms are intermediaries under the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000. "The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) had proposed to amend the IT (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2011, notified under Section 79 of the IT Act, 2000. "The proposed amendments to the said Rules were published on MeitY website on December 24, 2018 inviting public comments," he said. He added that a meeting was held with legal experts and the privacy advocates on December 29, 2018, to convey the perspectives of proposed amendments. Based on these discussions, along with comments received through public consultation, the Rules are being finalised, he said. "The government regularly interacts with social media platforms regarding the steps to be taken to make social media safer," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/google-removed-about-100-personal-loan-apps-violating-user-safety-between-dec-2020-jan-2021-dhotre-947185.html
03-02-2021||National||Would consider laying down protocol for road widening projects which require tree cutting: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court Wednesday observed that it would consider laying down a protocol to be followed for projects like road widening which require cutting of trees so that there is minimum damage to the environment. The apex court also said it did not consider it tenable that if road is less than 100 km then Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) is not necessary. The observations came while hearing a plea relating felling of over 350 trees for construction of railway over bridges (ROB) and widening of National Highway-112 from Barasat to Petrapole on the Indo-Bangladesh border in West Bengal. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde said the protocol would make sure that alternatives adopted for the project are less damaging to the environment. A four-member committee constituted by the top court informed it that before implementing a project of national importance environmental impact assessment is desired and this has not been done in the project under consideration. The committee said that the State authorities are considering project under consideration as an independent project which is affecting a distance of 59.2 km only. "According to a circular issued by MoEF, if a road project have length less than 100 km, in that case there is no need to get EIA from any government agency. Such argument, in present case, is an attempt to circumvent the law of the land. "We feel deriving such conclusion is erroneous and needs rethinking on the part of the state of the West Bengal.. According to the committee members EIA should be taken up before starting the project related work," the panel said. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the petitioner, referred to the MoEF notification and said that in Char Dham project roads were divided in smaller segments in order to avoid EIA. The court said," Prima facie, we don't consider it tenable that if road is less than 100 km then EIA is not necesaary. The whole environment is our land of everybody. There is no question of this government and that government." The bench has now posted the matter for hearing on February 18. The apex court had earlier formed a committee of environment experts to suggest an alternative to felling of over 350 trees for construction of railway over bridges (ROB) and widening of National Highway-112 from Barasat to Petrapole on the Indo-Bangladesh border in West Bengal. The five-member committee is headed by Dr Soham Pandya of the Centre of Science For Village, Wardha. Bhushan, appearing for petitioner Association for Protection of Democratic Rights (APDR) had earlier said that no alternatives were explored and permission was granted to fell the trees, which are heritage ones aged around 80-100 years. He had said everyone knows about global warming and there is study which says if the vegetation is not protected then in next 10-20 years the human species will be in danger. The Calcutta High Court on August 31, 2018, had paved the way for widening of the national highway and allowed felling of over 350 trees for widening of Jessore Road, which connects the city to Petrapole on the Indo-Bangladesh border, on the condition that five trees will be planted for each tree cut. The NH-112 or Jessore Road is an important link between India and Bangladesh and the state government had undertaken a project to widen it. Hundreds of old trees line both sides of the road, some of which were decided to be felled for the purpose of widening of the road. A PIL was moved before the high court challenging the state''s plan to fell the trees. After arguments for several months, the high court allowed felling of 356 trees at five places from Barasat to Petrapole border along the Jessore Road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/would-consider-laying-down-protocol-for-road-widening-projects-which-require-tree-cutting-supreme-court-947192.html
03-02-2021||National||Advocates launch helpline for protesting farmers||As protesting farmers face legal challenges emerging out of the tractor parade violence on Republic Day, some lawyer groups have come forward to offer legal assistance to them and have started helpline numbers. Simranjeet Kaur Gill, an advocate at the Punjab and Haryana High Court, said they are helping those who are in jail or have gone "missing" since the violent protests on Janury 26. "We are providing legal help to those who have been arrested and missing after the farmers' tractor parade on Republic Day. A total of 124 people have been arrested so far and 39 are missing since January 26 as per our information. The number is increasing every day," said Gill, who is at the Singhu border with her team. The volunteering lawyers have put up some posters under the head ‘advocate for farmers’ advertising two helpline numbers each for the Singhu and Tikri borders, the two major agitation sites. The cases have been filed under various sections, including attempt to murder, damaging public property, obstructing the public servants performing their duty, Gill said. She said different teams are working the protest sites and outside. "We are helping people legally since January 27. We have several teams at the three borders -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur. Around 150 advocates are working at different district courts in the national capital," she said. Thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally called by their unions on January 26 to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day. On Friday, clashes broke out between farmers and a large group of men claiming to be local residents who hurled stones at each other at the Singhu border, one of the main protest sites against farm laws. Delhi Police SHO (Alipur) Pradeep Paliwal was injured in the violence after a man attacked him with a sword.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/advocates-launch-helpline-for-protesting-farmers-947194.html
03-02-2021||National||Mere possession or recovery of currency notes not sufficient to constitute offence under PC Act: Supreme Court||Mere possession or recovery of currency notes is not sufficient to constitute an offence under the provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act and to prove the charge of the prosecution against the accused, the Supreme Court said on Wednesday. The apex court said that to prove the charge against an accused, it has to be proved beyond a reasonable doubt that accused voluntarily accepted money knowing it to be a bribe. "It is equally well settled that mere recovery by itself cannot prove the charge of the prosecution against the accused...under Sections 7, 13(1)(d)(i) and (ii) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 it is reiterated that to prove the charge, it has to be proved beyond a reasonable doubt that accused voluntarily accepted money knowing it to be bribe," said a three-judge bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan, R. Subhash Reddy and M R Shah.  The apex court said that absence of proof of demand for illegal gratification and mere possession or recovery of currency notes is not sufficient to constitute such an offence. The judgement came on an appeal filed by N Vijayakumar, who was a sanitary inspector of Madurai Municipal Corporation, against order of Madras High Court convicting him in a corruption case. The trial court had acquitted him initially in the case against which the state went in appeal before the high court. The top court held that in view of the contradictions in the depositions of key witnesses examined on behalf of the prosecution, the demand for and acceptance   of bribe amount and cell phone by the appellant, is not proved beyond reasonable doubt.   "Having regard to such evidence on record the acquittal recorded by the trial court is a “possible view” as such the judgment of the High Court is fit to be set aside.  Before recording conviction under the provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act, courts have to take utmost care in scanning the evidence.   "Once a conviction is recorded under provisions of Prevention of Corruption Act, it casts a social stigma on the person in the society apart from serious consequences on the service rendered...," the bench said. h||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mere-possession-or-recovery-of-currency-notes-not-sufficient-to-constitute-offence-under-pc-act-supreme-court-947195.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||Congress to offer legal aid to protesting farmers, journalists||The Congress on Tuesday decided to offer legal help to protesting farmers and journalists for relief and redressal of their grievances. This was decided at a meeting of Congress leaders of the legal cell chaired by Rajya Sabha member Vivek Tankha. Members of the Congress legal cells in Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh were also present at the meeting. They decided that a delegation of chairmen of legal departments from Punjab, Haryana and Delhi will visit farmer leaders at the protest sites at borders in Delhi to apprise them of the services already undertaken by the legal department and to help agitating farmers and journalists regarding relief and redressal. They also passed a resolution stating that in the four states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, a committee of lawyers from the Legal Department be formed in all districts, with names and contact numbers, in the next 48 hours. "Help the farmer organizations in preparing a list of missing persons by visiting jails and meeting jail authorities, police stations and other authorities," the resolution said. "The legal cells will consider filing petitions in the high court to challenge the systematic suspension of Internet services in a large number of districts to scuttle peaceful protest of farmers," the resolution added. They also decided to maintain close coordination among the lawyers of the legal departments of Punjab, Haryana, UP and Delhi to identify people under detention in Delhi in the course of farmers' protest and intimate the families and the detainees about legal options available to them. The Congress has been supporting the protests against the three farm laws and have asked the farmers to continue with their agitation, saying the party would extend all support to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-to-offer-legal-aid-to-protesting-farmers-journalists-946808.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha to sit on February 13 instead of February 15||Lok Sabha will sit on February 13, a Saturday, instead of February 15, the Lok Sabha Secretariat said on Tuesday. The first part of the Budget Session will now end on February 13 instead of February 15. The decision taken unanimously by floor leaders of various parties last week has been formally notified. The LS Secretariat also said there would be no Question Hour on February 13 and the notices by members to raise questions on February 15, a Monday, would stand lapsed. The session began on January 29 and would end on April 8. The second part of the session would commence from March 8. With the lower house meeting on February 13 instead of February 15, the number of sittings would remain the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-to-sit-on-february-13-instead-of-february-15-946810.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||UP court issues non-bailable warrant against AAP MP Sanjay Singh in alleged hate speech case||A court here on Tuesday issued a non-bailable warrant against AAP Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh in an alleged hate speech case. Judge PK Rai of the MP-MLA court fixed February 17 as the next date of hearing. Singh had on August 12, 2020, held a press conference here, wherein he had alleged that the Uttar Pradesh government was favouring one particular caste. An FIR was registered against him with Hazratganj police under sections 153-A, 153-B, 501, 505(1), 505(2) of the IPC. After the probe, the investigating officer filed a charge sheet on September 7. Ten days later, the state government granted sanction for prosecution of Singh. The special court took cognisance of the charge sheet and issued summons to Singh on December 4. Singh moved the Allahabad High Court but Justice Rakesh Srivastava on January 21 dismissed his plea to quash the MP-MLA court's order, accepting the arguments of government advocate Vimal Srivastava that there was no illegality in the special court's order. Singh's lawyer on Tuesday requested the MP-MLA court to exempt his personal appearance, but the judge declined the plea saying that he had not obtained bail till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/up-court-issues-non-bailable-warrant-against-aap-mp-sanjay-singh-in-alleged-hate-speech-case-946813.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||Opposition slams Centre for barricading Delhi borders||Opposition slammed the Modi government for putting up barricades, barbed wires and iron nails cast in cement along the borders of the national capital where farmers are protesting against the three farm laws. “Mr Prime Minister, war on our own farmers,” asked Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra sharing a video of the barricades and increased presence of security forces along the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders of Delhi. Delhi Police have put up a series of cement and iron barricades, parked DTC buses, put up spikes and makeshift concrete walls besides digging up roads along the protest sites to prevent the movement of farmers towards the national capital. “I am surprised at this government, they have turned the place into a fortress, barricaded it, have fixed nails & given rods to police as if Pakistanis are sitting there. They are your people, your farmers. The way they are being treated is shameful,” former union minister and Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal said. “Three layers of barbed wires, nails and steel lathis are reminder of ancient battles and have no place in a modern and progressive democracy,” senior Congress leader Anand Sharma said and asked the Supreme Court to take cognisance of the matter. Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava defended the move saying the police had strengthened the barricading to ensure that it was not broken again. “I am surprised that when tractors were used, police was attacked, barricades were broken on January 26th, no questions were raised. What did we do now? We have just strengthened barricading so that it is not broken again,” Shrivastava told reporters here. Farmers organisations are planning a demonstration on Saturday against the farm sector reforms by blocking roads for three hours. The police appeared to be in no mood to take any chances considering the violence that had erupted during the tractor rally on Republic Day in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-slams-centre-for-barricading-delhi-borders-946846.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||Republic Day Tractor Rally: Videos show no insult to national flag at Red Fort, says Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Wednesday said video recordings of the flag incident at Red Fort during the farmers' tractor parade on Republic Day do not show anything insulting to the Tricolour. "Making a hue and cry about an incident which did not happen is also an insult of the national flag," an editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said. The comments in the Marathi publication came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the country was saddened by the "insult" to the Tricolour on the Republic Day. "The video recordings that have surfaced do not show anything that is insulting to the Tricolour which was flying with pride on the Red Fort," the editorial said. The honour of the national flag is honour of the country, it said. But is the political storm, being raised over the January 26 incident when a group of farmers entered the Red Fort, right? the Sena wondered. "The question is why should the prime minister feel sad about something that hasn't happened, and why should the ruling party (BJP) make such a hue and cry about it," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/republic-day-tractor-rally-videos-show-no-insult-to-national-flag-at-red-fort-says-shiv-sena-946951.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||Committee formed to suggest reforms in criminal laws, govt tells Parliament||The Centre has set up a committee to suggest reforms in criminal laws and sought suggestions from state governments, courts and bar councils, Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the committee set up to suggest reforms in the criminal laws is headed by the Vice Chancellor of the National Law University, Delhi. "The Ministry of Home Affairs has also sought suggestions from States, Union Territories, Supreme Court, High Courts, Bar Council of India, Bar Council of States and various Universities and Law Institutes on comprehensive amendments in Criminal laws. "The suggestions received and the report of the Committee are subject to examination by the Ministry of Home Affairs in consultation with all stakeholders,” he said in written reply to a question.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/committee-formed-to-suggest-reforms-in-criminal-laws-govt-tells-parliament-946992.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||FIRs against Tharoor, journalists figure in Rajya Sabha||The registration of cases of sedition against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor and journalists for their posts during farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day was raised in Rajya Sabha by MPs including Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad on Wednesday. Azad raised the issue during the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address. "Shashi Tharoor was Minister of State for external affairs. He has represented the country outside. How can he be an anti-national...then we all are anti-nationals," he said as he demanded withdrawal of sedition cases against him and journalists in the interest of democracy. CPI(M) Parliamentary Party Leader Elamaram Kareem also raised the issue also used the debate to raise the issue. "Such efforts to intimidate and terrorise journalists have been going on for some time in many cases.  But since January 28, FIRs have been filed against nine Indian journalists on charges of sedition and nine other provisions of law, including promoting communal disharmony, insulting religious beliefs, assertions prejudicial to national integration etc," he said. "Reputed senior journalists and an MP like Shashi Tharoor have been slapped with these charges on the basis of their personal tweets on social media.  This is reprehensible and smacks of efforts to browbeat, intimidate and harass the media," Kareem said. Earlier during Zero Hour in Rajya Sabha, Congress' Digvijay Singh said FIRs had been filed against politicians, journalists and civil society activists under felonious sections in the past few days. "Member of Parliament Shashi Tharoor and journalists Rajdeep Sardesai, Mrinal Pande, Mandeep Punia and several others have been charged with sedition on the basis of one person's complaint," Singh said. "Sedition is a colonial law that British used to jail freedom fighters, including Mahatma Gandhi, Bhagat Singh and Ashfaqulla Khan. On the basis of similar worked complaints with identical content, FIRs have been registered in different police stations in three states," he said. The plan is to to "intimidate independent journalism and free voice. We condemn this." he added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/firs-against-tharoor-journalists-figure-in-rajya-sabha-947011.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||Holding no informal talks with farmers, barricading is local admin issue: Tomar||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar Wednesday said the Centre is not holding any informal talk with protesting farmers and described putting up of more barricades and suspending internet in and around agitation sites as law and order issues related to local administrations. The last and 11th round of meeting between the government and 41 protesting unions, held on January 22, was inconclusive. The Centre had asked unions to reconsider the government's proposal to suspend new farm laws for 18 months. Asked if the government was engaging with the unions informally, Tomar told PTI, "No. We will inform when formal talks will be held." He was also asked when the government will hold the next round of talks. When told that protesting unions demand that no formal talks with the government can be held until the police and the administration stop "harassing" them and release the detained farmers, the minister said, "They should talk to the Police Commissioner. I don't want to comment on the law and order issue. That's not my job." Separately, Minister of State for Agriculture Kailash Choudhary said in a statement that the dialogue is the only way out for finding a solution for any kind of protest. The government is trying and it is ready to talk inside as well as outside Parliament, he said. The minister said the laws are in favour of farmers, but the Opposition was politicising the issue. Choudhary also said he will give up his ministership and leave the politics if farmers lose even one inch of their land under these laws. Since the January 22 talks, there has been no meeting between the farmer leaders and the Centre to discuss the farm laws although the government reiterated that its offer stands and doors are open for discussion. On Tuesday, Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) -- the umbrella body of farmers' unions protesting the Central farm laws -- had said that there can be no "formal" talks with the government until the "harassment" of different kinds against the farmers' movement by the police and administration is "immediately stopped". The SKM had also said no formal proposal for talks has been received by it. "Though no formal proposal for talks came from the government, we clearly state that the talks will be held only after the unconditional release of farmers who are in illegal police custody," SKM had said in a statement. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an all-party meeting on Saturday had said the government's offer to suspend the farm laws for 18 months was still on the table and the agriculture minister was just a phone call away to take the talks forward. The sites of the farmer protest at Delhi's borders have turned into fortresses with police beefing up security and putting up multi-layer barricades to stop the movement of vehicles. Concertina wires and metal spikes have also been put up to keep off people on foot. The strengthened security measures come after the violence during the Republic Day tractor parade by the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/holding-no-informal-talks-with-farmers-barricading-is-local-admin-issue-tomar-947048.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||Don't make farm laws a prestige issue, Opposition urges BJP||The farm laws dominated the debate during the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday with the ruling BJP urging opponents not to make the farmers' agitation "another Shaheen Bagh" while the Opposition asked the government to repeal the legislation without making it a prestige issue. Several speakers referred to the violence at Red Fort on Republic Day following the tractor rally and cases of sedition slapped against journalists and Congress MP Shashi Tharoor. Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad condemned calling Tharoor, who has served as a Minister of State in External Affairs, a "traitor". "If Tharoor is a traitor, then all of us are traitors," he said. The government and the Opposition arrived at a consensus to extend the debate time by five hours to discuss farmers' issue at the beginning of the session. However, AAP did not join the consensus and three of its MPs were marshalled out after they shouted slogans. Initiating the debate, Assam MP Bhubaneswar Kalita said the new farm laws were passed after extensive deliberations in Parliament and that doors are "always open" for farmers so that the stalemate can be resolved amicably. "The government is ready to discuss all issues concerning it. But my appeal to my friends is that they do not make it another Shaheen Bagh," Kalita, a former Congress MP who joined BJP in August 2019, said. Shaheen Bagh is known for the massive anti-CAA protest led by Muslim women but was panned by the ruling BJP and its allies. "The benefits of these three important farm laws have started reaching more than 10 crore people and small farmers. There has been no reduction in the rights and facilities of farmers. Through these agriculture reforms, the government has given new rights to farmers," he said. Azad demanded a withdrawal of the farm laws and asked the government not to make it a prestige issue. He suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should make the announcement on the repeal himself. Condemning the Republic Day violence, he said disrespect to the national flag cannot be tolerated and that those involved should be punished. However, he warned against implicating "innocent" farmer leaders. BJD's Prasanna Acharya also condemned the Red Fort incident and demanded an impartial probe, possibly by a sitting Supreme Court judge, saying one cannot just blame the farmers. CPI(M)'s Elamaram Kareem said the government is not ready to accept the demands of the farmers "even after more than 150 farmers lost their lives in the numbing cold". "Many of the farmer leaders are booked with fake charges in connection with the unfortunate incidents that happened on 26th January, which was equivocally condemned by all the organisations who are part of the peaceful protest. The government is trying to weaken this democratic protest by perpetrating violence and using force," he said. "Even the electricity and water supply to the protest spots are being disconnected by the government. I urge the Government to yield to the demands of farmers and they should withdraw the farm laws immediately," Kareem added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-make-farm-laws-a-prestige-issue-opposition-urges-bjp-947059.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha adjourned twice as opposition continues protest over farm laws||Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned twice on Wednesday as the protesting opposition members demanded a separate discussion on the farm laws issue. As soon as the House met at 4 PM, Congress leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury tried to raise the issue of farmers' agitation, saying that the matter is maligning the image of the country. "We are concerned," he said. Urging members to return to their seats, Speaker Om Birla said they should maintain the dignity of the House or else he will have to take disciplinary actions against those who violate norms. He said the Question Hour is important and it should go on. But opposition members refused to relent, forcing him to adjourn the proceedings till 4.30 PM. Following the first adjournment when the house reassembled at 4:30 PM, Chowdhury demanded that there should be a separate discussion on the Presidential address and the farmers' issue. The Speaker said the members should maintain the dignity of the House and return to the seats. He said that sufficient time and opportunity would be given to them to express their views. Birla urged AAP leader Bhagwant Mann to go to his seat if he wants a discussion and warned him of action. But the opposition members refused to relent forcing him to adjourn the proceedings again till 5 PM. Several farmer unions have been staging protests at various border points of Delhi since late November, demanding the repeal of the farm laws. Members of the Congres, DMK, Trinamool, and Bhagwant Mann of the AAP were at the forefront of raising slogans against the farm laws and the treatment meted out to the protesting farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-adjourned-twice-as-opposition-continues-protest-over-farm-laws-947074.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||Farmers' protest: RSP MP Premachandran submits privilege notice against Tomar||RSP MP N K Premachandran Wednesday submitted a privilege notice against Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar for proposing to the protesting farmers amendments in the three contentious agricultural laws passed by Parliament. The Centre has held 11 rounds of talks with the protesting farmers and even proposed to put the three laws on hold for 18 months besides suggesting that it is ready for amendments in the legislations enacted in September last year. "...the government proposed amendments to the aforesaid bill to the farmers' organisations which were in fact rejected by the House at the instance of the government. This action of the government to propose amendments which were rejected by the house at their instance amounts to contempt of the house," Premachandran said in the notice addressed to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. He submitted the notice to the Lok Sabha secretariat this morning, a source told PTI. The MP said the demand of the opposition to scrutinise the provisions of the bills by the standing committee or select committee was not considered by the government. Subsequent to the enactment of law, the mover of the bill, the Agriculture Minister, openly said the government is ready and willing to discuss each and every provision of the bill clause by clause with the farmers and ready for required amendments, the Opposition MP asserted. Premachandran, whose party RSP is part of the Congress-led UPA, said when the matter was considered by the Supreme Court, the government had agreed for appointment of a Committee to scrutinise the provisions of law enacted by the Parliament which further complicated the issue. "The scrutiny of the Bill on merit is the privilege of the Parliament under the scheme of the constitution and such right cannot be passed over to agency even through the intervention of the judiciary," he said. Premachandran, a five-time MP, said that the court can intervene only on two grounds -- constitutional validity of the bill passed by Parliament and legislative competence of Parliament. Therefore, he said, the scrutiny of the bill on merit by another agency than Parliament is also contempt of the House. Tens of thousands of farmers have been camping on the outskirts of Delhi for 70 days in protest against the three laws enacted in September last year. In talks with the protesting farmer leaders, the Centre, represented by Agriculture Minister Tomar, and his cabinet colleagues Piyush Goyal and Som Parkash, had proposed to suspend for one-and-a-half years the three contentious farm laws that have triggered the protracted protests. The ministers had also repeatedly told the farmer unions that they would be open for amendments. The farmers' unions had rejected all proposals of the Centre and were adamant on their demand for the repeal of the three farm laws. The farmers believe that the new laws undermine their livelihood and open the path for the corporate sector to dominate agriculture. The government, on the other hand, maintains that the new laws will give farmers more options on selling their produce, lead to better pricing, and free them from unfair monopolies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-protest-rsp-mp-premachandran-submits-privilege-notice-against-tomar-947081.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||PM should do his job, protect farmers: Rahul Gandhi||Hitting out at the Modi government, Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday asked the Centre to shed its ego and accept farmers' demand for the repeal of the farm laws, adding prolonged farmers' protests have shattered India's image as a soft power. Addressing a press conference, Rahul also slammed the government for not increasing the defence expenditure in the Union Budget at a time when soldiers were braving the deadly cold in Ladakh. When asked about popular singer Rihanna's support for the farmers' agitation, Gandhi said it was India's internal matter and the government has to step in to repeal the farm laws. “I have no interest in this. I have no opinion on this. This is our internal matter, an issue that concerns our farmers,” Rahul said. The former Congress President accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of not providing leadership to the nation in the time of a crisis. “This country is lacking leadership. There is just talk, there is no strategy. My sincere request to the Prime Minister is to do your job. Your job is to protect the farmers and not sell the country to 1 per cent of the population,” he said. Rahul said the images of barricades at Delhi's borders and the treatment meted out to farmers have shattered India's image globally. “Our biggest strength, you can call it soft power, has been shattered by the BJP-RSS, their mindset,” he said. The Congress leader criticised the Centre over disturbing images of farmer protest sites along the Delhi border being turned into “fortresses”. “As far as I know, the farmers will not back down. They will continue with their protests. In the end, it is the government that will have to back down, and better they do that today. This situation is not good at all for the country,” the Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-should-do-his-job-protect-farmers-rahul-gandhi-947088.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||Ex-SAD leader sends legal notice to Twitter to delete Kangana's defamatory tweet against farmers||Former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Manjit Singh GK has sent a legal notice to social media giant Twitter asking it to immediately delete the account of Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut for tweeting alleged defamatory statements against farmers. The legal notice, which was sent to the Managing Director of Twitter in Maharashtra on Tuesday through e-mail, said the posts by the actress are factually incorrect and are maligning or tarnishing the image, reputation and goodwill of farmers and the entire Sikh community associated with them. The notice, sent through advocate Naginder Benipal, said it was given for attacking the three farm laws passed by the Central Government with the assent of the President. Referring to Ranaut's tweet, it said that on February 2, she had replied to a tweet of international pop star Ms. Rihanna who had tweeted "why aren't we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest". In her reply, Ranaut tweeted "No one is talking about it because they are not farmers they are terrorists who are trying to divide India, so that China can take over our vulnerable broken nation and make it a Chinese colony much like USA." The notice claimed that the actress was using her fan following to try and defame the farmers and the Sikh community so associated with it and has declared them anti-national by claiming them to be terrorists who are trying to weaken the strength and protection of the country. "My client is very concerned and serious in protecting the integrity of the nation, the farmers and the entire Sikh community and will not accept such derogatory, false and malicious statements against the farmers," Benipal said in the notice. It said Singh, President of Jagg Asra Guru Ott (JAGO) a religious party, has taken objection to the actress’ act and he is constrained to issue this legal notice to Twitter to delete her account immediately to stop her from harming the peace of the nation. “In the light of the aforesaid, it is requested that the said tweets be taken down/ blocked off from your web portal with immediate effect. The said defamatory/ disparaging/ denigrating (statements) have already been reported on your web portal as per the procedure prescribed albeit they are available for public viewership till date. “Kindly note, that if the said tweets are not take down and her account is not blocked from your platform, then you shall be considered liable for the defamatory content and as such we reserve our right to initiate appropriate legal proceedings as per law which shall be at your sole risk and consequences,” the notice said. It also said that if the company fails to comply with the notice, it shall be solely at its risk and consequences and that Singh would be entitled to seek recourse of all legal remedies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ex-sad-leader-sends-legal-notice-to-twitter-to-delete-kanganas-defamatory-tweet-against-farmers-947100.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||Farmers' protest: Tikait holds show of strength, warns govt of 'gaddi wapsi' demand||In a show of strength by protesting farmers, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday warned the government that it could find it difficult to stay on in power if the new agri-marketing laws are not repealed. Just before Tikait was to begin his speech at the 'mahapanchayat' in Kandela village, the stage on which the farmer leaders had gathered collapsed under their weight. Nobody was reported hurt and the BKU leader went on to address the large gathering. Calling for a “wapsi” (withdrawal) of the three new central laws, the BKU leader indirectly warned the Narendra Modi government that it could lose its “gaddi” (power) if the agitation continues. “We have so far talked about "bill wapsi" (repealing the farm laws). The government should listen carefully. What will you do if the youth call for “gaddi wapsi” (removal from power)?” he said. He asked the Centre to repeal the three laws and frame a new one to assure the continuation of the minimum support price (MSP) system. The BKU leader from Uttar Pradesh has been camping at Ghazipur on the Delhi-UP border as part of a campaign by farmer unions against the central laws enacted in September. Farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are also massed at Tikri and Singhu on the Delhi-Haryana border for two months. After violence on Republic Day, police barricaded these protest sites with cement barriers and spikes on the roads leading to them. Criticising the restrictions, Tikait said, “When the king is scared, he secures the fortress.” He suggested that he would lay down on the nails embedded on the roads there so that others can cross them by stepping on him. He said the Centre must talk with the farmer unions spearheading the agitation. The 'mahapanchayat' was attended by Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni and BKU leader from Punjab, Balbir Singh Rajewal. Over 50 “khap" leaders were also present. Jind is often considered part of Haryana's political heartland and the 'mahapanchayat' was meant to muster support for the agitation. It was organised by Sarva Jatiya Kandela Khap headed by Tekram Kandela. Shortly before Tikait was to speak, the makeshift stage collapsed. He appealed to the gathering not to panic and began his speech. Farmer leaders said there were no reports of anyone being hurt. Tikait said the campaign against the farm laws was going strong. “The way we are getting support from khap panchayats, we will win this fight.” He urged everyone involved, particularly the youth, to keep protesting in a peaceful manner. Tikait underlined the role played by farmers and their unions from Punjab. “We need their help. Haryana and Uttar Pradesh will back them. We will maintain the prestige of the farmer’s turban,” he said. Five resolutions were passed at the “mahapanchayat”. These urged the government to repeal the new laws, give a legal guarantee for the MSP, implement the Swaminathan Commission report, waive farm loans and release farmers arrested after the events in Delhi on January 26. Khap leader Kandela said the prime minister and the Union home minister should directly talk with the protesting farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-protest-tikait-holds-show-of-strength-warns-govt-of-gaddi-wapsi-demand-947111.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||Farm laws issue rocks Lok Sabha; Congress demands separate discussion||Taking an aggressive stand, Congress on Wednesday insisted on a separate discussion in the Lok Sabha on the farmers' issue and forced repeated adjournments, prompting the government to accuse the opposition of reneging on its assurance to allow the House to function. Rahul Gandhi stepped in to overturn the stand taken by the Congress in the Rajya Sabha, where Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad had agreed to the government proposal to extend the time allocated for the debate on Motion of Thanks on President's address by five hours to accommodate elaborate discussion on farmers issues. In the Lok Sabha, Congress members took a different stand and continued to protest in the Well of the House demanding a separate discussion on the farmers' issue. Rahul, who represents Wayanad in the Lok Sabha, held a strategy meeting with party members and directed them to insist on a separate discussion on the farmers' issue. As members from the Congress, DMK, Akali Dal and AAP protested in the Well of the House, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said he had spoken to opposition leaders who had agreed to take up the discussion on the Motion of Thanks “Now they have taken a U-turn and that is also like an insult to the President,” Joshi said. The Lok Sabha witnessed repeated adjournments over the issue. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury conveyed the party's stand to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla. The government was not keen to have a separate discussion on the issue, contending that the farmer's issue can be raised during the debate on the Motion of Thanks. As per Parliamentary procedures, both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha take up the discussion on Motion of Thanks to the President for his address as the first agenda item, followed by a debate on the Union Budget. BJP member Locket Chatterjee was to initiate the discussion on the Motion of Thanks, while Manish Tewari was the lead speaker from the Congress ranks. “I just cannot understand the attitude of the government and the Speaker in refusing a discussion on the Farmers Protests and instead insisting on clubbing it with the debate on the President's Address. Parliament exists to give people's representatives a voice on burning issues of the day,” Congress member Shashi Tharoor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-laws-issue-rocks-lok-sabha-congress-demands-separate-discussion-947119.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||Kejriwal threatens legal action against Punjab CM for sharing his 'doctored' video||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday threatened legal action against his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh for allegedly sharing a "doctored" video of him on social media. Kejriwal accused Singh of resorting to dirty politics for political survival. In the video shared on Twitter by Singh's media advisor Raveen Thukral, the Delhi chief minister is purportedly seen praising three new farm laws passed by the Centre. "Day after @AamAadmiParty walkout from all-party meet, @capt_amarinder says @ArvindKejriwal is on record praising #FarmLaws, showing where their sympathies lie. Trashes claim of Delhi CM video being doctored, says their track record of U-turns on #farmers there for all to see," Thukral said on Twitter while sharing the link of the video. Kejriwal tagged Thukral's tweet and responded by saying that the video being referred in the post is doctored. "This is doctored video. Shocking that Capt Amarinder has resorted to such dirty politics for political survival. I urge media to refrain from publishing or using this video. If @capt_amarinder does not withdraw this video immediately n apologize, I'll take legal action against him," the Delhi CM tweeted. The AAP national convenor has been extending support to the farmers' agitation against the three agri laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kejriwal-threatens-legal-action-against-punjab-cm-for-sharing-his-doctored-video-947163.html
03-02-2021||National Politics||No foreign government supported farmers' agitation: MoS Muraleedharan||No foreign government has given support to the farmers' agitation against the three farm laws, but protests related to these laws by a "few motivated" persons of Indian origins (PIOs) were reported in Canada, the UK, the US and in some European countries, Lok Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had made a comment on issues related to the farmers, and it was conveyed to Canada that such remarks pertaining to the internal affairs of India are "unwarranted" and "unacceptable". The minister was replying to questions on the farmers' protests. "No foreign government has given support to the agitation of Indian farmers against three bills passed by Indian Parliament. In Canada, UK, USA, and in few European countries, protests by a few motivated PIOs on issues related to the Indian farm bill have been reported," he said. The matter was taken up with the Canadian authorities both in Ottawa and New Delhi and conveyed that such comments pertaining to the "internal affairs of India are unwarranted, unacceptable and would damage India-Canada bilateral relations," the minister said on Trudeau's remarks. In early December, Trudeau, backing the agitating farmers in India, had said that Canada will always be there to defend the rights of peaceful protests, and expressed concern over the situation. "Government of Canada has welcomed the Government of India's commitment to ongoing dialogue with the farmers to discuss issues of concern," Muraleedharan added. Tens of thousands of farmers have been protesting for more than two months at three border points on the outskirts of Delhi demanding a complete repeal of the contentious farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-foreign-government-supported-farmers-agitation-mos-muraleedharan-947171.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||Data of 25 lakh Airtel customers in allegedly leaked in Jammu and Kashmir; telco claims no breach in server||Data of around 25 lakh Bharti Airtel subscribers of Jammu and Kashmir circle, including Aadhaar numbers, address and date of birth, has reportedly been leaked by hackers, even as the telecom operator denied any breach in its servers. A sample of the leaked database was shared on Twitter by cybersecurity researcher Rajshekhar Rajaharia which shows masked details of the subscribers. Rajaharia also shared a video of an email conversation between Bharti Airtel and the hackers with the name of 'Red Rabbit Team'. The video shows that the hackers informed Bharti Airtel about the breach in December and demanded money. "Hackers have claimed that they have access to pan-India data of Airtel subscribers and they only uploaded a sample of subscribers data from Jammu and Kashmir. "It may be possible that the hacker may have uploaded a shell (malicious software code) in Airtel servers. During the Covid-19 peak period several companies could not focus on security and their data was breached," Rajaharia said. The hackers also uploaded the subscriber data on a website, but it was not accessible later. When contacted, a Bharti Airtel spokesperson denied any breach of the company's servers. "Airtel takes great pride in deploying various measures to safeguard the privacy of its customers. In this specific case, we confirm that there is no data breach at our end. "In fact, the claims made by this group reveal glaring inaccuracies and a large proportion of the data records do not even belong to Airtel. We have already apprised the relevant authorities of the matter," the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/data-of-25-lakh-airtel-customers-in-allegedly-leaked-in-jammu-and-kashmir-telco-claims-no-breach-in-server-946809.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||10,752 ceasefire violations by Pakistan in three years: Government in Lok Sabha||A total of 10,752 cases of ceasefire violation have taken place along India's border with Pakistan in the last three years in which 72 security personnel and 70 civilians were killed, Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said 364 security personnel and 341 civilians were injured in these ceasefire violations along the International Border and the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir in 2018, 2019 and 2020. During the three years, 1,452 terrorist attacks have taken place in Jammu and Kashmir in which 233 security personnel and 115 civilians were killed, he said in a written reply to a question. As many as 635 terrorists were also killed in gunfights with security forces in 2018, 2019 and 2020, he said. Reddy said a total of 484 security personnel and 373 civilians were injured in terrorist attacks. The minister said the government has adopted a policy of zero tolerance towards terrorism, and immediate and effective retaliation is undertaken by the security forces in cases of ceasefire violations or cross-border firings. There has been a substantial decline in terrorist attacks over the last three years due to a slew of pre-emptive measures undertaken by the government, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/10752-ceasefire-violations-by-pakistan-in-three-years-government-in-lok-sabha-946812.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||39% people in Himachal Pradesh suffer from obesity, 11.5% diabetic: Study||Thirty-nine per cent people in Himachal Pradesh suffer from obesity while 11.5 per cent are diabetic, according to a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research-India Diabetes (ICMR-INDIAB). The nationwide study, under which findings for the state were released on Tuesday, also stated that around 77 per cent people in Himachal Pradesh suffer from dyslipidemia -- abnormal levels of one or more kinds of lipids in the blood that leads to increased risk of heart diseases. The survey covered nearly 4,000 people in the state and it was conducted from September 2019 to March 2020, the study's principal investigator Dr J K Mokta, who is a professor at the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital's medicine department here, said. "Himachal Pradesh ranks seventh in the country in terms of prevalence of type-two diabetes, and has a higher prevalence than the national average as well as its neighbouring states of Punjab, Haryana and Uttarakhand," he said The prevalence is same among males and females, but is higher in urban areas as compared to rural areas, Mokta added. He said that according to the study, around half of those suffering from diabetes have not been diagnosed with the disease and are unaware about the problem. "Moreover, around 18 per cent people here are prediabetic, which means they have a 50 per cent chance of developing diabetes in the next 10 years," Mokta said, adding that Himachal Pradesh is the fourth worst-hit state in terms of abdominial obesity, with 55 per cent people having a larger than normal waist circumference. The study also showed that around 31 per cent people in the state suffer from hypertension. The fifth National Family Health Survey released in December had come out with similar results for the state against the popular belief that residents of the hill-state are healthier on account of more physical activity in the mountainous terrain, it said. Sixty-one per cent of the respondents, in fact, were found to be physically inactive, and only five per cent were highly active, the study found. "Unhealthy food habits and an increasingly sedentary lifestyle seem to be responsible for all these disorders. The average cereal consumption in Himachal Pradesh is 78 per cent wheat and 21 per cent rice. But people are largely consuming refined carbohydrates and not whole grains," Mokta said. The milling process removes the dietary fibre and nutrients from the whole grain. They are also snacking on unhealthy foods in between meals, such as samosas, without indulging in additional physical activity, he said citing the study. "Legumes, complex carbohydrates, fruits and vegetables are not adequately present in our diets. Our ancestors also took carbohydrate-rich diets but indulged in extensive physical work which is missing now on account of motor vehicles, machines and sedentary jobs," Mokta said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/39-people-in-himachal-pradesh-suffer-from-obesity-115-diabetic-study-946896.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||Snowfall disrupts flight operations in Kashmir||The air traffic to and fro Kashmir was affected on Wednesday due to bad weather as most parts of the valley received fresh snowfall, officials said. The snowfall began during the night and continued at many places when last reports came in, the officials said. The snowfall affected the flight operations at Srinagar airport in the morning, delaying several flights. Flight operations were hampered due to accumulation of snow on the runway and poor visibility due to bad weather, the officials said. “While the runway was cleared of snow, the visibility was low – about 800 metres – for the flight operations to take place,” they said. The officials said the decision on the resumption of the operations at the airport would be taken after the weather improves. However, they said, the bad weather caused flight delays and many flights have been rescheduled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/snowfall-disrupts-flight-operations-in-kashmir-946938.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||All industrial units in Delhi operating on cleaner fuels: DPCC||All operational industrial units in the national capital have switched over to cleaner fuels, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee has told the Centre's Commission For Air Quality Management. The Commission had earlier asked the DPCC to identify the industries using unapproved fuels and take stringent penal action in case of non-compliance. As many as 1,644 industrial units, spread across 50 industrial areas, had been identified to switch over to Piped Natural Gas (PNG). The DPCC, Indraprastha Gas Limited (IGL) and the Delhi government were also asked to work in close coordination with the industrial units to complete infrastructure work to ensure their transition from dirty fuels to PNG by January 31. “There were 1,644 such units. Of this, 13 shut down operations, two are non-operational and two shifted to electricity,” a DPCC official said. Of the remaining industrial units, 1,607 switched over to PNG by January 31, he said. The official said 20 industrial units have been using Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG), which is a clean and efficient fuel. “Though we have asked these units to change to PNG, we cannot force them to do it,” the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-industrial-units-in-delhi-operating-on-cleaner-fuels-dpcc-946947.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||SC refuses to entertain pleas on tractor rally violence||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said it would not entertain a plea for probe into unsavoury incidents during the tractor rally on Republic Day but that does not mean it was condoning the violence. The top court declined to consider a clutch of petitions, saying the government was inquiring into incident and would take appropriate action. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said we have read statement of Prime Minister that law will take its own course. The court asked three petitioners to approach the government and make representation over there. "We are sure that the government is enquiring into this and taking action. We heard in the press where the Prime Minister said that law will take its own course, we don't want to interfere in it. You can approach the government," the CJI said. Petitioner-advocate Vishal Tiwari contended that on January 26 unfortunate incident happened, blames are on both side but people suffered. Another petitioner, advocate Shikha Dixit contended police personnel were beaten up in the violence on January 26 in Delhi.  The court also rejected another petition filed by advocate ML Sharma seeking direction to the media not to declare farmers as "terrorist" without any evidence. Another petition by Sanjeev Newar sought a direction for a probe by the National Investigative Agency (NIA) into the tractor rally violence. On Republic Day, protesting farmers barged into the 17th century monument, climbed up its ramparts and waved farmer union flags and banners and even hoisted a pennant. Police and other security personnel deployed at the Red Fort were seen baton charging the protesters even as they were clearly outnumbered by the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-refuses-to-entertain-pleas-on-tractor-rally-violence-946955.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||Over 93,000 cybercrimes reported in India in 3 years||Over 93,000 cybercrimes related to fraud, sexual exploitation and spreading of hate have been registered in the country between 2017 and 2019, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the enhanced use of the internet, the number of cybercrimes was also increasing. As per data maintained and published by the National Crime Records Bureau, 21,796 cybercrimes were registered in 2017, 27,248 in 2018 and 44,546 in 2019. "The motives behind cyber crime in the country include personal revenge, fraud, sexual exploitation, inciting hate, spreading piracy, stealing information etc," he said in a written reply to a question.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-93000-cybercrimes-reported-in-india-in-3-years-946962.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt to help trace farmers missing from protest sites: CM Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said his government will help trace the farmers missing from protest sites and if the need arises, he will approach the Lieutenant Governor and the Centre. Kejriwal said that the Delhi government will also release a list of 115 persons lodged in different jails here in connection with the January 26 violence. "We are releasing a list of 115 protesters who were arrested by police in relation to the Republic Day incident and are in different jails in the city. Our government will make every effort to trace the protesters who are missing and I will even speak to the Lt Governor and the central government if the need arises," he said at a press conference. A delegation from the legal team of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha met Kejriwal and presented him a list of 29 missing farmers. It also demanded a judicial inquiry into the alleged "conspiracy against the farmers' protest" and a medical board to examine those in jail.  The chief minister, however, did not comment on the demand for judicial inquiry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-help-trace-farmers-missing-from-protest-sites-cm-kejriwal-946966.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||J&K CID has joined central agencies to terrorise Kashmiris, alleges Mehbooba Mufti||PDP president and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday alleged that local CID has joined Central agencies to terrorise Kashmiris and falsely implicate them. In a series of tweets, she claimed that after failing to substantiate charges against PDP’s youth president Waheed Parra, the Crime Investigation Department (CID) replaced the special investigation team (SIT) head as he refused to be an accomplice in framing invented charges. “J&K CID has joined the list of central agencies that work to terrorise Kashmiris & falsely implicate them. After failing to substantiate charges against PDP’s @parawahid CID replaced the SIT head because he refused to be an accomplice in framing invented charges," Mehbooba tweeted. The former chief minister also alleged that Parra was being persecuted and tortured to admit the false allegations “and he is being kept under inhuman conditions.” “Waheed is being persecuted & tortured to admit the false allegations. Since an admission didn’t happen he is being kept under inhuman conditions. This investigation has been fraudulent & politically motivated from day one,” she tweeted. Waheed is being persecuted & tortured to admit the false allegations. Since an admission didn’t happen he is being kept under inhuman conditions. This investigation has been fraudulent & politically motivated from day one. The PDP chief said that the institutions meant to uphold law and order bring disrepute by getting involved in these deceitful investigations. “The norm dictating such deceitful investigations is ‘Show me the man & I’ll show you the crime’. Shameful & appalling that these actions discredit & bring disrepute to the institutions meant to uphold law & order,” she said in another tweet. Parra was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on November 25 last year in connection with a militancy case related to suspended DSP Davinder Singh. Hailing from south Kashmir’s restive Pulwama district, he is considered as one of the leaders, who had contacts with separatists when the PDP was in alliance in J&K with the BJP from 2015 to 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-cid-has-joined-central-agencies-to-terrorise-kashmiris-alleges-mehbooba-mufti-946985.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||NCPCR seeks probe into financial discrepancies in ration scheme in Madhya Pradesh||The national child rights body has written to the economic offence wing of Madhya Pradesh to register a case over financial discrepancies of Rs 4.26 crore in the take home ration (THR) scheme for adolescent girls in four districts of the state. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) said in four districts of Baitul, Gwalior, Dindori and Singrauli, huge discrepancies had been observed in expenses incurred for THR for adolescent girls. "In view of the same, you are requested to kindly register a case under relevant Laws/Acts and take appropriate action in the matter. Also, submit an action taken report to the Commission within 10 days of issuance of this letter," the commission said in the letter dated February 1. The NCPCR chairperson inspected MP Agrotonic and MP Agro industries to assess the quality of food items served in anganwadi centres in different districts, it said. It was found that a large number of adolescent girls in the age group of 1-14 years were out of school (OoS), the child rights body said. The commission sought information on OoS adolescent girls from the Department of Women and Child Development and received a document containing district-wise information. "The document shows that there were 2,17,211 OoS adolescent girls (11-14 yrs), out of which 1,71,365 girls were getting the services of anganwadi as on February, 2019," it said. The commission took up the matter with the Education Department, which informed that they had identified a total 23,491 OoS children, out of which 8,680 were adolescent girls in 2018-19, the statement said. The commission said it noticed the discrepancies in data of OoS girls of state WCD and Education Department, and possibilities of financial irregularities. It has sent a letter to the accountant general (general & social sector audit) to inquire into the matter and apprise the commission with an action-taken report. As per the reports, "huge discrepancies" have been observed in four districts, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ncpcr-seeks-probe-into-financial-discrepancies-in-ration-scheme-in-madhya-pradesh-946991.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||DDC chairperson election: PAGD yet to decide about future course of action||Two weeks after Peoples Conference (PC) led by Sajjad Lone walked out of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Alliance (PAGD), the other constituents of the alliance are yet to decide future course of action. The PAGD was an alliance of seven parties - National Conference (NC), PDP, CPI, CPM, PC, Peoples Movement and Awami National Conference - which was formed on October 15 last year to work towards restoring the special status of J&K which was revoked last August. The alliance contested the first-ever district development council (DDC) polls which were held in November and December of 2020 winning 110 seats out of total 240 in J&K. But less than a month after the poll results, Sajjad Lone pulled out of the alliance, saying there had been a breach of trust between the constituent parties. The rest of the constituents have been silent since then and are still indecisive over the ensuing elections for the chairpersons of DDCs. Though there were always apprehensions in Kashmir about the PAGD’s ability to stick together, nobody had expected the alliance to fall apart so soon. “There is a lot of uncertainty over the future of the PAGD as the leaders of both NC and the PDP – two main regional parties in Kashmir – are not comfortable with the alliance,” a senior NC leader, wishing anonymity told DH. Elaborating further, he said, there was a lot of resentment among grassroots party cadre over conceding ground to rivals during the recently concluded DDC elections. “More or less there is a consensus in the NC that it would have won more seats in the DDC elections if it had not joined the alliance. PDP would have been decimated if it had contested on its own,” the leader added. However, the NC leader and Member Parliament (MP), Hassnain Masoodi said DDC elections were never an aim for the parties behind forging an alliance. “To have DDC chairpersons was never the motive of the alliance. Let nobody have any doubts about it that we are determined to pursue the cause, which is to restore pre 5 August 2019 position,” he said. The PDP general secretary and former minister, Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura said the meeting of PAGD has not taken place yet. However, he said, “we are expecting that a meeting will take place within the next two or three days.” “Definitely, the PAGD is going to contest in elections for chairpersons of DDC unitedly,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ddc-chairperson-election-pagd-yet-to-decide-about-future-course-of-action-947022.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||Punjab witnessed 44.5% increase in stubble burning incidents in 2020: Centre tells SC||Punjab witnessed an increase of 44.5 per cent incidents of stubble burning in 2020 despite getting 46 per cent of the total funds from the central government for checking crop burning residue, the Centre has told the Supreme Court. In an affidavit, the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) informed the top court that Punjab saw 76,590 incidents of fire in 2020 as compared to 52,991 instances in 2019 which indicates an increase of 44.5 per cent as compared to the earlier year. It said that in Haryana in the year 2020, the total active fire events reported was 5,000 while in 2019, it was 6,652 which indicates a decrease of 25 per cent. The MoEF said that in order to address the issue of air pollution and subsidise machinery required for in situ management of crop residue, the Deaprtment of Agriculture Cooperation and Farmers Welfare has implemented a special Central Sector Scheme which is 100 per cent centrally funded, in states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and NCT Delhi for the period from 2018-19 to 2020-21. The Centre allocated Rs 1,726.67 crore, of which Punjab got Rs 793.18 crore, Haryana Rs 499.90 crore, UP Rs 374.08 crore, Delhi Rs 4.52 crore and Indian Council of Agricultural Research and other central agencies Rs 54.99 crore. The top court was apprised that an ordinance was promulgated for setting up a broad based Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and adjoining areas to provide for coherent approach in order to tackle the problem of air pollution. The ministry told the top court that commission has asked all thermal power plants in NCR and adjoining areas to strictly adhere to the timelines for installation of Flue Gas Desulfurization (FGD) system and upgrade other infrastructure for control of sulphur oxide, nitrogen oxide and particulate matter levels. On the issue of switch to cleaner fuel by industrial units, the ministry told the apex court that a review meeting was conducted with the representatives of the government of Delhi, DPCC, GAIL, IGL on the progress of shifting to use of cleaner fuels. "Necessary decisions were taken in consultation with concerned agencies to target the complete switch over to cleaner fuels in all industrial units of Delhi. It may be noted that as per latest information, out of 6,042 identified industries in NCR, only 3138 have converted to PNG as of January 2021. The number of industries remaining for the conversion is 2,220 in Haryana, 420 in UP and 151 in Rajasthan," it said. With regard to overaged vehicles in Delhi-NCR, the MoEF told the top court that petrol and diesel vehicles which are more than 10 and 15 years old respectively are still being allowed to ply and traffic authorities are issuing challans. It was strongly reiterated that such vehicles must not be allowed to ply in NCR and shall be taken off roads immediately, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-witnessed-445-increase-in-stubble-burning-incidents-in-2020-centre-tells-sc-947027.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||Farmers' protest: Fortification continues at Ghazipur, MHA official says no further ban on internet||Stringent security continued on Wednesday at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, one of the key protest sites where thousands of farmers are camping with a demand that the Centre repeal the new agri-marketing laws enacted last September. Internet services remained disrupted for the fifth day at the site on Delhi's outskirts where protesters are occupying a stretch of the Delhi-Meerut highway since November, even as a Ghaziabad Police officer told PTI that online connectivity has been restored but there could be glitches. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs had announced suspension of internet services at the three border points of Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur and their adjoining areas from 11 pm on January 29 effective till 11 pm on January 31. Later it extended the suspension till 11 pm on February 2. “There has been no further extension of internet suspension at these sites as of now,” a Home Ministry official said on Wednesday. BKU's Meerut zone president Pawan Khatana said the internet was inaccessible at Ghazipur early on Wednesday till the time he left for a mahapanchayat in Haryana’s Jind with union leader Rakesh Tikait and other supporters. Ghaziabad Superintendent of Police (City 2) Gyanendra Singh told PTI, “Internet services have been restored but there could be glitches or slow speed due to crowd at the protest site.” Iron nails studded on roads, multi-layer iron and concrete barricades, concertina wires remained fixed as large number of security personnel were deployed as fortification of Ghazipur continued to prevent protesters' movement to Delhi. On the security apparatus at the protest sites, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava had Tuesday told media, “We have only strengthened the barricading so that it is not broken again.” Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-fortification-continues-at-ghazipur-mha-official-says-no-further-ban-on-internet-947082.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi's brother embarks on dharna to protest arrest of supporters||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's brother Prahalad Modi on Wednesday embarked on a dharna at the Lucknow Airport here in protest against alleged arrest of his supporters, who had arrived there to receive him. While the police officials did not confirm the arrests, Prahalad Modi, who arrived here to take part in some social functions at Sultanpur, Pratapgarh and other places in the state, alleged that around a dozen people, who had reached the airport to receive him, were taken into custody. "I shall not move from here until the police tell me on whose orders have these people been arrested....the police officials have not shown me the orders.....they must either show the order or release my supporters," he said. Sources in the police said that no arrests were made and that Prahalad Modi had called off his dharna after being informed about the same. According to the sources, a Sultanpur based NGO had invited Prahalad Modi to take part in a program, which was scheduled for Thursday. He was also scheduled to visit some other places. Sources said that the police claimed that the NGO, which had invited Prahalad Modi, had put up pictures of prime minister Narendra Modi, other ministers and the local MP from Sultanpur at its programs allegedly to create an impression that it was a government program. Police later lodged a case against the NGO office bearers and arrested one of them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modis-brother-embarks-on-dharna-to-protest-arrest-of-supporters-947110.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||Anti-CAA protest: Court dismisses Jamia's plea seeking FIR against police||A court on Wednesday dismissed an application filed by Jamia Millia Islamia University seeking an FIR against Delhi police officials for allegedly breaking into the campus without permission and assaulting students and security guards during anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests in December 2019. Metropolitan Magistrate Rajat Goyal held that the acts allegedly committed by the police officials fell within the purview of the acts committed in the discharge of official duties, and a requisite sanction was a must from the authorities concerned to prosecute them. “Thus, as per law down by the Supreme Court, the existence of requisite sanction is a must even before jurisdiction could be exercised. That being so, the present application cannot be allowed for want of sanction,” the court said. The application had sought registration of an FIR claiming that on December 15, 2019 police officials committed various atrocities, including “vandalizing public/university property and unnecessary use of force against hapless students who were only exercising their democratic right to protest peacefully.” In an Action Taken Report field in response to court's direction, the police said that a protesting crowd set several vehicles on fire and then went inside the university campus and started pelting stones on the police and raised provocative slogans. “In order to maintain law and order situation, police had to enter the university campus and contain the mob by detaining some persons,” the report said. Advocates Asghar khan and Tariq Nasir, who represented the university, said that they will file a revision petition before a superior court against the order. The court said in its order that it was clear from the factual background of the matter that some of the protests had become violent and that police personnel were acting to control the said protests at the relevant point of time, so as to prevent violence and prevent law and order situation from further deterioration.  “Though it could be argued that while so acting, the police/respondents had allegedly exceeded their jurisdiction and used more force than necessary in some instances, it cannot be said, by any stretch of the imagination, that the said acts allegedly committed by the respondents were wholly unconnected to their official duty. “Likewise, it could also be argued that the situation perhaps could have been handled by the respondents in a better way and that some restraint should have been shown by the police/respondents in order to differentiate between peaceful student protesters and anti­-social elements who had attempted to hijack the entire movement,” the judge said. The judge said that “however, the lack of such restraint exhibited by the police/respondents and excesses committed to trying to control the situation is very much related to official duties of the respondents.”  “This court has no hesitation in holding that acts allegedly committed by the respondents fall within the purview of section 197 Cr.P.C., being acts committed in the discharge of official duties,” the court further said. The application had claimed that on December 15, 2019, civil society members decided to call a peaceful protest near the university area against CAA.  “In pursuit of clearing the crowd, police officials broke into the campus without seeking any sanction and used excessive and arbitrary force and thrashed several security guards of the university and also students. “The said police officials caused the destruction of university property and fired tear gas shells and conducted lathi charge. They also hurt the religious sentiments of locals of the area by entering into the university mosque,” it said. It added that the complainant gave a complaint to the SHO of Jamia Nagar police station and ACP and DCP concerned in this regard on the next day of the incident but no action was taken, therefore, the university approached the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/anti-caa-protest-court-dismisses-jamias-plea-seeking-fir-against-police-947159.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||NIA begins probe into blast near Israeli Embassy in Delhi||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has begun its probe into a blast near the Israeli Embassy hereby re-registering the case filed by the Delhi Police, officials said on Wednesday. The Home Ministry on Tuesday gave its nod to the anti-terror probe agency to carry out a detailed investigation into the explosion that took place on January 29 near the embassy located in the heart of Lutyens' Delhi. No one was injured. Some cars were damaged in the explosion that occurred about 150 metres away from the embassy on the Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Road in the very high-security bungalow zone. The Improvised Explosive Device (IED) was fabricated with a cocktail of ammonium nitrate-fuel oil having cycle ball bearings as shrapnel. A letter was also received by the embassy which was shared with the police and now is part of the NIA investigation. Cyber footprints before and after the blast have indicated that some individual claiming to be part of a little known terror group claimed responsibility for the attack. The trail of Internet Protocol address was indicative of a southern city of Afghanistan, sharing borders with Iran, but the investigators believed that it could be to mislead the probe. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday to convey his strong condemnation of the terror attack and asserted that India will deploy all its resources to find and punish the perpetrators. Both leaders, the PMO said, had expressed satisfaction about the close coordination between Indian and Israeli security agencies in connection with the blast probe. The Israeli foreign ministry said all its diplomats and embassy staff in Delhi are "safe and sound". Since 2012, when wife of Israel's defence attache to India was injured after a motorcyclist attached a bomb to her car, the diplomats of the Jewish nation have been given higher security besides other benefits for their protection. The Interpol had also issued a Red Corner notices against four Iranian nationals — Houshang Afshar Irani, Syed Ali Mahdiansadr, Mohammadreza Abolghasemi and Masoud Sedaghatzadeh. An Interpol Red Corner notice is the closest instrument to an international arrest warrant. It requests provisional arrest of wanted persons with a view to extraditing them. The four still continue to be on the wanted list of Interpol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-begins-probe-into-blast-near-israeli-embassy-in-delhi-947182.html
03-02-2021||North and Central||Low intensity earthquake hits Ladakh||An earthquake of 4.5 magnitude hit the Union Territory of Ladakh on Wednesday evening, an official of the Meteorological Department said. A police official said there was no report of damage from anywhere. "The earthquake was probably of low intensity and did not cause panic," he said. The MET Department official said the tremor was felt at 7.59 pm. The earthquake had a depth of 10 kilometer and the epicentre was at latitude 34.33 degrees north and longitude 78.30 degrees east, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/low-intensity-earthquake-hits-ladakh-947199.html
03-02-2021||Opinion||Vladimir Putin has become America’s ex-boyfriend from hell||The recent discovery of a massive, highly sophisticated hack, almost certainly by Russia, of key U.S. technology companies and government agencies puts the new Biden team in a real quandary: How, when or even whether should they retaliate against Russia’s president? I have a lot of sympathy with that quandary — because Vladimir Putin has become America’s ex-boyfriend from hell. There was a time when Russia — formerly the core of the Soviet Union (a country with double the population of the one Putin now rules) — was very important to us. It once threatened to conquer all of Europe and spread communism across the globe. That time was the Cold War. That time is long gone. Our most important global rival today is China. Putin is not very important to us at all. He’s a Moscow mafia don who had his agents try to kill an anti-corruption activist, Alexei Navalny, by sprinkling a Soviet-era nerve agent, Novichok, in the crotch of his underwear. I’m not making that up! Russia once gave the world Tolstoy, Tchaikovsky, Rachmaninoff, Dostoyevsky, Sakharov and Solzhenitsyn. Putin’s Russia will be remembered for giving the world poisoned underwear. But to distract his people from his corruption and maintain his grip on power, Putin presents himself as the great defender of the Russian Motherland, and its Orthodox Christian culture, from godless, pro-gay Westerners. And to inflate his importance — in his own eyes and in the eyes of Russians — he keeps stalking us. He meddles in our elections, hacks our companies, while denying it all with a smirk and relishing the notion that so many Americans think he installed Donald Trump as president. This is a new kind of strategic problem for U.S. planners — how to deal with a geopolitical stalker? How do you deal with a Russian leader who’s not a superpower but a supertroll, an old suitor who won’t accept rejection: “Vlad, we’re just not into you anymore. We’re seeing other people, like China. If we could, we’d get a court order to keep you 5,000 miles away.” To be sure, Putin still controls dangerous nuclear missiles. I’m glad that he and President Joe Biden agreed last week to extend the New START nuclear treaty that was about to expire. And, as we’ve just seen through the far-reaching hack of our companies and government, his cybercapabilities are significant. But it all masks a country that is actually not very dynamic at all. In the real world, where countries thrive by making stuff that others want to buy, Putin’s top seven exports are: oil and gas (52%); iron; precious metals; machinery and computers (2.1%); wood; fertilizer; and cereals. For a country with so much human talent, that’s pathetic. Russia today is a czarist economy with a space station — Doctor Zhivago with nuclear missiles and hackers. Meanwhile, scientists who fled Russia have made Israel and Silicon Valley tech superpowers. A rare success is Russia’s COVID-19 vaccine, but it is difficult to mass produce. When did you last buy a computer, smartphone or app from a Russian company? A Russian car? A Russian watch? Russian-made commercial aircraft? I’d rather take a bus than fly on one. The only Russian exports that appeal to Westerners are caviar, vodka and nesting dolls — and we’re full up on all three. Why is that? Because Putin trusts the stuff that comes up from the ground more than the stuff that might come out of his people’s heads. So, he has built a petro-autocracy that is fueled by natural resources, not human resources. He then uses the cash to lubricate an engine of corruption that keeps him and his cronies in power, while denying his youth the tools and freedoms to truly realize their full potential. So, Vlad, you hacked our companies. Tell me, to what end? You’re not going to invade us. Your system of government — kleptocracy — is obnoxious to your own people, let alone foreigners. We certainly have no interest in invading you. And what are you going to do with all those stolen credit card numbers? A massive Amazon buy? (“I’ll take 8 million diapers, 30 million rolls of toilet paper, and throw in 4 million pairs of men’s underwear.”) The truth is, everything worth stealing in America is in plain sight. It’s our Constitution, Declaration of Independence, Bill of Rights, free and fair elections, independent judiciary that upholds elections — even if the incumbent loses — and our independent FBI. But Putin wants none of those. (Which is probably good, since we’ve had trouble holding onto them ourselves — but that’s for another column.) So how best for Biden to deal with this geopolitical stalker? Answer: low-cost military deterrence and high-volume diplomacy that puts us solidly behind Navalny’s anti-corruption movement. Message to Putin: “Our last president was with you. We’re instead with your people. Have a nice day.” In terms of deterrence, Russia expert Leon Aron, author of “Boris Yeltsin: A Revolutionary Life,” told me that whenever Putin’s popularity dips, or he is challenged by a significant opposition movement like Navalny’s, his go-to reaction is “militarized patriotism, anti-Americanism — and some move to recover the lost glory of the Soviet superpowership.” Aron argued that we should prepare now for a possible Crimea-type attempt to “seize and annex areas just across Russia’s border with significant ethnic Russian populations — to reignite Russian patriotic fervor and expose NATO as a paper tiger.” In other words, he added, it might be a good time for Biden both to rescind Trump’s order withdrawing about one-third of the U.S. troops in Germany and to reinforce Baltic NATO members Estonia and Latvia, both of which have significant ethnic Russian populations. On anti-corruption, last week I took part in a Zoom call with Vladimir Ashurkov, the head of Navalny’s Anti-Corruption Foundation. Ashurkov, speaking from London, shared a letter just sent to Biden, urging him to impose sanctions against 35 individuals in Russia who he claims supply Putin’s “mistresses and their parents, and Putin’s children, with yachts, apartments and multimillion-dollar-a-year jobs at the companies they control.” Our current economic sanctions are too diffuse, Ashurkov said. By banning these 35 from traveling to the West and laundering money there, we would be squeezing the key people who can squeeze Putin. The reason Navalny is such a threat to Putin — the reason Putin’s court on Tuesday threw him back in jail for about 2 1/2 years — is that Navalny is as much a Russian nationalist as Putin is, but he focuses his campaign on Putin’s massive corruption. In court, Navalny called Putin a “little thieving man in his bunker.” This is resonating widely in Russia partly because Navalny’s foundation recently released a video showing a $1.7 billion Versailles-like palace that it alleges Putin had built for himself on the Black Sea. The video has been viewed more than 100 million times. Putin denies he is the owner (one of his cronies claims it is his) and called the video “boring.” I hope the White House tweets out the link twice a day. At the same time, let’s not forget that Biden’s climate/green energy policy is a huge win-win deterrent for us: Every new gigawatt of U.S. clean energy makes Putin’s oil and gas less valuable and America healthier. And, finally, there is one last deterrent message Biden could send Putin — a reminder that his chump Trump has left town: “Vlad, if all the computers in the Kremlin stop working one night — and ‘Born in the USA’ starts blaring through the speakers in Red Square — consider it a gentle reminder from the U.S. Cyber Command of what we could do to you if we thought you really mattered.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/vladimir-putin-has-become-america-s-ex-boyfriend-from-hell-946852.html
03-02-2021||Opinion||Farm stir: International censure hurts establishment||Concertina wires splayed across concrete swathes. Serried rows of iron nails punched in the ground. Barricades fortified with iron spikes. No access to water and toilets. Internet snapped. Unprecedented deployment of police and paramilitary forces. If these images make for a political statement, it is, here’s a  country at war with itself.  The Centre brought out the jackboot and the iron hand against the farmers protesting the disputatious farm laws at three sites on the Delhi borders abutting Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.  After the siege on the Red Fort on January 26 and the police-protestor clashes, the Centre abandoned its intent to engage with the farmers. It responded to the Opposition on its terms.  Virtually ruling out a political dialogue, the BJP seems focussed on speaking with its core constituents and the church of believers. The primary message is to reinforce a belief that the popular mandates the BJP received since 2014, in the Lok Sabha and the state legislatures, are not meant to be wasted in placating and appeasing dissent. The mandates should amplify the authority of the Centre and BJP state governments and ensure their decrees are not challenged or questioned. The decree was what the farm laws are because they were passed without debate and discussion in Parliament. Parliament is presently meeting to pass the Budget and the Finance Bill but it opened a window to the government to reach out to the Opposition, divided and ineffectual as it is, demanded a belated debate on the laws. The government is disinclined to have one and prefers to club it with the discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the President’s joint address so that the impact is not felt in the entirety. However, just as the agitation spreads prairie-fire like in the rural hinterland,  reactions emanated from unexpected quarters. On a single day, Rihanna, the pop singer, Greta Thunberg, the celebrated climate activist, and Meena Harris, US vice-president Kamala Harris’s niece articulated their outrage at the combat boot and mailed fist on display against the farmers, as though in concert.  Following Rihanna’s intervention, other big names and influencers weighed in. These were Lilly Singh, Canadian YouTuber and talk show host, Jamie Margolin, US climate change activist, Elizabeth Wathuti, Kenyan environmentalist and founder of the Green Generation Initiative and Khaled Beydoun, a law professor at the University of Arkansas. Of course, Meena, Greta and Rihanna didn’t work in tandem but when celebrities take note of occurrences far removed from their universe, it was impossible for a seemingly unflappable Centre to sit tight. India’s foreign ministry issued a statement that alleged “vested interest groups” tried to enforce their agenda on the protests, claimed the laws were passed after “full debate and discussion” in Parliament and facilitated “economically and ecologically sustainable farming”. The last argument was a Greta put-down. She was panned on social media by BJP cheerleaders for talking on an issue she was “ignorant” about. That wasn’t the government’s only counter. Hashtagged “India against Propaganda”, central ministers Nirmala Sitharaman and Kiren Rijiju called for a “better understanding of the issues on hand” while Rijiju demanded to know who instigated the “plot to defame India”.  Film stars Akshay Kumar and Suniel Shetty, counted among the pro-BJP voices in Bollywood, denounced the dissemination of “half truths” in the West’s support to the protesting farmers.     The foreign ministry’s response was proof that while the BJP and its ecosystem could quash domestic support for the protests through an army of trolls apart from the establishment, ignoring international censure was not easy. After the criticism over the 2002 Gujarat communal violence, as the state chief minister,  Prime Minister Narendra Modi worked overtime through his bureaucracy and the large diaspora to shore up his plummeted rankings in the West. It was a long haul that he overcame after 2014. In the BJP and the RSS’s world view, international relations are essentially transactional and dictated by business interests. As the adverse notices to the protests showed, this outlook is narrow because opinions come in all shades and governments can’t pick and choose the colours. On home ground, that ultimately tests a party’s success and failure, the BJP was ostensibly more confident of riding the perceptible wave of discontent and despair. It has polarised institutions so deep that its backers are willingly persuaded by the view that the opponents of the farm laws are “anti-Modi” and by extension, “anti-national”. The BJP’s feedback in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, the other battlegrounds apart from Punjab, was that farmers were segregated along caste and regional lines. In UP, for instance, the peasantry churn has not travelled southward to the central and eastern belts. In Haryana, ground reports suggest that non-Jat farmers are not in solidarity with the Jats. In the 2014 Haryana Assembly elections, the BJP successfully drove a wedge between the Jats and the non-Jats and mobilised the support of the latter, a teeming block against Jats. If elections are treated as a barometer of political resilience and durability—as the BJP tends to—the ruling party is convinced it has little to fear from the farmers’ protests apart from living with bad optics and adversarial notices from the world community.       (Radhika Ramaseshan is a Delhi-based political analyst and columnist) The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/farm-stir-international-censure-hurts-establishment-947175.html
03-02-2021||Opinion||Should the elderly get the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine shot?||Sam Fazeli, a Bloomberg Opinion contributor who covers the pharmaceutical industry for Bloomberg Intelligence, answered questions about the Covid-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca Plc and the University of Oxford after authorities in Germany and France recommended it not be given to the elderly based on the latest trial data. Regulators for the UK and European Union approved the shot for use by all adults. The conversation has been edited and condensed. Amid recent tensions over AstraZeneca’s curtailed dose deliveries to the EU, and despite the European drug regulator suggesting approval of the vaccine for everyone 18 and older, some of the EU’s countries have recommended against using the vaccine in people 65 and over. Why? This decision seems to be based on phase III trial data that AstraZeneca reported. In the trial, 88 per cent of the subjects were 18 to 55 years old, with only 668 older than 65 with two doses. So there were never enough elderly subjects in the trial to judge the efficacy of the vaccine in that age group. Based on this data, it’s logical that Germany, France and some others would be reluctant to recommend the shot for the elderly. The problem going down this road is that based on this same logic, there aren’t really enough data points to justify use of the vaccine for the 55-to-69 cohort either. So for me a bigger question is, why haven’t these national health-care bodies recommended the same limitations for this slightly younger age group as well? The UK regulators took a different path. What made them comfortable it was acceptable for the elderly? British authorities used data from early-phase trials of the vaccine that showed it to be as immunogenic in the older population as in the younger ones. The UK regulator took the view that this is sufficient evidence that the vaccine will work similarly in older people. Also, the latest analysis of the Astra-Oxford trial data suggests older people do mount a reasonable immune response, though up to a third lower than younger subjects. But this is not 100 per cent sure because the analysis was not an efficacy analysis — it only looked at immune antibody responses in the laboratory. The issue with that is, we still don’t really know whether antibody responses are the main correlate of protection against the disease. There could be other things at work, such as cellular immunity in the form of T-cells. So the UK has taken a bit of a gamble on this. Who is right? Only time will tell, but looking at the daily number of UK cases in people older than 80, there are tentative signs that the vaccine is working. The risk the UK is taking is that its strategy may not give older people a strong enough immunity to get an effective protection against the latest variants of the virus. It’s also possible that the protection wanes over time. What is the data on other vaccines and the elderly? The shots developed by Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE and Moderna Inc. appear to be effective regardless of age. Details from the Johnson & Johnson and Novavax Inc. vaccines aren’t out yet, but at least based on their commentary the shots seem to be effective in older people. Novavax only has early interim data, though. What is Astra doing or what can it do to make regulators more comfortable with recommending its shot for all age groups? Simply put, AstraZeneca needs to show more data. It can get this from analyzing the emergent data in the UK among the vaccinated. This data will be useful given that EU approval is similar to the UK’s in recommending a 12-week dosing interval between the first and second dose. Astra also can get more robust data from its US trial, which should report very soon, but this may actually backfire. We may discover that many older subjects there dropped out of the trial as they became eligible for the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines, which are now being widely distributed. The US trial also may show lower efficacy in general if the latest data from the Astra-Oxford group is right in showing a much lower efficacy of 54.9 per cent in people who had two shots less than six weeks apart — the regimen being followed in the US — compared with 82.4 per cent in those who received doses 12 weeks or more apart. One related question: What about the recent spate of deaths in Norway that appeared to be related to the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, among very old, or even terminally ill, people. Does this mean some older people may be too frail to get the shots? No. The Norway news was based on anecdotal analysis. Looking at emerging US data from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, there is currently no signal that would suggest an imbalance of death in the nearly 1.3 million people vaccinated in long-term care facilities. Another study from the Genesis Skilled Nursing Facilities in the US found that among 7,000 subjects inoculated by December 31, there was actually a lower mortality rate than among the unvaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/should-the-elderly-get-the-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-shot-947204.html
03-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu's Two-Language Policy won’t be diluted: Governor Banwarilal Purohit||Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday reiterated that it would continue to implement the Two Language Policy in the state despite the New Education Policy (NEP) advocating three languages for students, asserting that there will no “dilution” on its stand. Governor Banwarilal Purohit said in his customary address to the Tamil Nadu Assembly that the state government has constituted two committees to examine the implications of the NEP of the Government of India for school and higher education in the state. “This government is fully committed to the continuance of the Two Language Policy in the State and there shall be no dilution in this regard,” Purohit said, as he made his address in the first session of the Assembly this year. The three-language policy proposed by the NEP led to a massive row in Tamil Nadu with almost all political parties terming the proposal as an “indirect way” to impose Hindi on non-Hindi speaking states. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had been maintaining that the state government will continue to implement the two-language policy that has been in place in the state for the past few decades. Contending that the state government will continue to staunchly protect Tamil Nadu’s interests in inter-state river waters issues, Purohit asked the Centre to reject the proposal by Karnataka to construct a reservoir in Mekedatu across Cauvery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-two-language-policy-won-t-be-diluted-governor-banwarilal-purohit-946847.html
03-02-2021||South||Kerala CM's former secretary Sivasankar gets bail in dollar smuggling case||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's former principal secretary M Sivasankar got bail in all the three cases registered against him by the Customs and the Enforcement Directorate (ED). While he earlier got bail in the case registered by the ED in connection with money laundering and the gold smuggling case of Customs, on Wednesday he got bail in a second case registered by the Customs in connection with the dollar smuggling case. The Customs accused him of helping smuggle dollars worth Rs 1.3 crore. The additional chief judicial magistrate court for economic offences granted the bail. Sivasankar was arrested in October last year and was in remand for close to 100 days. Sivasankar came under probe owing to his close links with gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh who was a former employee of the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. The Opposition parties Congress and BJP were even raising allegations against the Chief Minister in this connection. The ED has already filed a charge sheet against Sivasankar accusing him as the key person of the racket. Though the NIA also launched a probe against gold smuggling accused, Sivasankar was not arraigned in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cms-former-secretary-sivasankar-gets-bail-in-dollar-smuggling-case-946936.html
03-02-2021||South||Congress-led alliance to hold fast in Puducherry on February 5 seeking recall of Bedi||The Congress-led Secular Democratic Progressive Alliance has resolved to launch its second phase of agitations here by holding a fast on February 5, demanding recall of Lt Governor Kiran Bedi for 'impeding' implementation of proposals of the elected government. It also said that a day-long bandh would be observed on February 16. Addressing reporters at the end of a joint meeting of parties of the alliance here on Tuesday night, Chief Minister V Narayanasamy said leaders of 18 parties, including the left parties, the VCK, and students outfits affiliated to the alliance had participated in the discussion. DMK was conspicuous by its absence at the meeting and while reading out the names of parties that took part in the deliberations, the CM did not mention the Dravidian major's name although it is a coalition partner supporting the Congress government from outside. Narayanasamy said the alliance had been insisting for a long time through various agitations that Bedi should quit Puducherry or the Prime Minister should recall her as she had been 'standing in the way' of implementation of several proposals of the elected government. Leaders of the parties attached to the alliance had held a dharna here for three days from January 8 to demand replacement of Bedi without any further loss of time. "Despite our sustained agitations demanding replacement of Bedi, the Centre has not paid any heed and hence we are now reviving our agitations by holding a fast on February 5 and calling for a bandh on February 16, he said. The Chief Minister said already the Congress and its allies had carried out a signature campaign in all assembly segments since January 11 and signatures were collected from public. "We have information from office of President Ram Nath Kovind that he would meet a delegation of the Secular democratic alliance on February 10. We would submit the papers containing signatures of people demanding the recall of Lt Governor to the President during our meeting that day." "Our agitation would go on till the Centre recalled Kiran Bedi," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-led-alliance-to-hold-fast-in-puducherry-on-february-5-seeking-recall-of-bedi-947008.html
03-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly adjourns after paying homage to SPB & Dr V Shanta||Tamil Nadu Assembly on Wednesday paid rich tributes to Agriculture Minister R Doraikannu, legendary playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, and celebrated oncologist Dr V Shanta by passing resolutions condoling their death. The session was adjourned till Thursday after paying condolences to the aforementioned and 22 former legislators who passed away between September 2020 and January 2021. A four-day session of the Tamil Nadu assembly convened on Tuesday with the customary address by Governor Banwarilal Purohit. As soon as the House convened on Wednesday, Speaker P Dhanapal read obituary references of Doraikannu, who passed away on October 31, 2020, after being infected with Covid-19, Balasubrahmanyam, and Dr Shanta. While Balasubrahmanyam died on September 25, Dr Shanta breathed her last on January 19, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-adjourns-after-paying-homage-to-spb-dr-v-shanta-947054.html
03-02-2021||South||BJP president Nadda slams LDF, UDF; says both are two sides of the same coin||BJP president J P Nadda on Wednesday attacked the ruling CPI(M)-led LDF and the opposition UDF spearheaded by the Congress, saying they are two sides of the same coin. "Both are corrupt, both the fronts have lost their credibility, there is no vision for Kerala and both are only power seekers," Nadda told a press conference here. While the two fronts are fighting each other in Kerala, the left and the Congress are allies in West Bengal for the upcoming assembly polls. "This is ideological bankruptcy. This shows they are power seekers and have nothing for the people. The involvement of M Sivasankar, former private secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in the gold smuggling case, shows that corruption has patronage of the highest office," Nadda, who arrived in Kerala on a two-day visit, alleged. With virus cases seeing a spike, Nadda also attacked the state government on its management of Covid-19. "I am sorry to say because of the ineffective political leadership, half of the Covid cases now are from Kerala. No strategy is being adopted," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-president-nadda-slams-ldf-udf-says-both-are-two-sides-of-the-same-coin-947065.html
03-02-2021||South||Sasikala to return on February 7, Dhinakaran sees changes in Tamil Nadu ahead of arrival||V K Sasikala, late J Jayalalithaa's confidante would return to Tamil Nadu on February 7 from Bengaluru and a grand welcome from party cadres awaited her right from the state's border, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam general secretary T T V Dhinakaran said here on Wednesday. 'Chemical' changes were on in Tamil Nadu, ahead of her arrival, Dhinakaran, Sasikala's nephew, said, apparently referring to actions like expulsion of five AIADMK workers for pasting wall posters in her support. The people and Amma's (Jayalalithaa) true cadres would usher in "Amma's government again in Tamil Nadu and Chinnamma (Sasikala) will play a vital role (in elections and in government formation)," he told reporters here and reiterated legal and democratic efforts to win back the AIADMK. Retrieving the AIADMK implies bringing the party back into the hands of Sasikala from the leadership of Chief Minister K Palaniswami (co-coordinator) and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam (coordinator) and elections to the Assembly are likely in April or early May. Asked about DMK president M K Stalin's claim that his party was all set to capture power, he said the leader of opposition has been waiting in vain to come to power for about 10 years and it would not happen. "Amma's cadres will not allow that to happen... people realised more the dangers of the evil force DMK returing to power," he said hitting out at the DMK. Sasikala was in the Parappana Agrahara Prison in the Karnataka capital from February 15, 2017 and she was set free on January 27 by authorities after completion of her four year prison term in a corruption case. She was discharged from a hospital after recovery from Covid-19 and she is now taking rest at a resort in Bengaluru as per doctor's advice. A grand welcome awaited her right from Tamil Nadu's border near Hosur, Dhinakaran said and appealed to cadres to ensure that the reception being planned by the party cadres does not cause traffic congestion on the Bengaluru-Chennai highway. She would start at 9 am on February 7 from Bengaluru and reach 'T Nagar residence' in Chennai by road. He said his aunt told him that she was recovering well. Though Sasikala had a plan to visit memorials of leaders, C N Annadurai, M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa in Chennai, Amma's memorial there has now been closed. "I know how many chemical changes are happening in Tamil Nadu as soon as the news of her release broke out," he claimed. Events like the present closure and opening of the memorial on January 27 when Sasikala was set free were the 'side effects' to her return and it also showed the 'quality' of people behind the move. For such actions, people would give their verdict in the Assembly elections due in a few months, he said. Anyway, the memorial cannot remain shut and it has to be opened and Sasikala would visit the place to pay homage, the AMMK general secretary said. Senior AIADMK leader and Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar said the memorial has been temporarily closed only to complete the pending work on a museum and knowledge park that are part of the overall phoenix themed memorial. Textiles Minister O S Manian too said the public entry has been disallowed to facilitate completion of ongoing work. To AIADMK leader K P Munusamy's comment that if Dhinakaran requested that he be re-inducted into the party (after apologising for his alleged bid to destroy the party and the government) it may be looked into by the party brass, the AMMK leader said time would answer the query. "Time will tell who indulged in wrongs, who should seek apology and who should be pardoned," he said. On AIADMK expelling partymen for supporting Sasikala by pasting wallposters honouring her, he said, "many chemical reactions have surfaced." Quoting a proverb, he meant such actions cannot pre-empt support and victory for Sasikala. The AMMK was founded to retrieve the AIADMK and their goal was also to prevent "the evil force DMK" from capturing power in Tamil Nadu, he said. Asked about AIADMK warning of legal action for use of its flag in a car used by Sasikala, Dhinakaran ridiculed it. Sasikala would continue her legal battle to win back the AIADMK and she is the party General Secretary (GC), he claimed. A case related to the general council of September 12, 2017 of the AIADMK that abolished the position of GC and her removal from that post was pending before a court, he said. On the democratic front, the AMMK would make efforts to retrieve the party, he said. 'Sleeper cells' were not MLAs alone, such silent functionaries would continue to operate in AIADMK and do 'the right thing,' and raise their voice at the right time like the people who now stuck posters in 'Chinnamma's' support, he said. Asked if his aunt would visit the AIADMK headquarters in Chennai and convene the general council to retrieve the party, he said,"let there be some suspense...wait, you will know." When it was pointed out that Sasikala cannot contest polls for six years and what would be her course of action on the political front, Dhinakaran said still there were legal avenues and consultations were on with experts to explore options under the law. "Let us wait," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-to-return-on-february-7-dhinakaran-sees-changes-in-tamil-nadu-ahead-of-arrival-947091.html
03-02-2021||South||Congress to use multi-pronged strategy in raising Sabarimala women entry issue during elections||The Congress in Kerala seems to have a multi-pronged strategy in raising the Sabarimala women entry issue as the state is heading towards Assembly polls. This puts the ruling CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) on the back foot, countering the pro-Muslim tag being given to the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and influencing the majority Hindu vote banks. While the CPI(M) is still maintaining silence towards Congress’s assurance that a law to protect faiths over Sabarimala Ayyapa temple would be introduced, BJP national president J P Nadda said that the party’s stand on Sabrimala women entry issue remained the same. Nadda, who is in Kerala to review the party’s election preparations on Wednesday, alleged that the Congress was backstabbing the people over the Sabarimala issue. "Congress did nothing when women were allowed at Sabarimala and Rahul Gandhi had not uttered a single word on the matter so far, whereas over 250 cases were slapped against BJP leaders in connection with stirs against women entry. Now the Congress is assuring to bring in legislation to protect Sabarimala. This is the height of hypocrisy," said Nadda. The CPI(M) seems to be in a dilemma over the issue as any open statements against or in favour of women entry could invite criticism. The mishandling of the Sabarimala women entry issue by trying to implement the SC order of 2018, which allowed women of all age group to the temple by scrapping the ban on those in the 10-15 age group, was considered to be one key reason for the debacle faced by LDF in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. If the LDF takes an open stand in favour of preventing women in the 10-50 age group to the temple, that would affect its progressive stature as well. Meanwhile, political analysts also point out that the key intention of Congress in raising the Sabarimala women entry issue now and assuring a law to protect beliefs was to resist the ongoing campaign by CPI(M) that the Congress’s priority was appeasement of minority community, especially Muslim community, and that the Indian Union Muslim League was dictating terms for the Congress. C A Josukutty, a senior political analyst, said that the Congress seems to be sending a message that they were taking care of the concerns of the Hindu community also by offering legislation on Sabarimala. It could resist the allegation of Muslim appeasement against the Congress and the CPI(M) would be also in a tight spot as it would be difficult for them to take a stand on the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-to-use-multi-pronged-strategy-in-raising-sabarimala-women-entry-issue-during-elections-947107.html
03-02-2021||South||Kerala Assembly Elections: Why Congress is raising the Sabrimala issue again||Ahead of the Assembly elections in Kerala, Congress has raised the issue of women's entry into the Sabrimala temple again, and it has a multi-pronged strategy for doing so. This move would put the ruling CPM-led left front in the defensive, counter the pro-Muslim tag being given to the Congress-led United Democratic Front and influence the Hindu majority vote banks. The CPM has maintained a silence towards Congress’s assurance of a law to protect faiths over Sabarimala Ayyapa temple, while BJP national president J P Nadda said that the party’s stand on the issue has not changed. Nadda, who is in Kerala to review the party’s election preparations on Wednesday, alleged that the Congress was backstabbing the people over the Sabarimala issue. The BJP leader said that Congress did nothing when women were allowed at Sabarimala and Rahul Gandhi had not uttered a single word on the matter so far. He added that over 250 cases were slapped against BJP leaders in connection with stirs against women entry. He called it the "height of hypocrisy" that the Congress is now assuring to bring in legislation to protect Sabarimala. The CPM seems to be in a dilemma over how to address the issue with polls coming up. The mishandling of the Sabarimala issue, by trying to implement the SC order of 2018, which allowed women of all age groups to enter the temple, was considered to be a key reason for the debacle faced by the Left Front in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. But if the Front takes a stand to prevent women in the 10-50 age group from entering the temple, that would affect its progressive stature. Meanwhile, political analysts pointed out that the main intention of the Congress behind raising the Sabarimala issue now was to resist the ongoing campaign by CPM that the Congress’s priority was appeasement of minority communities, especially Muslims. The grand old party also aims to refute the rumours that the Indian Union Muslim League was dictating terms for its functioning. C A Josukutty, a senior political analyst, said that by offering legislation on Sabrimala, Congress seems to be sending a message that they are rgistering the concerns of Hindus also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-elections-why-congress-is-raising-the-sabrimala-issue-again-947137.html
03-02-2021||South||TTD's bhakti channel in Kannada to be launched on Ugadi||The Kannada and Hindi channels of the Sri Venkateshwara Bhakti Channel would be launched on the occasion of Ugadi, on 13 April. The SVBC board took the decision on Wednesday. SVBC is a hugely popular spiritual channel run by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, presently in Telugu and Tamil. The TTD is also planning to launch "SVBC Radio", in due course of time, with a focus on relay of Bhakti sangeet and Bhakti literature like the rare sankeetans of Tallapaka Annamacharya, literature of Tarigonda Vengamamba, sankeetans of Purandara Dasa. Dr KS Jawahar Reddy, executive officer, TTD, directed SVBC officials to procure the equipment needed to convert the transmission into HD mode, in order to provide high-quality telecast of the temple programmes to the devotees. The EO also wants to strengthen SVBC's social media wing to popularise TTD’s Sanatana Dharma Pracharam activities. New sacred gardens  To provide flowers for the daily rituals of Lord Venkateswara and enhance the beauty of Tirumala precincts, TTD said it is developing another sacred flower garden in the hill town. The garden, sponsored by donors, is coming up on a five-acre area land near Bata Gangamma temple where flower plants like marigold, Vrukshi Roja, lily, Madurai jasmine, Kanakambaram, Manu sampangi, and Tulasi leaves, other aromatic leaves are cultivated. The garden's yield will be available for the pujas at Srivari temple from April to May. TTD is also developing Sri Venkateswara sacred flower garden as depicted in the puranas, in a 10-acre expanse near the Shila Thoranam, with a Rs 1.5 crore donation. “25 varieties of aromatic plants considered auspicious will be grown here apart from Tulasi, dharba, sampangi, mango, parijata etc varieties,” officials said. Sri Venkateshwara sandalwood and Red Sanders gardens are coming up near Gogarbham dam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttds-bhakti-channel-in-kannada-to-be-launched-on-ugadi-947152.html
03-02-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh 10th board exams from 7 June, with reduced syllabus||The Class 10 Secondary School Certificate (SSC) board exams in Andhra Pradesh will be held between June 7 and June 16. The schedule was released by the state's education minister Adimulapu Suresh in Amaravati on Wednesday. The exam dates are common for regular, private and vocational candidates and will be held in a single shift from 9:30 am to 12:45 pm. The minister said that the SSC exams will be held for seven subjects, of which three are languages, two are group subjects and two science papers. All examinations except science will be held for 100 marks each. The physical science and biological science papers carry 50 marks each. Considering the shortened 2020-21 academic year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, exams will be held according to the revised syllabus, reduced by 35 percent. The last classroom day for class 10 will be 5th June. The annual year-end examinations for students in classes 1-9 will be held between May 3 and May 10 and the last school working day will be May 15. The summer vacation is from May 16 to June 30, and the academic year 2021-22 will begin on July 1. “Intermediate (11, 12 standard) students of the previous academic year who were just awarded pass marks due to the pandemic situation can now appear for improvement examinations. The students can either appear for all the subjects or selected subjects” Suresh said. Exam fees for intermediate students shall remain the same as last year. Meanwhile, the Telangana government has reduced the number of papers in Class 10 exams from 11 to six for this academic year due to the pandemic. Telangana education department had earlier announced that the SSC exams would begin from 17 May. Andhra Pradesh 10th class exam schedule: June 7- First LanguageJune 8- Second LanguageJune 9- EnglishJune 10- MathematicsJune 11- Physical ScienceJune 12-BiologyJune 14- Social Studies||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-10th-board-exams-from-7-june-with-reduced-syllabus-947155.html
03-02-2021||South||Kerala musician's accident death: Father to further fight legally against CBI's finding||Even as the CBI ruled out any mystery behind the death of Kerala musician Balabhaskar in a road accident, the musician’s father will be seeking further probe. The CBI probe into the death of Balabhaskar, who was known for his fusion music mainly with violin, and his two-year-old daughter Thejaswani Bala, in a road accident in Thiruvananthapuram on September 25, 2018 found that it was a road accident caused by rash driving. Driver Arjun, who was also seriously injured in the accident, was charge sheeted for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. But Balabhaskar’s father C K Unni said that he would approach the court seeking further probe as the CBI seems to have missed many crucial aspects in the case. The suspicion over the accident strengthened after a couple of associates of Balabhakar were later held in a gold smuggling case. Balabhaskar’s father raised concerns over certain financial dealings that some persons had with Balabhaskar. Meanwhile, the CBI also decided to initiate legal action against artist ‘Kalabahavan’ Shobi for allegedly misleading the probe. Shobi’s statement that he happened to spot two persons in suspicious circumstances moving away from the spot was found to be false. He was also suspected to be trying to settle scores with a lady by dragging her into the row in due course.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-musicians-accident-death-father-to-further-fight-legally-against-cbis-finding-947158.html
03-02-2021||South||Procedure for building construction eased in Kerala||Kerala government has decided to ease the procedures for building construction by allowing construction based on affidavit of the owner and empaneled licensee without waiting for permit from local body. The state Cabinet on Wednesday decided to promulgate an ordinance in this regard to amend the relevant rules. It would be applicable only to buildings with height less than seven metres and area less than 300 square metre for residential building and less than 100 square metre for commercial buildings. As per the fresh procedure, once a building plan is submitted to the local body along with an affidavit of the building owner and those authorised to prepare building plans, the local body should issue an acknowledgement within five days. The acknowledgement should be considered as permit. In case any violation is detected later, fine ranging from Rs. 2 lakh will be imposed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/procedure-for-building-construction-eased-in-kerala-947173.html
03-02-2021||South||Man pours black oil on judge's car in Kerala||Protesting the undue delay in tracing a girl missing since 2018, a person poured black oil on the car of a Kerala High Court judge V Shircy on Wednesday. The accused, identified as Kottayam native Raghunathan Nair, reportedly told the police that he did this to bring to the judge's attention the case of a missing girl, which was dragging for nearly three years. Jesna Maria James, a 22-year-old girl from Pathanamthitta district, was reported missing in March 2018. The police probe remains inconclusive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-pours-black-oil-on-judges-car-in-kerala-947177.html
03-02-2021||South||BJP hopeful of emerging as an alternative in Kerala||BJP national president J P Nadda has said that the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) and CPM led Left Democratic Front (LDF) were two sides of same coin and the people of Kerala were looking for another alternative. Hence the BJP was expecting a big leap in the coming Assembly election. Both the UDF and the LDF were involved in corruption. While contest against each other in Kerala, in West Bengal they stand united to fight against BJP. Both the Congress and CPM were just power-seekers who faced ideological bankruptcy. The people of Kerala was looking for an alternative and hence the BJP was expecting a major leap in the coming Assembly polls, said Nadda who is on a two-day visit to Kerala to discuss the strategies for the election campaign. He said that the Pinarayi Vijayan government caused insult to Malayalis across the globe as his office was found to have nexus with gold smuggling racket. Citing the resolution passed in the Kerala Assembly against the Comptroller and Auditor General, Nadda accused the Pinarayi Vijayan government of criticising constitutional bodies.  Nadda said that the 'groupism' and internal issues in BJP Kerala leadership, especially the concerns raised by state vice president Sobha Surendran, would be resolved.  The party would be highlighting the achievements of the Narendra Modi government and its contributions to Kerala like the budget allocation of Rs. 65,000 core for NH development during the Assembly election campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-hopeful-of-emerging-as-an-alternative-in-kerala-947181.html
03-02-2021||South||TCS to invest up to Rs 1,500 cr in Thiruvananthapuram Technocity||The Kerala government has approved a proposal by Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) to invest up to Rs 1,500 crore in Technocity, an upcoming technology park in the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram city. TCS proposed investments in the fields of IoT, Blockchain, Robotics, Data Analytics, Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence aimed at contributing to the defense, aerospace and hardware manufacturing sectors, Kerala Chief Minister’s office informed. The state cabinet on Wednesday gave its nod for the proposals that could generate up to 20,000 direct and even more indirect jobs. Already, TCS continues to be the highest job provider in Kerala with around 15,000 persons working in different units. TCS had initially announced setting up its biggest training centre in 97 acres in Technocity. This fresh proposal is the company's major investment to come up in Kerala after the Covid scenario, said the CMO. Technocity is at Pallipuram, about 20 kilometers from Thiruvananthapuram city and nearly five kilometers from Technopark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tcs-to-invest-up-to-rs-1500-cr-in-thiruvananthapuram-technocity-947193.html
03-02-2021||State||State to seek Centre's nod to use Rs 18k-cr mining SPV fund||The government will appeal to the Centre to give permission for utilising Rs 18,000 crore collected through the special purpose vehicle constituted for environment reclamation in mining-affected areas, Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani said on Tuesday.  Nirani was responding to a question in this regard in the Legislative Council. "I will be visiting Delhi soon and I will impress upon those concerned to allow us to use this money. This will be of use in districts such as Chitradurga, Ballari and Tumakuru, which are affected by mining," he said. The fund had accrued an interest of up to Rs 3,000 crore, he added.  Further, he said the government would look into allowing MLCs to make use of money in the district mineral fund. MLCs pointed out that they were being deprived of the funds and were facing discrimination. Senior JD(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti urged the government to change regulations, allowing MLCs to utilise these funds. Even though MLCs were part of the district mineral fund trust, they were unable to utilise the funds, the legislators complained.  Leader of the Opposition S R Patil said members of the Upper House were being treated as "second class legislators". "We are facing harassment," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/state-to-seek-centres-nod-to-use-rs-18k-cr-mining-spv-fund-946795.html
03-02-2021||State||Reservation demands abound Karnataka Assembly||Legislators across party lines, including those from the ruling BJP, rushed to the Well of the Assembly on Tuesday, demanding revision in the reservation for various communities.  Former union minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal raised the issue during Zero Hour, demanding an answer from the government on bringing the Panchamasali Lingayat community under Category 2A from Category 3B. He also asked the government to take a stand on the backward Kuruba community’s demand to be given the ST tag.  “There’s a rally happening that seeks to include 80 lakh Panchamasali Lingayats under Category 2A. The CM had earlier said he’d do it within two months, but there has not been any action. This reservation will help the community economically and educationally,” said Yatnal, a Panchamasali Lingayat himself.  Under Category 3B, the Veerashaiva-Lingayats currently get 5% reservation. Under Category 2A, the reservation is 15%.  “The Kurubas are also agitating for the ST status. Similarly, the Gangamatastas are asking for ST status. They have been recognized as ST at the Centre, but not in the state. We want the CM to state clearly when a decision will be taken,” he said.  Also, the ST Valmiki community is demanding a hike in reservation from 3% to 7.5%.  When Social Welfare Minister B Sreeramulu said the government would take a call “as soon as possible” after examining legal issues, an unhappy Yatnal rushed to the Well of the House.  He was accompanied by BJP members Aravind Bellad, Siddu Savadi among others. This incident pointed to the groupism within the BJP as the protesting MLAs are seen as those backed by the RSS.  The BJP members were joined in the Well by Congress’ Yathindra Siddaramaiah, E Tukaram, Byrati Suresh, J N Ganesh and Bandeppa Kashempur of the JD(S) among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/reservation-demands-abound-karnataka-assembly-946796.html
03-02-2021||State||MU to move court against notification on distance education||The Mangalore University has decided to move court against the state government’s notification which offered exclusive right of conducting Open and Distance Learning (ODL) courses to Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) in Mysuru. As of now, University of Mysore, Bangalore University, Kuvempu University-Shivamogga, Mangalore University and Karnatak University, Dharwad, are offering distance education programmes under its jurisdiction. The government’s notification has given exclusive right to the KSOU to offer Open and Distance Learning courses in the state. Accordingly, other universities will be forced to shut their Centre of Distance Education which offered distance education programmes. Mangalore University Vice Chancellor Prof P S Yadapadithaya told DH that the issue was discussed in Syndicate meeting held recently. The Syndicate has asked Mangalore University to approach the Court to appeal against the notificiation. Already, Kuvempu University has moved the court in this regard. Mangalore University had launched Correspondence Education Programmes as per the National Education Policy in order to provide higher education to all sections of the society. The programme was encouraging disadvantaged and weaker sections to acquire essential skills, information and knowledge to cope with the demands of emerging new professions in a fast changing global society. If the sole right of conducting distance education programmes is given to the KSOU, several students from DK, Udupi and Kodagu, who wanted to pursue their higher education through distance education mode of the MU, will be affected, said a professor. Following the notification of the government, the Mangalore University had not issued any notification inviting applications for its conventional distance education programmes for the academic year. The University has permission from Distance Education Bureau under the University Grants Commission (UGC) to offer distance education courses till 2021-22, said the Vice Chancellor. The Centre of Distance Education at Mangalore University now offers BA, BCom and BBA courses, postgraduate courses in Economics, History, Political Science, Sociology, English, Kannada, Hindi, MCom and MBA Tourism Administration under distance education mode. The Vice-Chancellor said that if Mangalore University winded up its distance education programmes, it would lose an annual revenue of about Rs 5.5 crore. The Syndicate of the varsity has decided to continue BEd in Open and Distance Learning (ODL) mode as the University has already received permission for the course for 2021-22. The BEd (ODL) course has much demand from teachers. The state government issued a Gazette notification granting exclusive right of offering ODL courses to the KSOU after amending the Karnataka State Universities and Certain Other Law (second amendment) Act 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mu-to-move-court-against-notification-on-distance-education-946898.html
03-02-2021||State||Kadaba taluk: Leopard, dog locked in toilet at Kaikamba of Bilinele||A leopard while chasing a dog entered inside a toilet along with its prey. The members of the house locked both animals inside the toilet, at Kaikamba of Bilinele in Kadaba taluk on Wednesday morning. The house belongs to Regappa. The leopard had entered the toilet while chasing its prey, the dog. The inmates of the house have locked the toilet. The forest officials have rushed to the spot and the operation to capture the leopard is on. Jayalakshmi, one of the family members said “I had heard dogs barking furiously last night. When I was about to enter the toilet in the early morning, I noticed a leopard on one side and my dog on the other side of the toilet. Immediately I closed the door and locked it from outside and informed my family members, who in turn informed forest officials. I had not seen a leopard so far in my life.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kadaba-taluk-leopard-dog-locked-in-toilet-at-kaikamba-of-bilinele-946925.html
03-02-2021||State||SC stays Karnataka HC's order for polls in Vijayapura Municipal Corporation||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed the Karnataka High Court's order for holding polls for Vijayapura Municipal Corporation by completing delimitation of wards within three weeks as per the previous arrangement under 1976 law. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to the Karnataka government and others on a petition filed by Anand and others against the HC's order. Advocates Rohit Sharma, along with Nishanth Patil, appearing for the petitioners, contended the State Election Commission had failed to discharge its constitutional duty to conduct polls before expiry of the term under Article 243U of the Constitution. The HC did not consider that its judgement would have effect of further delaying the elections due to erroneous delimitation done without considering effect of the 2020 amendment of the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act, 1976. The tenure of the Councillors had ended on July 14, 2019. The petitioners were aggrieved that the delimitation exercise was not being done in accordance with the latest amendment to the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act. After hearing the petitioners' counsel, the court directed, "Until further orders, there shall be an ad interim stay of operation of the order passed by the High Court." The court tagged the instant petition with along with a pending matter wherein the High Court order for conducting BBMP polls on 198 wards, as opposed to 243 seats as mandated under 2020 amendment into the law, was stayed on December 18, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-stays-karnataka-hcs-order-for-polls-in-vijayapura-municipal-corporation-947106.html
03-02-2021||State||426 new Covid-19 cases in Karnataka, 2 deaths||Karnataka logged 426 new Covid-19 cases and two related fatalities, taking the total infection count to 9,40,596 and the toll to 12,225, the Health department said on Wednesday. The day also saw 433 patients getting discharged after recovery. Bengaluru Urban continued to top the list of cases reported, with 231 infections. Cumulatively 9,40,596 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,225 deaths and 9,22,437 discharges, the Health department said in a bulletin. Out of 5,915 active cases, 5,769 patients are stable and in isolation at designated hospitals and, while 146 are in Intensive Care Units. Of the two deaths reported on Wednesday, Bengaluru Urban and Hassan accounted for one each. Dakshina Kannada, with 61 cases, came next after Bengaluru Urban, Tumakuru had 25, Kalaburgai 18, Davangere 12, and Mysuru 10, followed by the others. Bengaluru Urban was on top in the list of positive cases with a total of 3,99,517, followed by Mysuru 53,486 and Ballari 39,163. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban toped the table with 3,91,263, followed by Mysuru 52,263 and Ballari 38,523. A total of over 1,72,18,163 samples have been tested so far, out of which 70,766 were tested on Wednesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/426-new-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-2-deaths-947162.html
03-02-2021||State||Officials defend scaling up of IAF amid changes in warfare||Concern over shifts in the nature of warfare prompted defence officials on Wednesday to call for greater international cooperation even as they categorized the Indian Air Force as a vital strategic asset in the region. Speaking during Aero India 2021 at the first session of a specially organised Chief of Air Staff’s conclave, Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Kumar Singh Bhadauria warned that nations are witnessing a paradigm change in the geopolitical landscape in recent years. “Globally we are facing unprecedented levels of uncertainty, volatility and interconnected threats. For India, our security challenges are as varied as our geography and as unpredictable as our threats,” he said, adding that the advent of new technologies and cross-making of physical, digital and cognitive domains has complicated the art of war considerably. He added that our understanding of national boundaries have shifted well-beyond classical definitions of airspace, land borders and shorelines and that an attack may originate without warning several times zones away and its effect may proliferate rapidly across several domains. He added that the IAF is closely watching these developments and focusing on developing capabilities in unmanned or optionally manned platforms and anti-drone defenses. The conclave saw the physical participation of chiefs of staff or senior representatives from 26 countries, plus senior military leaders from another 14 countries virtually. Among military leaders at the conclave were those from the United States,  Italy, Brazil, Germany, Japan, Russia, France, Afghanistan,  Tajikistan, Bangladesh, Kenya, the UK and other countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/officials-defend-scaling-up-of-iaf-amid-changes-in-warfare-947218.html
03-02-2021||State||Rajnath Singh, BS Yediyurappa get into simulation mode for a Siachen rescue mission||For Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the totally desi “India Pavilion” at the Aero India 2021 had an Atmanirbar-simulation touch. Just after launching the Pavilion on Wednesday, the duo were right inside a helicopter simulator set up by indigenous startup Parallax. Helmets on, Singh and Yediyurappa were ready as Virtual Reality (VR) took control. In microseconds, they were both atop the Siachen Glacier as helicopter pilots on an airlift mission: To evacuate jawans to the base camp in double quick time. The VR made it all too real. Impressed with the realism, Singh said it had a lot of potential. He then turned to Yediyurappa and asked him to try it out too. Then came a line of pilots, both IAF and international, exploring its potential for military training, and aircraft maintenance training needs. This was arguably India’s first indigenous VR aircraft simulator. “Our USP is replication of emergency scenarios. The simulator here was specially made for Aero India. But once in production, this will be 90% cheaper than imported ones,” Parallax director Krupalu H Mehta told DH. A reality simulator check by DH felt real and edgy, the VR set mimicking the glacier scene in hyper graphic detail. But the feel-real scenes had more in store: A Chinook helicopter landing and taking off from the aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya. The buzz around the simulator had many hooked. Indian Air Force (IAF) and the Indian Navy personnel came calling. So did aviation major, Boeing. “A top Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) official even offered that the company could work with us,” Mehta informed. At Aero India 2019, Parallax Labs had already shown signs of its prowess, being adjudged as one of the pioneers in defence technologies under the Defence Ministry’s Innovation for Defence Excellence (iDEX) initiative. The simulator had a helicopter fixation for a reason: The Indian Pavilion had Rotary Wing as its theme for this airshow. Spread out were a range of indigenous products and accessories, catering both to Indian and global aerospace firms. From rotary wing Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) to technology demonstrations, the Pavilion packed a desi punch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rajnath-singh-bs-yediyurappa-get-into-simulation-mode-for-a-siachen-rescue-mission-947219.html
03-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Nursing college in Ullal declared Covid-19 containment zone ||A private nursing college in Ullal has been declared as containment zone after 49 students tested positive for Covid-19. The college and its hostel have been sealed and all the students are quarantined. All the students hail from Kerala, said District Nodal Officer Dr. Ashok. On January 29, six of the symptomatic students had visited Ullal CHC for testing and were tested positive for Covid-19. Having realised six positive cases, officials from the department of health and family welfare rushed to the college and collected swabs of all 120 students, faculties, non-teaching staff of the college. On Wednesday, the report of 38 students has been confirmed with Covid-19. A group of students from Kerala, while travelling to Bengaluru, had visited the college in Ullal, had breakfast and used the toilet, bathroom before leaving. On receiving the news, the department in association with Ullal CMC made arrangement to sanitise the bathrooms, toilets and canteen, said officials. The Covid-19 positive students are being treated in the college in Ullal under the supervision of the nodal officer of the institution and the health department. All the students have been asked to remain in quarantine. The overcrowding of students in hostel rooms has been rearranged by converting a few classrooms for quarantine. The boys hostel of the college was situated one and a half kilometre away from the college. All the students from boys hostel too have been shifted to the college for quarantine. “In spite of RT-PCR negative report mandatory for the students arriving from Kerala, several students come with the negative report obtained from Rapid Antigen Test and the institutions failed to adhere to the SOP issued by the state government. The issue has been brought to the notice of the Deputy Commissioner who in turn has also decided to bring it to the notice of the state government,” said Dr Ashok. It may be recalled that more than 100 nursing students of two nursing colleges in Mangaluru too had tested positive for Covid-19 recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nursing-college-in-ullal-declared-covid-19-containment-zone-947077.html
03-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka allows 100% occupancy in theatres for four weeks||Bowing to pressure from the film industry, the Karnataka government on Wednesday allowed 100% occupancy in theatres for four weeks, with a caveat. If a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases is observed among filmgoers, the decision will be revoked, said Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar. A government order to this effect will be issued on Thursday. Though the announcement was made after a meeting between senior actors, film chamber representatives and Covid-19 technical advisory committee members, sources said it was purely a political decision. "The technical committee wanted a graded approach but the government has gone ahead and given a complete, unrestricted occupancy of theatres. Now the responsibility is on the government. Even schools were given a graded opening, no institution was opened 100% right away. This is a political decision and the government has bowed to the pressure of the industry. It is more of an experiment now. We have to wait and watch for the next four weeks," a source requesting anonymity said. A group of film representatives, including actors Shiva Rajkumar and Tara, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce president D R Jairaj, producer Sa Ra Govindu, along with Information and Broadcasting Minister C C Patil held an hour-long meeting on Wednesday evening with the members of the Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee in the presence of the health minister and arrived at the decision. On Tuesday, the state's guidelines said the cap of 50% seating capacity for theatres will continue till February 28 even as the Centre on February 1 had permitted houseful shows. This was done "after reviewing the current scenario of Covid-19 and also considering the possible second wave" and as "a matter of abundant precaution and in the larger interest of public health". Explaining the U-turn, Sudhakar said, "The film industry opposed Tuesday's decision from the point of view of industry workers and film producers, saying they have already suffered financially over the past year. They say they have had challenges in even earning a livelihood. The industry employs one lakh people. If the government doesn't back them now, it will be difficult for them, they conveyed. That is why we have allowed 100% occupancy for four weeks with stringent safety precautions." "If there is any rise in the number of Covid-19 cases among filmgoers, we will be forced to change our decision. This has been conveyed to film representatives," said Sudhakar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-allows-100-occupancy-in-theatres-for-four-weeks-947098.html
03-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Assembly passes Bill to hike paid leaves||The Karnataka Legislative Assembly on Wednesday passed a Bill that increases the number of annual paid leaves from 30 days to 45 days for employees working in shops and commercial establishments. Piloting the Karnataka Shops and Commercial Establishments (Second Amendment) Bill, Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar said it was a “pro-worker” move. The Bill will now go to the Legislative Council. The minister specified that this Bill will be applicable to the private sector as well. It will apply to those working in commercial establishments such as malls, hotels, restaurants and theatres. “We have thought this through. We discussed this with owners of shops and commercial establishments,” Hebbar said. “In Maharashtra, the number of paid leaves is 45 days, in Andhra Pradesh it is 65 days, Tamil Nadu 45 days, Gujarat 63 days and Madhya Pradesh 90 days. We considered this before proposing this amendment,” he added. “Another change we have made is to allow leaves of employees to be carried forward to the next year. At present, employees are required to avail their leaves in the same year,” Hebbar said. “This will also provide an additional 15 days of leave and pay for those who retire, die at work or those who are fired.” Congress’ Jamkhandi MLA Anand Nyamagouda wondered if the provision to carry forward leaves will impact businesses that are seasonal in nature. “Let’s say 45 days of this year is added to 45 days of the next, we’re looking at 90 days or three months of leave,” he said. Last year, the state government amended the Karnataka Shops and Commercial Establishments Act to allow women to work in night shifts. And last month, the government allowed all shops and commercial establishments employing ten or more persons to function round-the-clock.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-assembly-passes-bill-to-hike-paid-leaves-947112.html
03-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||India prepared to defend territorial integrity: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh lambasted “foreign aggressors” during his inaugural speech on the opening day of Aero India 2021 on Wednesday. While he did not take the name of any country, Singh said that India was prepared to defend the territorial integrity of the country at all costs. “India is vigilant and prepared to counter and defeat any misadventure. We will defend our people and our territorial integrity at all cost,” he said. The warning came as Singh praised the advancement of the Indian indigenous arms industry. He suggested that the strides in arms manufacturing will be used to strengthen the country’s military.  While he described global terrorism as an ever-present threat, Singh said that India nevertheless faced military challenges across several fronts. “India also faces threats and challenges emanating from multiple fronts. India is a victim of state-sponsored terrorism and the use of force along our unresolved borders,” he said, however, adding that India’s modernisation of its defense manufacturing and military also made it a force to reckon with in the region. “We have a long coastline and with the indigenous development of aircraft and other technology we are able to serve, protect and help people in need of aid, while ensuring stability in the region,” he said. “Domestic manufacturing of bigger and complex defence platforms have now become the focus of our policy under Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. We plan to spend $130 billion to moderniSe the military over the next eight years,” he said. He also specified that the centre had enhanced foreign direct investment in the defence sector up to 74% through the domestic route and 100% through the government route. This should “act as a catalyst for foreign players to invest in India,” he said. The minister also said that India was keen to forge new relationships with friendly countries while “deepening existing relationships.” He expressed confidence that Aero India 2021 will showcase the country’s commitments. He also acknowledged the physical presence of defence ministers from other countries who were attending a special Defence Minister Conclave to be held on Thursday. Defence Ministers from the Comoros, Sudan, Ukraine, Madagascar, Iran and Equatorial Guinea were in attendance at the air show.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/india-prepared-to-defend-territorial-integrity-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-947216.html
03-02-2021||West||Fire breaks out at Scindia House in Mumbai||A fire broke out in the Scindia House commercial building in south Mumbai on Wednesday morning, fire brigade sources said. The five-storeyed building is located in the Ballard Estate area. Two fire tenders rushed to the spot and the fire was doused within half an hour, the sources said, adding the fire broke out at the spot where old trash is located. There was a major fire in Scindia House in June 2018, in which documents at the Income Tax office located in the building were gutted, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-at-scindia-house-in-mumbai-946926.html
03-02-2021||West||Maharashtra: 38 workers hurt in Uttam Metallics steel plant accident||Thirty-eight workers were injured, two of them critically, after coming in contact with hot air and coal particles from a furnace at the Uttam Galva Metallics steel plant near Wardha in Maharashtra on Wednesday, an official said. Wardha District CollectorVivek Bhimanwar told PTI that the injured workers were shifted to nearby hospitals, while those in critical condition were shifted to Nagpur for further treatment. The workers sustained burn injuries after coming in contact with hot air and coal particles from a furnace, he said. Uttam Metallics is located at Bhugaon village, around 10 km from Wardha town and is among the largest manufacturers of cold-rolled steel and galvanized steel in western India. The company is into the business of procuring hot rolled steel. In galvanized coils it specializes in making ultra-thin sheets. Earlier this month, Nithia Capital, a UK-based alternative investment manager and CarVal Investors, a global alternative investment manager, announced they have completed the acquisition of Uttam Galva Metallics Limited and Uttam Value Steel Limited for a total consideration of Rs 2,000 crore through Wardha Steel Holdings, Nithia Capital's Singapore-based joint venture holding company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-38-workers-hurt-in-uttam-metallics-steel-plant-accident-947010.html
03-02-2021||West||BMC official accidentally drinks hand sanitiser||In a bizarre incident, a top official of Brihan Mumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) accidentally gulped hand sanitiser instead of water inside the civic headquarters in Mumbai on Wednesday. The official, Ramesh Pawar, who is a joint municipal commissioner, drank hand sanitiser while he was making the final preparations to table BMC's annual education budget for 2021-22. Realising something is amiss, Pawar rushed to the washroom and spit it out. The video of the incident has gone viral on social media. This comes close on the heels of Sunday's incident in Yavatmal when sanitiser was given to a dozen kids instead of polio drops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-official-accidentally-drinks-hand-sanitiser-947045.html
03-02-2021||West||Giraffes, zebras, white lions to find home in 'modernised' Mumbai Zoo||Giraffes, zebras, white lions and jaguars will soon find home in the Mumbai Zoo as the civic body of India's financial capital makes efforts to take it to international standards. Veer Mata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan & Zoo, popularly known as Byculla Zoo or Rani Baug, is one of the oldest zoos of India – and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is currently undertaking a massive phased-wise modernisation programme. The New Delhi-base Central Zoo Authority (CZA) has recognised it as a “medium zoo” till September, 2022. During Republic Day 2020, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had inaugurated a new aviary, that houses 100 species of birds. Last year, two leopards were brought from Pilikula Nisarga Dhama (Mangalaru Zoo) and Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens (Mysuru Zoo) and two tigers from the Siddharth Garden and Zoo (Aurangabad Zoo) – adding to the attraction. The aviary and the tigers, leopards and hyenas were the major attractions after the arrival of Humboldt penguins in 2016. In its annual budget tabled on Thursday, the BMC a total budget provision of Rs 48.38 crore is proposed in revised estimates for 2020-21 and Rs 49.67 crore in budget estimates for 2021-22. The BMC budget estimates were tabled by municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Wednesday. In the second phase, construction of 10 animal exhibits has been completed and animals like tiger, leopard, sloth bear, hyena, jackal, sambar, spotted deer, swamp deer, Madras pond turtle and various birds in the aviary displayed for public viewing. The construction of the remaining part of the bird aviary and enclosures for Otter, Indian Wolf, Sambar and Barking Deer and Nilgai and Four-horned Antelope is in progress and likely to be completed by March 2021. Development work for Landscape Garden on the site of old offices of the Zoo and Garden department and adjoining land is nearing completion. A new facility comprising models of various iconic places like Gateway of India, Sanjay Gandhi National Park, beaches, mangroves will also come up in the first floor of Interpretation Centre where visitors can take virtual tours. A Zoo extension facility is being created in two adjacent plots – 10 acres – where exotic species like white lions, giraffes, zebras and jaguars would be kept. The request for proposals (RPF) for the project have been invited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/giraffes-zebras-white-lions-to-find-home-in-modernised-mumbai-zoo-947089.html
03-02-2021||West||Woman accuses Dhananjay Munde of confining their children in his bungalow||In what could spell fresh trouble for Maharashtra’s social justice minister and senior NCP leader Dhananjay Munde, the lady with whom he had a relationship has accused him of confining their two children in his official bungalow in Mumbai. The lady, Karuna Sharma, had sent a complaint to director general of police Hemant Nagrale. It may be recalled that last month, Karuna Sharma’s sister Renu Sharma had accused Munde of raping her. Gowever, later she withdrew her statements and complaint that she addressed to the Oshiwara police station. An MLA from Beed, Munde (45) is the social justice and special assistance minister in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government –and is considered close to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. In her complaint, Karuna Sharma has alleged that since the last three months, Munde had confined their two children in Chitrakoot, the official bungalow of the minister. She said that she went to the bungalow on 24 January to meet the kids, however, was prevented by the 30 to 40 police personnel posted there. Karuna Sharma also made other allegations against Munde and his behaviour. She also threatened to go on a hunger strike from 20 February outside Mantralaya, Chitrakoot bungalow or Azad Maidan, if police did not cooperate with her. Demanding Munde’s expulsion from the ministry, senior BJP leader Kirit Somaiya posted the complaint on Twitter, and said: “See complaint of Mrs Karuna Dhananjay Munde against minister Dhananjay Munde, who is playing with lives of 3 women/wives. He must be expelled from ministry”. Following the allegations of rape by Renu Sharma, the Maha Vikas Aghadi leadership was of the opinion that Munde should face a probe without expulsion from the ministry – after Mumbai city BJP vice president Krishna Hegde and MNS leader Manish Dhuri accused the woman of attempting to honey-trap them. Later, Renu Sharma withdrew the complaint.  Munde refutes allegations Meanwhile, Munde refuted the allegations made by Karuna Sharma. "The issues between me and her are under the process of mediation in court. A mediator has been appointed by the court. Two mediation meetings have also taken place between us. The mediation includes the issue of custody of children and other issues raised by her,” Munde was quoted saying. He said that the allegations against him were baseless with an intention to defame him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-accuses-dhananjay-munde-of-confining-their-children-in-his-bungalow-947157.html
03-02-2021||West||Rihanna's tweet may show Goa the way to escalate pro-environment protests||Global entertainment icon Rihanna's tweet about the farmer protests in the national capital may have triggered a Twitter storm in the virtual world, but in Goa, it may well inspire a new wave of opposition to the three controversial projects proposed in the Western Ghats along the Goa-Karnataka border. Inspired by the attention generated globally on the Delhi's farmer's protests thanks to tweets by Rihanna and environmental activist Greta Thunberg, the Opposition in Goa is planning to do a global outreach against the proposed road, rail and power projects, which are scheduled to be put up in protected forest areas in Goa and Karnataka. "I want to escalate the issue to the international forum. After Rihanna raised the farmer's issue, the country woke up to it in a big way. The three linear projects planned in the Mollem forests need to be condemned internationally," former Deputy Chief Minister and Goa Forward party president Vijai Sardesai told reporters on Wednesday. "We have to escalate the protests to an international level because the government appears to be tone deaf to be protests which are being anchored by the youth of Goa," Sardesai also said. Sardesai also said that to further the international outreach plan against the three projects, his party would also be writing to the Director of the World Heritage Centre and the Switzerland-based International Union for Conservation of Nature for their intervention. "The Western Ghats which spans across Goa and Karnataka and is home to the tiger as well as several unique species in a world treasure. It must be protected," Sardesai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rihannas-tweet-may-show-goa-the-way-to-escalate-pro-environment-protests-947160.html
03-02-2021||West||BMC unveils Rs 39,038 cr budget, keeps tax structure unchanged||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday unveiled Rs 39,038.83 crore budget for the year 2021-22. In a relief to citizens, no additional civic tax or licence fee was proposed in the budget by the BMC, the country's richest civic body that goes to polls early next year. The total budget estimates for the next financial year are 16.74 per cent more than the last fiscal when it had presented a budget of Rs 33,441 crore. Municipal commissioner I S Chahal, who presented the budget before to the civic standing committee, kept the civic taxes and licence fees unchanged. "There is no additional tax and charge in the budget," he said while talking to reporters after its presentation. In the 11.51 crore surplus budget, the civic body is expecting a revenue of a Rs 27,811.57 crore from various sources, including property tax, water and sewage charges, compensation in lieu of octroi and DP fees, which is Rs 636 crore less as compared to the Rs 22,448 crore estimated revenue of FY 20-21. The budget does not make announcements about any new major infrastructure project and the BMC has focused on various ongoing development projects, besides health services, education and other facilities. The civic body has estimated Rs 18,750 crore for FY 21-22 from the Rs 14,637.76 crore in FY 20-21 for the capital expenditure works, which includes traffic operation and roads (Rs 1,600 crore), Coastal Road project (Rs 2,000 crore), Water supply projects (Rs 1,232.17 crore), storm water drains (Rs 1149.74 crore), Goregaon-Mulund Link Road (Rs 1,300 crore) and sewage disposal (Rs 1,060.06 crore), among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-unveils-rs-39038-cr-budget-keeps-tax-structure-unchanged-947165.html
03-02-2021||West||Railways awards compensation to 23 victims of 2002 Sabarmati Express train carnage case||The family members of 23 victims, out of 59, who were killed in the Sabarmati Express train carnage case in 2002, were given cheques of Rs 4.85 lakh each by the Indian Railways as compensation as ordered by Gujarat High Court back in 2017. In 2017, a division bench of high court while pronouncing judgement on a batch of appeal petitions in the case had directed the state and the railways to pay Rs 10 lakh as compensation to each family members of 59 kar sevaks who were killed in the incident on February 27, 2002. They were traveling in the S-6 coach of Sabarmati Express from Ayodhya which was burnt at Godhra railway station. The incident had triggered widespread communal riots. "A total of 23 victims' families were given cheques of Rs 4.85 lakh. The others will be awarded once the documenting process gets over. Although it is too late, it has come as a huge relief to all of us," said Bipin Thakkar who lost his brother-in-law and father-in-law in the incident. He said that state government has already distributed the amount of Rs5 lakh as ordered by the court while the railway is yet to comply with the order. He said that since railways had awarded Rs15,000 to the victims two days after the incident, they are paying the remaining Rs4.85 lakh to everyone. The division bench had ordered back in 2017, "the amount of compensation to be awarded to each of the victim for loss of life shall be Rs.10 lakhs will be just and fair to be shared equally by the State of Gujarat and the Ministry of Railways, Union of India. In case, any ex gratia payment is made to the victim either by the State of Gujarat or Ministry of Railways, or under any scheme of the Central Government, such amount is to be excluded against this amount." In the same order, the court had commuted the death sentence of 11 convicts to rigorous life imprisonment while upholding the sentencing of 20 others to life term. It also upheld acquittal of 63 remaining accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/railways-awards-compensation-to-23-victims-of-2002-sabarmati-express-train-carnage-case-947172.html
