04-02-2021||First Edit||Farmers' protests: Rescind internet ban on Delhi’s borders||The government is now using blunt instruments like an internet ban and obstructionist tactics that curb the movement of people to counter the agitation by farmers who are rejoining and regrouping after the incidents on Republic Day. After mobs claiming to be local people resorted to violence against the farmers, the government has sought to secure the venues of the agitation on the Delhi border with barbed wire, spikes, nails and concrete blocks and other measures to prevent more farmers from reaching the sites. This amounts to curbing the right to protest and the right to movement of people who are peacefully agitating. The government has also resorted to an internet ban which has serious implications. Internet services have been suspended at Singhu, Ghazipur and Sikri and nearby areas and slowed down in some parts of Delhi. They have been suspended in many Haryana districts, too.   The right to access the internet is a fundamental right, and citizens cannot be deprived of it without valid reasons. A ban on it or its deliberate manipulation amounts to denial of the right to know and the right to expression. There is no reasonable ground to restrict the right at the protest sites and elsewhere. The internet is a part of life now, used for social, economic, educational and other purposes, and its disruption affects all aspects of life. The measure directed against the farmers has hit millions of people in Delhi, UP and Haryana. They include students attending online classes, people involved in commerce and other activities of normal life. The government has no right to disrupt all this. It is misuse of power, unjustifiable on any ground and unsupported by law.   The internet has transformed the country and empowered the citizen. A government that has proudly touted Digital India is now using it as a weapon to suppress citizens and curb their rights at will. Internet services have been suspended or disrupted in Kashmir in different degrees since August 2019. India has had the highest number and longest durations of internet shutdowns among all countries in the world. This is a shame that is now being extended to Delhi’s borders. Bans are counter-productive, too, because rumour and mischief take over when legitimate channels of communication are shut. Especially given the heavy, armed police presence all around the farmers, who are now confined in what looks like a warzone, it is important that the country and the world should be able to see at all times all that occurs there. Uninterrupted internet and access to reporters must be ensured at the protest sites to demonstrate adherence to protection of human rights. It is not through repression and denial of rights that the government should counter a people’s agitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/farmers-protests-rescind-internet-ban-on-delhi-s-borders-947265.html
04-02-2021||In Perspective||Legalising MSP will prove to be anti-farmer||In the continuing stalemate over the three farm laws, the biggest sore point is the insistence of the agitating farmers that the MSP (minimum support price) should be legally guaranteed.      At present, the Centre notifies MSP for 23 farm items. The Food Corporation of India (FCI) and other state agencies buy paddy and wheat, besides a few other items such as coarse cereals and pulses, at the MSP. These are meant for feeding the public distribution system (PDS) and giving food to beneficiaries at heavily subsidised prices under the National Food Security Act (NFSA).   Out of about 150 million farmers, a mere 8% of them get to sell their produce to the state agencies. The remaining 92% are at the mercy of licensed traders and commission agents at the APMC (Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee) mandis. Their realisation is much lower than MSP rates.   The new central laws have opened up unlimited opportunities for farmers to sell their produce (even as APMC/mandis remain intact), thereby helping them get higher prices, which can even exceed MSP depending on the demand-supply scenario. Yet, farmers are insisting on a legally guaranteed MSP. This is bizarre. In a contract between two private entities, how can the government legislate that the buyer must pay MSP? If a law is passed making payment less than MSP punishable, which trader will dare buy? It could result in rotting of farmers’ produce in their fields, forget their expectation of fetching a good price. It would be naive to believe that the government will buy every grain of what is left over. Already, the food subsidy bill is unsustainable (over Rs 400,000 crore for 2020-21). One shudders to fathom what the subsidy pay-out will be if it were also to buy (at MSP) all the tonnage not picked up by private traders. This will also have grave implications for India at the World Trade Organisation (WTO). Under the Agreement on Agriculture (AoA) of the WTO, a developing country cannot give aggregate measurement support (AMS) — an acronym for subsidies -- in excess of 10% of the value of its agricultural production. The AMS includes “product-specific” subsidies and “non-product specific,” namely subsidies on agricultural inputs like fertilizers, seed, irrigation and power. The “product-specific” subsidy is the excess of MSP paid to farmers over the External Reference Price (ERP), multiplied by the quantum of agri-produce. Whereas the MSP is taken for the relevant year, the ERP is the average of the international price prevailing during 1986-88, fixed in rupee terms.   In a submission to WTO (May 2018), the US had contested the AMS numbers reported by India. For instance, on rice, it stated that during 2013-14, Indian AMS was Rs 1,78,000 crore, or 77% of the production value, against only Rs 12,000 crore or 5.45% notified by India. The former wrongly inflated Indian subsidy by considering even quantities not procured by state agencies – as such purchases are not eligible for subsidy support. In case the MSP is legalised, however, implying that the Centre undertakes to buy all of the farmers’ produce at this price, this will give credence to the position taken by the US. It will result in a scenario whereby Indian subsidy could go well beyond 10%, resulting in violation of our commitment under AoA of the WTO. A legally guaranteed MSP will also nip in the bud any chance of reforming India’s food subsidy regime. Currently, the Centre administers subsidy through FCI, et al, who deliver food to beneficiaries at Rs 3/2/1 per kg, and get reimbursement for the excess of cost of purchase, handling and distribution as subsidy. The cost of purchase is nothing but MSP. However, this mechanism is prone to inefficiencies, inflated cost, widespread leakages and misuse. All this can be curbed only if the subsidy is given directly to beneficiaries using direct benefit transfer (DBT) and let them buy from wherever they choose to, albeit at market price. This will render MSP irrelevant as then agencies need not procure food.  If now the government were to legalise MSP, logically, it will continue to order agencies to purchase food to deliver to beneficiaries at the subsidised price. This implies that DBT will be off the table as it would be fallacious to give subsidy twice over – first by supplying food at a subsidised price and then by transferring cash to the beneficiary’s bank account.                     The government should stick to the three new farm laws. This will help the development of parallel and competitive markets (non-APMC), help farmers realise better price (especially the majority of small and marginal farmers) and pave the way for the transition to DBT. This will also help India at the WTO as unlike the existing system of subsidising agri-inputs and MSP to farmers, which are treated as “actionable” subsidies under AoA, the DBT to farmers is “non-actionable.” Direct transfers are not subject to any cap; hence, these can be given without any limit and yet remain compliant.   (The writer is a Delhi-based policy analyst)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/legalising-msp-will-prove-to-be-anti-farmer-947235.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Army recruitment rally on March 17: G Jagadeesha||The army recruitment rally will be held at Mahathma Gandhi district stadium in Udupi on March 17, said Deputy Commisisoner G Jagadeesha. All those who have applied online for joining the Indian Army from Bagalkote, Vijayapura, Dharwad, Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, Gadag, Haveri, Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga districts will take part in the rally, he added. Chairing a preparatory meeting, the DC said that about 38,500 applicants are likely to take part. Facilities like drinking water and toilet should be provided. Priority should be given for cleanliness. Shamiyana and lights should be installed, he added. He said the fire brigade personnel and medical team should be ready. For security, police personnel must be deployed. The DC directed DDPI N H Nagoor to depute staff to verify the marks card and educational qualification of the participating candidates. Arrangements should be made for the stay of the army personnel. Additional DC Sadashiva Prabhu, Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports Assistant Director Dr Roshan Kumar Shetty and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/army-recruitment-rally-on-march-17-g-jagadeesha-947224.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt rejigs panel for conservation of Great Indian Bustards||The state government has reconstituted the committee formed for the conservation of the Great Indian Bustard (GIB). During the last hearing, the court had expressed doubts over the expertise of the members of the committee. The government submitted that the Chief Conservator of Forests, Ballari, has issued an official memorandum reconstituting the advisory committee. It is now headed by the Deputy Conservator of Forests of Ballari. In the previous hearing, the court had said that the committee has not bothered to take any steps for the implementation of the report submitted by the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON). The bench observed that the minutes of the meeting suggested the committee has diverted its attention. The court had asked the state government to make a clear stand on oath whether it wants to implement the recommendations made by SACON on measures to protect the Great Indian Bustard. A PIL was filed in this regard by Ballari-based conservationist Edward Martin and two others, contending that illegal civil works in the habitats of GIB was leading to its extinction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-rejigs-panel-for-conservation-of-great-indian-bustards-947247.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Excess transmission capacity has burdened consumers: CAG||The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has pulled up the Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited (KPTCL) for installing excess transmission capacity in the state, noting that it “was an avoidable burden placed on the consumers.” According to the report tabled in the Assembly on Wednesday, the KPTCL invested in excess transmission capacity of 5,230 MVA (megavolt ampere) involving a capital cost of Rs 3,870 crore, for which consumers were charged under transmission tariff. Moreover, failure of authorities in ensuring Right of Way for transmission lines hampered works in 24 out of 53 line route or substation locations estimated to be around Rs 800 crore. The Manual on Transmission Planning Criteria issued by Central Electricity Authority (CEA) had issued directions on new transmission additions required for strengthening the power transmission system. States were allowed to have 27% excess transmission capacity. The CAG noted that transmission capacity was in excess of the requirements in all five years starting 2014-15 to 2018-19. For instance, while the peak electricity demand of the state was 12,877 MW, maximum transmission capacity required as per CEA guidelines was for 16,354 MW. “Against which, the actual transmission capacity in the state stood at 20,800 MW as on 31 March 2019. Audit observed that the existing transmission capacity was in excess of requirement in all the five years, varying between 27% and 49% during 2014-15 to 2018-19,” the report said. At the end of March 2019, excess transmission capacity in the state involved a capital cost of Rs 3,870 crore. “This cost was an avoidable burden placed on the consumers as the cost incurred on creation of these assets was factored into transmission tariff recoverable from the Distribution licensees,” the report said. The audit also observed lapses in ensuring Right of Way in as many as 24 out of 53 projects costing Rs 800.19 crore, despite “favourable rulings” of various courts and strong provisions of the Indian Telegraph Act. Authorities did not properly ascertain forest lands, for instance, before taking up projects.  Quoting cases where officials failed to perform due diligence before taking up works, the report indicated that it was “more likely a case of sub-optimal efficiency by the authorities concerned rather than a mere case of non-compliance due to reasonable systemic limitations.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/excess-transmission-capacity-has-burdened-consumers-cag-947262.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pregnant women to be ferried for antenatal checkups||Pregnant women across Karnataka will now have vehicles arranged by the state health department to get antenatal checkups.  The service will be in addition to the existing Nagu Magu scheme under which 200 vehicles ferry postnatal mothers and newborns from government health facilities to their respective homes.  Started in 2014, vehicles under Nagu Magu are deployed at each district and taluk hospital. This service will be extended to pregnant women, too, under a new project named ‘Chiguru’. A meeting in this regard was held with Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar and department officials on Tuesday.  The state government may use its existing Nagu Magu ambulances for Chiguru, too, so that the ‘108’ ambulance services are not disrupted while catering to other patients. The health department is devising a plan to ferry women for each of their four antenatal checkups during the nine months of pregnancy to get scans and blood tests done at one go without having to rely on public transport.  As many as 7,97,624 pregnant women were registered in Karnataka on the government’s Anmol portal by the end of January. “The ideal time to rule out congenital anomalies in the foetus is during 18-20 weeks of pregnancy. Doctors can also know the location of the placenta and detect twin pregnancies, if any, during this time,” said Dr M Indumathi, ProjectDirector, Reproductive and Child Health, Health Department.  According to her, four to five women at the taluk panchayat level can be taken together and they can get their scans done along with relevant investigations, which are already done free of charge. They will be brought back, too.  The health department has already struck MoUs with ultrasound and pathology labs to provide free investigations for pregnant women. But the women have been going on their own to these diagnostic facilities.  “We want to reduce the out-of-pocket expenditure on conveyance. Apart from scans and blood tests,” Dr Indumathi said. The additional chief secretary of the health department has asked for adding other investigations, she added.  The ‘Chiguru’ service will not entail any additional expenditure as the department will utilise the existing infrastructure only, she clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pregnant-women-to-be-ferried-for-antenatal-checkups-947264.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ancient sculpture found in Badagabettu||An ancient sculpture of Lord Vishnumurthy dating back to 12th century AD was found by the Department of Ancient History and Archaeology of Shivra's MSRS College at 80 Badagabettu in Udupi. Professor T Murugeshi, an associate professor in the institute, said that an archaeological exploration was conducted behind the Panchayat Office at 80 Badagabettu near a ruined temple. There was an abandoned well near the temple filled with laterite bricks. The team discovered a mutilated sculpture of Lord Janardhana, popularly known as Vishnumurthy in Tulunadu. The sculpture has a ‘Karanda Mukuta’ (head gear), ‘Makara Kundala’ (ear rings), armlets, anklets and ‘Kaustubhahara’. The scultpure also has well-defined eyebrows, nose and lips making it a masterpiece of Coastal Karnataka. It holds a ‘Pinda’ in the front right hand and the left hand rests on the waist. The back left hand is seen holding a conch while the right hand is broken. The exploration is still ongoing. In the ruined sanctum sanctorum, more broken sculptors were found. The sculpture dates back to the 12th century.  It was a pre-Madhwa sculpture and a specimen of the Bhagavatha Cult of Coastal Karnataka. But, it is not clear why the temple was razed down, Prof Murugeshi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ancient-sculpture-found-in-badagabettu-947323.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Trade licence app of MCC violates DMA circular||The Directorate Of Municipal Administration (DMA) has taken Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) to task for launching a separate software for trade licence even though the state had made Vyapar application mandatory for all urban local bodies (ULBs) in Karnataka. The Karnataka Municipal Data Society (KMDS) of Directorate of Municipal Administration has issued a circular to the MCC, questioning the use of separate software. The DMA had directed the MCC to introduce Vyapar application mandatorily in a letter sent on December 30, 2020. DMA Director B B Kaveri, in a letter sent to the MCC Commissioner, stated, “The government had taken initiative to digitise the issue of trade licences by introducing the Vyapar software and all the ULBs have been asked to use the application from February 2016. Accordingly, all the ULBs have initiated measures to use the software for issuing trade licence online. The Vyapar software has been developed by including the recommendations of the Department of Promotion of Industry and internal trade of Central government. "The DMA was informed that the MCC was not using Vyapar application to issue trade licence and has been using its own software application to issue and renew online trade licences. It is a clear violation of the circular of the DMA issued on February 5, 2016. Measures should be initiated to issue trade licence/renew trade licence using Vyapar software mandatorily.” Opposition leader in Council of the MCC Abdul Ravoof said, "The MCC has flouted the DMA direction which had asked all the ULBs to use Vyapar for issuing/renewing trade licence. The MCC should have used the application, instead of using a software developed through Keonics. It is a sheer violation of the government’s circular. Is the local body above the government?," he asked. "Why the MCC is showing interest in using a software developed by Keonics and not the one developed by the government?" he asked. When the issue was brought to the notice of Mayor Diwakar, he said, "Vyapar has technical issues and many ULBs are using their own software." "The technical glitches will be known only after implementing it. Without implementation, how can they speak on glitches?" Ravoof asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/trade-licence-app-of-mcc-violates-dma-circular-947399.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC invites innovative low-cost ideas for UGD system maintenance||Close on the heels of procuring a robotic machine to detect clogged underground drains and also to prevent manual scavenging, the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) is holding a contest for innovation in maintenance of Under Ground Drainage (UGD) system of the city. The MCC has invited ideas from students and teams (comprising four members) to find a low-cost solution for the maintenance of the UGD system. This is another effort by the MCC to involve the residents of the city, under the Safai Mitra Challenge. It is a challenge for engineering students, who are coming up with a variety of innovations every year. Many teams are trying to find new technologies to make life easier. Now, the MCC has given an opportunity to such persons to come up with a low-cost idea or technology, that would help the authorities to solve UGD problems. Speaking to DH, an officer said, "Though the robotic machine helps in detecting sewer lines and has features for safe work, it is expensive. The cost of the robot is approximately Rs 39 lakh." With Mysuru city having a lot of conservancy lanes, where vehicles with jetting machines cannot enter, the robotic machine is of great help. But, as it is expensive, MCC thought of inviting ideas from young engineers. This would help us to phase out conventional techniques that includes larger vehicles and more manpower, the officer said. The MCC is looking for alternative solutions and ideas from engineering students and professionals. Their idea or machine should be relatively low-cost, using available resources. The solution need not be a machine, but can be administrative ideas. The conditions for innovation proposal include, a low-cost solution (with justification), shall provide faster solution, should improve efficiency in cleaning and maintenance of the UGD system. It should prevent entry into the manhole or septic tank. It should have an advanced warning system, which can alert the likelihood of a blockage, so as to carry out preventive maintenance. The MCC has announced cash prizes, Rs 20,000, Rs 10,000 and Rs 5,000, respectively. Interested candidates or teams can submit the technical paper, along with their name, address and details of work and institution to mysoreugd@gmail.com before February 15. The selected team or candidates will present their papers at Vani Vilas meeting Hall on February 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-invites-innovative-low-cost-ideas-for-ugd-system-maintenance-947588.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Music varsity VC appointment challenged||The High Court on Thursday ordered notice to the state government and others on a PIL challenging the appointment of vice-chancellor of the Gangubai Hanagal University of Music and Performing Arts, Mysuru. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, directed the government to submit in a sealed envelope the names of persons who were suggested for appointment as the vice-chancellor. The PIL challenged the appointment of Nagesh V Bettakote as vice-chancellor of the University. Prof Bettakote was appointed as the vice-chancellor on January 22. The court also permitted the petitioner Sri Prasanna Vidya Ganapathi Mahotsava Charitable Trust, a Mysuru-based organisation, to amend the prayer seeking quashing of the appointment. The petition claimed that under the Gangubai Hanagal University Act, 2009, the Chancellor (Governor) is empowered to appoint a person as a vice-chancellor, out of the panel of three persons suggested by the search committee. The petitioner contended that Nagesh Bettakote was not one among the three persons suggested by the search committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/music-varsity-vc-appointment-challenged-947600.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||At Jogimatti, mining ban remains on paper as depts not on same page||The government has, for long, failed to act against illegal mining activities around the Jogimatti wildlife sanctuary, 8 km from Chitradurga city. This has posed a serious threat to wildlife, flora and human habitats. The forest department says all kinds of mining activities are prohibited within 10 km radius of the sanctuary, even as stone quarries and crusher units are still being operated. Officials of the Mines & Geology department say the licences were issued before the declaration of Jogimatti as a wildlife sanctuary. The diverse stands have harmed the environment of the region, adversely impacting the people of the region and groundwater in the drought-prone region. ESZ proposal Sources in the forest department said a proposal had been submitted to the government seeking a declaration of Jogimatti as an eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) in 2019. But the matter is still at the government level and final notification has not been issued. The officials said they had written to the Mines & Geology department seeking suspension of all kinds of mining activities within 10 km radius of the sanctuary.  Jogimatti is spread across 10,049 hectares of forest land in the Chitradurga, Holalkere and Hiriyur taluks. The sanctuary is home to leopards, bears, peacocks, blackbucks, wild boars, besides 200 species of birds. It is also a source for ponds and streams, which come alive during the rainy season. Speaking to DH, Deputy Conservator of Forests Chandrashekhar Nayak said the Mines & Geology department must stop mining activities till the issuance of final notification by the government of India, declaring Jogimatti as an ESZ. “The district administration had submitted a proposal to the government asking it to reduce the radius of the proposed ESZ to two km, in the interest of development works. The government might ban all kinds of mining activities within a 1-km radius of the sanctuary and not 10 km.” The delay in issuing final notification declaring Jogimatti as an ESZ has turned out to be a boon for mining licence holders. According to officials of the Mines & Geology Department, 28 stone quarries are being operated within a 10-km radius of the sanctuary. Of them, two are within a two-km radius. They have issued notice to owners of stone quarries, that they are operating mining activities in and around the wildlife sanctuary. But they have carried on with political influence. Speaking to DH, district Mines & Geology department officer B M Lingaraju said stone quarry owners blast the boulders outside the 10-km radius of the wildlife sanctuary and bring them to the stone crusher units. “We have informed the higher officials about this and we are waiting for instructions.” Though some stone quarries and stone crusher units have halted mining activities after the Shivamogga blast incident, many are still being operated.  Houses in nearby villages have developed cracks due to the mining activities. The dust generated during the process has affected cattle grazing in the area. Murugesh, a resident of Agasarahalli, told DH that his house is just four years old, but the living room, bedroom and kitchen have developed cracks.  Thipperudrappa of the village said livestock get frightened due to the loud sound of the blasting work. Senior geologist Basavaraj told DH that mining activities would not only create fractures deep within the earth but also harm the quality of groundwater. So, licensed stone quarry owners must minimise the blasting work, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/at-jogimatti-mining-ban-remains-on-paper-as-depts-not-on-same-page-947605.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Leopard spotted at KRS Brindavan Gardens||A leopard on the prowl was captured by a CCTV camera at the Brindavan Gardens of Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam, a popular tourist spot in the taluk on Wednesday. The CCTV camera footage shows the leopard passing through the Southern gate of the Brindavan Gardens. This has created panic among local vendors, shopkeepers and also employees. The police informed the local Gram Panchayat personnel who alerted the Forest Department. The department personnel visited and inspected the spot. Range Forest Officer Sunitha said a cage would be placed on the spot if the pug marks of the leopard are found. The residents of Mahadevapura, Neralakere, Hebbadi and surrounding villages have been complaining about frequent spotting or leopards from the last 15 days. Following complaints, a cage has been placed at Mahadevapura and Neralakere villages, Sunitha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-spotted-at-krs-brindavan-gardens-947615.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Essential to control disgruntled leaders: C T Ravi||Despite its 'good performance' in handling the Covid-19 pandemic, BJP national general secretary C T Ravi said that it was essential for the B S Yediyurappa government to control disgruntlement among legislators. Commenting on recent political developments, Ravi said that BJP had the responsibility "to ensure that a negative message does not reach the people". Admitting that there were some compulsions for the government, such as the regional and social imbalance in the Cabinet, Ravi said that assurance of ministerial berths to migrant legislators was the main reason for the bias. "But, we must ensure that there is a balance in development. The government should increase people-centric activities," Ravi said, noting that it would put an end to the disgruntled voices. Tamil Nadu politics Ravi, also in-charge of the party's affairs in the neighbouring Tamil Nadu, said that BJP was aware of the "strengths and weakness of (former AIADMK leader) Sasikala" and the party had discussed about her in an internal meeting. Sasikala, who was convicted and imprisoned in a disproportionate assets case, was released a few days ago. "BJP has not directly contacted Sasikala," he said, adding that her issue was related to his party's ally AIADMK. To a question, he said that Sasikala would potentially have an influence in the upcoming elections, but her effect was too early to assess. While Ravi was confident that film actor Rajinikanth would support the BJP, he said that there was no clarity on actor Kamal Hassan's stance. "We won't neglect him," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/essential-to-control-disgruntled-leaders-c-t-ravi-947260.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Glitches in property registration software rile members of both Houses||The government is in the process of overhauling the Kaveri property registration software to fix technical glitches affecting citizen services. There have been several instances of the server hanging, leading to delay in property registrations. The government is in the process of putting in place a new system, Revenue Minister R Ashoka told the Legislative Council on Wednesday. The software has been unable to take the load of frequent modifications to it, the minister said, responding to concerns in this regard raised by members. “After Kaveri was launched, it was eventually updated with e-Swathu, e-Asthi among other features. There has been too much pressure on it. We now have to modify it and have begun the process. We will bring in a new system,” he said. The discussion took place in the Zero Hour, when the matter was raised by member Rudre Gowda, following reports that the software was down across different sub-registrar offices on Tuesday. “As on Wednesday, the glitches have been fixed and registrations have recommenced,” Ashoka said. Not just in the Upper House, the problem was discussed in the Assembly too. L A Ravi Subramanya, representing Basavanagudi, raised the issue of slow registration process caused by technical snags. Recounting an example of an NRI who arrived in the city to register a property, Subramanya said the person was forced to return as the online property registration portal was down.  “Authorities say there were server issues for the last 15-20 days, affecting registration. The problem has worsened in the last couple of days,” he said, seeking explanation from the government on who was responsible for the problem which was affecting thousands of people every day.   Flood relief funds During another discussion in the Upper House, Ashoka said the government was figuring out what to do with unutilised funds meant for housing rehabilitation in flood-ravaged districts.  “The government had set aside Rs 5 lakh per beneficiary for reconstruction of houses in the aftermath of floods in the state. However, several beneficiaries are happy just repairing the houses, instead of reconstruction. They have taken the first instalment and are not showing interest for subsequent instalments, even though the government is asking them to do so,” he explained. There were also many fake applications for housing and this had to be sorted out, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/glitches-in-property-registration-software-rile-members-of-both-houses-947269.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will resign if Kalyana Karnataka figures are false: CM BS Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday said he would resign if the government’s figure on expenditure achieved in the backward Kalyana Karnataka region this fiscal was wrong. He said this in the Legislative Assembly after legislators from the region questioned his claim that the government had spent Rs 693 crore in Kalyana Karnataka districts. “For Kalyana Karnataka, the opening balance was Rs 308 crore and this year we have released Rs 544 crore, making it a total of Rs 852 crore. The expenditure achieved is Rs 692 crore,” Yediyurappa said. However, Congress MLAs from the region cried foul, which angered Yediyurappa. “If this isn’t true, I will resign. I’m telling you this as the finance minister,” the CM bawled. The backward Kalyana Karnataka region - Kalaburagi, Bidar, Ballari, Koppal, Raichur and Yadgir - enjoys special status under the Constitution (Article 371J). Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah lamented that the renaming of Hyderabad-Karnataka as Kalyana Karnataka was projected as a big achievement. “For 2020-21, an action plan worth Rs 1,132 crore has been approved and Rs 524 crore has been released. This year, not a single rupee will be spent,” he said. Congress’ Bhalki MLA Eshwar Khandre said the action plan for Kalyana Karnataka should be approved in April or May. “But it was approved only in January. By the time the works are tendered, the financial year will be over. Works in Bengaluru are carried out, but Kalyana Karnataka is not on the government’s map,” he said. Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said no government in the past had ensured 100% expenditure against the budgeted amount for Kalyana Karnataka. “Now, things are falling in place.” Yediyurappa assured the House that approval had been given for new works. “Please go ahead and get works done. I will take action against officers who come in the way,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-resign-if-kalyana-karnataka-figures-are-false-cm-bs-yediyurappa-947270.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||MLCs demand that government make caste census public||Members in the Karnataka Legislative Council demanded the state government to make the contents of the socio-economic survey public at the earliest.  Member Nanjundi Vishwakarma raised the issue in the House. He sought to know the population of the Vishwakarma community in the state, through a starred question. The state government, in its response, stated that there was no exclusive data available on the population of the community. It also said that the 2015 socio-economic survey conducted a census of all communities in the state and its contents are yet to be made public.  Prompted by the government’s response, Nanjundi Vishwakarma and another member A H Vishwanath demanded the government to publish the data of the survey. Vishwanath said the government had already spent Rs 165 crore on it. However, the successive governments lacked the courage to make it public, he alleged.  In response to their demand, Minister Kota Srinivasa Poojary, the floor leader, said the government was interested in bringing this to a logical conclusion soon. “All the data and documents are with the Backwards Classes Commission. There was an inordinate delay in handing over this report to the state government. I will meet the chief minister and the Commission chairperson and resolve this at the earliest,” Poojary added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mlcs-demand-that-government-make-caste-census-public-947271.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||I am Yediyurappa’s well-wisher, says Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said he was Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s “well-wisher” while urging him to step down by citing a recent Supreme Court order that stayed his arrest.  Siddaramaiah, who was speaking on the motion of thanks for the Governor’s address, brought up the January 27 order of the Supreme Court that provided relief to Yediyurappa and Mines & Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani by staying their arrest in connection with a private complaint alleging corruption.  The Congress leader pointed out that Yediyurappa was accused of criminal conspiracy and forgery. “In other words, the SC granted bail. What else does ‘staying arrest’ mean,” he asked. “I am Yediyurappa’s well-wisher. I don’t want him to get arrested. But, it’s a question of morality and people of the state are saying he shouldn’t continue. He should step down on his own,” Siddaramaiah said.  Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai tried to dissuade Siddaramaiah from discussing the case, cautioning him that it would be sub-judice. “Let’s not get into the merits of the case,” he said.  Siddaramaiah resisted by saying he was only discussing the facts of the case and received support from former speaker K R Ramesh Kumar as the two displayed their camaraderie on the floor.  “What we’re discussing is the consequences of the law without referring to any individuals. If there’s a stay on arrest, it means that arrest was inevitable,” Kumar said. “The Supreme Court staying the arrest must be the first such order in the history of judicature. Earlier, we had bail or anticipatory bail. Here, there’s a stay on arrest,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-am-yediyurappa-s-well-wisher-says-siddaramaiah-947272.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Delay in projects: Ministers stick to ‘no funds’ formula||Majority of the answers for starred questions raised by MLAs reflected the poor financial status of the government. Ministers such as Transport Minister Laxman Savadi, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, Women and Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle and Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan blamed the financial condition of the state for the delay in implementation of projects. It was followed by an assurance by the ministers - to take up the project on priority “as and when funds were available.” Eshwarappa resorted to this response to several questions raised during the day, including the one by Mudigere BJP MLA M P Kumaraswamy. The MLA had highlighted the poor status of roads after floods during the year in his constituency, adding that RDPR department had not released any funds to repair roads. Another BJP MLA Haratalu Halappa from Sagar constituency, embarrassed the government stating that no funds were released for relief works under RDPR. “We couldn’t release funds due to Corona...,” Eshwarappa said. A question by another BJP MLA Karunakara Reddy, representing Harapanahalli constituency, to Eshwarappa on multi-village drinking water scheme, evoked a similar response. “The proposal was in front of the government. Based on the availability of funds, the project will be taken up on priority.” Savadi also resorted to the response while explaining the delay in starting works on the Assistant RTO office at Chintamani, while Jolle used the reason to explain the delay in sanctioning anganwadis to Raichur rural constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/delay-in-projects-ministers-stick-to-no-funds-formula-947273.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Legislative Council chairperson Pratapchandra Shetty steps down||Legislative Council chairperson K Prathapachandra Shetty resigned on Thursday, ending days of suspense and paving the way for the BJP-JD(S) combine to take control of the Upper House.   He announced his resignation on the floor of the House before adjourning it for the day.  Shetty, a Congressman, was facing a no-confidence motion that was moved by the BJP, which had the support of the JD(S). Shetty stood no chance to defeat the motion as the BJP-JD(S) combine has enough numbers to ensure his unseating. He was elected chairperson in 2018 when the Congress and JD(S) were in a coalition.  That Shetty should resign came up for discussion in the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting held on Wednesday evening.  Senior JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti is likely to get elected as the chairperson with the help of the BJP. Together, both parties have 43 MLCs in the 75-member Council.  Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary, the BJP's floor leader, is learnt to have sought an extension of the ongoing Council session so that a new chairperson can be elected on February 8 or 9. The session is scheduled to end Friday.  Thanking all MLCs for their support during his tenure as chairperson, Shetty said that they should introspect to prevent incidents such as the December 15 ruckus.  "While it’s true that all decisions in a democratic set up should be taken based on numerical strength, it is very important that the decisions taken as chairperson should be pro-farmer and in support of downtrodden communities, women and others. I am confident that all the decisions taken by me were in favour of such groups,” he said.  “But it is unfortunate that due to such decisions, there were aspersions cast on the Constitutional post," Shetty said. He also lamented that it was unfortunate that the strength of the House was the only parameter to elect the chairperson. "It should not be so," he said, adding that it would set a wrong precedent and make it difficult for the smooth functioning of the House. "Due to a game based on numbers, an unpleasant incident took place in the Council, which has hurt me deeply," he said, adding that he had not eyed any position of power in his political career spanning 37 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-legislative-council-chairperson-pratapchandra-shetty-steps-down-947510.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Raksha Ramaiah becomes Karnataka Youth Congress Prez after winner gets disqualified||In a controversial result, Congress leader Raksha Ramaiah has won the presidential election to the Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (KPYCC) despite ending up second in the race behind Mohammed Haris Nalapad, who was disqualified at the last minute.  Ramaiah, 34, is the son of former minister MR Seetharam. He secured 57,271 votes.  Nalapad bagged 64,203 votes, but was disqualified owing to the infamous 2018 assault case, party sources said.  The result has created controversy within the party.  Another presidential candidate Mithun Rai, who got 3,104 votes, was disqualified as he was overaged.  The app-based Youth Congress presidential election was held on January 10, 11 and 12.  According to party sources, Ramaiah had Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah’s backing, whereas Nalapad had Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar on his side.  Apparently, Nalapad was disqualified after FAME, a nonprofit engaged by the Congress, brought up the 2018 assault case in which he has been charge-sheeted. Nalapad is the son of Congress’ Shantinagar legislator NA Haris.  “This is really unfair. Why was Nalapad allowed to contest in the first place?” a Congress youth leader bawled.  It is also said that some party leaders who are loyal to Siddaramaiah reached out to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and advised him not to allow Nalapad to become the KPYCC president as that could damage the party’s image because of the assault case.  Student leader HS Manjunatha, with 18,137 votes, will be the KPYCC vice-president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/raksha-ramaiah-becomes-karnataka-youth-congress-prez-after-winner-gets-disqualified-947542.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||K Prathapachandra Shetty steps down as Karnataka Legislative Council chairperson||Legislative Council chairperson K Prathapachandra Shetty resigned on Thursday, ending days of suspense and paving the way for the BJP-JD(S) combine to take control of the Upper House.   He announced his resignation on the floor of the House before adjourning it for the day. His resignation came even before the no-confidence motion, moved against him, was taken up.  Shetty, a Congressman, was facing a no-confidence motion that was moved by the BJP, which had the support of the JD(S). Shetty stood no chance to defeat the motion as the BJP-JD(S) combine has enough numbers to ensure his unseating. He was elected chairperson in 2018 when the Congress and JD(S) were in a coalition.   The fact that Shetty should resign came up for discussion in the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting on Wednesday evening.  Senior JD(S) member Basavaraj Horatti is likely to get elected as the chairperson with the help of the BJP. Together, both parties have 43 members in the 75-member House.  Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary, the BJP's floor leader, is learnt to have sought an extension of the ongoing Council session so that a new chairperson can be elected on February 8 or 9. The session is scheduled to end Friday.  Thanking all members for their support during his tenure as chairperson, Shetty said they should introspect to prevent incidents such as the December 15 ruckus.  "While it’s true that all decisions in a democratic set-up should be taken based on numerical strength, it is very important that the decisions taken as chairperson should be pro-farmer and in support of downtrodden communities, women and others. I am confident that all the decisions taken by me were in favour of such groups,” he said. “But it is unfortunate that due to such decisions, there were aspersions cast on the Constitutional post," Shetty said. He also lamented that it was unfortunate that the strength of the House was the only parameter to elect the chairperson. "It should not be so," he said, adding that it would set a wrong precedent and make it difficult for the smooth functioning of the House. "Due to a game based on numbers, an unpleasant incident took place in the Council, which has hurt me deeply," he said, adding that he had not eyed any position of power in his political career spanning 37 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/k-prathapachandra-shetty-steps-down-as-karnataka-legislative-council-chairperson-947594.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) member Marithibbe Gowda throws paper at Chair in Council, apologises||JD(S) member Marithibbe Gowda apologised after he threw papers towards the Chair in a fit of rage in the Council on Thursday.  BJP members demanded his suspension for the act. Gowda’s anger was caused by an answer tabled by the government related to irrigation in Mandya district. Unsatisfied by the answer that only projects in Maddur taluk were covered, Gowda alleged that works were sanctioned based on bribery.  Works worth Rs 85 lakh were withheld in Malavalli taluk of the district without any valid reason, Gowda said. Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai, answering on behalf of Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, urged Gowda to end the discussion and asked him if the projects should be taken up or not. This infuriated Gowda, who threw some papers in front of the chairperson’s desk and launched a salvo at Bommai. BJP members objected to Gowda’s behaviour. Ayanur Manjunath, ministers J C Madhuswamy and Bommai pressed for his suspension. In fact, Madhuswamy said Gowda should get maximum punishment as he had not spared anyone in the report of the House committee that he headed, on the December 15 ruckus, but was himself behaving in such a manner now. The din forced an adjournment for 10 minutes. Gowda finally apologised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-member-marithibbe-gowda-throws-paper-at-chair-in-council-apologises-947595.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Man-animal conflict: MLAs want shoot-to-kill nod||The legislators on Thursday demanded the government’s permission to shoot wild boars that stray into human habitation, besides seeking compensation for crop loss caused by animals.  The MLAs, representing constituencies situated close to forest areas, said the man-animal conflicts had increased in the recent years. With animals straying into farms in search of food, farmers were suffering huge crop losses, they said during a Zero Hour discussion in the LegislativeAssembly.  The issue was raised by Sagar MLA H Halappa, who said arecanut crops were being destroyed by wild boars in his region. “We want permission to shoot boars. At present, shooting boars is a punishable offence. This is causing problems for farmers who are unable to defend themselves,” he said. Adding to Halappa’s description of the problem, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, who represents Sirsi, said the problem persisted across Malnad region. “Permission to shoot animals is a different thing. But farmers need to be given compensation for crop loss,” he told the government. “All year long, farmers work hard for crops, only to see it destroyed. This menace is leading to crop loss of paddy, sugarcane and banana,” he said.  JD(S) state president H K Kumaraswamy (Sakaleshpur) said his constituency, too, faced a problem from elephants.  Several legislators narrated the experiences from their constituencies. They said the problem was not just limited to Malnad region, but in other places close to forests, too.  A similar situation was prevalent in Kolar, said MLA Roopa Shashidhar. “Farmers are facing tough times financially as it is. On top of it, crops are being destroyed by elephants, leaving them at a loss.” Malavalli legislator K Annadani said his constituency was surrounded by three forest ranges, including the MM Hills range. “We are facing a problem with leopards, elephants and wild boars. When we talk to the RFOs, they plead helplessness and tell us that they do not have vehicles to rescue the animals,” he said.  Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali said there was an existing provision for compensation for crop loss in such instances. In some places it was pending and would be resolved soon, he said. There is a demand to hike the compensation by 15%, which is being examined, he said. “I will call for a meeting of all MLAs from affected regions and ensure that measures are taken to resolve the issue.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/man-animal-conflict-mlas-want-shoot-to-kill-nod-947596.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri pulls up ministers, officials for skipping Assembly||It was a no-show by several ministers and officials in the Legislative Assembly on Thursday, prompting Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri to reprimand them for being absent from the session. “Members in the House must hold themselves individually accountable for being present in the session. Otherwise, we are failing in the eyes of the public,” Kageri remarked. While ministers such as Jagadish Shettar and V Somanna had taken prior permission, others were briefly present before stepping out. Kageri asked all the ministers to ensure that they attended the session in full strength unless there was an emergency. Only Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol was seated, leaving the treasury benches mostly empty when MLAs Basavaraj Daddal and others were raising development issues. Daddal was irked that most of the ministers and officials had already left the House. “To whom am I addressing if the ruling party leaders have left?” he said. JD(S) leader Bandeppa Kashempur, too, expressed displeasure that there was no one to hear what was being said. In a sarcastic remark, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah asked the Speaker to adjourn the House sine die. “Let’s go for a trip instead,” he said, adding that even the government chief whip was absent.  Former Speaker K R Ramesh Kumar said many members come, sign the attendance register and go away, without taking part in the session. “Earlier, to be a Cabinet minister, one required experience. Now, there is no such requirement. No one goes to the library or learns about the Constitution,” he lamented. “Why should MLAs contest elections if they are not interested in attending the session?” BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, who has been critical of the  Yediyurappa administration, also complained against the empty treasury benches. The behaviour of some MLAs changes after they become ministers, he said. “Once they become ministers, they stop coming to the House,” Yatnal added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/speaker-vishweshwar-hegde-kageri-pulls-up-ministers-officials-for-skipping-assembly-947599.html
04-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Raksha Ramaiah wins Youth Congress president poll||In a controversial result, Congress leader Raksha Ramaiah won the presidential election to the Karnataka Pradesh Youth Congress Committee (KPYCC) despite ending up second in the race behind Mohammed Haris Nalapad, who was disqualified at the last minute.  Raksha Ramaiah, 34, is the son of former minister M R Seetharam. He secured 57,271 votes.  Nalapad bagged 64,203 votes, but was disqualified owing to the infamous 2018 assault case, party sources said.  The result has created controversy within the party.  Another presidential candidate Mithun Rai, who got 3,104 votes, was disqualified as he was overaged.  The app-based Youth Congress presidential election was held on January 10, 11 and 12.  According to the party sources, Raksha Ramaiah had Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah’s backing, whereas Nalapad had Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on his side.  Apparently, Nalapad was disqualified after FAME, a non-profit organisation engaged by the Congress, brought up the 2018 assault case in which he has been charge-sheeted. Nalapad is the son of Shantinagar legislator N A Haris.  “This is really unfair. Why was Nalapad allowed to contest in the first place?” a Congress youth leader bawled.  It is also said that some party leaders who are loyal to Siddaramaiah reached out to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and advised him not to allow Nalapad to become the KPYCC president as that could damage the party’s image because of the assault case.  Raksha Ramaiah will replace Basanagouda Badarli as the KPYCC president. Student leader H S Manjunatha, with 18,137 votes, will be its vice-president.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/raksha-ramaiah-wins-youth-congress-president-poll-947604.html
04-02-2021||Main Article||Budget 2021: A great disappointment to Indian masses||A majority of Indians suffered in multiple ways during the last year. The crisis that started before Covid-19 came to India, and became increasingly severe during the lockdown, is continuing after the gradual opening of the economy.    A number of global and Indian studies have drawn attention to the severity of the crisis. The Davos India Supplement on rising inequalities in India, reports by the ILO, IMF, World Bank, the Global Hunger Report, CMIE and innumerable Indian studies have documented the rising unemployment, increasing hunger, malnutrition, deceleration in health, job losses and the increase in the overall vulnerability of the Indian middle and lower classes. The rich not only escaped this hardship, but the wealth of Indian billionaires rose by 35% during the lockdown. During the gradual unlocking of the economy, the trend has been towards labour saving, and jobs with low wages and no social security. The slow growth that India is experiencing today is profit-led and not wage-led. The expectation was that the Budget would answer these concerns urgently. The first expectation was of a redistribution of wealth and income to fund a pro-poor growth with higher wealth tax, capital gains tax and income tax on the very rich, but this section has been left untouched. The basic approach of the Budget is to push up the rate of GDP growth through market forces. The funding of the Budget proposals will come from disinvestment (sale of PSUs and public properties), selling of government assets, relaxation for FDI, and privatisation of public properties. This approach of the government is very inefficient, as the markets in India are monopolistic or oligopolistic, and are likely to lead to further inequalities, rather than benefitting workers and the poor. Also, it is a fallacy that the rich generate jobs. The adoption of the latest capital-intensive technologies by them to remain globally competitive will only make growth increasingly less labour-intensive. The rising inequality is dangerous for democracy as it strengthens the unholy alliance of the rich and the ruling party. In short, the basic ideology of the budget is dangerous for the country. Another major expectation from the Budget was in the field of education. There are two reasons for this: One, the blatant deprivation of education to masses of children, and two, the launching of the New Education Policy with fanfare recently. To start with, 71% of government schools and 19% of private schools shut down during the lockdown, and are still closed, with the result that most poor children are deprived of education. In addition, many other children could not manage online classes either because they had no smartphone/tablet/laptop or only had a phone shared with the family. Also, many could not keep up with online studies for varying reasons, including having to support the family after parents lost jobs. It is estimated that about 30-40% students could not manage online education.  In short, the already wide gap between the education of students from rich and upper middle-class households and the others became much wider. Considering the fact that most schools have still not opened, the gap is getting wider. This is the loss of the next generation and thus the loss of the country. The Budget could have helped by facilitating digital education for disadvantaged children.  It could have allotted funds for investing in tablets, smartphones or laptops. But that is clearly not a priority of our policymakers. To make matters worse, the budget for the Midday Meal Scheme, which attracts children to school, is slashed by Rs 1,400 crore. The NEP was launched recently with one major focus -- on early childhood development, which is critically important for holistic development of our young ones. Given that many studies have brought out a wider gap between the present Anganwadis and the concepts of early childhood development, one expected a huge investment on infrastructure, training and appointment of qualified persons in Anganwadis and nurseries. But the Budget is totally silent on this. Instead of increasing the budget for education, it is less this year by as much as Rs 6,087 crore. This can only be called criminal neglect of India’s future generation. The third major expectation was in the area of employment. It is now clear that the current economic growth is not going to absorb all those who lost their jobs. Thus, many returned migrant workers are trying their luck in highly precarious petty jobs. This is because growth is getting increasingly based on labour-saving, as employers are turning to more capital-intensive technologies. For example, labour intensive sectors like diamond cutting and polishing or the textiles and garment industries are using labour-saving new technologies.  Again, MSMEs that can be highly labour-intensive have received a much smaller allocation in this Budget. And, as seen above, the corporate sector will not generate large-scale employment.  In such a situation, MGNREGS could be very useful. In fact, it has proved to be a good safety net during the lockdown. The allocation on MGNREGS, however, has been cut by Rs 33,417 crore. It is important to note that MGNREGS is not charity, or a mere safety net. It has two major roles to play in the economy: one, regeneration of the environment and infrastructure development at the local level (not just national and state highways); and two, improving the quality of employment in terms of wages as well as other facilities, including social security. Both the roles are critical for the development of the local economy. Both generate massive employment in the second round also. In fact, one expected an urban employment guarantee programme also from the Budget. In short, the future of employment does not appear to be very bright in India! The Budget is a great disappointment to the Indian masses. Incidentally, the election orientation of the Budget is something that is not hidden from the eyes of the public. The selection of states for upscaling infrastructure is evidently not need-based but is based on propaganda requirements for the forthcoming state elections. (The writer is Director and Professor of Economics, Centre For Development Alternatives, Ahmedabad) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/budget-2021-a-great-disappointment-to-indian-masses-947234.html
04-02-2021||Mysuru||Leopard spotted at KRS Brindavan Gardens||A leopard on the prowl has been captured by a CCTV camera at the Brindavan Gardens in Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam, a popular tourist spot in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, on Wednesday. The CCTV footage shows the leopard passing through the Southern gate of the Brindavan Gardens. This has created panic among the local vendors, shopkeepers and also employees. The Police informed the local Gram Panchayat, who alerted the Forest Department. The department personnel visited and inspected the spot on Thursday. Range Forest Officer Sunitha said a cage would be placed on the spot if the pug marks of the leopard are found. It may be mentioned that the residents of Mahadevapura, Neralakere, Hebbadi and surrounding villages have been complaining about frequent spotting of leopards for the last 15 days. Following complaints, a cage has been placed at Mahadevapura and Neralakere villages, Sunitha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/leopard-spotted-at-krs-brindavan-gardens-947568.html
04-02-2021||National||Glad to see your affection towards India: PM Modi to Kevin Pietersen||Former international cricketer Kevin Pietersen's praise for India's "generosity and kindness" in sending Covid-19 vaccines to South Africa prompted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to assert on Wednesday that India believes that the world is our family, and it wants to play its role in strengthening the fight against the pandemic.  "Glad to see your affection towards India. :) We believe that the world is our family and want to play our role in strengthening the fight against COVID-19," Modi tweeted. Glad to see your affection towards India. :) He was responding to Pietersen's tweet that said, "Indian generosity and kindness grows more and more every single day. The beloved country!" The former England batsman expressed his sentiments on Tuesday after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar posted a picture of an aircraft that had landed with made-in-India vaccines in South Africa.  Pietersen was born in South Africa and moved to England later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/glad-to-see-your-affection-towards-india-pm-modi-to-kevin-pietersen-947228.html
04-02-2021||National||DH Toon | Farmers' stir: One for Rihanna's Twitter page||Accusing "vested interest groups" of trying to mobilise international support on protest against farm laws, Centre on Wednesday issued a terse statement asking celebrities to ascertain facts before commenting, an assertion that came in the backdrop of tweets by celebrities like American pop singer Rihanna and Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg on the ongoing protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-farmers-stir-one-for-rihannas-twitter-page-947279.html
04-02-2021||National||Farm laws to improve efficiency of India's markets: US amid ongoing protest||Recognising that peaceful protests are a hallmark of a thriving democracy, the US on Wednesday said it welcomes steps that would improve the efficiency of India's markets and attract greater private sector investment. "In general, the United States welcomes steps that would improve the efficiency of India's markets and attract greater private sector investment," a State Department spokesperson said, indicating that the new Biden Administration is supportive of the Indian government's move to reform the agricultural sector that attracts private investment and greater market access to farmers. Responding to a question on ongoing farmers' protests in India, the State Department said the US encourages that any differences between the parties be resolved through dialogue. "We recognise that peaceful protests are a hallmark of any thriving democracy and note that the Indian Supreme Court has stated the same," the State Department spokesperson said. Meanwhile, several American lawmakers came out in support of the farmers' protests in India. "I am concerned by the reported actions against peaceful demonstrators protesting new agricultural reform laws in India," Congresswoman Haley Stevens said. In a statement, she encouraged the Narendra Modi government and representatives of the protesting farmers to engage in productive discussions. "I will continue to monitor this situation closely. It has been particularly valuable to engage with stakeholders across the district on this topic and I remain appreciative to all who have reached out to share their perspective," Stevens said. Another Congresswoman, Ilhan Omar, expressed solidarity with all the farmers protesting for their livelihood across India. "India must protect their basic democratic rights, allow for the free flow of information, reinstate internet access, and release all the journalists detained for covering the protests," she wrote on Twitter. Referring to the farmers' protests, Meena Harris, niece of Vice President Kamala Harris, alleged that the world's biggest democracy is under an assault. "It's no coincidence that the world's oldest democracy was attacked not even a month ago, and as we speak, the most populous democracy is under assault. This is related. We ALL should be outraged by India's internet shutdowns and paramilitary violence against farmer protesters," she said in a tweet. In a separate statement, Gurinder Singh Khalsa, chairman of the Sikhs Political Action Committee, said the "historic" farmers' protest is turning out to be the "biggest-ever revolution" against the Indian government's crony capitalism. "This is the beginning of a movement for better accountability and transparency against crony capitalism. World was watching and now it has started reacting and mobilising in support of this historic revolution of Indian farmers. This will be bigger than India's freedom Revolution," Khalsa, who is based in Indiana, said. Recently, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) said India's new farm laws have the "potential to represent a significant step forward" for reforms in the agriculture sector. "We believe the farm bills do have the potential to represent a significant step forward for agricultural reforms in India. The measures will enable farmers to directly contract with sellers, allow farmers to retain a greater share of the surplus by reducing the role of middlemen, enhance efficiency and support rural growth," IMF Communications Director Gerry Rice told reporters here last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-to-improve-efficiency-of-indias-markets-us-amid-ongoing-protest-947284.html
04-02-2021||National||India can’t afford to go on a debt binge||By Mihir Sharma India’s economy has suffered more than most from the pandemic and so have its people. The country has lost more than a year’s worth of growth and perhaps a decade’s progress in its efforts to reduce poverty. The economic contraction — the first in India since the 1970s — has put pressure on its government like so many others to respond. Until this week, that response had been relatively restrained. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government seemed to recognize that there was only so much it could do to address the economic contraction, especially while the pandemic is still raging. By its actions, the government implied that any welfare-promoting and growth-enhancing measures had to stand on a solid macro-economic foundation. The federal budget for the next financial year, which starts in April, has poked a hole in this optimistic narrative. Not only has the fiscal deficit for the current year exploded to 9.5 per cent of GDP — two percentage points higher than the consensus estimate, but still defensible for a pandemic year — next year’s deficit is now forecast to reach almost 7 per cent. The government has effectively abandoned its long-term commitment to bring the deficit down to close to 3 per cent of GDP, pitching instead for a gentle descent to 4.5 per cent — six years from now. Once the pandemic retreats, India might end up with a debt-to-GDP ratio north of 90 per cent, compared to the low seventies at present. It would be saddled with a permanently elevated fiscal deficit and a financial system bogged down by unknown levels of bad debt. Consumer price inflation has topped the Reserve Bank of India’s target zone of 2 per cent-6 per cent since the Covid-19 lockdown began last year. These are, I am afraid, numbers more associated with Latin American stagnation than your typical Asian tiger. The government is obviously hoping that increased spending will help India grow out of this predicament. Unfortunately, actual growth before the pandemic was already just 4 per cent a year. Fitch Ratings thinks India’s potential growth is at best 5.1 per cent. That won’t be enough to deal with the macro-economic predicament India’s in. The only way India can pull itself out of this jam is if private investment pours into the country, financing projects that push up the country’s potential growth rate. Yet the government, already monopolizing domestic financial savings, seems to want to go to war with the global markets as well. In his pre-budget survey of the economy, the government’s seniormost economist spent an entire chapter attacking the ratings agencies — a pre-emptive salvo against a possible sovereign downgrade. Print money without fear, he urged, saying that doing so would “not necessarily lead to inflation and a debasement of the currency” if the extra money is invested in the right projects. To paraphrase “Tropic Thunder,” never go full MMT. Unlike the US or China, countries in India’s position — which have neither a reserve currency nor strong growth momentum — can’t grow while exploding their debt. They can’t afford to ignore ratings agencies because of their supposed bias or cock a snook at the bond markets and just run the currency presses instead. They need to grow in order to reduce their debt. That’s a very different dynamic. India isn’t so attractive that it can expect vast sums of investment to arrive even if the macro-economic numbers look bad and the sovereign rating is junk. We don’t have a history of deflation, we aren’t hitting the zero lower bound — quite the opposite, we have an economy prone to sustained high inflation. And, finally, if there’s a country somewhere with a government bureaucracy efficient enough to build really productive assets using sustained deficits, that country definitely isn’t India. This is still a developing economy, which especially in bad times should tread carefully rather than throw caution to the winds.  Modi’s greatest strength as an economic manager had been his commitment to fiscal responsibility. Some of that was visible in this year’s budget as well — which, for example, boasted a welcome return to transparency about how much the government is borrowing, ending a tradition of fudging that has persisted since the last financial crisis. Yet, with this new willingness to binge on debt, Modi now faces the prospect of leaving India’s macro-economy far less secure than when he inherited it. That would be a dire legacy indeed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-can-t-afford-to-go-on-a-debt-binge-947296.html
04-02-2021||National||BEL delivers modules for radar unit on Rafale jets||Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) has manufactured transmit and receive modules for a radar unit used in the Dassault Rafale fighter aircraft and has delivered them to the French firm Thales. The RBE2 Active Electronic Scanning Array (AESA) radar which was specifically developed for the Rafale, is the first in-service European AESA radar. The radar was developed in close partnership with the Dassault Aviation and the French Defence Procurement Agency (DGA). The radar employs innovative technologies to combine advanced fire control radar functions and target tracking. BEL said that the "transmit/receive modules are key to the RBE2 active electronic scanning performance, enabling it to steer the radar beam with the speed of an electronic chip." Thales said it is demonstrating its commitment to "Make in India" through the transfer of technology and production, plus associated training for BEL engineers in France. Thales added that it is an active stakeholder in the Offsets conditions included in the Rafale India programme. The transfer of technology was initiated at the end of 2017. In November 2020, the first RBE2 radar with a front end manufactured by BEL in India was delivered by Thales to Dassault. BEL chairman and Managing Director, M V Gowtama, said that the company had "augmented its facilities in Bengaluru to meet the requirements of manufacturing this state-of-the-art sub-system." Compared to radars with conventional antennas, the RBE2 delivers an unprecedented level of tactical situational awareness, faster detection and tracking of multiple targets, and can also implement several radar modes instantaneously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bel-delivers-modules-for-radar-unit-on-rafale-jets-947297.html
04-02-2021||National||Opposition MPs stopped from meeting protesting farmers at Delhi's Ghazipur||A group of Opposition Members of Parliament on Thursday drove to the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh Ghazipur border to meet the farmers who have been protesting against the farm laws enacted by the Centre. Fifteen MPs including DMK’s Kanimozhi and Tiruchi Siva, NCP’s Supriya Sule, Akali Dal leader and former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Trinamool’s Saugata Ray, RSP’s N K Premachandran, travelled in a bus to the Ghazipur border, about 18 km from Parliament. The MPs were stopped by the police at the barricades erected at the border to prevent a repeat of the January 26 violence during a tractor rally carried out by the farmers’ organisations who have been protesting against the farm laws here since November 26. “The farmers have been protesting for 70 days. The Central government should come forward to listen to their grievances and find a satisfactory solution,” NCP member Supriya Sule said. “We were forced to alight 3 km from the site of the peaceful protest. We are determined to see the conditions first hand and force the government into action,” Badal, who was the Union Food Processing Minister, told reporters. Badal said the Opposition leaders were shocked to see the treatment meted to the farmers, who have been barricaded behind fortress-like concrete barriers and barbed wire fencing. “Even ambulances and fire brigade vehicles cannot enter the protest site,” she said. The issue of farmers’ protests has rocked Parliament with the opposition seeking to corner the government during the Budget Session, While the government has managed to begin a discussion on the Motion of Thanks on the President’s address in the Rajya Sabha, it is engaged in resolving the deadlock in the Lok Sabha. The main Opposition Congress has been insisting on a separate discussion on the farmers' issue after the Motion of Thanks on the President’s address. The government has rejected the demand, contending that the issue can be raised during the debate on the Motion of Thanks. The group of MPs also met Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and handed over a memorandum detailing their "bitter experience" at the Ghazipur border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-mps-stopped-from-meeting-protesting-farmers-at-delhis-ghazipur-947313.html
04-02-2021||National||Intra-Kashmir train services likely to resume from February 17||After remaining suspended for nearly 11-months in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, intra-Kashmir train services is likely to resume from February 17 much to the joy of thousands of commuters. On a normal day, at least 15 pairs of the train run regularly from Baramulla in north Kashmir to Banihal in Jammu region (138 km) and carry almost 30,000 passengers, including students and employees. The suspension of the train services has put commuters to immense hardships. Sources said the train services will resume by February 17 as the government would come up with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in this regard in the next few days. Saqib Yousuf, Chief Manager Railways, said that once the government comes up with SOPs pertaining to Covid-19, train services will resume. He said the Railways suffered losses to the tune of crores due to suspension of train services, “but decision was taken for the wellbeing of people.” Thousands of employees and students from north and south Kashmir, who have to travel to Srinagar daily, are the worst affected by the suspension of train services. “The government has decided to open educational institutions when trains are not functioning normally. Why only train services have been kept suspended?” asked Rais Ahmad, a government employee. “If train services are resumed, passengers can skip the Qazigund-Banihall portion which remains very slippery in winters and it can also reduce traffic jams on Srinagar-Jammu national highway as well,” he said. Pertinently, Banihal-Baramulla train services resumed on November 11, 2019, after remaining suspended for around 100 days after the abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir on August 5 that year. The Government of India plans to connect Kashmir to Kanyakumari through train service and work on the project has been going on for years. However, it has been delayed due to several reasons which include hilly terrain where the train has to pass.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/intra-kashmir-train-services-likely-to-resume-from-february-17-947336.html
04-02-2021||National||Farm stir: Rihanna, Greta's remarks set India atwitter||Popular artist Rihanna tweeted on Feb. 2 about the farmers' protests in New Delhi that have been going for 71 days, asking "why aren't we talking about this?" A day later, young climate activist Greta Thunberg took to Twitter to extend her support to farmers in India. A raging battle erupted on social media following these tweets and the hashtags #IndiaAgainstPropaganda and #IndiaTogether began to trend. Many took offence to the fact that these international personalities commented on India's internal issues without any knowledge of the matter. The official spokesperson of Ministry of External Affairs tweeted a statement, saying that "before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken." Union Ministers from Amit Shah to Nirmala Sitharaman retweeted the statement, with the hashtag #IndiaAgainstPropaganda. No propaganda can deter India’s unity! No propaganda can stop India to attain new heights! Propaganda can not decide India’s fate only ‘Progress’ can. We stand together. Cricketing legend Sachin Tendulkar, along with other players, also extended his support to the farm laws and the government, saying that "Indians know India and should decide for India". Bharat Ratna singer Lata Mangeshkar also tweeted a statement. Bollywood celebrities did not stay behind in the campaign, with actors like Akshay Kumar, Karan Johar, Ajay Devgn and Suniel Shetty tweeting in support of #IndiaAgainstPropaganda. Among the Bollywood celebrities who reacted to Rihanna's tweet was Kangana Ranaut, who expressed her disapproval in a series of tweets. The barrage of tweets was not one-sided. Many tweeted against the backlash faced by Rihanna and Greta, saying that a couple of tweets should not warrant such a reaction. This included some celebrities as well. If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief then it’s you who has to work on strengthening your value system not become ‘propaganda teacher’ for others. Actress Richa Chaddha retweeted Greta Thunberg's tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-stir-rihanna-gretas-remarks-set-india-atwitter-947337.html
04-02-2021||National||Opposition tears into govt handling of farmer protest, says monologue should stop||Opposition parties on Thursday tore into the government's handling of the farmer protest against three contentious farm reform laws, saying ministers believe in monologue and trenches have been dug, barbed wires put up and spikes installed when bridges should have been built to win over farmers. Opening the second day of discussion on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Parliament at the start of the Budget Session, Manoj Kumar Jha of the RJD said the government has lost the patience to hear and any criticism is painted as anti-national. "With folded hands, I request you to please understand the pain of farmers. In harsh winter you stopped water supply and toilet facilities, dug trenches, put barbed wires, and installed spikes," he said. "Such aggressive approach wasn't even heard of towards the neighbouring nations who came inside (the Indian territory)." To the response to a tweet by pop star Rihanna on the farmer protest, he said the democracy will not be weakened by a tweet but by the approach of the government. In a veiled reference to cold storage chain and godowns built by private corporates such as Adani Group, he said, "Your backbone is the farmer. 303 (seats won in last general elections) did not come from cold storage or godowns but from these very people." "We will support you but every world against you is not anti-national. Patriotism is not be worn on sleeves but carried in heart," he said in his speech loaded with poetry and sarcasm. Stating that protests and agitations are the lifeblood of democracy, he contested the government statement of 11 rounds of dialogue have concluded with agitating farmers, saying its ministers "believe in monologue and not dialogue." "They talk of having given this and that to farmers, but there is no place for language of charity in a democracy. The monologues should be ended," he said. Jha said critics and agitating farmers have been painted as 'Khalistani', 'Naxals' and Pakistani agents and its citizens pitted against each other just like the agitation against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). "You have lost the patience of hearing, you only dictate," he said. "The governments are formed to build bridges but you have built walls." Referring to the over two-month-long agitation by farmers on the border entry points to the national capital, he said trenches have been dug, barbed wires erected and spikes installed to cut off farmers. "I haven't been to a border but pictures I have seen don't resemble anything close to what has been done around farmer agitation sites," he said, adding water supply as been snapped and toilets facilities taken away. "Who are you fighting? They are your own farmers," he said. "The country is not made up of police, arm, Jan gan man and Vande Mataram. The country is made of relations and you have soiled those relations." Bihar, he said, ended minimum support price (MSP) based crop procurement in 2006 and it now has only contractual labourers and not farmers. "Bihar has been turned into a labour-supply state. You want Bihar model in Punjab and Haryana?" he asked. He wondered what would have been the reaction if the JP movement would have happened during the present regime. Participating in the debate, Digvijaya Singh of the Congress lashed out at the BJP government, saying right from demonetisation to the CAA were blunders that hit the people hard. Quoting former PM Manmohan Singh, he said demonetisation was a monumental mismanagement, organised loot and legalised blunder. Almost 50 lakh people were rendered jobless and micro, small and medium enterprises were destroyed, he said. Singh said the void between the Modi government's promises and implementation was big and it could not win the hearts of people, whether the poor, farmers or labourers. The senior Congress leader also accused the government of mismanaging the Covid-19 pandemic and fuelling corruption. Terming the three farm laws "anti-farmers", he said the prime minister had lost their trust and even the Bharatiya Kisan Sangh was opposed to some of the government's moves and took a jibe at him asking whether he wants to keep relations with RSS. In democracy, he said, if people's sentiments are seen as revolution than it is autocracy. "You have got majority but dissent is essence of democracy," Singh said. Former prime minister and JD(S) leader H D Deve Gowda called farmers the backbone of the country and said miscreants and anti-social elements were behind the events of Republic Day and all political parties have condemned their actions and agree that they need to be punished. But the farmers' issue should not be mixed with it, he said and added that the issue should be dealt with amicably. Delhi witnessed violence on Republic Day during the farmers' tractor rally called to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Deviating from the designated route for the tractor parade, some protesting farmers clashed with police and reached the historic Red Fort and hoisted flags from some domes as well as the flagpole there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-tears-into-govt-handling-of-farmer-protest-says-monologue-should-stop-947342.html
04-02-2021||National||Twitter takes down Kangana Ranaut's tweets on farmers' protest over violations||Microblogging site Twitter on Thursday took down some tweets put out by Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on farmers' protest, saying the posts were in violation of the platform's rules on hate speech. The move comes a day after the actor went on a Twitter rampage over pop singer Rihanna's recent post on farmers' protest at the Singhu border in Delhi. "This Tweet is no longer available because it violated the Twitter Rules," the company said.  Rihanna on February 2 tweeted about the farmers' protests ongoing in New Delhi for 71 days, asking "why aren't we talking about this?"  Reacting to Rihanna's comment, Ranaut had said, "No one is talking about it because they are not farmers they are terrorists who are trying to divide India, so that China can take over our vulnerable broken nation and make it a Chinese colony much like USA... Sit down you fool, we are not selling our nation like you dummies". Ranaut also called climate activist Greta Thunberg a "rat" for her comments on the protests. The Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (Meity) on Wednesday issued fresh notice to micro-blogging platform for reinstating a number of accounts posting about ‘farmer genocide’ despite the government's earlier directive to block these and has warned of consequences if the accounts are not taken down again. On Monday, Twitter blocked over 250 accounts and tweets related to farmers protest after the government direction. According to the government these accounts spread fake news and posts were inflamatory. However same night, all accounts have been restored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-takes-down-kangana-ranauts-tweets-on-farmers-protest-over-violations-947354.html
04-02-2021||National||Ropeways, cable cars, funiculars brought under Highways Ministry ambit: Gadkari||Ropeways, cable cars and innovative mobility solutions like funicular railways have been brought under the ambit of Ministry of Road Transport and Highways, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday. The move will give a big fillip to infrastructure building in remote, inaccessible areas and hilly terrains of the country, the Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister Gakdari told PTI. "Ropeway, cable car, funicular railway, public transport on electricity etc have come under the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. This will give a big impetus to infrastructure building in inaccessible terrains," the Minister said. Apart from last mile connectivity for remote locations, it will reduce congestions on mainstream roads, the Minister said. The move will result in setting up of world-class ropeways in the country with emphasis on quality and safety. It will also be utilised for transportation of freight and goods at competitive prices, he added. As per the notification amending the allocation of the business rules issued by the Cabinet Secretariat in this regard "Coordination, research, standards and policy matters in respect of ropeways and other innovative/alternative mobility solutions" will come under the ambit of Road, Transport and Highways Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ropeways-cable-cars-funiculars-brought-under-highways-ministry-ambit-gadkari-947361.html
04-02-2021||National||Serum Institute of India, UNICEF enter into long-term supply for Covid-19 vaccines||The Serum Institute of India (SII) and UNICEF have entered into a long-term supply agreement for the AstraZeneca/Oxford and the Novavax vaccines, with the UN children’s agency saying it will have access to up to 1.1 billion doses of vaccines for around 100 countries. India is one of the world's biggest drugmakers, and an increasing number of countries have already approached it for procuring the coronavirus vaccines. While Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute, and the Novavax is being produced by US-based Novavax Inc. "Today we are pleased to announce the conclusion of a long-term supply agreement with the Serum Institute of India for Covid-19 vaccines, to access two vaccine products through technology transfer from ASTRAZENECA and NOVAVAX,” the United Nations International Children Education Fund (UNICEF) Executive Director Henrietta Fore said. Fore added that UNICEF, along with its procurement partners including Pan American Health Organisation (PAHO), will have access to up to 1.1 billion doses of vaccines for around 100 countries, for approximately USD 3 a dose for the low- and lower middle-income countries. “This is great value for COVAX donors and a strong demonstration of one of the fundamental principles of COVAX - that by pooling our resources we can negotiate in bulk for the best possible deals,” she said. She added that as these supply agreements are concluded, UNICEF will continue to make public relevant details of the agreements, subject to the consent of the suppliers. “Likewise, we look forward to working with SII to distribute these vaccines to countries, subject to the approval of the vaccine” by World Health Organisation. Key workers and other vulnerable people in 145 countries should receive Covid-19 vaccines in the first half of this year, under the joint UN-led COVAX initiative for fair access to coronavirus-beating jabs. UNICEF, which plays a key role in immunisation campaigns worldwide - welcomed the development, describing COVAX as the largest vaccine procurement and supply operation ever mounted. “We must get this right,” Fore said. “Our country offices will support governments as they move forward with this first wave to ensure that they are ready to receive the vaccines that require ultra-cold chain (storage)," she said. “This includes ensuring that health workers are fully trained in how to store and handle the vaccines... Many of these doses will go to health workers in urban areas who are at the highest risk of exposure to Covid-19 infections,” Fore said. Some 1.2 million doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine which requires ultra-cold chain storage, are to be delivered to 18 countries in the first quarter of the year, out of an agreed total of 40 million. An additional 336 million doses of the AstraZeneca/Oxford jab are to be lined up for dispatch to nearly all countries that have signed up to the COVAX scheme, from Afghanistan to Zimbabwe - once it has been approved for use by the UN health agency. The total number of doses will cover, on average, 3.3 per cent of the population of the countries benefiting from the scheme. This will make it possible for governments to protect their most vulnerable citizens - such as front-line health care workers, the World Health Organisation said, along with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance and the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations. Fore added that over recent months, UNICEF has also been preparing by stockpiling half a billion syringes, along with safety boxes to dispose them. “We have worked closely with airlines and other partners to make sure that all the necessary logistical and planning arrangements are in place. And we are supporting governments and partners in developing national plans to assess their logistics,” she said adding that this includes helping to plan, coordinate, budget, and prepare their health facilities and cold chain ahead of vaccine delivery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-of-india-unicef-enter-into-long-term-supply-for-covid-19-vaccines-947383.html
04-02-2021||National||Heritage trees more beneficial than construction of railway over bridges: SC told||The 300 heritage trees that are to be chopped for the construction of five railway over bridges in West Bengal are valued at Rs 2.2 billion in terms of oxygen and other products they offer which means a living tree will be more beneficial than the project, an expert committee has told the Supreme Court. A heritage tree is a large tree that takes decades or centuries to mature. The committee of experts told a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde that a heritage tree serves the civil society and the environment and its valuation can be reached on various counts including oxygen, micro-nutrients, compost and bio-fertiliser. It said that if all costs are added and multiplied by the remaining age of a tree, in the present case 100 years, the grand total would be Rs 74,500 per tree year. "This means that 300 trees if allowed to live for a period of 100 or more years, will give products worth Rs 2,235,000,000 or Rs 2.2 billion. This is the future value of 300 trees. If the entire stretch of 59.2-kilometre road is taken in into consideration, which will become congested in a period of a decade or so, authorities will be forced to widen its width and on this count 4,056 trees will be required to be cut down. "In that case, the cost of products over a period of 100 years will be Rs 30.21 billion. So to avoid this environmental catastrophe a solution out of routine framework is need of the hour," the committee said in its report. The five proposed bridges are part of a “Setu Bharatam Mega Project” financed by the Centre to build 208 rail over- and under-bridges across 19 states in the country with a sanctioned cost of Rs 20,800 crore. The five-member committee informed the apex court that before implementing a project of national importance environmental impact assessment is desired and this has not been done in West Bengal. The committee said that state authorities are considering project under consideration as an independent project which is affecting a distance of 59.2 km only from Barasat to Bongaon. "According to a circular issued by MoEF, if a road project has a length less than 100 km, in that case, there is no need to get EIA from any government agency. Such an argument, in the present case, is an attempt to circumvent the law of the land. "We feel deriving such conclusion is erroneous and needs rethinking on the part of the state of the West Bengal.According to the committee members, EIA should be taken up before starting the project related work," the panel said. Noting the submissions, the top court observed that it would consider laying down a protocol to be followed for projects like road widening project which require cutting of trees so that there is minimum damage to the environment. The observation came while hearing a plea related to felling of over 350 trees for the construction of railway over bridges (ROB) and widening of National Highway-112 on the Indo-Bangladesh border in West Bengal. The bench has now posted the matter for hearing on February 18. The apex court had earlier formed a committee of environment experts to suggest an alternative to felling of over 350 trees for construction of railway over bridges (ROB) and widening of National Highway-112 along the Indo-Bangladesh border in West Bengal. The five-member committee is headed by Dr Soham Pandya of the Centre of Science For Village, Wardha. Bhushan, appearing for petitioner Association for Protection of Democratic Rights (APDR) had earlier said that no alternatives were explored and permission was granted to fell the trees, which are heritage ones aged around 80-100 years. He had said everyone knows about global warming and there is study which says if the vegetation is not protected then in next 10-20 years the human species will be in danger. The Calcutta High Court on August 31, 2018, had paved the way for widening of the national highway and allowed felling of over 350 trees for widening of Jessore Road, which connects the city to Petrapole on the Indo-Bangladesh border, on the condition that five trees will be planted for each tree cut. The NH-112 or Jessore Road is an important link between India and Bangladesh and the state government had undertaken a project to widen it. Hundreds of old trees line both sides of the road, some of which were decided to be felled for the purpose of widening of the road. A PIL was moved before the high court challenging the state's plan to fell the trees. After arguments for several months, the high court allowed the felling of 356 trees at five places from Barasat to Petrapole border along the Jessore Road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heritage-trees-more-beneficial-than-construction-of-railway-over-bridges-sc-told-947387.html
04-02-2021||National||Business tycoons pledge support to Kerala to build a modern economy||Captains of Indian industry, including Ratan Tata and Anand Mahindra, have pledged their support and offered suggestions for Kerala to take giant steps in industrial development without affecting the state's natural beauty and ecological system. Meanwhile, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the government will consider setting up an Export Promotion Council for global marketing of its products. Participating online in a Special Industry Session, which was part of "Kerala Looks Ahead," an international conference and consultation organised by the State Planning Board on Wednesday, they also acknowledged the new investors friendly climate in the state and identified information technology, education, healthcare and tourism as the sectors that could be promoted vigorously. Ratan Tata, Chairperson of Tata Trusts, said Kerala's industrial development may not have been as aggressive as elsewhere in India in the past due to the desire to keep the state beautiful. He expressed the hope that the international conference and consultation would help Kerala evolve a sensible industrial development policy, covering both the new areas of information technology and traditional tourism without spoiling the state's beauty. In his concluding remarks to the session, the Chief Minister said the state offered plenty of opportunities for investment and invited the industry leaders to be partners to the state's onward journey. The conclave was an occasion to announce to the world Kerala's initiatives to build a modern industrial sector, harnessing the skills and enterprises within the state, as part of efforts to build a modern economy and inclusive society. Noting that growth of the productive forces in Kerala will be based on application of science and technology to agriculture and industry, Vijayan said the state has its task set for the next five to ten years to ensure sustainable, environment-friendly economic growth, and high levels of skill development. Azim Premji, Founder Chairperson, Wipro Limited, paid glowing tributes to the state's sustained commitment to human capacity development and empowerment of the local government institutions, which is reflected in its education, health and local governance. "In many aspects of economic development, Kerala has an excellent performance. I think with this kind of base, which is almost like a developed country in many ways, Kerala's economic growth can skyrocket," he said. He also mentioned the state's education and public health systems that have been functioning effectively. "The kind of deep community-based campaign for handling the COVID-19 pandemic can be a model for all the states across the country. Whether it is health or education or local governance, we have to learn a lot from your state," he pointed out. Holding that the future of businesses was entirely dependent on their conformity to sustainability goals, Anand Mahindra, Chairman, Mahindra Group, said given its core strengths, Kerala can emerge a global hub for an entire spectrum of 'green businesses.' "The state has a pro-active government, investor- friendly policies and a very clear vision of the future. So, I will say, Kerala wake up. You can be not just India's hub but a global hub for green businesses. Think big, think ambitious and think green," Mahindra said. "It is in the businesses of the future that the future of Kerala lies. A tectonic shift is taking place in the way businesses engage with goals of sustainability. Businesses can no longer afford to prioritise profit over the planet. Consumers are demanding change. The next generation, all over the world, has a much more awareness of sustainability because it is their future that is at stake," he said. On the Mahindra Group's areas of synergy with Kerala, Mahindra said their foray into tourism hospitality business was born in the state. Electrical mobility and agricultural modernisation are two other areas where Mahindra group will continue to engage with the state, he said. Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Executive Chairperson, Biocon Limited, made a strong case for Kerala to invest significantly in life sciences, especially in the areas of research and innovation. In this regard, she mentioned Cochin Cancer Research Institute in Ernakulam and Regional Cancer Centre in Thiruvananthapuram, saying these are two great emerging cancer centres and have great potential in leading the world in cancer research. By using the skills in technology, medtech can also be an important opportunity for Kerala. "In cancer research and medtech, Kerala can take the premier position in the country," she added. Kris Gopalakrishnan, Chairman of Axilor Ventures, suggested setting up of world class virtual educational institutions, training centres and universities in Kerala to take full advantage of the emerging industrial atmosphere where every household would become a production centre for small, medium and large industrial units. Kerala should take the initiative to aggregate all the hotels and lodging facilities available in the state on a single platform on the lines of the taxi aggregators to optimise the benefits of tourism. The state should also become a hub of 5G technology, artificial intelligence, machine learning and biotechnology. M A Yusuf Ali, Chairperson of Lulu Group, announced that his company, which has already pumped in Rs 15,000 crore in various sectors in the state, had plans to invest an additional Rs 8,000 crore as Kerala had the potential to emerge as a leading state in information technology, healthcare, hospitality, food processing, medical equipment, electronics and a wide range of other sectors. He suggested that the state remove the 15-acre ceiling for industrial units and the setting up of an Export Promotion Council. He lauded the state government's efforts to give a major push to infrastructure development. Dr B Ravi Pillai, Managing Director of RP Group, said it would be good if Kerala, like China, gives permission to start business in a period less than two months of application. Kerala can focus on strengthening four segments: knowledge-based business, healthcare, tourism and rubber-based industry. Knowledge-based: IT hubs should graduate from remaining back-office data-processing. The state can become a hub for artificial intelligence and mobility solutions based on clean energy,he said. Dr Azad Moopen, CMD of Aster DM Healthcare, asked the state government to facilitate full use of the 42 perennial rivers in Kerala by allowing water bottling companies to market these waters in every part of the world. At present, waters of these rivers were going waste, he pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/business-tycoons-pledge-support-to-kerala-to-build-a-modern-economy-947389.html
04-02-2021||National||US calls for dialogue with India to resolve farmers' protest||Wading into a sensitive issue for Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the US embassy in New Delhi on Thursday urged his government to resume talks with farmers angry over agricultural reforms that sparked a months-long protest campaign. Largely restricted to the outskirts of New Delhi, the mostly peaceful protests were marred by violence on Jan 26., when some protesters entered the heart of the capital city after the Republic Day military parade and clashed with police. Television images broadcast internationally of protesters occupying the ramparts of New Delhi's historic Red Fort and later clashing with police raised awareness of the confrontation between Modi's government and the farmers. "We encourage that any differences between the parties be resolved through dialogue," a US embassy spokesperson said in a statement that also proffered general support to government measures to "improve the efficiency of India's markets and attract greater private sector investment." Modi's government has held multiple rounds of talks with representatives of farmers who have camped in their thousands on the outskirts of the capital since late 2020, but there has been no word on when talks would resume following the Republic Day violence. The farmers, who enjoy most support in northern India's breadbasket states, argue that three new farm laws will hurt their interests while benefiting large firms. But the government says the reforms will bring much-needed investment to a farm sector, that accounts for nearly 15% of India's $2.9 trillion economies but employs about half its workforce. The farmers' cause has also drawn support from the Indian diaspora in Australia, Britain, Canada and the United States. In late November, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau raised India hackles by speaking about the protests in a video message, saying he was concerned for the farmers. New Delhi said such comments were "an unacceptable interference in our internal affairs." Barricades up, internet down Police remain on guard against further attempts by farmers to bring their mass protest into the capital and have bolstered barricades at three main sites. Earlier this week internet services were temporarily suspended in some areas, drawing widespread criticism, including from international activists and celebrities. "We recognise that unhindered access to information, including the internet, is fundamental to the freedom of expression and a hallmark of a thriving democracy," the US embassy spokesperson said. In response to social media posts on the internet shutdowns, India's Foreign Ministry on Wednesday said vested interest groups were mobilising international support against the country. There was no immediate response from the ministry to the US comments on Thursday. Farm union leaders have been calling for a repeal of the new laws and to make the government's crop price guarantee scheme legally binding and for the withdrawal of legal cases against protesters. But, some farmer groups have expanded their list of demands. At a rally in northern Haryana state on Wednesday, thousands of farmers from the politically influential Jat community backed a call to waive farm loans and increase crop prices paid by the government. "If the government doesn't concede to our demands, thousands of more farmers will march towards Delhi," Kek Ram Kandela, a leader among the Jat farmers, told the rally attended by more than 50,000 people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-calls-for-dialogue-with-india-to-resolve-farmers-protest-947405.html
04-02-2021||National||Talked to farmers inside Tihar Jail, will write detailed report: Journalist arrested by Delhi Police||Freelance journalist Mandeep Punia, who was arrested by the Delhi Police from the Singhu border, has said that he talked to farmers and scribbled notes on his legs inside the Tihar Jail to write a report. Punia was released from the prison on Wednesday after a court granted him bail. Talking to reporters outside the jail, he said, "It (being inside the prison) turned out to be an opportunity for me. I got a chance to talk to the farmers lodged in the jail and scribbled notes on my legs. I am going to write a detailed report." "My work is to report from ground zero... I asked the farmers why and how they were arrested," he said. Punia said he had been covering the protest at the Singhu border from the day it started. "It was my responsibility as a journalist to report it truthfully and faithfully. I was trying to do that. I was trying to find out the people behind the attack on the movement site. My work was interrupted by the arrest. I lost valuable time. I do feel that that I was wronged," he tweeted. He alleged that the police interfered with his work and said the incident had strengthened his resolve to continue with his work. Punia was arrested at the Singhu border on charges of "obstructing public servants in discharge of public functions", "assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty", and "voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty". He was sent to 14-day judicial custody on Sunday by the court of metropolitan magistrate.  However, he was granted bail on Tuesday after furnishing a personal bond of Rs 25,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/talked-to-farmers-inside-tihar-jail-will-write-detailed-report-journalist-arrested-by-delhi-police-947408.html
04-02-2021||National||Wrong depiction of India map on WHO website taken strongly by govt; disclaimer put: MEA||The government on Thursday said that the issue of "wrong depiction" of India's map on the website of the World Health Organization (WHO) was raised strongly with the global body following which it put a disclaimer on the portal. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan provided the information in Rajya Sabha in response to a question on whether the map on the website depicted the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in a totally different colour. "The issue of the wrong depiction of the map of India on the WHO website has been raised strongly with WHO including at the highest level," he said in his written reply. "In response, the WHO has informed the Permanent Mission of India in Geneva that they have put a disclaimer on the portal," he added. Muraleedharan said that the government of India's position on the right depiction of its boundaries has been "unambiguously reiterated". The disclaimer, mentioned by the minister, said the presentation of the "materials" does not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of WHO concerning the legal status of any country, territory or area or of its authorities. "The designations employed and the presentation of these materials do not imply the expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of WHO concerning the legal status of any country, territory or area or of its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its frontiers or boundaries," according to the disclaimer quoted in the answer. "Dotted and dashed lines on maps represent approximate border lines for which there may not yet be full agreement," it said. The minister added, "Nevertheless, the government of India's position on the right depiction of its boundaries has been unambiguously reiterated."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wrong-depiction-of-india-map-on-who-website-taken-strongly-by-govt-disclaimer-put-mea-947410.html
04-02-2021||National||Chinese actions seriously disturbed peace, tranquillity along LAC: Govt||The Chinese military's attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh have seriously disturbed peace and tranquillity in the region, the government said in Rajya Sabha on Thursday. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said the attempts have been responded to "appropriately" by the Indian armed forces and it has been made clear to the Chinese side that such unilateral attempts are "unacceptable". In a written response to a question on the overall boundary issue with China, the minister said the two sides have agreed to seek a fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solution through dialogue and negotiations. He said the two sides also agreed that pending final settlement of the boundary question, maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas is an essential basis for the overall development of the bilateral relationship. "However, since April/May 2020 the Chinese side undertook several attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC in western sector.These attempts have been responded to appropriately by our armed forces," Muraleedharan said. "It has also been made clear to the Chinese side that such unilateral attempts are unacceptable. These actions have seriously disturbed the peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the western sector," he said. The government often refers to eastern Ladakh as western sector. The minister also said that India's engagement with China is "complex". "In the last few years, the two sides have agreed to manage their differences and not allow differences on any issue to become disputes, " he said. In addition, he said, the two sides also agree that the future direction of ties should be built upon mutual respect for each other's developmental aspirations bearing in mind the importance of respecting each other's sensitivities, concerns and aspirations. On the eastern Ladakh standoff, he said:"Over the last several months, we have been engaged with the Chinese side through diplomatic and military channels to ensure complete disengagement from all friction points and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas. Muraleedharan also referred to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's talks with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on September 10 in Moscow and said they agreed that the current situation in the border areas is not in the interest of either side. "They agreed therefore that the border troops of both sides should continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions," he said. He said both sides held six meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China border affairs (WMCC) and nine meetings of senior commanders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-actions-seriously-disturbed-peace-tranquillity-along-lac-govt-947420.html
04-02-2021||National||Farmers' protest: Greta Thunberg cited in Delhi Police FIR on 'international conspiracy' in farmers' protest||Delhi Police on Thursday registered a case to probe "international conspiracy" to defame India and promote enmity among groups following the farmers' protest and cited tweets by teen climate campaigner Greta Thunberg in the FIR. An unfazed Thunberg tweeted soon after,  "I still #StandWithFarmers and support their peaceful protest. No amount of hate, threats or violations of human rights will ever change that. #FarmersProtest." Sources said the FIR mentions the tweets and her name in the body of the FIR but has not named Thunberg as an accused. After deleting a 'toolkit' she posted on Twitter earlier with regard to farmers' protest on Republic Day, she shared a "toolkit" advising people on how to show support for the protests. On Thursday morning, she said she was sharing an updated list and included around half-a-dozen ways to back the agitation. Thunberg also tweeted about organising protests near the closest Indian embassy on February 13 and 14.   The FIR is filed by Delhi Police Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police is investigating these tweets but the subject of the FIR refers to Greta Thunberg's controversial tweet on a "toolkit" to support the farmers' protests. Police said the FIR has been registered against unnamed creators of the toolkit under charges of sedition, criminal conspiracy and promoting enmity between communities. The toolkit has been promoted by pro-Khalistani group Poetic Justice Foundation, it claimed. "The action plan delineated in the toolkit reveals copy-cat execution of the events on January 26 and around it. No one has been named as accused in the case," a senior police official said. Tweets by the teen activist and other international celebrities like singer Rihana had taken Twitter by storm earlier two days ago, prompting the Narendra Modi government to unleash a counter by making Indian celebrities tweet claiming that farmers' protest is an internal matter and a foreigner should not intervene. BJP sharpened the attack on Thunberg and other foreign celebrities for their tweets supporting farmers. A day after fielding more than half a dozen ministers in the counter campaign, the BJP said Thunberg’s toolkit was a "school kit of anarchy" and claimed there was an international conspiracy to defame India and create chaos and unrest in the country. Among new celebrities, which extended support to protesting Indian farmers are American football league NFL star Juju Smith Schuster has donated $10,000 towards medical assistance for the farmers and forward Kyle Kuzma, shared the same article Rihanna had posted.   (This updated story clarifies that Greta Thunberg has not been named as accused in the FIR as reported earlier)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-greta-thunberg-cited-in-delhi-police-fir-on-international-conspiracy-in-farmers-protest-947426.html
04-02-2021||National||RS bypolls in Gujarat, Assam to be held on March 1: EC||Rajya Sabha bypolls to three seats in Gujarat and Assam, including the one which fell vacant due to the death of senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, will be held on March 1, the Election Commission said on Thursday. Two Rajya Sabha seats in Gujarat fell vacant late last year, following the deaths of Ahmed Patel and Abhay Bhardwaj (BJP). While Patel died on November 25 last year, Bhardwaj passed away on December 1 last year. The Rajya Sabha terms of Patel and Bhardwaj were to end in August 2023 and June 2026, respectively. One Rajya Sabha seat in Assam fell vacant after lone Bodo People's Front MP Biswajit Daimary resigned from the upper house in November last year. His term was to end in April 2026. The notification for the bypolls will be issued on February 11 and the election would be held on March 1. The counting of votes will take place on March 1 evening. As per procedure, counting for Rajya Sabha elections is held on the day polls take place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-bypolls-in-gujarat-assam-to-be-held-on-march-1-ec-947429.html
04-02-2021||National||Working to change people's perception about I-T dept to being 'tax facilitators': CBDT chief||The Income Tax Department is working on ways to change the general perception about the department to be "tax facilitators" rather than just "tax enforcers", CBDT chief P C Mody said on Thursday. He also said the department is scaling up the capacity of tax officers to better facilitate taxpayers. Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), the apex decision-making body in matters of income tax, has taken up various taxpayer-friendly moves, including the introduction of faceless assessment and appeals, reducing the time limit for reopening of assessment cases and setting up of a dispute resolution committee. "There has been a question as to what is the capacity of the department in terms of handling these changes. Just the way we are conducting an outreach programme for the taxpayers, a massive exercise through online is also being undertaken to do capacity building of our own officers. "To sum it all, I would say what has been hitherto the perception outside that we are tax enforcers, I would like to change it to as being perceived as tax facilitators," Mody said at a PHDCCI event.  Mody said with the information exchange framework that the CBDT has with multiple government agencies like MCA, SEBI and CBIC, it becomes easier to share data with the taxpayer and all the data is shared in the Annual Information Statement for easier filing of ITR. "The kind of exchange of information, understanding and the processes that we have set up with the multiple government agencies it now becomes easier to present this information before the taxpayer as to what is in the knowledge of the tax department," he said.   He said reducing the time bar on reopening of past assessments to 3 years from 6 years has removed a major irritant. "That kind of uncertainty as to whether his tax affairs are settled or not, we have not only reduced the timeframe, we have also tried to bring about a certain sense of objectivity in the whole process. What would constitute the basis of reopening has also been spelt out. So this twin objective of trying to bring about a certainty and fairness and as also facilitate taxpayer is what we are continuously working on," Mody added. The 2021-22 Budget has reduced the time limit for reopening of past assessment cases to 3 years from 6 years, while for serious tax frauds involving concealment of income of Rs 50 lakh and above the time limit for reopening is 10 years. PTI JD||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/working-to-change-peoples-perception-about-i-t-dept-to-being-tax-facilitators-cbdt-chief-947433.html
04-02-2021||National||Pacer Sandeep Sharma deletes tweet challenging govt's 'internal issue' stand on farmer protest||Punjab pacer Sandeep Sharma became one of the very few personalities in cricket, and in general, to voice against the Indian government's stand that farmers' protest was an "internal issue." However, Sharma seems to have withdrawn his stand by deleting the tweet.  In a now-deleted tweet, Sharma had slammed the government's 'logic' behind declaring farmers' protests a domestic issue and that dismissing international celebrities who have now questioned the months-long protest by the farmers at Delhi borders. "By this logic, no one should care about each other because every situation is someone's internal affair," the tweet said.   Following pop star Rihanna's questioning of protests and the Ministry of External Affairs' rebuttal, various Indian celebrities, from actors to cricketers, have taken to social media in support of the government's stand under a hashtag, first tweeted by MEA. Sharma listed atrocities against minorities in various parts of the world across different timelines, such as the persecution of Jews in Nazi Germany. And the question whether "by that logic" were they internal issues.  International attention towards the farmers' protests at Delhi borders has blown through the roof after Rihanna, climate activist Greta Thunberg raised their concerns about the government's handling of the agitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pacer-sandeep-sharma-deletes-tweet-challenging-govts-internal-issue-stand-on-farmer-protest-947434.html
04-02-2021||National||Over 2.9 lakh cyber security incidents related to digital banking reported in 2020: Dhotre||Over 2.9 lakh cybersecurity incidents related to digital banking were reported in 2020, Parliament was informed on Thursday. As per the information reported to and tracked by Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), a total number of 1,59,761; 2,46,514 and 2,90,445 cybersecurity incidents pertaining to digital banking were reported during 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively, Minister of State for Electronics and IT Sanjay Dhotre said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha. These incidents included phishing attacks, network scanning and probing, viruses and website hacking, he added. The Minister noted that the rising popularity of non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) along with e-commerce has also expanded the scope of digital payments. "The percentage rise in digital transactions is 46 per cent in 2020 in comparison to 2018-19," he said. The numbers of digital transactions have increased from 3,134 crore in the financial year (FY) 2018-19 to 4,572 crore in FY 2019-20, Dhotre added. Responding to a separate query, the minister said the number of websites/webpages/accounts blocked stood at 9,849 in 2020. This was 2,799 in 2018 and 3,635 in the year 2019. He said Section 69A of the IT Act empowers the government to block any information generated, transmitted, received, stored or hosted in any computer resource in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states or public order. In response to another question, Dhotre said 6,233 cases were registered in 2019 under fraud and cheating (involving communication devices as medium/ target as per Information Technology Act 2000), as per National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data. "As per NCRB, a number of cases registered under fraud and cheating (involving communication devices as medium/ target as per IT Act 2000) for cyber crimes are 3,466, 3,353, 6,233 during the year 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-29-lakh-cyber-security-incidents-related-to-digital-banking-reported-in-2020-dhotre-947436.html
04-02-2021||National||Who is PM Modi's brother Prahlad Modi? Why is he protesting?||Prahlad Modi, Prime Minsiter Narendra Modi's 65-year-old younger brother sat on a dharna at Lucknow's Chaudhury Charan Singh airport demanding that his supporters who were detained by Sultanpur police be released on Wednesday. Police, however, have denied the charge. His sit-in protest garnered attention from across the country. Who is Prahlad Modi? Prahlad Modi, vice president of All India Fair Price Shop Dealers' Federation, has been with the organisation since its inception at the turn of the century in 2001. He used to run a ration shop in Ahmedabad, but retired recently owning to old age. He is the fourth of six children born to Damodardas Modi and Hira Ben Modi. He has three brothers and two sisters. It is said that PM Modi is closest to Prahlad Modi and his mother Hira Ben Modi in the family. Prahlad Modi visited his brother at his Chief Minister's office in Gujarat as a delegate to discuss issues that fair price shop owners faced such as the issue of low quality supplies. Why is he protesting? He sat on a dharna on the airport premises as he was unhappy over police stopping his supporters from reaching there, according to Chaudhary Charan Singh Airport's Additional General Manager (Operations) Bhupendra Singh. Singh added that Prahlad Modi left after an hour and a half of protesting. Prahlad Modi told reporters at the airport that he had come to Uttar Pradesh to take part in some social programmes in Sultanpur, Jaunpur and Pratapgarh. “After reaching here, I came to know that the workers who were coming to receive me were held by the Lucknow police and made to sit in a police station. Efforts are on to lodge cases against them,” he claimed. Prahlad Modi claimed some police officers told him that there is “an order to this effect from the Prime Minister's Office”. “I felt that it would not be right if my children (workers) are in jail and I am free. Either let them go or I am sitting on a strike at the airport. Some police officers reached here and said there is an order to this effect from the Prime Minister's Office and I demand to see the copy of the order," Modi said. “Goondagardi will neither help the government here nor the Prime Minister's office,” he added. Prahlad Modi said if police did not give him the copy of the order, he would approach the Supreme Court. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-is-pm-modis-brother-prahlad-modi-why-is-he-protesting-947438.html
04-02-2021||National||I still stand with farmers: Greta Thunberg tweets after FIR||"I still #StandWithFarmers and support their peaceful protest. No amount of hate, threats or violations of human rights will ever change that," she tweeted. Protesting Indian farmers won global attention on Wednesday with prominent Western activists joining pop superstar Rihanna in support of their months-long campaign against agriculture reforms they say will benefit big business at their expense. Tens of thousands of farmers have been camped out on the outskirts of the capital, New Delhi, since late last year, braving the winter chill to show opposition to three new laws the government says will make the sector more efficient. "We ALL should be outraged by India's internet shutdowns and paramilitary violence against farmer protesters," US lawyer and activist Meena Harris, the niece of Vice-President Kamala Harris, said on Twitter. Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg also posted a message of support on Twitter, sharing a news report about the internet shutdowns. "We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India," Thunberg wrote. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-still-stand-with-farmers-greta-thunberg-tweets-after-fir-947439.html
04-02-2021||National||BJP asks Bengal unit about its preparedness to handle factional feuds||The central leadership of the BJP had asked the West Bengal unit of the party regarding their preparedness to handle factional feuds ahead of the Assembly elections. BJP sources said that the party’s Central leaders also asked the state unit whether they were prepared to fulfil the target of winning 200 seats in Bengal set by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The development comes at a time when several incidents of factional feuds in the Bengal BJP had put the state leadership in a spot. The latest such incident took place in the district BJP office in Bardhaman where the members of the old guard of the party clashed with new entrants, who came mostly from the Trinamool Congress (TMC), came to blows with each other and the party office was vandalised. BJP sources said that the central leadership also asked the Bengal unit to ensure to select candidates who had the maximum possibility of winning in the Assembly elections. “The central leadership has asked us to ensure that maximum chances of victory and organisational ability should be the only criterion for giving a ticket for the Assembly elections,” a senior state BJP leader said. He said that the Central leaders had also asked the state unit whether they would be able to handle factional feuds after the candidate list was announced. With a large number of leaders and workers joining from the TMC, the saffron party had recently been struggling to contain increasing factional feuds. BJP sources said that the old guard of the party was apprehensive of being sidelined by the TMC turncoats. They further revealed that a section of the old guard of the party was also doubtful about the credibility of the turncoats fearing that they might start looking for “greener pastures” if BJP fails to come to power in Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-asks-bengal-unit-about-its-preparedness-to-handle-factional-feuds-947440.html
04-02-2021||National||Migration of MBBS candidate can't be allowed from unrecognised to recognised college: SC||The Supreme Court has ruled that migration of a medical student from one college to another can be allowed only if both the institutions are recognised by the central government under the Indian Medical Council Act. "The term ‘migration’ cannot be read out of context without reference to the regulation which clearly provides that both colleges should be recognised u/s 11(2) of the Act. Migration cannot be permitted contrary to the regulations," a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Indira Banerjee said. The court set aside a Rajasthan HC's order allowing a plea for migration of MBBS student Anchal Parihar from Ananta Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre, Rajsamand, to Dr S N Medical College, Jodhpur. "The interpretation of regulation 6(2) by the High Court is patently erroneous. The regulation clearly lays down a restriction of migration from an unrecognised college to a recognised college. Regulation 6(2) provides that migration is permissible only if both the Colleges are recognised under Section 11(2) of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956," the court said. The Medical Council of India led by advocate Gaurav Sharma contended that migration is not permitted from a private college to the government college. He submitted that the candidate belonging to OBC category was placed at 6,73,898 rank in the merit list as she secured only 110 marks out of total 720 marks in the NEET (UG)-2018 examination. The cut off for admission in respect of OBC category in Dr S N Medical College Jodhpur, a government medical college to which she sought migration is 560 marks out of 720 marks.  Advocate Atul Jha, appearing for the candidate, submitted that the Medical Council of India has the power to relax the regulation. He said migration should be considered on humanitarian ground as the father of the candidate was suffering from cancer. He also referred to a case of another candidate where migration was allowed but the court rejected his contention saying it was not a case of the similarly situated candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migration-of-mbbs-candidate-cant-be-allowed-from-unrecognised-to-recognised-college-sc-947443.html
04-02-2021||National||NBA stars extend support to Indian farmers, NFL's Juju Smith-Schuster donates $10,000||American football league NFL star Juju Smith Schuster has donated $10,000 towards medical assistance for the farmers protesting in India against new agriculture laws, while NBA forward Kyle Kuzma has also extended his support to their cause. The duo's support comes after American pop star Rihanna, shared a news article highlighting the Indian government's crackdown on the protest after it turned violent on January 26 in Delhi. "Happy to share that I've donated $10,000 to provide medical assistance to the farmers in need in India to help save lives during these times. I hope we can prevent any additional life from being lost. #FarmersProtest" Juju tweeted. Kuzma, who plays for the Los Angeles Lakers in the NBA, also shared the same article Rihanna had posted. "Should be talking about this! #FarmersProtest," the 25-year-old tweeted. Former NBA player Baron Davies also took to Twitter to highlight the farmers’ protest, urging people to spread awareness about the issue. "Are we going to address what's happening in India? Let my good people free !! Unfair to those who struggle, the farmers provide a way of living and they need to have a right to a way of life. "Join me and let's bring awareness. #FarmersProtest," he tweeted. Rihanna started the global chorus of support for India's farmers on Tuesday. "Why aren't we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest," she had tweeted. Soon several international celebrities including teenage climate activist Greta Thunberg and US Vice President Kamala Harris' niece Meena Harris too came out in support of the farmers' protest. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi's borders for over two months demanding the repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee of minimum support price for their crops. Farmer unions have announced a countrywide blockade of national and state highways for three hours on Saturday when they would protest against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites. Sites of the farmer protest at Delhi's borders have turned into fortresses with police beefing up security and putting up multi-layer barricades to stop the movement of vehicles. Concertina wires have also been put up to keep off people on foot. The strengthened security measures come after the violence during the Republic Day tractor parade by the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nba-stars-extend-support-to-indian-farmers-nfls-juju-smith-schuster-donates-10000-947450.html
04-02-2021||National||Over 21% Indians aged above 10 had the coronavirus, says latest national sero-survey||Nearly 25 crore Indians have been exposed to the SARS-CoV-2 by now, according to the Indian Council of Medical Research’s third sero-survey that confirms India is nowhere close to achieving “herd immunity” when the Covid-19 infection ceases to be a pandemic. Carried out on more than 28,500 people from 70 districts, the survey shows the prevalence of Covid-19 is 21.4% among the adult population, but it goes up to 31.7% in urban slums and 26.2% in urban non-slum areas. Considering India’s population at 136 crore and excluding children below 10 years of age, the 21.6% prevalence translates into nearly 25 crore Indians. For comparison, the reported number of Covid-19 positive cases now stands at 1.08 crore. The prevalence among the rural population is 19.1%, which highlights the vulnerability of a large section of the population living in villages and small town India. “More than 75% people are still vulnerable,” said V K Paul, NITI Ayog member and a former professor at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. This is the third sero-survey that the ICMR carried out to check the extent of the spread of Covid-19. Two previous rounds of surveys found that the Covid-19 infection prevalence had increased from 0.7% in May to 7% in August last year. It is based on a blood test that looks for the antibodies against the novel coronavirus spike protein. The prevalence among the children rose by nearly five times – it was 5.4% in the second survey conducted in August-September but now shot up to 25.3% in the latest survey carried out in December-January. “The third national survey is done in 70 districts and therefore represents the burden only in these districts specifically. We need comprehensive surveys with greater frequency to understand the changing trajectory of the pandemic in India covering both rural and urban areas,” Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India told DH. “From what we know so far, it appears that dense pockets in urban areas are already nearer to the threshold of population immunity more so in denser slums than non-slums followed by rural areas. We need to continue with all the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour till we have substantial vaccination coverage.” For the first time ICMR also checked the sero-prevalence among 7,171 healthcare workers and found nearly 25.7% of them were infected. But there was not much difference among doctors and nurses with paramedical staff or administrative workers. The ICMR survey comes a day after the Delhi government released the results of its fifth such survey claiming more than 56% of Delhi’s population was exposed to the virus. In ten out of 11 districts of the national capital, the prevalence was 50% and above whereas in one district (South East) it was more than 62%. Delhi, however, was excluded in the ICMR survey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-21-indians-aged-above-10-had-the-coronavirus-says-latest-national-sero-survey-947452.html
04-02-2021||National||Farm laws: Vir Das, Tapsee Pannu among those sailing against the current||As India's famous personalities pile on to support the government after international backlash against the Centre's handling of the farmers' protests, a few on Twitter sailed against the current by questioning the 'logic' behind the agitation being an "internal issue." After pop star Rihanna's Wednesday tweet on farmers' protests snowballed into an internet storm, the nation's celebrities, from cricket legend Sachin tendulkar to Bollywood actors, tweeted backing the government stand that foreign intervention into "internal issues" was unnecessary, with a hashtag first used in a Ministry of External Affairs statement.  However, a few personalities dismissed the trend. Bollywood actor Tapsee Pannu tweeted, "If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief then it’s you who has to work on strengthening your value system not become ‘propaganda teacher’ for others." If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief then it’s you who has to work on strengthening your value system not become ‘propaganda teacher’ for others. Bollywood choreographer Farah Khan also voiced dissent against the government saying people from other countries are speaking up because the Centre has failed to address the issues at hand.  If ppl from other countries are commenting on issues in our country it’s because the issue has reached this position due to the Govt not addressing the problem. We do not hesitate to comment on other Govts &countries but are offended when an international celebrity makes a point While several cricketers including skipper Virat Kohli and legendary bowler Anil Kumble backed the government, former Indian team pacer Irfan Pathan said when Geroge Floyd was killed by the police in the US, an incident that sparked mass protests, India had expressed grief, suggesting that the nation had reacted to an incident that happened in the US. Another cricketer, Sandeep Sharma, had also tweeted saying there was no logic in dismissing the farm agitation as an internal issue while listing atrocities against minorities across the world, such as the persecution of Jews in Nazi Germany. However, Sharma deleted the tweet later. Actor Sonakshi Sinha, Akshay Kumar's co-star of many films, was among the celebrities to support of Rihanna's tweet. The actor, in her Instagram stories, shared quotes from storysellers comics, which said the voices raised by the international celebrities are "about the violation of human rights, suppression of free internet and expression, state propaganda, hate speech, and abuse of power." One of the stories on Sinha's Instagram also dismissed the argument that it was India's internal matter, saying, "these are not alien species but fellow humans who are speaking up for the rights of other humans." Comedian-actor Vir Das said he was amazed to see how Indians got ‘mobilized’ over a tweet by Rihanna and Thunberg. “Honestly, I don't think Rihanna or Greta have anything more than superficial wisdom about Indian farmers. But gotta say it's hilarious to see literally thousands of shaky Indian men get mobilized over a tweet, all the while proclaiming how secure they are in their policymakers,” he said. Honestly, I don't think Rihanna or Greta have anything more than superficial wisdom about Indian farmers. But gotta say it's hilarious to see literally thousands of shaky Indian men get mobilized over a tweet, all the while proclaiming how secure they are in their policymakers 🤦 Filmmaker Onir too took a dig at the tweets in support of the government by noted personalities and termed the so-called support from Bollywood as a ‘puppet show’. “It is so embarrassingly obvious that a whole bunch or celebs who do not value their voice have been sent a set message, which they are modifying a bit and postings. They Do what they have been told to. Tragic #puppetShow #worldWithFarmers #IStandWithFarmers,” he tweeted. Actor Sayani Gupta tweeted, “Aiyooo! The cute Bhakts have awakened! (You know that moment in a zombie film climax, when the zombie was looking elsewhere, and a human was cautiously stepping away, and bam! It suddenly turns to him.) Just got that feeling!.” Aiyooo! The cute Bhakts have awakened!(You know that moment in a zombie film climax, when the zombie was looking elsewhere, and a human was cautiously stepping away, and bam! It suddenly turns to him.)Just got that feeling! Bollywood celebrities have often been called out in the media for not speaking up on politically sensitive topics unlike their counterparts in the US. Pointing out to this fact, actor Swara Bhasker wrote on Wednesday, "Aur Bolo 'Speak Up Bollywood, 'Speak Up celebrities'." और बोलो ‘Speak Up Bollywood.. Speak up Celebrities’🤪🤪🤪🤪🤪🤪 "Made in Heaven" star Arjun Mathur used the hashtags to mock celebrities for displaying an "utter lack of spine", a thought echoed on social media with 'Spineless Celebs' trending on Twitter. "Let us stand together in displaying our utter and complete lack of spine, in safeguarding our hundreds of crore rupees of income and in supporting this military-style mobilisation against the very masses who have practically treated us as gods and to whom we owe everything we enjoy. Let no sane or humane voice interfere, nor influence you. "They can spectate, not participate. Please do support us, as we intend to come for you next," Mathur wrote on Instagram. Actor-TV host Sushant Singh said he was heartbroken with the support pouring in from the film industry for the government. “Why do you make those who are heroes or heroines in films your idols? Heartbroken now...” Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and UP, have been protesting for over two months at Delhi's borders demanding rollback of the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-vir-das-tapsee-pannu-among-those-sailing-against-the-current-947453.html
04-02-2021||National||Derek O'Brien pauses for a minute during RS speech to pay respect to farmers dead during protest||Trinamool Congress floor leader Derek O'Brien on Thursday was joined by Opposition MPs to observe a minute silence in Rajya Sabha when he stopped his speech mid-way to pay respect to farmers who died during their protest in the past two months against contentious farm laws. Some comments like 'this is done without the permission from the Chair' came from the Treasury benches. BJP MPs did not join O'Brien or other Opposition MPs. O'Brien was speaking during the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address when he told the House that the Trinamool Congress MPs in the House have decided to pay respects to the dead farmers in the House. He said the protests at the Delhi borders are not by the Opposition but by the farmers. "Look at what the farmers have done," he said. The Trinamool Congress leader then said that his party MPs felt that they should participate in the debate and the question was how. He said they would do it in a small way by bowing their heads in respect of around 200 farmers who passed away during the protest. "Sometimes words are not enough. I can only tell what we are going to do. I can only tell what (Trinamool MPs) Sukhendu Shekhar Roy, Dinesh Trivedi and Nadimul Haque will do. I will cut short my speech for one minute and four of us will stand for one minute in tribute to those farmers who lost their lives," he said. As soon as O'Brien said, Opposition MPs from Congress, including Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, and members of Shiv Sena, Samajwadi Party, BSP and DMK among others stood up to express solidarity. A minute later, O'Brien resumed his speech during which he targeted the Narendra Modi government saying it has failed in several counts, including in handling the Covid-19 pandemic and preserving the sanctity of Parliament. He urged the government to repeal the three controversial farm laws and offered a ''Repealing Bill 2021' drafted by him for the purpose. "I will share it with them (government). You repeal these bills. There is a way to do it. Eighteen months' pause you will put on these (laws), but how?" he said O'Brien also referred to the controversial death of a young farmer during the tractor rally by farmers on Republic even as he condemned the violence at Red Fort. He said there should be a "proper inquiry" so the truth could come out. "Just imagine that unfortunate tractor incident where a farmer died under mysterious circumstances, just imagine if that happened in Bengal or Maharashtra. All I am saying is that the truth be told. I am not coming to any conclusions. Let the truth come out. The Home Minister is in charge. Do a proper inquiry and let the truth come out," he said. With BJP stepping up campaign ahead of West Bengal Assembly elections, he said, "first take care of Delhi then think about Bengal. Don't make the pandemic excuse." "The home minister was to come to Bengal for a political rally. He needed to stay back in Delhi. So what was done. Two and a half or one and a half MLAs who were switching sides, were sent the chartered planes and brought there in four hours," he said while adding that he wished "so much love, care and affection was shown" towards migrant workers during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/derek-obrien-pauses-for-a-minute-during-rs-speech-to-pay-respect-to-farmers-dead-during-protest-947458.html
04-02-2021||National||Branding farmers as 'terrorists' worse than farm laws, says Priyanka Gandhi Vadra to Centre||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday met family members of a man who died during the January 26 protests in Delhi and said the government should repeal the new agriculture laws, instead of branding farmers "terrorists" and their agitation a "political conspiracy". She met Navreet Singh's family and also attended a prayer ceremony for him at Dibdiba village in Uttar Pradesh's Rampur district. "If there is any bigger wrong other than the three farm laws, which the government should take back but is not doing so, it is that martyrs are branded as terrorists and the farmers' agitation is seen as a political conspiracy," the Congress general secretary said. Leaders who cannot hear the pain of the poor, farmers and countrymen are of no use, Priyanka Gandhi said after the prayer meeting for 27-year-old Singh who died after his tractor overturned during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital on Republic Day. "Names are given to those who raise their voice. But it is never said come and tell us about the pain in your heart as you are our countrymen," she said. Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting against the laws for over two months at Delhi's border points that have been fortified with barricades, cement blocks, concertina wires, spikes and deployment of heavy police and paramilitary personnel. "This is not the moment for political talk but we cannot tolerate such 'julm'. The fact is that this is not a political agitation but an actual agitation of farmers and every countryman," Priyanka Gandhi said. "I have come here to tell this family that you are not alone. Every single countryman is with you, be it of any religion, and farmers of every corner of the country are with you and we are with you," she said. The Congress leader said that her party will fight for the repeal of the "black" laws. "I want to tell the grandfather of the deceased farmer (Navreet Singh) that we will not allow his grandson's martyrdom go in vain. I have come here to tell you this. I hope you have the same thought in your hearts," she said He (Navreet Singh) might have reached Delhi thinking that tolerating wrong is wrong and hoping that may be the government will hear farmers' voice, but nothing of this sort happened, Priyanka Gandhi said. During her visit, Priyanka Gandhi was accompanied by senior Congress leaders, including Uttar Pradesh party unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu. Earlier in the morning, three to four vehicles in Congress leader's cavalcade hit each other on a highway in Hapur district. No one was hurt in the incident that took place near Gajraula area. The vehicles at the end of the convoy hit each other, media in-charge of the Congress Lalan Kumar said in Lucknow. Lallu had retweeted a post which had a video of him along with Priyanka Gandhi seated in a car en-route to Rampur. A video of Priyanka Gandhi wiping the windscreen of her car went viral on social media. Congress, among other opposition parties including BJP's former allies Shiromani Akali Dal and Shiv Sena, has lent its support to the farmers' agitation. Farmers are protesting against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 The Centre has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/branding-farmers-as-terrorists-worse-than-farm-laws-says-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-to-centre-947459.html
04-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Delhi Police file case against Greta Thunberg||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Delhi Police file case against Greta Thunberg; Opposition MPs stopped from meeting farmers and UK begins alternate jabs for Covid-19.  Delhi Police have filed a case against Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg over her tweets supporting the farmers' protest. Greta tweeted saying that no amount of hate, threats or violations of human rights will ever change her stand on supporting the peaceful farmers. Microblogging site Twitter on Thursday took down some tweets put out by Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on farmers' protest. The move comes a day after the actor went on a Twitter rampage over pop singer Rihanna's recent post on farmers' protest at the Singhu border in Delhi. A group of Opposition Members of Parliament on Thursday drove to the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh Ghazipur border to meet the farmers who have been protesting against the farm laws enacted by the Centre. Fifteen MPs including DMK’s Kanimozhi and Tiruchi Siva, NCP’s Supriya Sule, Akali Dal leader and former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Trinamool’s Saugata Ray, RSP’s N K Premachandran, travelled in a bus to the Ghazipur border. The MPs were stopped by the police at the barricades erected at the border to prevent a repeat of the January 26 violence during a tractor rally carried out by the farmers’ organisations. Health chiefs in the UK on Thursday began what they have described as a world-first clinical trial of patients who will receive different COVID-19 vaccines for their first or second dose, to detect its impact on immunity against coronavirus. The study, backed by 7 million pound of government funding, will determine the effects of using different vaccines for the first and second dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-delhi-police-file-case-against-greta-thunberg-947460.html
04-02-2021||National||Toyota gets over 5,000 bookings for new Fortuner range||Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM) on Thursday said it has received over 5,000 bookings for the new version of Fortuner, including the Legender trim. The company said it has started deliveries of the premium SUV to dealer partners across the country. The Indian arm of the Japanese car maker on January 6 launched the new version of its premium SUV Fortuner, besides introducing a high-end trim of the model, christened as Legender. "The sheer number of enquiries and bookings for both the Fortuner and Legender reiterate our belief in the customer-first approach. "Both the SUVs were created purely based on customer feedback, thus helping us garner a good response," TKM Senior Vice-President Naveen Soni said in a statement. The company is working hard to ensure the quickest possible delivery time so that the customers can experience the SUV at the earliest, he added. TKM noted that the Fortuner range continues to dominate the SUV segment with over 53 per cent segment share that is likely to increase further with the launch of the Legender variant, which has been drawing immense customer response with its bold styling and advanced features. "The overwhelming customer response is also a testament to the rapidly growing preference for SUVs in India, enabling the Fortuner to strengthen its leadership position in the highly competitive segment," the automaker said. TKM has so far sold 1.7 lakh units of the SUV after launching it in 2009.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toyota-gets-over-5000-bookings-for-new-fortuner-range-947461.html
04-02-2021||National||16 out of 25 high courts resume physical hearing||A total of 16 out of 25 high courts in the country have resumed physical hearings which had stopped following the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Rajya Sabha was informed on Thursday. Nine high courts have not yet resumed physical hearings and are hearing matters virtually, the House was informed. The government was asked whether many of the high courts are still functioning only through virtual hearing. In his written reply, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said, "Nine high courts are still functioning through virtual hearing only." These high courts are Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Manipur, Orissa, Punjab and Haryana and Sikkim. In almost all the high courts, which have resumed physical hearing, online or video conference (VC) courts are still functioning. The country has 25 high courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-out-of-25-high-courts-resume-physical-hearing-947463.html
04-02-2021||National||Government banned 296 mobile apps since 2014, says Union Minister Sanjay Dhotre||As many as 296 mobile apps have been blocked by the government since 2014 in the interest of the country's sovereignty, security, and public order, Union minister Sanjay Dhotre told Rajya Sabha on Thursday. "A total of 296 mobile applications have been blocked by government since 2014, under the provisions of section 69A of IT Act 2000 and its rules... in the interest of sovereignty & integrity of India, security of the State and public order," Dhotre, Minister of State for Electronics and IT, said in a written reply. The minister also said the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) -- the requesting agency for blocking of these apps under section 69A of the IT Act -- had received "several reports about misuse of some Chinese mobile apps available on Android and iOS platforms". He said several reports had been received about some of these apps being misused for "... for stealing and transmitting user data such as financial data, permission for accessing of all possible data available in device, etc and real-time activity surreptitiously to servers located outside India". "This has serious repercussions in light of national security and current tense border situation," he noted. Usage of these apps by a large number of people in India enables compilation of huge data that can be collated, analysed, profiled and mined by "elements who are hostile to the sovereignty and integrity of India and for activities detrimental to national security, security of India, defence of India as well as public order, apart from being detrimental to the interest of the general public, Dhotre said. In response to a separate query, the minister said that with increasing number of internet users, mobile apps and new evolving technology, the practice of collection of personal data by such apps and websites is also increasing. He also said the government has already moved the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019 in Parliament and it is presently under the consideration of the Joint Parliamentary Committee formed by Lok Sabha. The Bill provides for safeguards of privacy and interests of the Indian citizens, Dhotre said. Social media platforms, including WhatsApp and Facebook, are intermediaries as defined in the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000. Dhotre noted that the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) is finalising draft Intermediaries Guidelines Rules. "The draft Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines) Rules, 2018 were put up for public consultation. All the suggestions and comments received on the proposed draft rules were also published on Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology website in February, 2019," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-banned-296-mobile-apps-since-2014-says-union-minister-sanjay-dhotre-947469.html
04-02-2021||National||India's Covid-19 positivity rate dips to 5.42%: Health ministry||India's cumulative Covid-19 positivity rate has declined to 5.42 per cent while the weekly positivity rate (last week) was recorded at 1.82 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.  Eight states and union territories, which have a weekly positivity rate more than the national average of 1.82 per cent are Kerala ( 11.20 per cent), Chhattisgarh (6.20 per cent), Maharashtra (4. 70 per cent), Goa (4.40 per cent), Nagaland (3.60 per cent), Ladakh (2.90 per cent), Puducherry (2.60 per cent) and Chandigarh (2.10 per cent), Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said at a press briefing. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 19,92,16,019 samples have been tested for detection of Covid-19 up to February 3 with 7,42,841 samples being tested on Wednesday. The test per million stands at 1,44,359. "If we see the trend of cumulative Covid-19 positivity rate on the basis of tests conducted, it has declined from 8.89 per cent on August 4 to 5.42 per cent on February 4," Bhushan said.  He further said that two states -- Kerala (69,365) and Maharashtra (38,762) -- account for 70 per cent of the total active cases in the country.  Bhushan said that 47 districts have not reported any new case of Covid-19 in the last three weeks, while 251 districts have not reported any new death during the same period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-positivity-rate-dips-to-542-health-ministry-947471.html
04-02-2021||National||BJP MP Tejasvi Surya takes sortie in indegenous LCA Tejas||BJP MP Tejasvi Surya on Thursday took a sortie in Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas, on the second day of the ongoing Aero India-2021 here. Surya flew onboard the LCA Tejas for 30 minutes and later expressed his gratitude to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi government for promoting indigenous manufacturing in defence, his office said in a release. The sortie congratulated the Union Government for its recent procurement order worth Rs 48,000 crore from Bengaluru-based Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), it said. "We celebrate the LCA Tejas as the pride of Bengaluru. Only a few cities globally have the distinction of producing a world-class fighter aircraft and our city is one of them," Surya, representing Bengaluru South, was quoted as saying. The induction of LCA Tejas will not only boost Atmanirbharta, but also help India become a larger global exporter in defence, he said. The order will see more than 600 firms or MSMEs come together for the making of an aircraft. With Tier 2 and 3 supplier base predominantly happening from Bengaluru, the Tejas order will improve the industrial base in our city to greater heights and create employment, he added. Surya even tweeted pictures onboard and as he prepared for the sortie the Tejas aircraft. The Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on January 13 approved the Rs 48,000- crore deal to procure 73 Tejas Mk-1A variants and 10 LCA Tejas Mk-1 trainer aircraft from the HAL to boost the Indian Air Force's combat prowess.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mp-tejasvi-surya-takes-sortie-in-indegenous-lca-tejas-947477.html
04-02-2021||National||MEA draws parallels between vandalism at Red Fort and US Capitol Hill violence||A day after slamming foreign celebrities for their tweets backing farmer protests, India on Thursday drew a parallel between reactions within the country over the Republic Day vandalism at Red Fort by a group of protesting farmers and the violence at Capitol Hill, the seat of the US government on January 6. “India and the United States are both vibrant democracies with shared values. The incidents of violence and vandalism at the historic Red Fort on 26 January have evoked similar sentiments and reactions in India as did the incidents on the Capitol Hill on 6 January and are being addressed as per our respective local laws,” the External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a media briefing. While on January 26, a group of farm protesters had entered Red Fort violating the agreed protest route and hoisted a religious flag at the iconic structure, an armed and angry mob of supporters of outgoing US President Donald Trump had stormed Capitol Hill on January 6 and clashed with the police soon after the US Congress convened to validate Joe Biden’s Presidential win. The MEA statement came hours after the new US administration in its first reaction to the on-going farmers’ agitation in India in which it said it encouraged that any differences between the parties be resolved through dialogue. On Wednesday, India had issued a terse statement asking foreign celebrities to ascertain facts before commenting after the tweets by celebrities like American pop singer Rihanna and Swedish environmental activist Greta Thunberg on the on-going farmer protest on the outskirts of Delhi. Accusing "vested interest groups" of trying to mobilise international support on the protest against farm laws, the government has since then launched a massive pushback. On Thursday, welcoming the US State Department’s statement that said peaceful protests are a hallmark of any thriving democracy, India said “We have taken note of comments of the US State Department. It is important to see such comments in the context in which they were made and in their entirety.” Latching on to remarks by the US State Department spokesperson that “in general, the US welcomes steps that would improve the efficiency of India's markets and attract greater private sector investment," the MEA flagged  “as you can see, the US state department has acknowledged steps being taken by India towards agricultural reforms.” Asserting that any protest must be seen in the context of India's polity and ongoing efforts of government and concerned farmers' groups to resolve impasse, India countered the criticism building on the issue of internet ban near the farmer protest sites and said it was to prevent further violence. “The temporary measures with regard to internet access in certain parts of the NCR region were therefore understandably undertaken to prevent further violence,” the MEA statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mea-draws-parallels-between-vandalism-at-red-fort-and-us-capitol-hill-violence-947479.html
04-02-2021||National||Taj Mahal and popular temples to join NCPCR's anti-child labour push||Dozens of top Indian attractions including the Taj Mahal and the Meenakshi Temple have promised to help tackle begging and hawking by children as part of an anti-child labour initiative launched this week. Thousands of children shine shoes, serve tea or sell snacks and trinkets around popular pilgrimage and tourist sites, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) said as it unveiled the "zero tolerance" campaign. NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo said the organisation had recently conducted a survey involving 200,000 street children, adding that the coronavirus pandemic had put more of them at risk of exploitation by organised gangs. "The survey found among other things, children being forced to work to eat each day, working with street vendors, rag-picking and begging," Kanoongo told the Thomson Reuters Foundation on Thursday. Action plans being drawn up by 50 destinations would be vital in tackling child begging and labour rackets, he added. About 175,000 children in India have been removed or rescued from work and given support since 2016 as a result of a series of campaigns to tackle child labour in recent years, government data shows. The International Labour Organization estimates there are about 10 million workers aged between five and 14 in India, and child rights campaigners welcomed the new initiative. "Begging networks are very active in these spots, taking advantage of the Indian sentiment of doing charity once they come out after prayers," said Andrew Sesuraj, convenor of the charity Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch. "Trafficking of young girls is also common in these places so any intervention that will protect children is welcome. This initiative has the potential to create great models that can be replicated in other parts," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taj-mahal-and-popular-temples-to-join-ncpcrs-anti-child-labour-push-947480.html
04-02-2021||National||India is more than capable of taking her internal issues to amicable solutions: Kumble backs govt on farm stir||India hit out at global celebrities such as singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg for their support of the farmers’ protests, the focus of a sharply polarised international debate that saw several Bollywood and cricket stars and top ministers rally around the government in its pushback. As Twitter was flooded with tweets on the nation's farmers' protest and the cutting of internet at Delhi's borders, top cricketers like Sachin Tendulkar, Virat Kohli, Ravi Shastri, Gautam Gambhir came in support of the government on the ongoing protests. Among them was the former Indian player and coach Anil Kumble who tweeted in support if the government with the hashtags #Indiatogether and #IndiaAgainstPropoganda, making a point that India can handle its internal affairs. He tweeted, "As the world's largest democracy, India is more than capable of taking her internal issues to amicable solutions. Onwards and upwards." However, voices from within the entertainment industry backed the farmers at Singhu. Actor-singer Diljit Dosanjh shared a song tribute to Rihanna for her tweet and actor Ali Fazal said the issue was not "an internal matter". Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November last year, demanding the government to repeal the three farm laws and legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The protest sites have been turned into fortresses with police putting up multi-layer barricades and concertina wires to stop the movement of vehicles. The strengthened security measures at the agitation sites across the Delhi borders come after the violence during the Republic Day tractor parade. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-is-more-than-capable-of-taking-her-internal-issues-to-amicable-solutions-kumble-backs-govt-on-farm-stir-947484.html
04-02-2021||National||AAP will continue to support protesting farmers: Sanjay Singh||Aam Aadmi Party Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh on Thursday said the party will continue to support protesting farmers and asked the government to take back the new farm laws. Participating in a discussion on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Parliament at the start of the Budget Session, he said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has been helping farmers who are protesting against the laws and would continue to do so in the future. "This government works just for the benefit of their four corporate friends. This is a government of these four corporates from whom they take offerings to fight elections," Singh said in Rajya Sabha. Cases are being filed against anyone who is trying to help the farmers and "it was the BJP's people who attacked the Red Fort on January 26", he alleged. Singh said the farmers know that the three farm laws are not in their favour. "So, we request the government to kindly take back these three black farm laws," he said. On February 3, three AAP MPs, including Singh, were marshalled out of Rajya Sabha after they disrupted proceedings over the three contentious farm reform laws and refused to heed to Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu's plea for order. The slogan-shouting AAP members had stormed into the Well of the House just as the Rajya Sabha took up a discussion on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Parliament. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi's borders for over two months demanding rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-will-continue-to-support-protesting-farmers-sanjay-singh-947486.html
04-02-2021||National||Intrigued by foreign celebrities making statements about India's internal happenings: Hema Malini||Veteran actor and BJP MP Hema Malini on Thursday said she was intrigued by foreign celebrities support to ongoing farmers' protests when India was just a name "they have heard". "I'm intrigued by foreign celebrities to whom our glorious country, India, is just a name they have heard, boldly making statements about our internal happenings and policies!" Malini tweeted. "Wonder what they are trying to achieve, and more imptly (importantly), who are they trying to please?" she added in reference to American pop star Rihanna's tweet on Tuesday. Rihanna had called attention to the plight of the agitating farmers on social media by sharing a CNN report over the Internet shutdown at the protest sites at Delhi border. It led to a wave of support for the farmers from several global celebrities, activists and politicians, including climate activist Greta Thunberg, American lawyer and US Vice President Kamala Harris’ niece Meena Harris, actor Amanda Cerni, singers Jay Sean and Hollywood tar John Cusack. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the Ministry of External Affairs had slammed the remarks made by Rihanna and other celebrities and activists on farmer protests, saying the facts on the issue must be ascertained before people rushing to comment on it. The MEA had asserted that the farm laws were passed by Parliament after a full debate and discussion. Personalities including Sachin Tendulkar, Virat Kohli, Lata Mangeshkar, Akshay Kumar, Ajay Devgn, Karan Johar and others rallied around the government on social media using hashtags - #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda as they reacted to a statement by the Ministry of External Affairs on the issue. These tweets advised people to not fall for "false propaganda" and support "an amicable resolution", rather than paying attention to anyone creating differences. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at Delhi's borders for over two months demanding repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee of minimum support price for their crops. Farmer unions have announced a countrywide blockade of national and state highways for three hours on Saturday when they would protest against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites. Sites of the farmer protest at Delhi's borders have turned into fortresses with police beefing up security and putting up multi-layer barricades to stop the movement of vehicles. Concertina wires have also been put up to keep off people on foot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/intrigued-by-foreign-celebrities-making-statements-about-indias-internal-happenings-hema-malini-947488.html
04-02-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices at fresh high; oil retailers say only tax cut by govt can help||Petrol and diesel prices on Thursday climbed to fresh highs in the country as rates were hiked by the most in recent times, even as fuel retailers said the government can cut taxes to ease consumer burden. Petrol and diesel price was hiked by 35 paise per litre each after a gap of a week, according to price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The increase took petrol prices to a fresh high of Rs 86.65 a litre in Delhi and to Rs 93.20 in Mumbai. Diesel rates touched Rs 76.83 in Mumbai and an all-time high of Rs 83.67. Mukesh Kumar Surana, head of India's third-largest fuel retailer Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL), said there has been a sudden spike in international oil prices to USD 59 per barrel in the last 2-3 days because of a perception of mismatch in demand and supply as well as cut in production by Saudi. Retail prices are arrived at by adding central and state taxes and dealer commission to the benchmark cost of production. He said only 25-30 per cent of the retail pump rates are dependent on international benchmark cost and the rest are central and state taxes. "We probably have no choice but to pass on the variation (in benchmark cost) to the consumer," he said. "The government has taxation handle." The cracks or margins are low and "the government alone can answer how prices should be" paused, he said. On Wednesday, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan had told the Rajya Sabha in a written reply to a question that excise duty levied by the Central government makes up for Rs 32.98 per litre of the price of petrol in Delhi and sales tax or VAT of the state government constitutes Rs 19.55. For diesel, the central excise adds up to Rs 31.83 and VAT to Rs 10.99. Besides, the price also includes a dealer commission of a minimum Rs 2.6 per litre on petrol and Rs 2 on diesel. Surana said the perception of mismatch between fuel demand pick up and the supplies is leading to increase in international prices. "On a medium-term basis, we do not see oil prices rising substantially. They are likely to however in the range of USD 50-60 per barrel," he said adding that oil suppliers cartel OPEC has said it is rebalancing supply-demand. Once supplies are back, the prices are expected to cool, he said. Retail petrol rates have risen by Rs 17.11 per litre since mid-March 2020 after the government raised taxes to mop up gains arising from fall in international oil prices. Diesel rates have gone up by Rs 14.54. Pradhan, speaking at the South Asia Commodities Forum of S&P Global Platts on Thursday, warned that rising oil prices could hurt the global economic recovery. "Efforts at artificially distorting prices will have a dampening effect on the fragile global economic recovery that is underway," he said. "While we do not favour too low prices, we also do not support high prices, which deny energy access to millions in India". India imports 83 per cent of its oil needs and half of the gas demand. "If the world has to grow as a whole, there has to be a mutually supportive relationship between producers and consumers. It is in the interests of producers that oil-dependent economies keep growing steadily," Pradhan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-at-fresh-high-oil-retailers-say-only-tax-cut-by-govt-can-help-947491.html
04-02-2021||National||Fare band for airlines will be done away as soon as normal operations resume: Civil Aviation Secy||Fare bands for airlines are not going to be permanent and will be done away with as soon as the normal operations resume, Civil Aviation Secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola said on Thursday. In response to a question on fare bands, Kharola said the Civil Aviation Ministry is closely monitoring the ridership. "Fare bands are not going to be permanent," he told reporters. He said flight operations are operating at 80 per cent capacity of the pre-Covid-19 period. Of the 80 per cent, the utilisation has only been 60-65 per cent. "As soon as the normal operation starts, the fare bands will go away," Kharola added. Air operations resumed in May as part of the 'Unlock' mission, the Ministry of Civil Aviation capped the airfare. In November, the capping of the fare was extended to February 24.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fare-band-for-airlines-will-be-done-away-as-soon-as-normal-operations-resume-civil-aviation-secy-947494.html
04-02-2021||National||PK Kunhalikutty resigns from Lok Sabha||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader P K Kunhalikutty has resigned from Lok Sabha, ahead of assembly elections in Kerala. He represented Malappuram constituency in Kerala in the House. "Speaker Om Birla has accepted the resignation of Kunhalikutty, an MP from Kerala, with effect from February 3," said Meenakshi Lekhi, who was presiding the House, on Thursday. Though Lekhi did not give any reason for his resignation, there is speculation Kunhalikutty might contest the upcoming elections in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pk-kunhalikutty-resigns-from-lok-sabha-947499.html
04-02-2021||National||Delhi riots: Court grants bail to man in murder case, cites humongous delay in eye witness statement||A Delhi court has granted bail to a man, accused of being part of an unlawful assembly that allegedly killed a local person during the north east Delhi riots, saying the statement of the person cited as the eye witness was recorded after a “humoungous” delay of 83 days. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav granted the relief to Kuldeep Singh in the case of alleged murder of Babbu during the communal violence in Khajuri Khas area last year. The court directed him to furnish a bail bond of Rs 20,000 with one surety of like amount. The court said it was the case of the prosecution that the eye witness had witnessed the incident on February 25, 2020, but he neither approached nor made any call to the local police and instead went on to name the accused for the first time when his statement was being recorded by the investigating officer on May 18 last year. “The statement under section 161 (examination by police) CrPC of eye witness PW (public witness) Munna was recorded by IO on May 18, 2020, ie after a humungous delay of about 83 days. The prosecution has not been able to accord any cogent explanation for such a huge delay in recording the statement of said witness. "Between February 25, 2020, to May 18, 2020, PW Munna never made any complaint whatsoever to the local police/investigating agency,” the court said in its order passed on February 3. It further said Singh was neither visible in any CCTV footage nor specifically named in the FIR. The court also said the accused was entitled for bail in the matter on the ground of parity with two co-accused persons who have been granted bail in December last year. It directed Singh not to tamper with evidence in the case. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-court-grants-bail-to-man-in-murder-case-cites-humongous-delay-in-eye-witness-statement-947502.html
04-02-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi to dedicate projects worth Rs 4,700 crore to West Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate projects worth Rs 4709 crore to West Bengal during his visit to the state on February 7, officials of PSUs said on Thursday. They also said that the projects related to oil, gas and infrastructure were those of the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), Gas Authority of India (GAIL), National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and the Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL). The development comes at a time when the Assembly elections in Bengal are round the corner. Speaking to reporters E S Ranganathan, Director (marketing) of GAIL said that the Prime Minister would dedicate the 347 km long Dobhi-Durgapur pipeline which was a part of the Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga Project which had been built at a cost of Rs. 2400 crore. “The objective of setting up the pipeline is to supply natural gas to the Sindri fertiliser plant and Matrix fertiliser plant at Durgapur. It will also be used for proving natural gas to the city gas distribution projects in key towns of the State,” he said. Gurmeet Singh, IOC director (marketing) said that the Prime Minister will lay the foundation stone of the second catalytic dewaxing unit at the IOC’s Haldia refinery during his visit. The project, worth around Rs. 1019 crore is scheduled for completion in April 2023. Director (marketing) of BPCL, Arun Singh that the Prime Minister will inaugurate an LPG terminal at Haldia. The project costing around Rs.1100 crore has a nameplate capacity of 1 million tonne per annum. The Chief General manager of the NHAI, R P Singh said that Modi will inaugurate a Rs 190 crore road over a bridge at Haldia’s Ranichak. The bridge will play a key role in seamless traffic movement at the port gate of Haldia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-dedicate-projects-worth-rs-4700-crore-to-west-bengal-947503.html
04-02-2021||National||Survey finds a quarter of children may have Covid antibodies, more than average||More than a quarter of Indian children aged between 10 and 17 may have already contracted Covid-19, according to a government serological survey released on Thursday, higher than the 21.5 per cent of the overall population found to have been infected. The survey of more than 35,700 people above 10, conducted in the last two months, gave a much lower estimate for the average number of people to have contracted Covid-19 than other research. Separate tests done on more than 700,000 people across India by diagnostics company Thyrocare Technologies showed 55 per cent of the country's 1.35 billion people may have already been infected, its chief told Reuters last week. India has officially reported 10.8 million infections, the world's highest after the United States, though its cases have come down sharply since a mid-September peak of nearly 100,000. The national survey, however, suggests that more than 290 million people may have already been infected in the country. "The overall picture still shows that more than 75 per cent of the population even now can get infected," said Vinod Kumar Paul, who heads a government group of experts on vaccine strategy, urging people to keep maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. Among 7,171 randomly-tested healthcare workers, 25.7 per cent were found to have developed antibodies. Capital New Delhi said this week it was approaching herd immunity through natural infection as 56 per cent of its residents had Covid-19 antibodies. The federal government also said nearly 46 per cent of the country's 9.6 million registered healthcare workers had been given the first vaccine dose since an inoculation campaign began on Jan. 16. India, which wants to vaccinate 300 million people by August in both government and private hospitals, recently started giving shots to other frontline workers such as police personnel, and would soon start covering the elderly, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told a news conference. The drive, touted by the government as the world's biggest, has been started with two vaccines: one licensed from Oxford University-AstraZeneca, and another developed at home by Bharat Biotech and the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research. The next in line for approval are Russia's Sputnik V and Cadila Healthcare's ZyCov-D. Pfizer Inc and partner BioNTech have also sought a similar approval. India on Thursday reported 12,899 new Covid-19 cases. Deaths rose by 107 to 154,703 - one of the lowest fatality rates anywhere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/survey-finds-a-quarter-of-children-may-have-covid-antibodies-more-than-average-947508.html
04-02-2021||National||ED attaches over Rs 14 crore of Mehul Choksi's assets, Gitanjali Gems in PNB fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth over Rs 14 crore belonging to the Gitanjali Group and its promoter and jeweller Mehul Choksi, one of the prime accused in the alleged over Rs 13,000 crore PNB loan fraud case. The properties attached, under the anti-money laundering law, include a flat measuring 1,460 sq feet located at O2 Tower in Goregaon area of Mumbai, gold and platinum jewellery, diamond stones, necklaces made of silver and pearls, watches and a Mercedes Benz car, the ED said in a statement. A provisional order for attachment has been issued under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) for the assets worth a total Rs 14.45 crore that are in the name of Gitanjali Group of companies and its director Mehul Choksi, it said. Choksi, 61, is the maternal uncle of Nirav Modi who is the other prime accused in the alleged over $2 billion (more than Rs 13,000 crore) Punjab National Bank (PNB) fraud case. Choksi has fled India and is stated by probe agencies to be based in Antigua and Barbuda. Modi, 49, is in a London jail after he was held by authorities there in 2019 on the basis of a legal request made by the ED and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in this case. He is contesting extradition to India. The two, their family members and employees, bank officials and others were booked by the ED and the CBI in 2018 for perpetrating the alleged fraud in the Brady House branch of the PNB in Mumbai.  It was alleged that Choksi, his firm Gitanjali Gems and others "committed the offence of cheating against the Punjab National Bank in connivance with certain bank officials by fraudulently getting the LOUs (letters of undertaking) issued and got the FLCs (foreign letter of credit) enhanced without following prescribed procedure and caused a wrongful loss to the bank". The ED said its probe found that "PNB bank officials in connivance with Choksi, Gitanjali Gems and others originally issued FLCs for smaller amount within the sanctioned limit and once FLC number was generated, the same number was used for amendment by way of enhancement of FLC and increase in the amount and such enhancement of amount was done at 4-5 times higher value of the original FLC amount". "Such amendments were done outside the CBS system and hence it was not captured in the books of bank," the ED alleged. It was found, the ED claimed, that the "branch (Brady House branch) was holding documents of original FLC amount and no import documents of such increased amount were found in the branch and much of fraudulent FLCs payments have gone to liquidate the overseas exporters' liability arising out of earlier FLCs/discounting of bills".  The agency has earlier attached a total of Rs 2,550 crore worth assets of Modi and Choksi in this case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-over-rs-14-crore-of-mehul-choksis-assets-gitanjali-gems-in-pnb-fraud-case-947531.html
04-02-2021||National||DGCA conducted more than 3,600 surprise checks in over three years||Aviation regulator DGCA has conducted more than 3,600 surprise checks in more than three years, Lok Sabha was informed on Thursday. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) issues an annual surveillance plan which contains a programme of surveillance and regulatory audits for scheduled and non-scheduled operators. "The DGCA conducted 3,615 surprise checks during the last 3 years (2018-2020) and 57 surprise checks have been reported during the current year till 29.01.2021. No aircraft has been grounded as a result of these surprise checks," Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri said in a written reply. In another written reply, the minister said there has been a severe adverse impact on revenue performance of Air India with a drop of 67 per cent in sales compared to last year as on January 23, 2021. "Air Transportation Bubbles have been formalised with 24 countries but travel demand is relatively poor as compared to pre-Covid-19 period because of quarantine and visa restrictions. Domestic operations are picking up with the permissible capacity deployment now raised to 80 per cent of the pre-Covid-19 level. "There were negligible flight operations in the months of April & May 2020 which have also severely impacted the financial performance of Air India," he said. According to the minister, resumption of regular scheduled international operation depends on many factors, including the normalisation of domestic air travel, behaviour of the coronavirus globally and entry restrictions imposed on Indian nationals by other countries. "While the domestic travel is coming close to its pre-Covid-19 level, the behaviour of the coronavirus and its new strains require close monitoring so that the gains achieved in containing the COVID-19 pandemic in India are not lost," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-conducted-more-than-3600-surprise-checks-in-over-three-years-947535.html
04-02-2021||National||Supreme Court to hear comedian Munawar Faruqui plea for bail on February 5||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Friday a plea by comedian Munawar Faruqui against the Madhya Pradesh High Court order, which refused to grant him bail in a case of hurting religious sentiments.  A bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai will consider the appeal filed by Munawar challenging the January 28 order of the High Court.   The High Court had said no case for bail was made out in view of the material seized and the statements of the witnesses.  “It is the constitutional duty of every citizen of the country and also of the States to promote harmony and the spirit of common brotherhood amongst all the people of India irrespective of religious, linguistic, regional or sectional diversities and to value and preserve the rich heritage of our composite culture," the High Court had said.   Munawar, a resident of Gujarat, was arrested on January 2 along with four others on the allegations that he made derogatory remarks against Hindu gods during a recent stand-up comedy show.  The other arrested persons were identified as Edwin Anthony, Nalin Yadav, Prakhar Vyas, and Priyam Vyas.  The High Court had noted that there is the possibility of collecting more incriminating material, and complacency of other persons cannot be ruled out.  Munawar claimed that he came on an invitation from the organisers of the comedy show and was present on the spot, but did not utter anything as alleged.  The case was registered following a complaint from Eklavya Singh Gaud against the accused.  Gaud said the comedians were cutting filthy and indecent jokes deliberately on Hindu religion, gods and goddesses, and BJP National President, Amit Shah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-hear-comedian-munawar-faruqui-plea-for-bail-on-february-5-947537.html
04-02-2021||National||SC to hear Sonu Sood's plea against HC order on illegal construction notice on Feb 5||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Friday the petition filed by actor Sonu Sood challenging the Bombay HC order which dismissed his appeal against a civic body notice over alleged illegal construction at his residential building in Mumbai's Juhu area. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian is likely to take up the appeal filed by Sood, who was in the spotlight for helping migrants reach their homes during the lockdown last year. The actor has stated in his plea that his application for conversion has been approved by the Municipal Commissioner subject to Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) permission. It said the high court order of January 13, 2021 has been passed without considering the provisions of Section 43 (1) of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966 and his application for conversion of residential premises into a residential hotel was submitted in 2018 before the department concerned. The plea contended that their application for conversion, which has been approved by the Municipal Commissioner subject to MCZMA, be directed to be decided by authorities concerned.  “The petitioners have already stopped the work of internal renovation which require no permission as per the provisions of Section 43 of Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966, therefore, the respondents may kindly be restrained from demolition of the renovation work already done in the building,” the plea filed by Sood and his wife said. He further stated that if the application of the petitioners for conversion is approved, the financial loss due to demolition will not be recovered in any manner and would cause miscarriage of justice to the petitioners. The High Court, while dismissing the actor''s appeal and application, said, "Law helps only those who are diligent."  Sood's lawyer had sought a time of 10 weeks to comply with the notice issued by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in October last year, and requested the high court to direct the civic body to not initiate demolition action.  The high court, however, refused and said the actor had ample opportunity in the past and if required, he could approach the civic body. Sood had approached the high court earlier this month challenging an order of a city civil court at Dindoshi that had dismissed his suit against the BMC's notice issued over the alleged illegal construction carried out by him. The actor, in the interim application in the high court, had sought an order from the high court restraining the BMC from taking any coercive action against his residential property in Juhu area. “The petitioner (Sood) has not made any changes in the building that warrants permission from the BMC. Only those changes that are allowed under the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act have been done," Sood's advocate had argued in HC. As per the BMC, the Bollywood actor had carried out structural changes in the six-storey residential building ''Shakti Sagar'', and allegedly converted it into a hotel without taking requisite permissions. The BMC earlier this month also filed a complaint at the Juhu police station, seeking an FIR to be lodged against Sood for allegedly converting the residential building into a hotel without permission. The complaint letter was sent to the police after the BMC inspected the building and found that Sood had allegedly not complied with the requisitions and was continuing unauthorised construction even after the notice was served to him in October last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-sonu-soods-plea-against-hc-order-on-illegal-construction-notice-on-feb-5-947545.html
04-02-2021||National||DGCA to do 'all sorts of scrutiny' before clearing Boeing 737 MAX planes: Kharola||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) is examining the issue of giving approval for Boeing Max 737 planes to fly in India and a decision will be taken after running all sorts of scrutiny, a senior official said on Thursday. Aviation regulators of the United States and Europe have already approved the aircraft for flying. To a query about approving MAX planes for flying again, Civil Aviation Secretary Pradeep Singh Kharola said the DGCA is examining the matter. "They will be running all sorts of scrutiny that is possible. It is a very major decision DGCA wants to be sure that," he told reporters here. "The FAA (Federal Aviation Administration) has approved, the EASA (European Union Aviation Safety Agency) has approved... our regulator wants to be more than convinced that the aircraft is safe," he said. Further, Kharola said the DGCA will be doing their tests, examination, scrutiny and "whatever they want to do". Pointing out that the DGCA is an independent statutory authority, he said that once the regulator is satisfied, then approval will be given. When asked if there is any time period for the approval, Kharola said, "on safety matters, we don't fix time limits". Following two fatal crashes involving MAX planes, these aircraft were grounded worldwide in 2019. The DGCA grounded MAX aircraft in March 2019. In March 2019, a MAX plane operated by Ethiopian Airlines crashed near Addis Ababa, killing 157 people, including four Indians. In October 2018, a Lion Air-operated 737 Max crashed, leaving 180 people dead in Indonesia. Only two Indian carriers -- SpiceJet and now-shuttered Jet Airways -- were operating MAX aircraft before they were grounded on safety concerns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-to-do-all-sorts-of-scrutiny-before-clearing-boeing-737-max-planes-kharola-947549.html
04-02-2021||National||Farmers' protest toolkit: Delhi Police files FIR, suspects Khalistan link||The Delhi Police on Thursday said it has registered an FIR against unnamed persons in connection with the "toolkit", which was shared by teen climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter, with a top official saying that the initial probe has suggested the document's link with a pro-Khalistan group. Asked whether the FIR has been registered against Thunberg, a top official of the Delhi Police said nobody has been named in the case. Delhi Police's remarks come in the backdrop of global celebrities such as singer Rihanna and Thunberg supporting the farmers' protests against the three farm laws. Lending her support to the farmers' agitation, the teen activist had shared "a toolkit for those who want to help". "Here's a toolkit if you want to help," tweeted Thunberg, which takes the user to a document containing details on ways to support the protest. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers' protest. Addressing a press conference, Special CP (Crime) Praveer Ranjan said the Delhi Police has come across a document "toolkit" which has an action plan to spread social disharmony in the country and registered a case against its author on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and others. He said the initial probe has revealed that the 'toolkit' has been created by a pro-Khalistani organisation. He said documents uploaded on social media have a proper action plan about a digital strike on or before January 26 and tweet storms on January 23.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-toolkit-delhi-police-files-fir-suspects-khalistan-link-947551.html
04-02-2021||National||Lekhi mocks Thunberg, says India should give her child bravery award||Taking a swipe at young climate activist Greta Thunberg, BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi said on Thursday that the Indian government should give her "child bravery award" for uploading a document providing "proof about hatching a conspiracy to destabilise" the country.  Lending her support to the farmers' agitation against the three farm reform laws, the teen activist had shared "a toolkit for those who want to help". "Here's a toolkit if you want to help," tweeted Thunberg, which takes the user to a document containing details on ways to support the protest. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers' protest. The toolkit has been cited by some critics as a "proof" of her conspiracy to fuel protests in India.  Lekhi tweeted, "I propose Greta Thunberg for Child bravery Award which Govt of India should bestow on her as she has done a huge service by uploading the document providing proof about hatching of a conspiracy to destabilise India from 1/1/ & leading up to 26/1/2021." As Thunberg reiterated her support on Thursday to the protests, Lekhi reacted, "She is just a child! What I despise are the people who have proposed her name for Nobel. A child who doesn't understand sustainable farming practices, stubble burning or diversification of crops, water resource management can't even be nominated, bad for civil society & credibility."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lekhi-mocks-thunberg-says-india-should-give-her-child-bravery-award-947554.html
04-02-2021||National||6-10 more airports to be privatised, says Civil Aviation Secretary||The Centre is planning to privatise six to 10 state-run airports in the next round of privatisation, Civil Aviation Secretary Pradeep Kharola said on Thursday. Kharola said the government was mulling to tweak the bidding process to club profit-making airports with non-profitable ones and offer them as a package for private players. Besides the Delhi, Mumbai, Kochi and Hyderabad airports, the government had privatised the Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Thiruvananthapuram, Guwahati, Jaipur and Mangaluru airports. Centre has signed concession agreements with Adani Airports for six airports – Jaipur, Guwahati, Ahmedabad, Mangaluru, Lucknow and Thiruvananthapuram. The Airports Authority of India has proposed to privatise airports at Amritsar, Varanasi, Bhubaneswar, Indore, Raipur and Trichy. Kharola said the government will also float the preliminary information memorandum for Air India Air Transport Services Ltd (AIATSL) to commence its disinvestment process once again. AIATSL is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Air India and is involved in ground handling activities. In the Budget speech, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the government would privatise airports in tier-two and tier-three cities. On the issue of approval for Boeing 737 MAX aircraft, Kharola said the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) was examining the issue and a decision will be taken after running all sorts of scrutiny. “They will be running all sorts of scrutiny that is possible. It is a very major decision DGCA wants to be sure that,” he said. Following two fatal crashes involving 737 MAX planes, Boeing Max 737 aircraft were grounded worldwide in 2019. The DGCA grounded aircraft in March 2019. “The FAA (Federal Aviation Administration) has approved, the EASA (European Union Aviation Safety Agency) has approved... our regulator wants to be more than convinced that the aircraft is safe,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6-10-more-airports-to-be-privatised-says-civil-aviation-secretary-947566.html
04-02-2021||National||Over 97% among 5 lakh respondents surveyed happy with Covid-19 vaccination arrangements, says government||Over 97 per cent of 5.12 lakh people surveyed after being inoculated against Covid-19 have expressed satisfaction with the vaccination process, the health ministry said on Thursday. The government is taking feedback from vaccinated people since January 17 through its mobile app CoWIN and has got responses from 5,12,128 people out of the 37 lakh it had approached for feedback on the immunisation process, secretary in the ministry Rajesh Bhushan told a press conference. The nationwide inoculation drive was launched on January 16 with over three crore healthcare and frontline workers prioritised to get the jabs initially. Bhushan said, "On January 17, we started taking feedback on CoWIN application through the Rapid Assessment System (RAS) from those users who have been vaccinated." "Ninety-seven per cent people are satisfied with overall vaccination experience. This data is based on feedback from 5,12,128 people. Out of 37 lakh people to whom we sent the SMSes and followed up with outbound calls, a size of 5,12,128 people actually replied. They have been analysed," he said. Through the system, beneficiaries were asked four questions in a personalised message, a day after Covid-19 vaccine was administered to them, Bhushan said. "Once the user confirms receiving the vaccination, questions are asked. If no reply is received, an outbound call is made to them through the system asking for feedback," he said. Out of the total feedbacks received, 97.38 per cent expressed satisfaction with the overall process of vaccination and 97.41 confirmed that proper social distancing was maintained at immunisation sites, Bhushan said. He said that 98.43 per cent confirmed that they were informed about the process of vaccination and that it was given properly, 88.95 per cent people said they were informed about adverse event following immunization and 97.13 per cent confirmed that they were asked to wait for 30 minutes for monitoring after they were vaccinated. As per the government, 1,239 private hospitals and 5,912 public facilities are being used as Covid-19 immunisation sites in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-97-among-5-lakh-respondents-surveyed-happy-with-covid-19-vaccination-arrangements-says-government-947567.html
04-02-2021||National||Reports on probe of post-coronavirus vaccination deaths to be made public soon||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday said that it would make the adverse event investigation reports on 19 post-coronavirus vaccination deaths public after a national-level panel of experts reviews all the reports received from the states. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that there had been 19 deaths of people who received the vaccine and in each case, the post-mortem was carried out by a board of three doctors. Subsequently, the State level AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) committee reviewed each of these cases to find out if the vaccine was responsible for the deaths. None of the deaths has been linked so far to the two Covid-19 vaccines that are being administered to the healthcare workers and front line staff. Till 1.30 PM on Thursday, as many as 45,93,427 individuals received the first dose of the vaccine. Administering the second dose would start from February 13. Bhushan said that out of nearly 46 lakh vaccination, there were 8,563 AEFI cases, most of them being minors. There were only 34 cases of hospitalisation, which is 0.0007% of the people who received the vaccine. The government’s response on the post-vaccination deaths came after a group of doctors and public health researchers wrote to the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan seeking an investigation into such deaths following a World Health Organisation “protocol of cluster of serious AEFI.” "It is an absolutely baseless narrative to claim that the government had rushed to certify that there was no causality,” Bhushan said. The Health Secretary said that the national committee was shortly slated to review the reports received from the states after which they would be put in the public domain. "After 45 lakh vaccination, the point we would like to amplify is that the vaccine is superbly safe. For every 1,150 cases, there is one side effect,” added V K Paul, NITI Ayog member. With India battling a huge amount of vaccine hesitancy, experts said the government needed to be more open and transparent about the vaccination to overcome such a hesitancy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reports-on-probe-of-post-coronavirus-vaccination-deaths-to-be-made-public-soon-947574.html
04-02-2021||National||Delhi Police Commissioner meets Amit Shah ahead of 'chakka jam' by farmers||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday had a meeting with Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava, ahead of the 'chakka jam' announced by farmer unions protesting against the three agri laws at Delhi's borders, sources said. Shrivastava is believed to have briefed the home minister about the security being in place in the city and the steps being taken for the Saturday's 'chakka jam' called by the farmers, they said. National Security Advisor Ajit Doval was also present in the meeting, the sources said. The Delhi Police has tightened security at the borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, where farmers have been stationed since November-end demanding the repeal of the three farm laws enacted in September last year. The ongoing protests also resulted in violence in the national capital on Republic Day during which hundreds of people, including policemen and women, were injured and one protestor died after his speeding tractor overturned. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader from Uttar Pradesh has been camping at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border as part of a campaign. Farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, are also massed at Tikri and Singhu on the Delhi-Haryana border. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-commissioner-meets-amit-shah-ahead-of-chakka-jam-by-farmers-947576.html
04-02-2021||National||Change of Guard ceremony to resume from Saturday: Rashtrapati Bhavan||The Change of Guard ceremony, which was discontinued due to Covid-19, will resume from this Saturday at the Rashtrapati Bhavan, according to an official communique issued on Thursday. The ceremony will take place every Saturday (except on government holidays), it said. "On every Saturday, a maximum 100 people will be allowed to witness the ceremony with prior booking," said the statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan. Booking can be made online by visiting website https://presidentofindia.nic.in or https://rashtrapatisachivalaya.gov.in/, it said. The ceremony can be witnessed from February 6, 2021 to March 14, 2021 between 0940 hrs and 1040 hrs, from March 15, 2021 to November 13, 2021, between 0740 hrs and 0840 hrs, and from November 14, 2021 to March 13, 2022 between 0940 hrs and 1040 hrs, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/change-of-guard-ceremony-to-resume-from-saturday-rashtrapati-bhavan-947579.html
04-02-2021||National||'Divyangjan' exempted from paying toll charges: Gadkari||Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said the vehicles owned by the “divyangjan” (persons with disabilities) are allowed for a free ride across national highway network. The government already issued a notification exempting them from paying toll charges, Gadkari informed Lok Sabha during question hour.  Till now only the vehicles specially designed for the use by such persons were exempted from paying toll tax in India. This was limited to only for the vehicles modified for the use by a PwD and such vehicles were defined as “invalid carriage” in the Central Motor Vehicle Act. On giving exemption in road tax to a vehicle owned by “divyangjan," the Minister said that it came under the state ambit and they have to take decision. However 11 states have agreed to give exemption in road tax.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/divyangjan-exempted-from-paying-toll-charges-gadkari-947585.html
04-02-2021||National||SC to hear traders body's plea against WhatsApp updated policy||Supreme Court to consider on Friday a plea by Confederation of All India Traders for restraint against Facebook-owned WhatsApp from sharing users' data in violation of the right to privacy of citizens. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian would take up the writ petition on February 5. The petitioner maintained that WhatsApp's updated policy, introduced on January 4, 2021, was against the public law and policy and cannot be sustained on the grounds of legality.  WhatsApp has already announced that it was delaying the implementation of its updated privacy policy till May 2021. Notably, the updated privacy policy does not apply to the users in the European Region, due to strict provisions of the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation and the imposition of multimillion-dollar fines against such arbitrary privacy policies.  "WhatsApp, which is rendering essential public services by enabling citizens to communicate, has imposed unconstitutional privacy conditions which are not only violative of the law but can impact the national security of the country," it said. The confederation asked the court to direct the government to formulate appropriate guidelines to regulate the functioning of internet-based messaging services including their privacy policy for handling of or dealing in personal information to ensure that the privacy rights of the users are not compromised.  The traders body, in its plea, said all internet-based messaging services should duly inform their users about the actual and true import of their privacy policy in respect of the information provided and shared by the users and further safeguard the rights of minors. "The details and data which travel on the internet messaging service provider do not belong to the said service provider, but are owned by the users, constituting a class in itself. Therefore, nobody claim right to share the data," it said.  However, several users are left with no option but to compromise on their privacy, owing to the dominant position of WhatsApp in the market. WhatsApp, after being launched in 2009, has grown substantially with a strong network effect and currently has over 2 billion users worldwide and 400 million users in India. Since August 2016, WhatsApp has been retracting its stance and altered the most valuable, basic and essential feature of its messaging service i.e. protection of user’s personal data, it said. "The change in the privacy policy of WhatsApp, and the Facebook group of companies amounts to a direct invasion of privacy of the millions of users," it claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-traders-bodys-plea-against-whatsapp-updated-policy-947590.html
04-02-2021||National||Healthcare workers to get second dose of coronavirus vaccine on February 13, says government||The second dose of anti-coronavirus vaccine will be administered to healthcare workers from February 13, the Centre said on Thursday, highlighting that 45 per cent of them have been inoculated so far. Addressing a press briefing, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said  45,93,427 beneficiaries have been vaccinated against Covid-19 till 1.30 PM on Thursday. The states and Union Territories that have completed the first dose of vaccination for 50 per cent or more of their healthcare workers are Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tripura, Mizoram, Lakshadweep, Odisha, Kerala, Haryana, Bihar, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh.  The states and UTs that have covered 30 per cent or less of healthcare workers in the Covid immunization drive till date are Sikkim, Ladakh, Tamil Nadu, Jammu and Kashmir, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur and Puducherry.  These states are being given suggestions by the Union Health Ministry over video-conferences and meetings about how to increase the immunization coverage, Bhushan said. "The second dose of anti-coronavirus vaccine will be administered to healthcare workers from February 13. Also, 45 per cent of targeted healthcare workers have been vaccinated so far and by tomorrow almost half of the healthcare workers would be inoculated," NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul said. In the Covid-19 immunization drive, 5,912 public health care centres and 1,239 private facilities are being used as vaccination session sites, he said. "As we proceed, we would be involving the private healthcare sector in a much larger extent,"  Bhushan added. Asked when these vaccines will be available for general public and senior citizens, Bhushan said, "Very soon. We have started frontline workers from February 3. Once this wave also stabilises, we will come to 50 years plus population. It will happen in the near future." Supplementing it, Dr Paul said, private health sector is an integral part of India's healthcare system and there is an active, steady and highly satisfactory participation of the private sector facilities hand in hand with the public healthcare sector. "This partnership will be further strengthened when we move to the next phase of our vaccination drive," he said. He also spoke about the apprehensions prevailing about the expiry of Covid-19 vaccine.   "There is no question of a single dose getting wasted because we could not administer it on time before their expiry. Not a single dose will be wasted. We are monitoring the vaccines twice daily and we are very well aware as of which batches are expiring when," Dr Paul said.  He further said a satisfactory picture is emerging in terms of the pandemic. "We are consistently performing well on almost all parameters," he said while cautioning against lowering the guard and stressed on following the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.  The health secretary said two states - Kerala and Maharashtra - with 69,365 and 38,762 active cases respectively presently are contributing more than 70 per cent cases in the country. While Kerala account for 44.8 per cent of these cases, Maharashtra's share is 25 per cent of the active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/healthcare-workers-to-get-second-dose-of-coronavirus-vaccine-on-february-13-says-government-947593.html
04-02-2021||National||President is authority to decide on remission of Rajiv Gandhi assassination convicts: Centre||The Union government on Thursday informed the Supreme Court that the Tamil Nadu Governor has sent a request for remission, made by Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convict A G Perarivalan, to the President as the top Constitutional office is the competent authority to deal with the matter. In an affidavit, the Union Home Ministry said the Governor has considered "all the facts and relevant documents" and passed an order on January 25, stating, "President of India is the competent authority to deal with the matter". The Ministry's response came after the top court on January 21 recorded a submission from Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that the application filed by one of the convicts A G Perarivalan for remission of his life term under Article 161 of the Constitution would be considered within one week. "The proposed received by the central government would be processed in accordance with the law," it said, in it three-page affidavit. Notably, the Tamil Nadu government's recommendation to the Governor for pardon under Article 161 of the Constitution to all the convicts has been pending for over two years. Convicts in the 1991 case -- V Sriharan alias Murugan, T Suthendraraja alias Santham, Perarivalan alias Arivu, Jayakumar, Robert Payas, P Ravichandaran and Nalini -- have been in jail for over 25 years. The Union government had earlier too claimed that only the President has the power to grant pardon in the case.  Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated on the night of May 21, 1991 at Sriperumbudur in Tamil Nadu by a woman suicide bomber, identified as Dhanu, at a poll rally. In August, 2018, the Centre had told the Supreme Court it does not concur with the Tamil Nadu government's proposal to release seven convicts in the case, saying remission of their sentence will set a "dangerous precedent" and have "international ramifications". This was, however, was in reference to letter written by the Tamil Nadu government on March 2, 2016 seeking its concurrence on releasing the seven convicts. This had followed the Supreme Court's decision in 2015 saying the concurrence of the Centre was mandatory before their release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-is-authority-to-decide-on-remission-of-rajiv-gandhi-assassination-convicts-centre-947613.html
04-02-2021||National||Rain, heavy barricading play spoiler at Singhu border protest site||Some put the blame on the rain gods while others cried foul over the sturdy barriers put up by the administration as the usually vibrant and upbeat Singhu border witnessed a rare quiet and uneventful day on Thursday. The Delhi-Haryana highway, the epicentre of the ongoing farmers' agitation, looked like a pale shadow of its former self after intermittent showers restricted many protesting farmers to the shelter of their tents and trolleys. The streets, muddy and waterlogged due to the rain, were visibly less crowded. Queues for popular langars -- serving Punjab's favourite 'Makki Ki Roti and Sarson Ka Saag' and quick-to-make pizzas -- moved smoothly without any routine pushing and shoving. Even the usual presence of tractors on the roads, playing rustic farmer songs in full volume, was thin. "Yes, it has been a relatively quiet day so far. We have been camping here for over two months now, it is natural to have some quiet days. This is a peaceful protest, why expect a spectacle?" asked Ajit Bhullar from Haryana's Kaithal district. Another protestor, Navneet Dhillon from Punjab's Sangrur district, urged the media not to read much from the hiatus saying everyday activities have taken a hit due to the rain in the past as well. "We saw this last month also when it rained for 2-3 days on the trot. We shouldn't construe anything else from this. The movement is only becoming bigger by every passing day," said the 28-year-old. But not everyone agreed with Dhillon, especially the vendors in the vicinity, who claimed that presence of multiple barricades and living under such tight security has taken a toll on the protesting farmers. Aftab Alam, 31, who had to to shift his cart from the main road to the inner lanes of the protest site, said "worry-induced wrinkles" were visible on the faces of the farmers. "Earlier, even if things were not going in their favour, they always came across as a happy lot. Their energy was infectious. But from the past some days, I have noticed a change in their attitude," said Alam, who has a garment cart at the site for the last one month. "Now, they look worried. I guess it is because of high-security and the restrictions imposed by the security forces," he said. The drop in the number of security personnel, including the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and Rapid Action Force (RAF), was also evident at the site on Thursday. However, the latest addition to the security apparatus -- a sound system which was belting out one Bollywood patriotic number after another -- successfully overpowered the speakers blaring the fiery speeches of leaders of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee (KMSC) and the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM). Another vendor, who sells socks at the protest site, complained about the loss in business that had sprung up after the protest started in November. "Last month I was selling 100-150 pairs (of socks) a day. Now it has come down to 15-20," said 41-year-old Ajit Singh. Some also said the meteoric rise of Ghazipur in the popularity charts was the reason behind Singhu border going quiet and attracting less footfalls. "Everyone -- media, farmers and common people -- is talking about Ghazipur these days. What attracts eye-balls, ends up attracting footfalls as well. It proved true for Singhu earlier, now it's Ghazipur's turn," said a 35-year-old on the condition of anonymity. Ghazipur came into the spotlight after BKU leader Rakesh Tikait's emotional appeal on January 28 over the dim situation of the ongoing farmers' agitation touched an emotional chord with people in villages. It galvanised farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Rajasthan to flock to the Delhi-UP border site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rain-heavy-barricading-play-spoiler-at-singhu-border-protest-site-947616.html
04-02-2021||National Politics||Himanta Biswa Sarma says BJP doesn't need 'Miya' Muslim vote to win Assembly election: Report||'Miya' Muslim is a colloquial term used for the Bengali-origin Muslim community of the state. Assam goes to polls in April. He also accused the community of 'openly challenging' Assamese culture and the 'composite Indian culture'. “These so-called Miya people are very very communal and fundamental and they are involved in many activities to distort Assamese culture and Assamese language. So I don’t want to be an MLA with their vote. I will not be able to sit in the Assembly if they voted for me,” Sarma told reporters, adding that the people who openly challenge Assamese and Indian culture "should not vote for us". "When we speak of Muslims in Assam, there are two types - the indigenous Assamese Muslims who are associated with our culture and heritage, whereas the other category is of those who do not even have their names properly in the NRC as of now," Sarma said. The minister also said the BJP will not give tickets to 'Miya' Muslims and urged the Congress to do the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/himanta-biswa-sarma-says-bjp-doesnt-need-miya-muslim-vote-to-win-assembly-election-report-947327.html
04-02-2021||National Politics||Opposition MPs not allowed to reach Ghazipur farmer protest site: SAD leader||Fifteen MPs from 10 opposition parties, including the SAD, DMK, NCP and the Trinamool Congress, were stopped by police from reaching Ghazipur border on Thursday to meet farmers protesting against new farm laws, a leader said. According to SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal who coordinated the visit, the leaders were not allowed to cross the barricades and reach the protest site. Besides Badal, Supriya Sule from NCP, Kanimozhi and Tiruchi Siva from the DMK, Saugata Roy from the TMC were part of the delegation. Members of the National Conference, RSP and the IUML were also part of it. During a discussion in Parliament on Wednesday, several opposition parties asked the government to withdraw the three contentious farm laws without making it a prestige issue and not to treat the agitating farmers as "enemies". Stringent security continued at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, one of the key protest sites where thousands of farmers are camping with a demand that the Centre repeal the new agri-marketing laws enacted last September. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. Eleven rounds of formal talks between the government and the protesting farmer unions have failed to break the deadlock. While unions have stuck to their main demand of repeal of the laws and legal guarantee of MSP, the government has offered some concessions including keeping these laws on hold for 1-1.5 years. Even the Supreme Court has stayed the laws for two months and set up a panel to look into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-mps-not-allowed-to-reach-ghazipur-farmer-protest-site-sad-leader-947345.html
04-02-2021||National Politics||Over 22 lakh public grievances, highest in last three years, received in 2020: Centre||Over 20 lakh public grievances, highest in the last three years, have been received on an online platform run by the central government, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Thursday. In a written reply to the Upper House, Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said a total of 22,71,270 grievances were received on the Centralised Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (CPGRAMS) in 2020, as against 18,67,758 in 2019 and 15,86,415 in 2018. Of these, 23,19,569 grievances were disposed last year, 16,39,856 in 2019 and 15,05,950 in 2018, according to the reply. As many as 10,23,300 grievances were pending in 2020, it said. “The Department conducts regular review meetings for monitoring pendency and disposal of grievances received in Centralised Public Grievance Redress and Monitoring System (CPGRAMS) with the designated grievance officers of ministries/departments. The last such review meeting was held in January 5, 2021,” Singh said. An internal grievance redressal machinery exists in each ministry/department, he said. “Grievance officers have been designated in all ministries/departments for redressal of public grievances,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/over-22-lakh-public-grievances-highest-in-last-three-years-received-in-2020-centre-947373.html
04-02-2021||National Politics||No annual report from Lokpal laid in Parliament: Centre||Anti-corruption ombudsman Lokpal, which came into being in 2019, is required to present to president and Parliament an annual report on the work done by it but no such report has been laid in the two Houses, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Thursday. On March 23, 2019, President Ram Nath Kovind administered the oath of office to Justice Pinaki Chandra Ghose as chairperson of Lokpal, the top body to inquire and investigate allegations of corruption against public functionaries. “Lokpal is an independent statutory body established under Section 3 of the Lokpal and Lokayuktas Act, 2013. In terms of Section 48 of the said Act, the Lokpal is required to present annually to the President a report on the work done by it, which is caused to be laid in both the Houses of the Parliament,” Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said in a written reply. “No such report has been laid,” he said. The Lokpal's eight members were administered the oath by Justice Ghose on March 27, 2019. The Lokpal received 1,427 complaints during 2019-20. Of these, 613 were related to state government officials and four against Union ministers and members of Parliament, according to the ombudsman’s data. As many as 89 complaints, including three against Members of Parliament, were received by the Lokpal between April and December 2020, the data said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-annual-report-from-lokpal-laid-in-parliament-centre-947375.html
04-02-2021||National Politics||Previous govts drafted Union Budget with eye on vote bank: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday targeted previous governments, saying they drafted the Union Budget with an eye on their vote bank and made budgets a medium of announcements they could not fulfil but now the country has changed its approach. "From decades, the meaning of budget in our country was only restricted to what announcements have been made on whose name. The Budget was turned into an account for the vote bank," he said after inaugurating via video conference the centenary celebrations of the historic Chauri Chaura incident, a landmark event in the country's fight for Independence. "You all make an account of household expenditure by keeping in mind present needs and future responsibilities. But earlier governments made budgets a medium of such announcements that they could not fulfil. Now the country has changed such 'soch' (thought) and approach," the prime minister said. Modi also released a postage stamp to mark the beginning of the centenary celebrations. A group of freedom fighters participating in the non-cooperation movement launched by Mahatma Gandhi in 1922 were fired upon by police, leading to death of many of them. In retaliation, protestors attacked and set fire to the Chauri Chaura police station, killing many of its occupants. Gandhi had called off the movement due to the violence The killing of the Chauri Chaura policemen had resulted in arrest of hundreds of protesters with 228 of them being put on trial, six of them dying during it and 172 ordered to be hanged to death with the remaining sentenced to long-term imprisonments after a hasty eight-month trial. Reviewing the death sentences, the Allahabad High Court finally in April 1923 confirmed it for 19 convicts and sentenced 110 of them to life imprisonments in Port Blair and long jail terms to others. At Thursday's event, 99 people, descendants of those involved in the incident will be honoured. Those chosen to be honoured on the occasion include 72-year-old Kamla Prasad of Dumri Khurd, a grandson of Chinugi who was sent to the Cellular Jail in Port Blair. "I am happy that we are getting the honour and the country will know us from tomorrow," said an elated Kamla Prasad. The year-long commemoration of the Chauri Chaura incident's centenary began in all 75 districts of the state with 'Prabhat Pheris' (early morning rounds) and other programmes that will continue till February 4, 2022. Besides the beautification of the Chauri Chaura Shaheed Sthal in Gorakhpur, the area is also being developed as a tourist spot on the lines of India Gate, Jallianwala Bagh and Cellular Jail, a senior official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/previous-govts-drafted-union-budget-with-eye-on-vote-bank-pm-modi-947385.html
04-02-2021||National Politics||Tweets on farmers' stir a conspiracy to defame India, says Fadnavis||Taking a dim view of tweets by some prominent international celebrities and activists in support of the farmers' protests, BJP Leader Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday claimed there was an international consipracy to defame India and create chaos and unrest in the country. Talking to reporters in Nagpur, the former Maharashtra chief minister said some external forces do not want any stability in the country and this been now exposed through these tweets. "How an international conspiracy is going on has been revealed with the tweets. India is being defamed using the platform of farmers' protest," Fadnavis said. It has now come to fore how schemes are being made to create chaos and unrest in the country, he said. The Centre on Wednesday hit out at global celebrities like singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg for their support to the farmers' protests, saying the "temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments" is neither accurate nor responsible. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi border points for over two months against the Centre's three new farm laws. Asked about allegations of objectionable remarks made at the Elgar Parishad conclave in Pune last week, Fadnavis said permission should not have been given for the event. The Pune police on Tuesday registered a case against former Aligarh Muslim University student Sharjeel Usmani for allegedly hurting religious sentiments with his comments at the conclave on January 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tweets-on-farmers-stir-a-conspiracy-to-defame-india-says-fadnavis-947398.html
04-02-2021||National Politics||Derek O'Brien presses govt to repeal 3 farm laws, offers draft Bill to do so||Trinamool Congress leader Derek O'Brien on Thursday pressed the government to repeal the three controversial farm laws and offered a ''Repealing Bill 2021' drafted by him for the purpose. Participating in a discussion on the motion of thanks on the president's address in the Rajya Sabha, the Trinamool MP also referred to the death of a farmer during the tractor parade in Delhi on Republic Day and said there should be a "proper inquiry" so the truth could come out. He interrupted his speech to observe a minute's silence in the House along with other Opposition leaders, mainly the Congress, to pay tribute to farmers who had lost their lives during the two month agitation. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting at border points into Delhi since November to demand a rollback of the three farm laws. Talks between the government and farmer leaders have yielded no result so far. "The 'Repealing Bill 2021'... this will repeal all (three controversial farm laws). I have taken the liberty of drafting the Repealing Bill 2021. I will share it with them. You repeal these bills (farm laws). There is a way to do it. Eighteen months' pause you will put on these (laws), but how?" he said in the Rajya Sabha. The government had made a proposal to suspend the laws for 18 months. Referring to the events that unfolded on January 26, O'Brien said, "Just imagine that unfortunate tractor incident where a farmer died under mysterious circumstances, just imagine if that happened in Bengal or Maharashtra... All I'm saying is that the truth be told. I'm not coming to any conclusions. Let the truth come out. The home minister of India is in charge. Do a proper inquiry and let the truth come out". Highlighting the Centre's resolve to double farmer income by 2022, O'Brien said at the current rate this will not happen till 2028. "In Bengal, in TMC government, from 2011 to now, not doubled, farmer income has tripled in West Bengal," he said. The Trinamool MP said the farms laws were not sent to a select committee for scrutiny and accused the government of failing the sanctity of Parliament. Sending out a message to the farmers' community, he said, "Yeh aapki roji roti ki baat hai. Hum aapke saath hain (This is about your livelihood, We all stand by you)." " I cut short my speech for one minute and stand to give tribute to the farmers who lost their lives in this agitation," he added. O'Brien continued his speech after the minute's silence. Referring to the farmers' agitation, he said, "It is their movement. It is not anybody's movement. " He also alleged that the government had failed the people of India. He drew the attention of the House towards the government's divestment policy, rising share of states funding in railways projects, higher mortality rates among infants and mothers, job losses especially during pandemic and frozen spending under MPLADS (till 2021-22). "First take care of Delhi then think about Bengal. Don't make the pandemic excuse," O'Brien told the House. O'Brien claimed the government had failed the migrant workers and also India's federal structure. "The home minister was to come to Bengal for a political rally. He needed to stay back in Delhi. So what was done. Two and a half or one and a half MLAs who were switching sides, they were sent the chartered planes and brought there in four hours," he said, adding that he wished so much love, care and affection was shown towards migrant workers. According to O'Brien, when it comes to migrant workers, when their data is sought in Parliament, the government truly becomes the NDA - No Data Available. When the Central government imposes cess, the collected amount is not shared with states, he said. "Out of the gross revenue in 1980, 2 per cent was cess. Now almost 16 per cent is being collected as cess. Every time you collect cess you deprive the states." The Trinamool MP also said, "They have failed the media. You can intimidate and threaten media barons but not the young media persons (on the ground)."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/derek-obrien-presses-govt-to-repeal-3-farm-laws-offers-draft-bill-to-do-so-947402.html
04-02-2021||National Politics||Withdraw farm laws, says CPI(M) Rajya Sabha Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya member to government||CPI(M) Rajya Sabha member Bikash Ranjan Bhattacharya on Thursday asked the government to withdraw the three contentious farm laws and hold talks with the agitating farmers. Participating in a discussion on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Parliament at the start of the Budget Session, Bhattacharya criticised the move to put barricades, cement blocks, concertina wires and spikes at the farmer protest sites on Delhi's border points. "Withdraw your farm laws and sit with them (farmers).... You cannot invite them for negotiations by putting concrete walls, by stopping their approach to the city. This is not the way a democratic government does it," he told the government. Quoting Rabindranath Tagore's poem 'where the mind is without fear and the head is held high', the CPI(M) MP said the government should respect personal freedom and "intellectuals should not be described as urban naxals and put behind bars". The foundation of federalism is diversity and unity and everything should not be done by the government only. He further added the speech of the president does not reflect the present realities of the country and hence, he would not support it. "The president is the head of the state but his speech reflects as if he is the head of the government. The speech in my submission relates to the so-called achievements of the government and at the cost of democratic principles," he said. The president in his speech said that India's grandeur is the ultimate truth and in one single consciousness, one thought, one devotion, one inspiration let us unite. "This is against the spirit of the Indian Constitution and against the morality of the Indian Constitution. I am shocked..., Bhattacharya said. On the government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Rajya Sabha member said, "In the month of December, there was alarming indication of its spread but the government of India did not take any preventive measure." Sudden declaration of lockdown caused tremendous difficulties, particularly to the poor who suffered a lot, he said. Participating in the debate, N R Elango of the DMK asked the government to withdraw the three farm laws. Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi's border points with a demand that the Centre repeal the new agri-marketing laws enacted last September. The protesting farmers have expressed the apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. Eleven rounds of formal talks between the government and the protesting farmer unions have failed to break the deadlock. While unions have stuck to their main demand of repeal of the laws and legal guarantee of MSP, the government has offered some concessions including keeping these laws on hold for 1-1.5 years. Even the Supreme Court has stayed the laws for two months and set up a panel to look into the matter. Banda Prakash of the TRS asked the government to complete the project promised to Telangana during the reorganisation of Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/withdraw-farm-laws-says-cpim-rajya-sabha-bikash-ranjan-bhattacharya-member-to-government-947418.html
04-02-2021||National Politics||Next Republic Day Parade will be on revamped Central Vista Avenue, says Hardeep Puri||Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri on Thursday said that the next Republic Day Parade will be on the revamped Central Vista Avenue. Puri performed the ‘bhoomi-pujan' (ground-breaking) ceremony of redevelopment works of the Central Vista Avenue at India Gate. The Central Vista Avenue starting from North and South Block to India Gate, that includes the Rajpath, its adjoining lawns and canals, rows of tree, Vijay Chowk and the India Gate plaza is a 3 km-long stretch. Redevelopment of the avenue is a part of the redevelopment of the Central Vista project, which was initiated by the NDA government. The ​government approved a proposal for development of Central Vista Avenue with an estimated cost of Rs 608 crore.  The tender for Phase-I redevelopment of the avenue was awarded to Shapoorji Pallonji and Co Pvt Ltd. The firm is expected to complete the work in 300 days. As per the plan, lawns and canals will be refurbished, new trees would come up and adequate parking spaces will be made. Besides new vending areas, toilets, drinking water facilities, walkways along Rajpath, sewage treatment plant to recycle waste water, installation of CCTV will also be part of project, said the Urban Affairs Ministry. The refurbishment will be made keeping in mind that the Avenue also hosts the annual Republic Day event, said the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/next-republic-day-parade-will-be-on-revamped-central-vista-avenue-says-hardeep-puri-947423.html
04-02-2021||National Politics||Centre wants to govern Delhi via 'backdoor', claims Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday accused the Centre of trying to govern the national capital through the "backdoor", claiming the Union cabinet has cleared a proposal to give more powers to the Lieutenant Governor. Reacting to media reports saying the Centre on Wednesday approved amendments to the Government of NCT of Delhi Act, the AAP leader told a press conference that the move is "against democracy, Constitution and will of the citizens of Delhi". "The central government has passed a law in the Cabinet to snatch power of Delhi's elected government and give it to Centre-appointed Lieutenant Governor. The Delhi government will not have power to take its own decisions. The BJP wants to govern Delhi through backdoor as people chose not to elect them in three consecutive elections," he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-wants-to-govern-delhi-via-backdoor-claims-delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-947427.html
04-02-2021||National Politics||'Crony-centric' Budget 'betrayed' MSMEs, says Congress leader Rahul Gandhi||Describing the Union Budget as "crony-centric", Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said the micro, small, and medium enterprises (MSMEs) were given no low-interest loans or GST relief which meant that the employers of India's largest workforce were "betrayed". The Congress had earlier slammed the budget, saying it was a "let down like never before". The Opposition party had claimed that the budget will unravel soon. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday presented the budget for 2021-22 in the Lok Sabha from a tablet, instead of a conventional paper document, the first paperless budget since Independence. Hitting out at the government, Gandhi on Thursday tweeted, "Modi's crony centric budget means -- Struggling MSMEs given no low-interest loans, no GST relief. The employers of India's largest workforce betrayed." In his first reaction to the budget on Monday, Gandhi had alleged that the Narendra Modi government plans to hand over the country's assets to crony capitalists. The BJP leaders had lauded the budget for its focus on a number of measures, including substantial allocation for healthcare sector, capital expenditure, tax exemption for senior citizens and incentives for start-ups among others||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/crony-centric-budget-betrayed-msmes-says-congress-leader-rahul-gandhi-947432.html
04-02-2021||National Politics||Travesty of truth: Chidambaram slams MEA assertion that farm laws passed after full debate||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Thursday contested the assertion in a Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) statement that the new farm laws were passed in Parliament after a full debate and discussion, terming it as “a travesty of the truth”. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the MEA had slammed the remarks made by American singer Rihanna and other celebrities and activists on farmer protests, saying the facts on the issue must be ascertained before rushing to comment on it. The MEA had asserted that the farm laws were passed by Parliament after a full debate and discussion. Referring to the statement, Chidambaram tweeted, "MEA's statement reads 'The Parliament of India, after a full debate and discussion, passed reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector'." MEA’s statement reads “The Parliament of India, after a full debate and discussion, passed reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector” That is a travesty of the truth. "That is a travesty of the truth," he said The record of the Rajya Sabha and the video record will show that there was not a full discussion, microphones of some MPs were muted, and a "call for division (that is a vote) was summarily rejected", the former Union minister said in a series of tweets. "If MEA distorts the truth on a matter where there is a record, who will believe MEA's other statements?" Chidambaram said, tagging External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. On Wednesday too, Chidambaram had hit out at the MEA, saying it is good that Rihanna and Greta Thunberg can wake up the ministry. "Come on MEA, when will you realise that people concerned with issues of human rights and livelihoods do not recognise national boundaries? Why did MEA comment on the military coup in Myanmar? Why is it 'deeply concerning' to the MEA?" he had said. The MEA statement had come after global celebrities such as singer Rihanna and climate activist Thunberg expressed support to the farmers' protests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/travesty-of-truth-chidambaram-slams-mea-assertion-that-farm-laws-passed-after-full-debate-947446.html
04-02-2021||National Politics||Opposition MPs stopped from meeting farmers as deadlock in Lok Sabha over three farm laws continues||A group of 15 Members of Parliament from 10 opposition parties were stopped by the Delhi Police from meeting the agitating farmers at the Ghazipur border, even as the stalemate over the demand for a separate discussion on agricultural reforms continued in the Lok Sabha. Members of Parliament including DMK’s Kanimozhi and Tiruchi Siva, NCP’s Supriya Sule, Akali Dal leader and former Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal, Trinamool’s Saugata Ray, RSP’s N K Premachandran travelled in a bus to the Ghazipur border, about 18 km from the Parliament. “We were stopped three kilometres away from the protest site and had to return from the heavily barricaded Ghazipur at Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border,” RSP member N K Premachandran said. The deadlock in Lok Sabha over the Opposition's demand for a separate discussion on farmers issue led to repeated adjournments in the House. Congress, which made a U-turn on its assurance to take up a discussion on the Motion of Thanks on the President's address, rallied opposition parties in demanding a separate discussion on the farmers' issue. “The Opposition is united in seeking a separate discussion on the farmers' issue,” K Suresh, chief whip of the Congress in the Lok Sabha said after a meeting of like-minded opposition parties chaired by Rahul Gandhi. BJP member Locket Chatterjee had on Tuesday moved a Motion to thank the President for his address to Parliament, but not a single speech was delivered amid protests from opposition leaders. As per the schedule, Prime Minister Narendra Modi was expected to reply to the debate on the Motion of Thanks on Friday, but an aggressive Opposition appeared to put a spanner in the plans of the government “I again request you all to return to your seats so that the House proceedings run properly,” Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said as members raised slogans and waved placards opposing the farm laws. As per Parliamentary convention, both the Houses of Parliament take up discussions on the Motion of Thanks to the President for his address to the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha assembled together as the first agenda of business. The President delivered his address on January 29, the first day of the Budget Session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-mps-stopped-from-meeting-farmers-as-deadlock-in-lok-sabha-over-three-farm-laws-continues-947495.html
04-02-2021||National Politics||Ex-IFS officers extend support to Government, back farm laws||A group of former IFS officers on Thursday questioned the voices from developed countries in support of farmers' protest, saying they want India to liberalise its agriculture market on the one hand and on the other political groups and legislators from these places are backing the agitation and criticising the government for laws that empower tillers and bring in greater market efficiency. "Obviously, you cannot have your cake and eat it too. The balance between market forces and food security/famers' welfare is a delicate one and it is the sovereign prerogative of governments to strike that balance," the group of former Indian Foreign Service (IFS) officers said in a statement. The 20 signatories to the statement included Ajay Swarup, Mohan Kumar, Vishnu Prakash and J S Sapra. They said in the post-Covid future of sustainable agriculture and food security, there is an opportunity for the US, the European Union and the UK along with 19 members of the Cairns Group to end the double standards that have skewed global production and markets. Cairns Group is a coalition of agriculture produce exporting nations. The former IFS officers also criticised various aspects of the World Trade Organisation agreement on agriculture, saying it was born out of a bilateral deal between the two biggest subsidy-providers in farming, the US and the EU, in 1992. The WTO agreement on agriculture is characterised by democratic deficit and based on commercial realpolitik, they added. "India will gradually and incrementally allow the market to decide prices of agricultural produce, not because of the WTO or because the developed countries are saying so, but because it is in the fundamental interest of the Indian farmers and will enable the latter to double their income," the statement said. The WTO under the leadership of developed countries will be failing in its duty if it does not amend the agreement on agriculture that facilitates the developing and least-developed members to achieve the sustainable development goal of ending hunger and securing food security, it added. Sustainable agriculture demands that farmers adopt the latest technology to diversify their production, and the farm laws passed by the government is a step in this direction, the former IFS officers said, while backing India's provision of minimum support price, something criticised by developed countries as an unfair practice. "Developed countries led by the US, EU and the Cairns Group have an opportunity to be on the right side of history here. They must support the efforts of developing and least developed countries even while agreeing to amend the WTO Agreement on Agriculture to accommodate the legitimate demands of the developing and the least developed countries," they said in the statement. The former IFS officers’ statement has come after several international personalities, including celebrities, activists and law-makers, have supported the ongoing farmer unions’ agitation near Delhi against the three farm laws and criticised the government's decision to cut off internet in the affected areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ex-ifs-officers-extend-support-to-government-back-farm-laws-947550.html
04-02-2021||National Politics||Allocation of Rs 6,636 crore to poll-bound Bengal is highest-ever funds earmarked for the state in Railways' history: Piyush Goyal||The allocation of Rs 6,636 crore to poll-bound West Bengal is the highest-ever funds earmarked for the state in the history of Indian Railways, Minister Piyush Goyal said on Thursday. "The allocation for West Bengal is the highest ever in the history of Indian Railways. It is 2.5 times the average amount allocated between Budget 2009-2014 and 26 per cent more than last year," he said while addressing a press briefing. Blaming the previous government for not improving railway network in the state, the Minister said that non-available of lands have delayed several projects. "Projects there remain incomplete or are delayed because the state governments - first it was the Left front government and now the TMC-- have been unable to provide land to us. Projects which are 45 years old are pending in the state," he said. "I appeal to Mamata didi to expedite the process and give us lands," he said. West Bengal has 53 ongoing projects including new lines, gauge conversion, doubling projects costing Rs 48,275 crore for 4,463 km. Goyal said that due to non-availability of land, as many as 34 projects in the state have received only token allotment in the Budget 2021-22. "I want to assure the people of West Bengal that there is no shortage of funds for projects in the state. Only there should not be any shortage of land and local issues are sorted then projects will be completed on time," he said. Goyal further took a dig at pre-BJP budgets where the Railway Budget was presented separately and said that at that time there was a tendency to announce rail projects for political gains and not for the need of the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/allocation-of-rs-6636-crore-to-poll-bound-bengal-is-highest-ever-funds-earmarked-for-the-state-in-railways-history-piyush-goyal-947558.html
04-02-2021||National Politics||Nadda slams LDF,UDF, asks people to help Lotus bloom in Kerala||BJP president J P Nadda on Thursday hit out at the ruling Left Front government and the Opposition Congress-led UDF in Kerala, saying both were corrupt and lacked vision and said it was time the people of the state allow them to "rest" and help the Lotusbloom. The Pinarayi Vijayan government was "non-performing" and "the law and order in the state had crumbled", he said. Also targeting the UDF, which is going all out to make the Sabarimala women entry issue a major poll plank in the elections likely to be held in April-May this year, Nadda said it "back-stabbed" the devotees. He claimed it was the saffron party workers against whom all the cases were registered. The Congress had recently asked Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to seek legal remedies to "heal the wounds" created in society due to its alleged hasty decision to implement the apex court verdict of September 2018 allowing women of all age-groups to enter the Ayyappa shrine at Sabarimala. The southern state had witnessed protests by right-wing and BJP workers against allowing women in the banned 10- 50 age group being allowed in the temple. The BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were giving "special focus" and attention to Kerala and over Rs 19,000 crore has been kept apart for the state to ease its revenue deficit, Nadda said addressing a massive rally of party workers at the Thekkinkadu maidan here this evening. "The LDF and UDF are corrupt, both are non-performing, they have no vision and their only aim is to grab power. Time has come for the people of Kerala to allow them to rest and give us work," he said. "This government is a government of non-performance.... of inaction.... atrocities against women and Dalits are increasing," he said. "The leaders and political parties have brought a bad name to Kerala. The LDF led by Pinarayi Vijayan and the UDF led by Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithalahave brought a bad name to Kerala. It's full of corruption. Law and order has crumbled," Nadda said. He also slammed the state's Covid-19 management, saying the cases were rising in the state. "How they have messed up the Covid-19 situation. There is a narrative here. To adopt Kerala model. What's the Kerala Model? More than 50 per cent cases are from Kerala." "Still the health minister claims that the rise in cases are due to population density. What kind of justification is that? I am sorry to say I have been the health minister and helped the state during Nipah." He said over Rs 2,600 crore was given for flood relief. "Nothing has been utilised. We need to remove this government. We request people to remove the government and help the Lotus bloom," Nadda said. Citing the gold smuggling case in which Vijayan's former principal secretary M Sivasankar had been arrested by central agencies probing it and 'Solar sexual exploitation' case in which senior Congress leader and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy is among the five party leaders named, the BJP leader sarcastically said one Chief Minister has love and affection towards gold and the other gets energy from Solar. "I am sorry to say, it has given a very bad name to the state with the various corruptions and scandals," he said. Nadda also flayed the LDF government for moving a resolution in the state assembly against the CAG for its adverse remarks in its audit report of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), saying the government was attacking constitutional bodies in the state. He also listed various projects sanctioned by the Centre for the state including the Mumbai-Kanyakumari economic corridor for which Rs 50,000 crore has been set apart. During the lockdown, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had transferred Rs 500 each for three months to 20 crore women across the country in their Jan Dhan accounts and 47 lakh people were benefited in the state. Eight crore gas connections were given to the women here, he said. The BJP leader said he had come to the same venue in 2016 during the assembly polls and there was a "sea change" in the enthusiasm of the people now. Former DGP Jacob Thomas, who recently joined the BJP, was welcomed by Nadda on the stage by wrapping a shawl around him. Nadda, who was on a two-day visit to poll-bound Kerala, addressed party office bearers from the 140 assembly constituencies earlier in the day. Senior leader Shobha Surendran, who had been keeping away from party functions over the past 10 months unhappy with the state leadership, too attended the rally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nadda-slams-ldfudf-asks-people-to-help-lotus-bloom-in-kerala-947587.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Soldier killed in Pakistani firing along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri||An Army soldier was killed on Wednesday in Pakistani firing along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district, a defence spokesperson said. Sepoy Laxman, a resident of Jodhpur in Rajasthan, was the fourth soldier killed this year in ceasefire violations by Pakistani troops along the LoC. "The Pakistan Army resorted to an unprovoked ceasefire violation on the LoC in  Sundarbani sector of Rajouri. Our troops responded strongly to the enemy fire," the spokesperson said. He said Laxman was critically injured in the firing and later succumbed to his injuries. "Sepoy Laxman was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty," he said. Earlier, three Army personnel were killed in Pakistani firing along the LoC in January this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/soldier-killed-in-pakistani-firing-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-947227.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Mobile internet curbs lifted in Haryana's Panipat and Charkhi Dadri||The Haryana government on Wednesday lifted mobile internet curbs in Panipat and Charkhi Dadri, even as the services will continue to remain suspended in five other districts of the state till 5 pm on February 4, an official said. The mobile internet services were suspended in some districts of the state "to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order” amid a protest by farmers against three Agri laws. The curbs have now been lifted in Panipat and Charkhi Dadri districts, the official said. However, the state government has extended the suspension of mobile internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), SMS services (only bulk SMS) and all dongle services, etc. provided on mobile networks except the voice calls in five districts -- Kaithal, Jind, Rohtak, Sonipat and Jhajjar till 5 pm on February 4. The order has been issued to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of these districts of Haryana and shall be in force with immediate effect. Any person who will be found guilty of violation of aforesaid order will be liable for legal action under relevant provisions, the order stated. The government's move to suspend mobile internet services in 17 districts earlier and later on keeping these suspended in a few places led to protests by farmers in the state.     Opposition parties had also condemned the curbs on mobile internet in some parts, saying the move would affect the students who were preparing to appear in final exams. On Tuesday, the state government had ordered suspension of mobile internet services in three districts near Delhi after violence broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital on Republic Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mobile-internet-curbs-lifted-in-haryanas-panipat-and-charkhi-dadri-947274.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||India reports 12,899 new Covid-19 cases, 107 deaths||With 12,899 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's Covid-19 tally of cases rose to 1,07,90,183, while the recoveries surged to 1,04,80,455, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll increased to 1,54,703 with 107 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,04,80,455 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.13 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total Covid-19 active caes remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,55,025 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.44 per cent of the total cases, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,92,16,019 samples have been tested up to February 3 with 7,42,841 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 107 new fatalities include 30 from Maharashtra, 20 from Kerala, 7 each from Chhattisgarh and West Bengal and 6 each from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. A total of  1,54,703 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,169 from Maharashtra followed by 12,371 from Tamil Nadu, 12,225 from Karnataka, 10,864 from Delhi, 10,195 from West Bengal, 8,674 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,157 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-reports-12899-new-covid-19-cases-107-deaths-947299.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Army jawan killed in Pakistan ceasefire violation along LoC||An army soldier was killed in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) in Sunderbani sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Rajouri district on Wednesday night. A defence spokesperson said that Pakistan initiated firing of small arms and heavy mortar shelling targeting forward Indian posts and civilian areas along the LoC in Sunderbani “to which own troops effectively retaliated.” “In the cross-border exchange of fire, Sepoy Laxman from Rajasthan’s Jodhpur was critically injured and later succumbed,” he said. “Sepoy Laxman was a brave, highly motivated and sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” the spokesperson added. Three Army personnel have been killed in Pakistani firing along the LoC in January this year. On January 24, non-commissioned officer Naik Nishant Sharma, who was injured critically in a ceasefire violation on January 18, succumbed at Udhampur Command Hospital. On January 21, Havaldar Nirmal Singh was killed during cross-LoC shelling in Poonch district. On January 1, junior commissioned officer Naib Subedar Ravinder was killed in Pakistani firing along the LoC in Nowshera sector of Rajouri. Pakistani troops made the highest number of ceasefire violations in the last 17 years along the border in Jammu and Kashmir in 2020, amounting to over 4,000 instances or an average of over 11 such violations daily. To protect the border residents in view of increasing ceasefire violations, the central government sanctioned Rs 415 crore for the construction of over 14,400 underground bunkers along the LoC and the International Border in J&K. However, the border residents say, the work on construction of these bunkers is going on at a snail’s pace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-jawan-killed-in-pakistan-ceasefire-violation-along-loc-947306.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Girl raped, killed; 6 accused held||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped and smashed to death with stones in Korba district of Chhattisgarh, police said on Wednesday. The accused allegedly also killed the girl's father and his four-year-old granddaughter, who were along with her, they said. The incident occurred near Gadhuproda village under Lemru police station area on January 29, but came to light on Tuesday, following which six accused were arrested in this connection, Korba Superintendent of Police Abhishek Meena said. The accused were identified as Santram Majhwar (45), Abdul Jabbar (29), Anil Kumar Sarthi (20), Pardeshi Ram Panika (35), Anand Ram Panika (25) and Uamshankar Yadav (21), all natives of Satrenga village in the district, he said. "The deceased man, a resident of Barpani village, had been working as a cattle grazer at the house of prime accused Manjhwar since July last year," he said. As per the preliminary information, Manjhwar was going to drop the man, his daughter (16) and granddaughter (4) to their village on his motorcycle on January 29. On the way, they stopped at Korai village and Manjhwar consumed liquor, following which other accused also joined him, he said. The accused took the three victims to the foot of a hill surrounded by forest near Gadhuproda, where Manjhwar and another accused allegedly raped the teenage girl. They smashed all the victims with stones and sticks and dumped them in the forest before fleeing from the spot, he said. "When the deceased man's son lodged their missing report at Lemru police station on Tuesday, police swung into action and rounded up six accused following their interrogation," he said. Based on the statement of the accused, police reached the crime spot, where they found the injured rape victim alive and two others dead. She was immediately rushed to a local hospital, but succumbed to her injuries before reaching there, he said. The victims belonged to Pahadi Korwa tribal community, a Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG), police said. The accused were booked under sections IPC sections 302 (murder), 376 (2)G (gangrape) and provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-girl-raped-killed-6-accused-held-947307.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi recorded light rain under influence of fresh Western Disturbance||Delhi recorded light rain on Thursday morning under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance affecting northwest India, the India Meteorological Department said. The city's minimum temperature rose to 12.4 degrees Celsius, four notches above normal, due to cloud cover, an official said. Clouds trap some of the outgoing infrared radiation, warming the ground. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded 0.5 mm rainfall till 8:30 am. The Lodhi road weather station gauged 0.2 mm rainfall. Light rain is predicted on Friday, too. The minimum temperature is expected to remain within comfortable levels for the next three days. The minimum temperature had settled at 10.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, 6.2 degrees Celsius on Tuesday and 5.3 degrees Celsius on Monday. The maximum temperature on Wednesday stood at 25 degrees Celsius, four notches more than normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-recorded-light-rain-under-influence-of-fresh-western-disturbance-947322.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Sisters file petition in court claiming ownership of land allotted for Ayodhya mosque   ||Around a week after the laying of the foundation stone of the proposed mosque to be built at Dhannipur village near Ayodhya, two sisters filed a petition in the Allahabad high court claiming ownership of the land allotted for the mosque by the government. The sisters, Rani Kapur and Rama Rani filed the petition in the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court on Wednesday. The duo claimed that they owned five acre land, which had been allotted for the construction of the mosque and that their claim was currently under consideration before the consolidation officer of Ayodhya and that the hearing of the matter was scheduled next week. They claimed in their petition that their parents had settled in Ayodhya after leaving Pakistan during the division of the country. They said that their father Gyanchand had been allotted 28 acres of land in Dhannipur village on lease. The revenue officials, however, removed the name of their father from the records in 1998, they said adding that they had moved the commissioner of Faizabad against the decision and he decided in their favour. ''The land was allotted for the mosque by the government even though their plea was under consideration of the revenue officials,'' they said. Incidentally, the foundation stone of the mosque was laid on the Republic Day. No important political dignitary would be invited at the foundation stone laying ceremony. The sprawling Mosque complex would also have a hospital, library, research centre to be built inside the mosque complex.   The Sunni Central Waqf Board has been allotted five acres of land at Dhannipur, about 30 kilometres from Ayodhya for building a mosque as per the supreme court order. The Board has set up an Indo Islamic Cultural Foundation Trust to oversee the construction of the mosque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sisters-file-petition-in-court-claiming-ownership-of-land-allotted-for-ayodhya-mosque-947326.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Bad weather disrupts flight operations in Kashmir for second day||The air traffic to and fro Kashmir was affected for the second consecutive day on Thursday due to bad weather as most parts of the valley received snowfall overnight, officials said. “The flight operations at Srinagar airport were hampered as no flights have been able to land so far today due to bad weather,” the officials said. They said the accumulation of snow on the runway and poor visibility affected the operations. The officials said while the runway has been cleared, the visibility was still poor for the operations to take place. “The MET department has said the weather will improve in a few hours, therefore, we expect the flight operations to start around noon,” they added. The flight operations at the airport were affected on Wednesday as well as most parts of the valley received snowfall. As many as 14 flights were cancelled due to poor visibility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bad-weather-disrupts-flight-operations-in-kashmir-for-second-day-947332.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Former village head rapes, impregnates teen girl in UP||A former village head has been booked for allegedly raping a teenage girl and impregnating her in Fatehpur district in Uttar Pradesh, police said on Thursday. Based on a complaint filed by the girl's father, a case was registered against the 50-year-old former village head on Wednesday under relevant sections of the IPC and the POCSO Act, a police officer said. The accused, however, claimed that it was "fake case" lodged against him as panchyat elections are approaching. According to the complaint, the accused raped the girl around five months ago and threatened her not to reveal it to anyone. The girl told her mother about it earlier this week on being asked if she was pregnant. The girl has been sent for medical examination and the matter is being probed, the police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-village-head-rapes-impregnates-teen-girl-in-up-947334.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Martyrs of Chauri Chaura incident keep inspiring us: PM Modi inaugurates centenary celebrations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday inaugurated the centenary celebrations of the Chauri Chaura incident in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh.  Recalling the incident, the prime minister said, "The incident of Chauri Chaura was not limited to a police station being set on fire. The message of the incident was huge. Due to various reasons, it was treated as a minor incident, but we should see it in context. The fire was not just in the station but in the hearts of people." "It is unfortunate that the martyrs of the Chauri Chaura incident have not been discussed as much as they should have been. Although they have not been given significance in pages of history, their blood is in the soil of the country and it keeps inspiring us," PM Modi said. The prime minister also released a postal stamp dedicated to the Chauri Chaura centenary. Chauri Chaura Centenary Celebrations: "At a time when the Britishers were adamant on giving capital punishment, Baba Raghav Das and Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya saved 150 of them from being hanged," Modi said. He said the youth should write research papers and bring new facts to light about this incident. Talking about the Budget, he said, "Many steps have been taken and announced in Budget 2021 to help farmers. The rural infrastructure has also been increased to benefit farmers and make them ‘aatmanirbhar’". The centenary celebrations and various events planned by the state government will begin in all 75 districts of the state on February 4 and will continue till February 4, 2022.  A group of freedom fighters participating in the non-cooperation movement launched by Mahatma Gandhi in 1922 were fired upon by police, leading to the death of many of them. In retaliation, protestors attacked and set fire to the Chauri Chaura police station, killing many of its occupants. The colonial administration tried a large number of people, with many of them executed and many more condemned to life in prison for the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/martyrs-of-chauri-chaura-incident-keep-inspiring-us-pm-modi-inaugurates-centenary-celebrations-947335.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Vehicles in Priyanka Gandhi's convoy collide in UP's Hapur, none hurt||Three to four vehicles in Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi's convoy collided on a highway in western Uttar Pradesh's Hapur district on Thursday morning. No one was hurt in the incident that took place near Garh Mukteshwar area. The vehicles, including SUVs, were following Gandhi's car, according to purported videos that have surfaced on social media. Accompanied by Congress' Uttar Pradesh unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, Gandhi is headed to Rampur to attended the 'antim ardaas' of Navreet Singh, a resident of Dibdiba village in the district who died on January 26 in Delhi where he was participating in the farmers' protest against the new agri laws. Earlier in the day, Lallu retweeted a post which had a video of him along with Gandhi seated in a car en route to Rampur. Congress, among other opposition parties including BJP's former allies Shiromani Akali Dal and Shiv Sena, has lent its support to the farmers' agitation. Thousands of farmers are camping at Delhi borders since November demanding that the Centre take back the three laws enacted last September and guarantee minimum support price for crops. The Centre has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vehicles-in-priyanka-gandhis-convoy-collide-in-ups-hapur-none-hurt-947344.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Treat as representation PIL to include legal fraternity in phase-1 of Covid-19 vaccination: Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked the Centre to treat as a representation a PIL seeking inclusion of judges, judicial staff and lawyers in the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh said deciding priority for vaccination was a policy decision and the court was not going to change it. "We see no reason to change the priority of the government for Covid-19 vaccination because it is a policy decision based on a variety of factors," the bench said. "Nonetheless, looking at facts and circumstances of the case, the petition be treated as a representation and the grievances in it be decided in accordance with the law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the facts of the case," the court said. It further said that a decision be taken as expeditiously as possible and practicable and with the observation, disposed of the plea by a lawyer. The government has decided to provide Covid-19 vaccination in the first phase to medical professionals, health workers, police, security officials and sanitation workers who all have been combating the pandemic at the frontlines. The petition had contended that since "justice was being delayed" due to the Covid-19, the legal fraternity should also be considered for vaccination in the first phase so that judicial work can continue as it did before the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/treat-as-representation-pil-to-include-legal-fraternity-in-phase-1-of-covid-19-vaccination-delhi-high-court-947348.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal launches 'Switch Delhi' campaign to promote electric vehicles||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday launched the 'Switch Delhi' campaign to promote electric vehicles and appealed to people to buy such vehicles to combat pollution in the city. Kejriwal said his government will hire only electric vehicles for various purposes in the next six weeks. He asked delivery chains and big companies, resident welfare associations, market associations, malls and cinema halls to promote electric vehicles and set up charging stations at their premises. "I also want to appeal to the youth to buy an electric vehicle as their first vehicle." He appealed to people to make the campaign a mass movement. The Delhi government's electric vehicle policy is considered one of the best in the world and it's high time now to implement it with commitment, he said. "In 'Switch Delhi' campaign, awareness will be created about benefits of electric vehicles and how it can contribute to making Delhi clean and pollution free. I appeal to people to take part in the campaign to promote replacement of polluting petrol and diesel vehicles with electric vehicles and make contribution towards a pollution-free Delhi," he said. Under its electric vehicle policy, the Delhi government has planned extensive subsidies on purchase of electric two-wheelers and four-wheelers, besides waiving road tax and registration charges, he said. More than 6,000 electric vehicles have been purchased since the policy launch in August 2020. The government has also issued tenders for setting up 100 charging stations across the city, Kejriwal said. The government has fixed an ambitious target of 25 per cent electric vehicles among total vehicle registrations in Delhi by 2024, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-launches-switch-delhi-campaign-to-promote-electric-vehicles-947360.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Iron nails fixed on roads at Ghazipur border being 'repositioned', says Delhi Police||Iron nails studded on roads at Ghazipur border to restrict the movement of farmers agitating against the new agri laws are being "repositioned", a senior police officer said on Thursday. The statement comes after videos and photos of workers removing the nails near Ghazipur border surfaced on social media. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Deepak Yadav asserted that the security arrangements at the border will remain the same. "Videos and photos are getting circulated in which it is shown that nails are being taken off at Ghazipur. These are just being repositioned. Security arrangement at the border remains the same," he said. Security arrangements continue to be strengthened at Ghazipur border, days after Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait's emotional appeal had galvanised farmers from Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand to flock to the Delhi-UP border. Drones have also been deployed to monitor the protesters. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have been camping at Delhi's borders for weeks, seeking a repeal of the three agriculture laws. They claim that the new laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system. But the Centre says the laws will only give farmers more options to sell their produce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/iron-nails-fixed-on-roads-at-ghazipur-border-being-repositioned-says-delhi-police-947368.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Cold wave conditions prevail in parts of Uttar Pradesh||Cold wave conditions prevailed at isolated places over parts of Uttar Pradesh with Etawah being the coldest place in the state at 2.4 degrees Celsius, the Meteorological (MeT) Department said here on Thursday. The day temperatures rose appreciably in Allahabad, Lucknow, Bareilly, Jhansi; fell appreciably in the Moradabad division and there was a large change in the remaining divisions over the state. "Cold to severe cold day conditions and dense to very dense fog occurred at isolated places over east and west Uttar Pradesh," a MeT Department report said here. The highest maximum temperature over the state was 27.1 degrees Celsius recorded at the Jhansi observatory, it said. The night temperatures rose appreciably in the Moradabad division and no large change was witnessed in the remaining divisions of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-wave-conditions-prevail-in-parts-of-uttar-pradesh-947406.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir courts to hear cases physically from Feb 8 as coronavirus cases decline||The physical hearing of cases in courts across Jammu and Kashmir will resume from next week following elaborate Covid-19 norms. Jammu and Kashmir Chief Justice, Justice Pankaj Mithal said that the physical hearing of cases in the High Court as well as in the district, subordinate courts and tribunals will resume from February 8. To ensure that there is no complacency against the spread of Covid-19, the order called for following certain protocols. The entry of the advocates into the court rooms will be regulated case-wise while the general entry in court rooms shall continue to remain prohibited, the order read. The entry of clerks and agents of the advocates into the court rooms shall continue to be prohibited for the time being while the entry of litigants and public into the Court premises shall continue to be barred, the order said. If, however, any litigant on any reasonable ground is compelled to argue his case personally, he shall be allowed entry into the Court premises subject to the condition that he makes an application at least two days prior to the date of hearing through email. For the time being, advocates are free to file their cases/applications either physically or virtually, the order said. For the time being, issuance of the cause list of the High Court in hard/printed form shall continue to be suspended and will be in the soft form and made available on the official website of the High Court. This protocol will be reviewed periodically depending on the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-courts-to-hear-cases-physically-from-feb-8-as-coronavirus-cases-decline-947415.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Snake checks into bank, rescued in Delhi||A four-foot-long checkered keelback, commonly known as Asiatic water snake, entered a bank in New Friends Colony on Thursday, triggering panic among staff present there. The snake was found curled around the handrail of the staircase leading to the basement, a bank official said. The authorities immediately contacted NGO Wildlife SOS which rushed two trained snake rescuers to the location.  The snake has been released back into the wild. Kartick Satyanarayan, Wildlife SOS co-founder and CEO said, "Though non-venomous, keelbacks turn aggressive when threatened, and may bite in retaliation or self-defence. Caution needs to be maintained while carrying out such rescue operations."  The checkered keelback is one of the most frequently encountered semi-aquatic snakes in India. Their preferred habitat is or near freshwater lakes and rivers. They feed mainly on small fish and water frogs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/snake-checks-into-bank-rescued-in-delhi-947462.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Hizbul narco-terror case: NIA recovers Rs 20 lakh during raids in Punjab||The National Investigating Agency (NIA), probing Hizbul Mujahideen narco-terror case, recovered Rs 20 lakh and 120 live cartridges from the house of a suspect during searches in Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts of Punjab on Thursday. In a statement, a spokesperson of the NIA said the searches were carried out at the premises of suspect Manpreet Singh, of Kala Afghana, Teja Khurd, Batala, District-Amritsar, a close associate of charge-sheeted accused Ranjit Singh alias Cheetah and Iqbal Singh alias Shera in connection with investigation of the case. "The case relates to arrest of Hilal Ahmad Shergojri, an over ground worker (OGW) of the Hizbul and a close associate of Riyaz Naikoo, the then commander of Hizbul, who had come to Amritsar to collect the funds to further the militant activities in J&K. Rs 29 lakhs along with a Tata truck was seized from the accused on 25.04.2020 by Punjab Police,” the NIA statement said. “The case was re-registered by NIA as RC-23/2020/NIA/DLI dated 08.05.2020 and taken up for investigation. The NIA has filed chargesheets against 11 accused persons in special NIA Court, Mohali in the case," it added. The statement further said that during investigation, it was revealed that Manpreet Singh, a hawala operator, had collected heroin, drug proceeds and weapons and transported them in his i20 and Verna cars as per directions of accused Ranjit Singh and Iqbal Singh. "Further, Manpreet Singh delivered the drug proceeds to the tune of Rs 35 lakh and weapons to the charge-sheeted accused Bikram Singh alias Vicky, relative of Ranjeet in March 2020,” the statement said. It further said that during searches conducted on Thursday, Rs 20 lakh (drug proceeds) 130 live 9 mm rounds, mobile phones, pen drive, one bunch of polythene bags used for packing heroin, one Hyundai Verna car, a two wheeler, documents related to properties, and other incriminating documents were seized from the house of the suspect. “Further investigation in the case continues,” the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hizbul-narco-terror-case-nia-recovers-rs-20-lakh-during-raids-in-punjab-947470.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Second phase of Covid-19 vaccine drive launched in Haryana, DGP gets first jab among police force||Haryana Director General of Police Manoj Yadava was the first person among the state police to receive Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday as the second phase of inoculation drive commenced for frontline workers. The second phase of Covid-19 vaccine was rolled out in Haryana on Thursday and frontline workers will get the jab during the drive. While the DGP and some other senior police officers got the jab at the state police headquarters in Panchkula, Health Minister Anil Vij launched the statewide second phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive for frontline workers in Gurugram. About 4.50 lakh frontline workers will get the Covid-19 vaccination during the drive, Vij said. The frontline workers include employees of police, revenue department, panchayati raj institutions, jail, home guard and urban local bodies department. The DGP volunteered to be the first one among the Haryana Police to get the jab. Speaking on the occasion, the DGP said the entire police force had worked continuously on the frontline when Covid-19 was at its peak. “Besides maintaining law and order, each of our officers and jawans fearlessly ensured food to the poor and needy persons, the safe home return of migrant workers and labourers and also took care of the elderly. During the lockdown, the humane face of the police came to fore and police efforts in serving mankind were also recognized at the national level,” the DGP said. In the first phase, the state has administered vaccines to nearly 1.30 lakh healthcare workers so far. The first phase of vaccination against Covid-19 began in Haryana on January 16 with several health workers, the foremost warriors in the battle against the pandemic, getting the shots during the drive. DGP Yadava encouraged the police officers and jawans by volunteering to get vaccinated first among the force, an official statement said. Subsequently, DGP (State Vigilance Bureau) PK Agrawal, DGP (Crime) Mohd. Akil, ADGP (Administration and IT) A S Chawla, ADGP (Vigilance) Ajay Singhal, IGP M Ravi Kiran, IGP Rajinder Kumar, Panchkula Police Commissioner Saurabh Singh and other police officers got themselves vaccinated. Yadava said around 3,000 state police personnel have been infected with the virus during the pandemic out of which 14 police personnel working in the frontlines have lost their lives due to Covid-19. The DGP appealed to the entire police force as well as the general public to come forward and get vaccinated in the upcoming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/second-phase-of-covid-19-vaccine-drive-launched-in-haryana-dgp-gets-first-jab-among-police-force-947490.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Mobile internet curbs brought down to two districts in Haryana||The Haryana government on Thursday lifted mobile internet curbs from three more districts even as the services will continue to remain suspended in Sonipat and Jhajjar districts of the state till 5 pm on February 5, an official statement said. The mobile internet services were suspended in some districts of the state "to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order" amid a protest by farmers against three agricultural laws. “Haryana Government has extended the suspension of mobile internet services (2G/3G/4G/CDMA/GPRS), SMS services (only bulk SMS) and all dongle services etc. provided on mobile networks except the voice calls in two districts namely Sonipat and Jhajjar till 5 pm on February 5,” the statement said. The order has been issued to prevent any disturbance of peace and public order in the jurisdiction of these districts of Haryana and shall be in force with immediate effect. Any person who will be found guilty of violation of aforesaid order will be liable for legal action under relevant provisions, the order stated. While the mobile internet suspension was extended in 17 districts after putting these curbs initially in three districts by February 3, it remained in place only in five districts -- Kaithal, Jind, Rohtak, Sonipat and Jhajjar. However, as mobile internet continues to remain suspended in Sonipat and Jhajjar, the two districts near protest sites of Singhu and Tikri borders, the restrictions in the remaining three districts have been lifted. The government's move to suspend mobile internet services in 17 districts earlier and later on keeping these suspended in a few places led to protests by farmers in the state. Opposition parties had also condemned the curbs on mobile internet in some parts, saying the move would affect the students who were preparing to appear in final exams. On January 26, the state government had ordered suspension of mobile internet services in three districts near Delhi after violence broke out during the farmers' tractor parade in the national capital on Republic Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mobile-internet-curbs-brought-down-to-two-districts-in-haryana-947533.html
04-02-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal directs officials to finalise digital health management project by mid-2021||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday directed officials to finalise the Health Information Management System (HIMS) project by the middle of this year and start distribution of e-health cards at the earliest. The chief minister reviewed works related to the HIMS project, e-health card and health helpline, along with Health minister Satyendar Jain and officials of the department. Apprising the chief minister on the progress of the project, the Health department officials said the work is being done as per schedule, said a Delhi government statement. "The Chief Minister directed the officials to ensure that the work is completed within the stipulated deadline. He also instructed to ensure that the distribution of the health cards is started at the earliest," it said.  Kejriwal directed the officials to finalise the project by the middle of this year. With HIMS in place, Delhi will become the only state in the country to have a cloud-based health management system, the statement claimed. The Health Information Management System will be implemented by August 2021 in all the Delhi government hospitals. It will be expanded to include private hospitals in future. "All the patient care services, hospital administration, budgeting and planning, supply chain management, and back end services and processes will be brought under the system," the statement said. The entire system will be on the cloud and digitised. This will bring all health-related information on one platform and help people in emergency cases, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-directs-officials-to-finalise-digital-health-management-project-by-mid-2021-947560.html
04-02-2021||Opinion||How Facebook makes money despite being hated||By Shira Ovide Come a little closer to your screen. That’s it. I want to tell you a secret: Facebook is the best money machine on the internet, and it’s not a close call.* Facebook may be an indefensible company that normalizes invasive tracking of people for dollars. It’s a place where extremists have ricocheted hate around the world. It may be melting our brains. And it’s being sued or prodded by so many governments that I have lost count. You might hate it. I might hate it? But I almost can’t believe how many of us rely on Facebook, and how stupidly successful it is. The company said Wednesday that its sales — nearly all of which come from the ads it sells on Facebook, on Instagram and its other apps — reached nearly $86 billion in 2020 and are growing rapidly. Each day, 2.6 billion people use at least one of Facebook’s apps, and the user numbers are rising. This is a company that is embroiled in a different scandal each week and that people say they dislike, yet its products are used by billions of people, and businesses spent like crazy on ads during a pandemic to reach them. And the really wild thing is that Facebook’s products cost the company almost nothing to make. The Instagram selfie of you being vaccinated, the post from Mom about a fundraiser, and your Facebook parenting group — those are the company’s products, and most of us are making them for free. It means that Facebook is very profitable. I’ve been writing about corporate finances for a long time. I don’t think I’ve ever seen this combination of popularity, fast-growing sales, fat profits — and complete revulsion. “The gap between Facebook’s public reputation and its financial success has never been greater,” Kurt Wagner of Bloomberg wrote this past week. Historians, tell me if there’s a comparable company that was so reviled and yet so widely used and successful. (If you say the Gilded Age trusts like Standard Oil, I’d argue they make the point for Facebook’s critics who want the company broken up like the trusts of a century ago.) Near the beginning of the coronavirus outbreak, my colleagues wrote that strong companies like America’s technology superpowers would most likely become even stronger in this crisis. But as corporations’ 2020 financial returns roll in, it’s clear that we underestimated just how much the rich would get richer. Apple, Netflix, Microsoft and other tech powers are making products that people and businesses are relying on to make it through a pandemic. And they are raking in money hand over fist. I’m not sure how to feel about this. Yes, I’m grateful that companies like Facebook, Amazon, Google and others are helping us work, go to school, shop, and stay entertained and connected at a time like this. But it’s also hard to ignore the disconnect between their mountains of money and the shaky condition of most major economies in 2020 and the battered finances of many families. This is not a novel reflection about the gap between the haves and the have-nots in this pandemic. I’m just left again unsure how to answer an essential question: Is what’s good for Big Tech good for all of us? (OK, fine. Google search is perhaps the internet’s very best money machine. Feel free to argue with me!) Being Informed(-ish) isn’t good enough Thursday was Data Privacy Day. This fake holiday has become an opportunity for Facebook to remind people to review their privacy settings. It’s also an opportunity for me to remind you that this is a charade. These nudges from Facebook as well as Apple's data privacy labels and a California privacy law all reveal a fundamental flaw in how our data is treated in the United States. The mission is to inform us of what data companies are collecting on us and give us (some) measure of choice. But I don’t want being informed to be the final goal. The focus on making data collection transparent(-ish) is why we have long privacy policies that give a choice between agreeing to anything a company wants to do and not using the service. It’s why technology executives tout our ability to delete voice recordings from inside our homes — but don’t stop the data from being collected in the first place. It’s why an app used to open and close a garage door also collects information to target users with internet ads. (Yes, really.) Washington Post columnist Geoffrey Fowler has written that we should reframe data privacy around a simple question: Why is so much of our information being collected in the first place? The answer is, because companies can. When every company from Facebook to a maker of garage door openers is racing to collect as much data as possible, we can’t really opt out — unless we want to cut ourselves off from 21st-century life. So if Facebook reminds you to look at its 40,000 privacy settings, go for it. But I suggest you also remember Fowler’s question: Why is so much information being collected at all?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-facebook-makes-money-despite-being-hated-947318.html
04-02-2021||Panorama||Temple vandalism is giving rise to communal politics in Andhra. Whodunnit?||At a time when a grand Ram Mandir is finally taking shape in Ayodhya after decades of communal, electoral and legal confrontations over the emotive issue, politics in Andhra Pradesh is centred around a small but centuries-old Ram Mandir in Vizianagaram district. The vandalism on December 29 in the sanctum sanctorum of the Bodikonda Ramatheertham temple is seen as the most vicious in a series of over 40 malicious incidents that reportedly took place at various Hindu temples, religious sites across the state in the last 20 months – coinciding with Jaganmohan Reddy's regime. The focus on the Covid-19 pandemic during the last one year has been interspersed with the news of such communally sensitive incidents in Andhra Pradesh. A few of these unsavoury events took place at highly revered shrines like Antarvedi Lakshminarasimhaswamy temple. In September, the imposing wooden chariot of Antarvedi's presiding deity was gutted under mysterious circumstances in the middle of the night. Earlier, in February, the chariot of the Prasanna Venkateshwaraswamy temple was charred in Bitragunta in Nellore district. Incidents of damage to religious idols and structures surfaced from several other places simultaneously and received wide publicity on the Telugu news channels and social media. The police claim to have solved most of the cases and arrested the offenders but the cause and culprits behind the Antarvedi, Ramatheertham and a few other cases have remained unrevealed, aggravating the mystery in the minds of the people. The Jagan Reddy government said that it has referred the Antarvedi case to the CBI, while following the Ramatheertham incident, it formed a Special Investigation Team, headed by a senior IPS, to “investigate offences relating to temples and idols desecration from September onwards.” In such a situation, these "temple attacks" seem to have provided a much-needed impetus to the opposition Telugu Desam Party and the BJP-Janasena combine struggling to take on the ruling YSRCP's electoral might. In the 2019 elections, Chandrababu Naidu's TDP was reduced to a mere 23 MLAs, with voters conferring power on Reddy with a resounding majority of 151 MLAs in the 175-member Assembly. While Pawan Kalyan's Janasena managed to win only one seat, the BJP drew a blank, down from four in the earlier Assembly. 'Christian Jagan'  The TDP, BJP and Janasena, which were regularly attacking the Reddy government with allegations of corruption, rising prices, law and order and other public concerns, have turned public attention to the Chief Minister’s personal religious affiliation. The attacks on idols and temples have given them a stick to beat him with on the issue. Former CM Naidu, whose pet peeve so far has been Amaravati, his dream capital city project which is in the doldrums, thanks to Reddy, and who broke ranks with the BJP-led NDA, has shifted the focus of his attacks to Ramatheertham, even shouting the “Jai Shree Ram” slogan. He must have calculated that his appeal to the public – from Srikakulam to Anantapuram – to support Amaravati as the sole capital did not evoke much response. “When the nation is celebrating the construction of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, it is painful to see what has happened at our Ramatheertham,” Naidu said while addressing a public meeting after visiting the temple in January. Shedding his inhibitions, the TDP supremo took a step ahead of the BJP and accused "Christian Jagan" of promoting religious conversions in the state. Naidu had never made statements along communal lines before, analysts say, “not even when he was with the BJP during AB Vajpayee or Narendra Modi’s time.” Naidu also made charges of rampant proselytization activities at famous Hindu pilgrimage places like Tirupati, Annavaram and alleged that YSRCP ministers were mocking Hindu gods and culture to appease the Chief Minister. Naidu said the Jagan Reddy government's indifference was encouraging more such spiteful incidents and called upon the people “to resolve to defend our gods and temples.” Analysts see Naidu's unprecedented onslaught as a calculated move as the followers of Christianity in the state, many of them said to be from the Scheduled Castes, are solidly behind Jagan Reddy, besides his own community of Reddys and a sizable section of Muslims and Scheduled Tribes. In their bid to regroup the various caste groups, the TDP on the one hand and the BJP-Janasena combine on the other are making a zealous Hindutva pitch. Some observers say that the ensuing Tirupati Lok Sabha by-poll, following the death of the sitting YSRCP MP, could become the first test ground for full-fledged communal politics in the state, but others assert that Andhra voters are disinclined towards such issues. While state DGP Gautam Sawang says that violations at temples happened during TDP rule, too, YSRCP leaders are accusing Naidu and BJP of blowing the temple incidents out of proportion to target the Chief Minister. However, as the alleged temple desecrations spiralled into a raging controversy, Jagan Reddy has, in an apparent damage control exercise, laid the foundation for the reconstruction of nine temples along the Krishna riverbank in Vijayawada that were razed during Naidu's time as CM for the Pushkaram road-widening works. Reddy also participated in a Kamadhenu puja on Kanuma, days after accusing the opposition of carrying out “political guerilla warfare” against his government in the form of temple attacks "timed to deflect the public’s attention from the launch of my government's various welfare programmes." The Andhra police later named a few TDP and BJP men as responsible for some of the lesser-known temple offences. The government also got new idols of Rama, Sita and Lakshmana made at Tirupati and installed at Ramatheertham, with an assurance to renovate the Bodikonda temple. A new chariot has been readied for the Antarvedi temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/temple-vandalism-is-giving-rise-to-communal-politics-in-andhra-whodunnit-947237.html
04-02-2021||Panorama||Can RBI fix flaws in NEFT?||In spite of the myriad of options for digital transactions like Bhim UPI, e-wallets, NEFT or National Electronic fund transfer is popular among many Indians. NEFT transactions increased from Rs 172.22 lakh crore in FY18 to Rs 229.45 lakh crore in FY20. Thanks to digital banking in general and NEFT in particular, footfall in banks has steadily declined by over 50% over the past 3 years. Before we understand the flaws in the present NEFT system and the possible solutions, let us understand NEFT a bit. NEFT was started in November 2005 by India’s banking regulator Reserve Bank of India (RBI). NEFT allows bank customers to transfer funds between two NEFT-enabled bank accounts through electronic messages and uses an hourly batch processing system.    RBI has taken proactive actions to ensure safe transactions for the general public. A case is the recent swift actions from the regulator in curbing unauthorised ‘lightning speed’ loan disbursal apps. However, fund transfer using NEFT can be very stressful due to flaws in the existing system. RBI would do well to address the flaws and help in strengthening the system.   When someone plans to transfer money using NEFT from one bank to another bank, the first step is to register the payee or recipient. As part of the registration process, some banks require the payee account number to be entered twice to avoid errors, while other banks register the payee with a one-time entry of the account details. Where is the flaw? The current system does not check if the payee details - account number, IFSC code, and name entered are accurate.  What prevents the current system to validate the information as done in the case of UPI for fund transfer? The process gets tricky during the actual transfer. If the payee account number is wrong and there is no other account with this account number within the payee’s bank, the amount will be returned to the sender’s account. If the account number is a valid account held by another individual within the payee bank, the amount will be credited into his/her account without any check for name or branch code. To avoid erroneous transfer, wise people suggest that first a token amount be transferred before the full amount. In this digital age, there is no need for such two steps process, if the system validates the payee details during registration.  Also, NEFT transfer should not be done without matching the name and IFSC code. If these two steps are mandated by RBI, erroneous money transfer cases can be completely eliminated. What happens in the event of an erroneous transfer? Anecdotal data indicates that over 70-80% of the unintended recipients promptly alert their banks and the money is returned to the sender. Banking experts indicate that the prompt action from the unintended recipients can be attributed to genuine good intent or fear of potential implications considering that the money has been credited from an unknown sender. The present system provides a great opportunity for the rest of 20-30% of the cases, allowing them to make quick money and abscond. While banks would try to recover the money on a “best-effort” basis, there is no legal protection for the fund transferor. Of course, the transferor’s fault is that he or she entered the wrong account number. Just imagine a situation where an erroneous transfer resulted in the amount credited into a fraud’s account outside the state. Essentially, Digital banking infrastructure has simply failed in providing a timely alert and allowing preventive or corrective action. It is concerning that the flaws with the NEFT system is well known among banking staff, yet no action is taken in the guise of system limitation. RBI’s move to allow 24x7 availability of NEFT and RTGS is welcome. However, the support system and infrastructure for this are completely missing. Attempts to contact the phone help or Website/ email etc is futile. Meaningless automated response stating that the issue will be taken up within 48 hours is not helping. Urgent need for RBI to mandate the Banks to provide a resolution within an SLA (Service Level Agreement) 30 minutes or 60 minutes is needed.  With rapid advancements in technologies like AI/ML, the banking infrastructure must provide the alerts to the Bank managers to prevent fraudulent transactions.    Is the RBI listening? (The writer is an ICT professional and columnist based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/can-rbi-fix-flaws-in-neft-947238.html
04-02-2021||Panorama||The sound of God||Allahu Akbar (God is great),” hailed the muezzin, calling the faithful for prayers. Time stopped. I lit a diya. The same sonorous intonation, it was, unmistakably, the boy who recited the azaan at the nearby mosque. His pre-teen voice had cracked up, though, over the years. Standing in front of my god, I soaked in his mellifluous rendition and chanted Hanuman Chalisa.   Rituals, I don’t much believe in. I light the lamp, for, it evokes fuzzy memories of my parents and recite Chalisa because it has a certain ring to it, especially, if rendered in the timbre vocals of Pandit Hari Om Sharan. In the years gone by, Panditji would wake us up with his soulful singing on our Murphy radio, just in time for school. He would offer “Premanjali Puspanjali” on AIR’s Vividh Bharati every morning. His heartfelt invocation of Vignaharata Ganesh, “Sankatmochan Hanuman, Banke Bihari, Bholenath become a huge part of our subconscious. Atop the Dalma hills, stood a Shiva temple and these bhajans were played out, my husband, too, recalled his Jamshedpur days. Shabd kirtan from a gurudwara nearby, too, fills the stillness of the mornings when the breeze blows our way.  Come mornings and my wake-up calls are the soft tweets of the sparrows residing in the teeny-weeny slit under my air-conditioner, signalling the dawn of a new day. Venturing out onto my balcony, I am inundated by the cheery chorus of a myriad winged species intimating all is well. The caws of the wily crows, the screeches of the flashy parakeets, the low whistles of the magnificent urban raptors, the gutturals of the omnipresent pigeons, the chirrups of the vibrant kingfishers… not in unison, at different decibels and varied frequencies. Now that’s what I call a symphony… a perfectly orchestrated one… music to my ears, which comes with a moment of discovery… the discovery of a note, a tune, a well-coordinated verse … a vibe…a positive one… one’s heartbeat in finely tuned surroundings under the all-encompassing umbrella of evanescent sound waves… the sound of God.   “Allahu Akbar” wafted through the air in the wee hours for Fajr, the first of the mandatory five prayers daily.  “Hi God, good morning,” I said and snuggled myself back to sleep. God is indeed great.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-sound-of-god-947239.html
04-02-2021||Panorama||The case of the serial sperm donor||In 2015, Vanessa van Ewijk, a carpenter in the Netherlands, decided that she wanted to have a child. She was 34 and single, and so, like many women, she sought out a sperm donor. She considered conceiving through a fertility clinic, but the cost was prohibitive for her. Instead, she found an ideal candidate through a website called Desire for a Child, one of a growing number of online sperm markets that match candidate donors directly with potential recipients. Van Ewijk was drawn to one profile in particular, that of Jonathan Jacob Meijer, a Dutch musician in his 30s. Meijer was handsome, with blue eyes and a mane of curly blond hair. Van Ewijk liked how genuine he appeared. “I spoke to him on the phone and he seemed gentle and kind and well-behaved,” she said. “He liked music, and he talked about his thoughts on life. He didn’t come on strong in any sense. He seemed like the boy next door.” About a month later, after some back-and-forth, she and Meijer arranged to meet at Central Station, a busy railway hub in The Hague. He provided her with his sperm, and in return she paid him 165 euros, about $200, and covered his travel costs. Months later she gave birth to a daughter — her first child and, Meijer told her, his eighth. (Meijer declined to be interviewed for this article but did answer some questions by email, and stated that he did not grant permission for his name to be published.) In 2017, when she decided to conceive again, she reached out once more to Meijer. Once again he met with her and, for a similarly modest fee, provided a container of his semen; once again she became pregnant, and gave birth to a boy. Even before then, however, van Ewijk had learned some unsettling news. She had connected on Facebook with another single mother who also had used Meijer as a donor, and who told her that, according to an investigation in 2017 by the Dutch Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport, he had fathered at least 102 children in the Netherlands through numerous fertility clinics, a tally that did not include his private donations through websites. Van Ewijk wanted her children to be full siblings, so she still wanted Meijer to be the donor. Nonetheless, she was alarmed. The Netherlands is a small country, home to 17 million people; the more half-siblings there are in the population who are unknown to one another, the greater the odds that two of them might meet unwittingly and produce children of their own — children with a heightened risk of carrying hereditary defects. Furious, van Ewijk confronted Meijer. He admitted that he had produced at least 175 children and conceded that there might be more. “He said, ‘I’m just helping women make their biggest wish come true,’” van Ewijk recalled. “I said: ‘You’re not helping anymore! How do I tell my kids that they could possibly have 300 siblings?’” She may have only known the half of it. The first child of in vitro fertilization was born in 1978, and in the decades since, sperm donation has become a thriving global business, as fertility clinics, sperm banks and private donors have sought to meet the demand of parents eager to conceive. As an industry, however, it is poorly regulated. A patchwork of laws ostensibly addresses who can donate, where and how often, in part to avoid introducing or amplifying genetic disabilities in a population. In Germany, a sperm-clinic donor may not produce more than 15 children; in the United Kingdom the cap is 10 families of unlimited children. In the Netherlands, Dutch law prohibits donating anonymously, and nonbinding guidelines limit clinic donors to 25 children and from donating at more than one clinic in the country. In the United States there are no legal limits, only guidelines from the American Society for Reproductive Medicine: 25 children per donor in a population of 800,000. Regulation is even more scarce internationally. There is little to stop a sperm donor from donating at clinics in countries other than his own, or at global agencies like Cryos International, the world’s biggest sperm clinic, in Denmark, which ships semen to more than 100 countries. “There’s nothing in the U.S. or anywhere that would keep a donor from donating at more than one sperm bank,” said Wendy Kramer, a co-founder and the executive director of the Donor Sibling Registry, an organization in the United States that supports donor families. “The sperm banks claim that they ask the donor if they’ve donated anywhere else, but nobody knows if they really do.” And few if any laws govern private donations, of the kind that van Ewijk and Meijer arranged through the internet. Through these gaps, several cases have emerged of donors who have fathered scores of children or more, and of grown children discovering, often through social media, that they have not just a handful of half-siblings but dozens of them. In 2019, the Dutch Donor Child Foundation, an advocacy group that facilitates legal and emotional support for donor-conceived people and their families and helps search for biological relatives, determined through DNA testing that Dr. Jan Karbaat, a fertility specialist who died in 2017, had secretly fathered at least 68 children, born to women who visited his clinic near Rotterdam. In 2017, after confronting Meijer, van Ewijk notified the Dutch Donor Child Foundation that he had many more children than he had initially revealed, and that he had been donating sperm at several clinics. The group already knew of him, from other mothers with the same complaint. The foundation soon determined that Meijer had privately fathered at least 80 children in the Netherlands, in addition to the 102 that the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport had identified through 11 clinics in the country. The government ordered all Dutch sperm clinics to stop using Meijer’s semen. The issue of serial sperm donation has been recognized in other countries as well. Christina Motejl, a lawyer in Berlin, is a member of Donor Offspring Europe, a network of organizations of donor-conceived adults in Europe. She said that the group was concerned about donors who travel around Europe trying to father as many children as possible. “It’s kind of disgusting in a narcissistic way,” she said. “No sane person would want 100 children or more. The big question is why? These men want confirmation that they’re a great guy and everybody wants them.” A mother in Australia who purchased Meijer’s sperm through Cryos and had a child said she was disturbed by how many children he turned out to have. (She asked that her name not be used, for privacy reasons.) She and 50 or so other mothers who used his sperm have formed a group, Moms on a Mission, to try to get him to stop donating. Their goal is to connect with as many other parents as they can, to find out the true number of offspring he has produced, so that their children can contact each other as they get older. Many of the mothers wonder how their children will ever be able to have a relationship with their biological father when he has so many other children. The group also advocates for the creation of an international database of sperm donors. “That way these men can’t just donate whenever they want and create all these children in the world without parents even consenting to the fact,” the Australian mother said. “I can’t imagine what our son is going to think when he finds out.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-case-of-the-serial-sperm-donor-947266.html
04-02-2021||Right in the Middle||On the tracks||When I was called upon to attend official meetings in the national capital and elsewhere in the country, I reached my destinations courtesy Indian Railways. Train reservations followed meeting notifications.  My first long-distance journey was by the GT Express from Madras to New Delhi. Though I shared the cabin with three men, all strangers, once the train started, there was much bonhomie. There were light moments also, such as when a co-passenger, on sighting a water body asked, “Is this the Ganges?” On reaching New Delhi, I thanked the co-passengers who replied, “We should be the ones to thank you for the pleasant journey.” I soon switched over to the Secunderabad-AP Express combo on my journeys to New Delhi. The interim hours between the trains’ arrival and departure in Secunderabad were spent with Kamran Latifi, my father’s contemporary in Cambridge, UK.  I learned to cope with the challenges of rail travel. Missed the connecting AP Express? Never mind. Take the Dakshin Express instead. Once, derailment on the track ahead forced the KK Express to return to its starting point, Secunderabad, to take a detour via Malad to New Delhi. It arrived a day late. Food and water were in short supply. Another time, on the verge of leaving home to catch a train in Bengaluru, I realised that I had left my ticket behind in Mysuru. My day was saved by the bank which permitted me to withdraw cash, even after closing hours, enabling me to purchase a new ticket. When there were no direct trains, I had to get off a train at night and wait on the platform till the train I was to board arrived. Onboarding, sharing the cabin with passengers whose faces I couldn’t see was not a welcome prospect. Returning from Allahabad, I had to get off at Itarsi at night to board the homeward-bound train hours later. My anxiety was soothed by a pleasant surprise: a porter carried my luggage to the ladies’ waiting room which was spick and span, manned by attentive staff. Feeling secure, I could even snooze!  The train I wish I could have travelled on more often was the Rajdhani Express, a train that I took from New Delhi to Mumbai. We got service with a difference: a well laid out dinner tray placed on a cloth-covered table, fluffy pillows and clean sheets for the night. Morning tea was served to the strains of ‘Jai Ram Sri Ram’ by Lata Mangeshwar. In due course, I became eligible to fly, thereby ending my official tryst with the Indian Railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/on-the-tracks-947236.html
04-02-2021||Second Edit||‘Bail is the rule’ should apply uniformly||Two judicial orders made last week, denying bail to artists who were accused of hurting religious sentiments, are not in conformity with the principle “bail is the rule, jail is the exception’’ nor in line with past thinking and pronouncements on the matter from the higher courts. The Supreme Court did not give interim protection from arrest for the cast and crew of the web series Tandav, who are facing FIRs in many states for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. The Madhya Pradesh High Court denied bail to stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui and others who are in jail for about a month after being arrested on charges of “insulting Hindu gods.’’ The offending scenes have been deleted from the web series; and the Indore police, which arrested the comedian, has said that there is no video record of him making the alleged offensive jokes.    The right to free speech of citizens is involved in both cases. No right, including free speech, comes without restrictions, and Article 19 of the Constitution also lays down reasonable grounds for restricting it. Hurting religious sentiments does not figure as a ground. The court has held in the past that such an “insult’’ cannot be considered as an offence unless it is done with deliberate and malicious intention, incites violence and threatens public order. Neither the Tandav cast nor the comedian can be accused of this. There is also no uniform standard for hurt to religious sentiments. Something that hurts one person may not hurt others. Artistic freedom, which derives from the citizen’s freedom of expression, is an important part of the society's cultural milieu. It should be protected in the interest of the health of the society. Last year, the Supreme Court had, in the Arnab Goswami case, said that the courts were “the first line of defence against the deprivation of liberty of citizens,” and that “bail, not jail” was fundamental to the legal system. It should have been so in the cases against the Tandav crew and Munawar, too. The Madhya Pradesh High Court, denying bail to the comedian, said that there was no evidence to show that he had not committed the crime and evidence might come up during investigations. That goes against the accepted norm of bail in law.  Harassment of artists, writers and individuals on the charge of hurting sentiments related to religion, caste or community has become the norm now. FIRs against the Tandav crew have been filed in many states. This is a sign of growing intolerance in society and the refusal to accept criticism. It is also a sign of the growing inability to laugh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/bail-is-the-rule-should-apply-uniformly-947232.html
04-02-2021||South||Sasikala to reach Tamil Nadu on February 7; ruling AIADMK jittery||V K Sasikala will reach Tamil Nadu from Karnataka, where she is resting after her recovery from Covid-19 infection, on February 7. However, her completing four-year imprisonment in a disproportionate assets (DA) case is already creating ripples in Tamil Nadu politics. The close confidante of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa has made clear her political intentions by travelling in a car used by her friend with an AIADMK flag on it while leaving Victoria Hospital on January 31. Sasikala will travel to Chennai from Bengaluru on Sunday to a rousing welcome by her supporters at more than 40 “reception points” along the Bengaluru-Chennai National Highway. No impact Though the AIADMK top brass maintains Sasikala’s release will not have any impact on the government or party, many cadres have put up posters across the state welcoming Chinamma, as she is known as among her supporters. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam – who worked under Sasikala, Jayalalithaa’s shadow, are already facing the heat from alliance partners who are upping their ante. That the EPS-OPS duo is jittery over Sasikala’s release is evident from the fact that the government has “temporarily closed” the J Jayalalithaa Memorial inaugurated last week due to “ongoing work” on museum inside the complex. Interestingly, the spot where the memorial has come up – Jayalalithaa’s resting place – was the last spot Sasikala visited in Chennai on February 15, 2017 before she left for Bengaluru to serve four-year prison term in the DA case. Any visit by Sasikala to Jayalalithaa’s memorial on the Marina Beach or to the late leader’s Poes Garden, now converted into a memorial house for her, would not be “good optics” for the chief minister and his deputy O Panneerselvam given that the Assembly elections are just a few months away, political observers feel. “Everything is aimed at preventing her from staking the claim to Jayalalithaa’s legacy. But the going will not be smooth for the current AIADMK regime if Sasikala gets into active politics after her return from Bengaluru even if it is supported by the BJP,” a political analyst said on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-to-reach-tamil-nadu-on-february-7-ruling-aiadmk-jittery-947267.html
04-02-2021||South||How Chennai, one of the world’s wettest major cities, ran out of water||Climate change is bringing rising sea levels and increased flooding to some cities around the world and drought and water shortages to others. For the 11 million inhabitants of Chennai, it’s both. India’s sixth-largest city gets an average of about 1,400mm (55 inches) of rainfall a year, more than twice the amount that falls on London and almost four times the level of Los Angeles. Yet in 2019 it hit the headlines for being one of the first major cities in the world to run out of water—trucking in 10 million liters a day to hydrate its population. This year, it had the wettest January in decades. The ancient south Indian port has become a case study in what can go wrong when industrialisation, urbanisation and extreme weather converge and a booming metropolis paves over its flood plain to satisfy demand for new homes, factories and offices. Formerly called Madras, Chennai sits on a low plain on the southeast coast of India, intersected by three main rivers, all heavily polluted, that drain into the Bay of Bengal. For centuries it has been a trading link connecting the near and far east and a gateway to South India. Its success spawned a conurbation that grew with scant planning and now houses more people than Paris, many of them engaged in thriving auto, healthcare, IT and film industries. But its geography is also its weakness.  The cyclone-prone waters of the Bay of Bengal periodically surge into the city, forcing back the sewage-filled rivers to overflow into the streets. Rainfall is uneven, with up to 90% falling during the northeast monsoon season in November and December. When rains fail, the city must rely on huge desalination plants and water piped in from hundreds of kilometers away because most of its rivers and lakes are too polluted. While climate change and extreme weather have played a part, the main culprit for Chennai’s water woes is poor planning.  As the city grew, vast areas of the surrounding floodplain, along with its lakes and ponds, disappeared. Between 1893 and 2017, the area of Chennai’s water bodies shrank from 12.6 square kilometers to about 3.2 square kilometers, according to researchers at Chennai’s Anna University. Most of that loss was in the past few decades, including the construction of the city’s famous IT corridor in 2008 on about 230 square kilometers of marshland. The team from Anna University projects that by 2030 around 60% of the city’s groundwater will be critically degraded.  With fewer places to hold precipitation, flooding increased. In 2015, Chennai suffered its worst inundation in a century. The northeast monsoon dumped as much as 494mm (19.4 inches) of rain on the city in a single day. More than 400 people in the state were killed and 1.8 million were flooded out of their homes. In the IT corridor, water reached the second floor of some buildings. Four years later it was a shortage of water that made headlines. The city hit what it called Day Zero as all its main reservoirs ran dry, forcing the government to truck in drinking water. People stood in lines for hours to fill containers, water tankers were hijacked, and violence erupted in some neighborhoods.  “Floods and water scarcity have the same roots: Urbanisation and construction in an area, mindless of the place’s natural limits,” said Nityanand Jayaraman, a writer and environmental activist who lives in Chennai. “The two most powerful agents of change—politics and business—have visions that are too short-sighted. Unless that changes, we are doomed.” Tamil Nadu, the state of which Chennai is the capital, predicts in its climate change action plan that the average annual temperature will rise 3.1°C by 2100 from 1970-2000 levels, while annual rainfall will fall by as much as 9%. Worse still, precipitation during the June-September southwest monsoon, which typically brings the steady rain needed to grow crops and refill reservoirs, will reduce while the flood-prone cyclone season in the winter will become more intense. That could mean worse floods and droughts. The northeast monsoon officially ends in December, but this winter the heavy rain continued well into January, with Tamil Nadu receiving more than 10 times the normal rainfall for the month.   “Such heavy rainfall was not normal when my parents and grandparents were young,” said Arun Krishnamurthy, founder of Chennai based non-profit Environmentalist Foundation of India. “People here talk a lot about the weird weather, but they don’t link it to climate change.”  Chennai is an extreme example of a problem that is increasingly disrupting cities around the world that are also grappling with rapid population increases. Sao Paulo, Beijing, Cairo and Jakarta are among urban centers facing severe water scarcity. “It’s a global problem, not just Chennai,” said Krishnamurthy. “We need to work together to ensure that we have a water-secure future.” The Tamil Nadu government says it’s addressing the problem. In 2003, it passed a law requiring all buildings to harvest rainwater. The rule helped raise the water table, but the gains were soon eroded by a lack of maintenance, according to the Agriculture Ministry’s Central Ground Water Board. Efforts to recharge groundwater have also struggled to offset the volume of water being extracted through boreholes.  The Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board did not respond to questions about the issue. The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board did not reply to an e-mail seeking comments. Shortly after 2019’s Day Zero, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami announced a public program that would include a “massive participation of women” covering everything from rainwater harvesting, water saving and the recycling and protection of water resources, along with studies on how to clean up the state’s polluted rivers. Until then, the government’s strategy had centered around the construction of large desalination plants, a costly tactic more commonly associated with arid nations or islands with limited fresh water. The plants have been criticised for causing environmental damage and having a negative impact on local fisheries. Now, the government is pursuing a new approach inspired by the city’s past. The Greater Chennai Corporation is supporting an initiative called City of 1,000 Tanks, a reference to the ancient man-made lakes that were built around temples. Supported by the Dutch government and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, the plan is to restore some temple tanks and build hundreds of new ones with green slopes throughout the city to absorb and filter heavy rains, recharge the groundwater, and store water for use during dry months. “Floods, drought and sanitation are all interlinked,” said Sudheendra NK, director of Madras Terrace Architectural Works, which is involved in the project. “When a critical mass of people take up all this then a significant difference will be noticed and we will no longer be in crisis.” He said it would take at least 5 years for the project to have an impact. Meanwhile, Chennai continues to add a quarter of a million people a year, making it a race against time to curb the floods and water shortages. “My fear is these things will happen more often in the future,” said Krishnamurthy. “We didn’t learn the lesson from ‘Day Zero.’”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/how-chennai-one-of-the-world-s-wettest-major-cities-ran-out-of-water-947311.html
04-02-2021||South||Ex-IPS officer Annamalai gets Y+ security cover||Former Karnataka cadre IPS officer, K Annamalai, has been provided with Y+ security cover in Tamil Nadu due to increased threat perception. Annamalai, currently the vice president of BJP in Tamil Nadu, will have five police personnel guarding him wherever he goes. Annamalai, who resigned from the Indian Police Service in 2019, joined the BJP in August 2020 and was appointed as the vice president of the Tamil Nadu BJP unit. Government sources said the decision to enhance security for Annamalai was taken after a review during which he was found to have threats from religious fundamentalists and Maoists. “Accordingly, it was decided to provide Y+ security to Mr Annamalai,” a government source said. Annamalai, who earned the sobriquet 'Singham' for his flamboyant style of functioning, is one of the star campaigners for the BJP in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-ips-officer-annamalai-gets-y-security-cover-947464.html
04-02-2021||South||Covid-19 vaccine for CM, legislators likely: Tamil Nadu Health Minister||Beneficiaries aged above 50, the Chief Minister, Ministers, MLAs and journalists are likely to be vaccinated against coronavirus soon, Health Minister C Vijayabaskar indicated in the Tamil Nadu Assembly on Thursday. Replying to ruling party legislator, S Semmalai, who sought to know when the vaccination could be made available to the general public and the MLAs, the Minister said so far, about 1,33,000 frontline workers have been vaccinated. The state has received 12.34 lakh plus doses of Covid-19 vaccines and over 8.50 lakh beneficiaries including health, police and revenue employees have been identified, he said. Hesitation in getting any vaccine administered was usual and in order to bring a sense of confidence among the beneficiaries he and Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan got the 'Covaxin' jabs and many district collectors have volunteered to get the vaccine administered, he said and thanked them. As per norms, the vaccination was now being provided for frontline workers and had the Union government allowed, the Chief Minister, Ministers and the Speaker could have been vaccinated, giving confidence to the people, he said. "The government has sent a proposal to the Centre to provide vaccination for beneficiaries aged above 50, the Chief Minister, Ministers, MLAs and journalists," he said. A favourable reply was likely from the Centre in a week or two and then MLAs and other proposed beneficaries would be vaccinated free of cost according to the Chief Minister's directive, the Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-vaccine-for-cm-legislators-likely-tamil-nadu-health-minister-947467.html
04-02-2021||South||Kerala: Nine police personnel charge-sheeted for custodial death||Nine police personnel were charge-sheeted by the CBI in the custodial death of a person at Idukki district in Kerala. Rajkumar, 49, a private finance firm employee, died allegedly following 'custodial torture' at the Nedumgandam police station in Idukki in 2019 June.  Then sub-inspector K A Sabu and eight others were charge-sheeted by the CBI. The charge-sheet filed at CBI court in Kochi also stated that a probe into the role of senior officers was still progressing. The charges against the accused include murder and illegal detention. A judicial probe into the custodial death has also concluded that custodial torture led to the death of Rajkumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-nine-police-personnel-charge-sheeted-for-custodial-death-947509.html
04-02-2021||South||Sadhguru's painting fetches Rs 2.3 crore in auction, says funds meant for Covid-19 relief||Circa 2020, a painting by Isha Foundation founder Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev, was auctioned for Rs 2.3 crore and its proceeds would be used to provide help for coronavirus relief efforts here, the foundation said on Thursday. Ever since the lockdown was announced last year, Isha started various programmes to assist people living in rural areas, a release said. The relief activities included providing food, medical equipment, face shields and sanitisers to the needy, as well as frontline workers. His earlier two paintings totally fetched Rs 9.24 crore and the funds were also donated for Covid-19 relief works, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sadhgurus-painting-fetches-rs-23-crore-in-auction-says-funds-meant-for-covid-19-relief-947519.html
04-02-2021||South||Former IPS officer in Kerala joins BJP||Jacob Thomas, a retired IPS officer in Kerala, has joined BJP by accepting the membership from party's national president J P Nadda in Thrissur on Thursday. Thomas who retired in the rank of director-general police faced several allegations and was also under suspension for several months after he published a service story flouting norms and also flayed the government in the open. BJP Kerala president K Surendran said that it is owing to rampant corruption in Congress and CPM led fronts that led Thomas to join BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-ips-officer-in-kerala-joins-bjp-947538.html
04-02-2021||South||'Outsiders cannot use AIADMK flag': Party files complaint against Sasikala||A high-powered delegation from the ruling AIADMK on Thursday knocked at the doors of the Tamil Nadu police seeking action against V K Sasikala for “illegally” using the party flag on her car. Four ministers, and senior party leaders met Director General of Police (DGP) J K Tripathy and complained that “outsiders” cannot use AIADMK flag. Sasikala, who was ousted as interim general secretary of the AIADMK in 2017, left the Victoria Hospital after her discharge on January 31 in a car used by her late friend J Jayalalithaa that had the party flag on the bonnet. AIADMK leaders had criticised Sasikala for using the party flag, claiming that she was not even a member of the party. “Sasikala has no right to use the party flag. She is not even a primary member of the AIADMK,” party deputy coordinator K P Munusamy told reporters after the meeting. Law Minister C V Shanumugam too reiterated that Sasikala had no right to use the party flag. “Only AIADMK office-bearers can use the flag,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/outsiders-cannot-use-aiadmk-flag-party-files-complaint-against-sasikala-947547.html
04-02-2021||South||Row over 'toddy tapper' remark against Kerala CM by Congress MP||The remark of Congress MP from Kerala K Sudhakaran that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan who hailed from a toddy tapper family now prefers hiring a helicopter to travel has triggered a row. While Congress leaders have also flayed Sudhakaran’s statement, there were reports that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi summoned Sudhakaran over the issue.   However, Sudhakaran stuck to his statement. He asked what was wrong in referring to the background of Pinarayi Vijayan who hailed from a toddy-tapping family as toddy tapping was also a profession like agriculture or handloom. He said that he was pointing out how a leader for the labour classes has changed when he got power. It was while addressing a public meeting in Kerala the other day that Sudhakaran made the controversial remark. While opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that Sudhakaran should have avoided such comments, Congress MLA Shanimol Osman said that Sudhakaran should tender an apology for the insulting remark. Many CPM leaders also flayed Sudhakaran’s statement and the DYFI also staged a protest against him||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/row-over-toddy-tapper-remark-against-kerala-cm-by-congress-mp-947564.html
04-02-2021||South||Malayalis regret trolling Sharapova for not knowing Sachin Tendulkar||Russian tennis player Maria Sharapova’s social media accounts are being flooded with apologies by Malayalis for having trolled her for her earlier statement that she did not know cricketer Sachin Tendulkar. This comes after Tendulkar's stand against foreign celebrities commenting on farmers’ agitation. Tendulkar posted the other day that India’s sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Let's remain united as a nation, he tweeted.   Irked by this, a section of Malayali social media trolls are now tendering an apology to Sharapova for having ridiculed her earlier for her statement that she did not know Tendulkar. Many posts are in typical Malayalam tendering apology. Many said that it was better that she did not know Tendulkar.  In 2014, Sharapova had said she did not know who Tendulkar was. It then triggered strong resentment from the Tendulkar fans. Malayali trolls had then widely trolled Sharapova.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/malayalis-regret-trolling-sharapova-for-not-knowing-sachin-tendulkar-947575.html
04-02-2021||South||Sasikala's return to Chennai postponed by a day, grand welcome in store for her||The return of V K Sasikala, close confidante of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, to Tamil Nadu from Karnataka has been postponed by a day. The 66-year-old former AIADMK leader will leave Bengaluru at around 9 am on February 8 and reach Chennai by the evening. Sasikala, who completed her four-year prison term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case on January 27, is under home quarantine in Bengaluru after she was infected with the novel Coronavirus. She was discharged from the Victoria Hospital on January 31 and was to return to Chennai on February 7. AMMK cadres have planned a grand welcome for Sasikala as she takes the road from Bengaluru to Chennai. Jayanthi Padamnabhan, a former MLA, has written a letter to government authorities seeking permission to use helicopters to throw flower petals on Sasikala during her journey. Sasikala, who stayed in Jayalalithaa's Poes Garden for decades together, is likely to make her niece's residence in Chennai's upscale T Nagar as her address for now. In a statement issued on Thursday, Dhinakaran recalled “sufferings” of Sasikala for the past few decades and appealed to everyone to welcome her on her return from Bengaluru. “She (Sasikala) sacrificed her entire life to protect Amma (Jayalalithaa. She protected Jayalalithaa from her enemies through her loyalty,” Dhinakaran said in the statement. Sasikala will travel to Chennai from Bengaluru on Sunday to a rousing welcome by her supporters at more than 40 “reception points” along the Bengaluru-Chennai National Highway. Her release from jail is already creating ripples in Tamil Nadu politics. Sasikala, Jayalalithaa's shadow for decades, could not be sworn-in as Chief Minister in 2017 due to her conviction in the DA case. But she hand picked Edappadi K Palaniswami who later patched with O Panneerselvam and sacked Sasikala as interim general secretary of the AIADMK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikalas-return-to-chennai-postponed-by-a-day-grand-welcome-in-store-for-her-947582.html
04-02-2021||South||Covid protocols go for a toss in Kerala as election heat catches up||Political demonstrations ahead of the upcoming Assembly polls continue to ignore Covid-19 protocols in Kerala even as the state continues to have the highest number of daily fresh positive cases as well as positivity rate. While the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front is accusing the opposition parties of conducting political shows like marches and public meetings by flouting social distancing norms, district level adalats being organised by the state government to address grievances of the people ahead of the polls were also witnessing huge crowds flouting social distancing norms. Interestingly an adalat headed by Health Minister K K Shailaja in Kannur district on Thursday was also not different. Though Kerala Chief Minister recently said that enforcement against flouting of Covid norms would be made stringent again, there are allegations that the enforcements were being made stringent only against the opposition parties. Cases were registered against Congress workers in connection with an ongoing political march led by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, while no action is being taken against flouting of social distancing at the government’s adalat. Even as BJP national president J P Nadda, who came down to Kerala on a two-day tour on Wednesday and Thursday to initiate discussions on election strategies, strongly flayed Kerala government for the Covid spike. At the receptions being accorded to Nadda were also witnessing crowds, ignoring social distancing norms.  Kerala is close to 70,000 Covid active cases as of now, which is the highest in the country. The daily number of fresh cases in Kerala is also in the range of 5,000 to 6,000 and the positivity rate remains at 11 per cent. The Centre has deputed teams to Kerala to review the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-protocols-go-for-a-toss-in-kerala-as-election-heat-catches-up-947584.html
04-02-2021||South||Youth blindfolded and beaten in Tamil Nadu||In a shocking incident, a 24-year-old daily wage labourer belonging to Scheduled Caste (SC) was blindfolded and beaten mercilessly by a group of after accusing him of stealing money in a village in Thanjavur district. A video of the shocking incident has gone viral on social media. The video shows a group of men making the youth kneel down and beat him up mercilessly despite him begging them to leave him. Sources in the Thanjavur Police said a case has been registered against eight individuals for the incident and a detailed probe is on. They said men from dominant castes and SC were part of the group that attacked the daily wage labourer. The labourer was attacked for allegedly stealing money in a village near Ammapettai in the district. Police said the eight men have been booked under various sections of the IPC. “SC-ST (Prevention of Atrocities), Act has been invoked,” a police source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/youth-blindfolded-and-beaten-in-tamil-nadu-947586.html
04-02-2021||State||School fee complaints: Government forms panels||The department of public instruction has constituted district-level committees to deal with complaints over school fees.  The block education officers have been instructed to open a counter to receive the complaints and forward the complaints on the same day to the district-level committee constituted for the purpose. Both parents and school managements are allowed to file their complaints. According to the circular issued by the department, 42 committees have been constituted across the state to address the complaints related to school fee. The government recently directed the schools to collect only 70% of the last year’s tuition fee for the current academic year. The committees have to conduct the inquiry into the complaints every Monday and issue a speaking order on the same day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/school-fee-complaints-government-forms-panels-947261.html
04-02-2021||State||Yogeeshgouda murder accused tries to end life||Santosh Savadatti, one of the accused in the Zilla Panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar murder case, allegedly tried to end his life by slitting his throat at his house here in the early hours of Wednesday. Santosh’s family members, who noticed him bleeding, immediately shifted him to a private hospital where he is being treated. The CBI, which is probing the ZP member Yogeeshgouda murder case, had arrested Santosh and had filed a charge-sheet against him and six others on May 20, 2020. Santosh was named accused No 1 in the charge-sheet. He is out on bail, and Wednesday’s attempt is said to be his second bid to end his life. However, Santosh family members claimed that he was brought to the hospital after he sustained injuries in a fall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/yogeeshgouda-murder-accused-tries-to-end-life-947263.html
04-02-2021||State||Sringeri gangrape: Won't spare guilty, says Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai||The government will act against all officials who had either connived with or failed to act against those involved in the gangrape of a minor girl near Sringeri in Chikkamagaluru district, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai told the Legislative Council on Thursday. The government, he said, had ordered the suspension of the Sringeri SHO, while constituting a probe by an IGP-rank officer to investigate whether there was derlicition of duty on the part of the officials. Bommai promised to honour the Opposition demand for providing a government job to the victim in the future, as a compensatory measure. "Irrespective of who the guilty are, we will take measures to ensure capital punishment to all those involved in the heinous incident," Bommai said, adding that he would not stay in office if he could not keep his word. Earlier, members of the Congress and JD(S) pulled up the government for the delay in filing an FIR against the perpetrators, alleging that the authorities were going slow, due to the party loyalties of the accused. "Why did the police take two days to file an FIR after the incident came to light?," Leader of the Opposition S R Patil said. Bommai said that he would take all measures to ensure capital punishment for the perpetrators. The victim - who is an orphan working in a quarry - was staying with her aunt who allegedly facilitated the repeated sexual assault on the girl, before it came to light.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sringeri-gangrape-wont-spare-guilty-says-karnataka-home-minister-basavaraj-bommai-947592.html
04-02-2021||State||Uttara Kannada's Manjunath Hegde gets 4th rank in CA exam||Manjunath Parameshwar Hegde of Ummachagi Sampesara in Yellapur taluk has secured the fourth rank in the examination conducted by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI).  He had passed the CA entrance examination after completing second PUC at MES College in the town. He was undergoing the articleship under CA Udaya Swadi. Hegde said, "I wanted to be CA after second PUC and studied for the examination to achieve my dream. I did not go for any special training."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannadas-manjunath-hegde-gets-4th-rank-in-ca-exam-947597.html
04-02-2021||State||Plantations not agriculture land under SARFAESI Act, rules Karnataka HC||The High Court has said that land on which plantation crops are grown is not agricultural land within the meaning of Section 31 (i) of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest (SARFAESI) Act, 2002.  Dismissing the appeals filed by the estate owners, a division bench headed by Justice B V Nagarathna held that the expression ‘agricultural land’ in SARFAESI Act does not include plantation land on which crops like cardamom, coffee, pepper, rubber and tea are grown. “Any land used for raising a plantation crop, if mortgaged to a financial institution, even if for non-agricultural purposes, could also be sold for enforcement of the said security,” the court said. The bench also said that the bar contained under Sections 79-A, 79-B and 80 of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act do not apply to plantation lands. Though presently abolished, Sections 79-A and 79-B prohibit purchase and holding of agricultural land by non-agriculturists. The petitioners contended that since SARFAESI Act does not apply to agricultural lands, the measures taken or the action initiated by the banks in respect of coffee plantations were without jurisdiction.   The petitioners requested the court to consider the matter on merits since there is no decision till date on the question whether the coffee plantation is an agricultural land within the meaning of section 31 (i) of the SARFAESI Act.   The court said the revenue entries showing the land to be agricultural in nature would not per se be a determinative factor. The totality of the facts and circumstances of the case has to be borne in mind, the court said. “Hence, in the instant case, the securities created in the coffee plantations can be enforced for the realization of the debts as coffee plantation would not come within the scope and ambit of agricultural land under Section 31(i) of the SARFAESI Act insofar as the State of Karnataka is concerned,” the bench said. Background During the 1998-2004 period, the appellants were extended various credit facilities in the nature of agricultural cash credit loans, agricultural term loans and mortgage loans. The security for the loans was coffee plantations at Hirekolale, Yelagudige and Aldur villages of Chikkamagalur taluk. Upon non-payment of loans, banks sent demand notice and the assets were put for sale in November 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/plantations-not-agriculture-land-under-sarfaesi-act-rules-karnataka-hc-947601.html
04-02-2021||State||AERO INDIA 2021 SNIPPETS||Tejasvi Surya flies in Tejas Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya flew on the two-seater indigenous Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) Tejas, creating a buzz at the Aero India 2021. Tejas the aircraft had created a buzz on the first day of the airshow with the formal signing of the Rs 48,000 crore contract with Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) to build 83 jets for the Indian Air Force (IAF). The sortie lasted 30 minutes, at the end of which he dubbed the aircraft as a symbol of Atmanirbhar Bharat. “It is a beacon of scientific excellence and capabilities of India. I am extremely delighted today that I got an opportunity to fly in this wonderful fighter jet,” he said on landing. The induction of the aircraft into the IAF, he said, will boost self-reliance and help India become a larger global exporter in defence. Suryakiran merchandise in demand The enduring buzz around the Suryakiran aerobatic team and their daily performance at the airshow have helped sales of caps, badges, masks, t-shirts, fridge magnets and other merchandise. Aviation buffs of the nine-aircraft team thronged the exclusive stall at the airshow. The sales were higher during Aero India 2019, particularly during the last two days when the general public was allowed. However, this time, the crowds were more informed and discrete in their selections. A HAL employee, Murali M, who picked up a mask with the nine Suryakirans embroidered, said the merchandise would inspire youngsters to pick aviation as a career choice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/aero-india-2021-snippets-947610.html
04-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||India moving from Make in India to make for the world: Rajnath Singh||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh began Aero India 2021 with a proclamation that India is no longer in just “Make in India” mode but that it is ready to “make for the world.” Speaking during the inauguration of the 13th edition of the air show on Wednesday, the defence minister said that India’s huge investment in the aerospace market had paid dividends in the form of major aircraft developments.  The crux of the show’s flypast which occurred shortly highlighted homegrown aircraft such as the Light Combat Helicopter (LCH), the Light Utility Helicopter (LUH), the Advanced Light helicopter and the LCA Tejas. This year’s Aero India revolves around the country’s indigenous rotary wing platforms, around the theme, “conceive, indigenize and collaborate.” The selection of indigenous platforms which participated in the fly-past lent weight to Singh’s statement that the country’s defense manufacturing sector was on-par with the international arms market. International supplied rotor aircraft such as the Boeing Apache and Chinook were conspicuously absent at the air show. “India has made huge investments in the aerospace market and as result, India is marching past “Make in India and is making for the world,” Rajnath said, adding later the homegrown industry has reached an inflection point. “The trajectory is upwards from now on,” he said. The government has set a target to achieve a turnover of Rs 1,75,000 crore in the field of Defence manufacturing, including export of Rs 35,000 crore in Aerospace and Defence goods and services, by 2025, Rajnath said. The Defence minister told international attendees that the government had instituted a series of policies to help the country sell its military hardware to foreign customers. Among the improvements cited by Singh were a series of defence policies. A new high-level committee authorised to enable faster approval of military exports and what the minister described as a significant jump in the ease of doing business. “Our international standing in the ease of doing business is 63 out of 190 countries worldwide, which is significantly better than 2019 when we were at 77th place. Our aim is to make India one of the biggest members of the worldwide defense network” he said. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa pointed out that the state accounts for 65% of the country’s aerospace-related exports while 67% of all aircraft and helicopter for the armed forces are manufactured in the state. “Karnataka is also the first state in the country to come up with an aerospace policy. Our proposed investment is Rs 14,700 crore which has the capacity to employ 10,600 people,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/india-moving-from-make-in-india-to-make-for-the-world-rajnath-singh-947220.html
04-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19 vaccine vials lack heat monitors||Lack of vaccine vial monitors (VVMs) on Covid vaccines has triggered concerns about their “effectiveness”. VVMs, according to the WHO, caution health workers if the vaccine is damaged due to overexposure to heat. However, neither Covishield nor Covaxin vials are provided with VVMs. Vaccine scientist Gagandeep Kang said, “Covaxin and Covishield have both considered VVMs, and their submissions to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) include presentations with and without monitors. A lot depends on what the purchaser wants.” Interestingly, the issue was also discussed at the ongoing Legislative session. Congress MLC P R Ramesh had raised concerns over health workers’ inability to judge the effectiveness of the vaccine over prolonged use. “All vaccines, including polio vaccines, come with VVMs. But Covid vaccines don’t have them and the government must come clean on this,” Ramesh had demanded of the government. Health and Medical Education Minister Dr Sudhakar had clarified that vaccines for polio and for Covid are different. “Both the vaccines are different and all vaccines cannot be treated the same way,” the minister had remarked. A VVM is a circular label containing a square heat-sensitive material which is placed on a vaccine vial to register cumulative heat exposure over time. The inner square acquires a dark shade with exposure to heat.  Dr Rajeev Dheere, Executive Director, Serum Institute of India told DH that it is impossible to match the output of vaccine vials with a similar number of VVMs as there is so much demand for them. “If we require a specific VVM, then the raw material has to be imported in a significant quantity. The production of Covishield is massive compared to other vaccines. Covishield is beyond predictions. There is only one company that produces VVMs. We need to choose the VVM which then needs to be printed and pasted using the machines," he said. An official said that in the absence of VVMs, the only option is to make sure the vaccine vials are used up within four hours of opening. "If a VVM is there, the Covid vaccine vial could have been used for a longer time. Hence, now it is being discarded within four hours of opening. This is usually applicable to the last vial in the campaign as most of the vials get empty within an hour or so," explained the official requesting anonymity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-vaccine-vials-lack-heat-monitors-947250.html
04-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Don't lower guard: Karnataka Health officials after 49 nursing students test positive for Covid-19||Health officials in Karnataka have appealed to people not to lower guard after 49 students from Kerala studying in a nursing college near the coastal city of Mangaluru tested positive for Covid-19. "The news of 49 students testing positive in a nursing college in Ullal near Mangaluru is a grim reminder of how unpredictable the Covid virus is! Covid is still a threat, please continue to take necessary precautions", Health and Medical Education Minister Sudhakar K tweeted on Thursday. The Aaliyah Institute of Nursing in Dakshina Kannada district was sealed by authorities on Wednesday. Out of the 104 samples of staff and students tested, 49 BSc nursing students, who had come for examinations after the month-long break, tested positive, Dr H Ashok, nodal officer of Dakshina Kannada district, which borders Kerala, said. The college premises has been made a containment zone till February 19. On Wednesday, Karnataka logged 426 new Covid-19 cases and two related fatalities, taking the total infection count to 9,40,596 and the toll to 12,225, according to the Health Department. The day also saw 433 patients getting discharged after recovery. Bengaluru Urban district continued to top the list of cases reported, with 231 infections. Cumulatively 9,40,596 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,225 deaths and 9,22,437 discharges, the department said in a bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dont-lower-guard-karnataka-health-officials-after-49-nursing-students-test-positive-for-covid-19-947377.html
04-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Theatres to collect mobile numbers, two intervals now||The state government has issued safety precautions for theatres and moviegoers, including collecting their names and mobile numbers to enable contact tracing and testing for Covid-19. Movies will also have two intermissions instead of one to enable greater ventilation and to reduce exposure in a closed cinema hall. Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar released the safety guidelines in a circular on Thursday based on the recommendations of the 71st Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee meeting held on February 3. While only 50% occupancy was earlier allowed in theatres, cinema halls and multiplexes as a matter of precaution and in the greater public interest, a revised Standard Operating Procedure has been issued after 100% occupancy was allowed for four weeks on Wednesday following representations from the Karnataka film industry. The guidelines include wearing of masks at all times and for the entire duration of the movie, while CPWD (Central Public Works Department) guidelines on air-conditioning of the theatres must be strictly complied with. Movie halls are also required to display the dos and don’ts on Covid-19 precautions in prominent places. The guidelines will be reviewed in March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-theatres-to-collect-mobile-numbers-two-intervals-now-947614.html
04-02-2021||West||Gujarat ex-CM Vaghela wants to rejoin Congress||Veteran politician and Gujarat’s former chief minister Shankersinh Vaghela on Wednesday “expressed” his desire to go back to Congress with an aim to “defeat” the ruling BJP. He said that he was “requested” by many Congress leaders who want him to come back in the party to defeat the BJP in the local body polls slated for later this month. The result is considered to be important for the 2022 Assembly polls. The Congress, meanwhile, said that no one has requested Vaghela to join the party. “We all are busy with the preparation of local polls,” said Congress’ spokesperson Manish Doshi, adding that if Vaghela wants to come back, the party will look into it before coming to a conclusion. Vaghela reportedly orchestrated cross-voting of eight Congress MLAs during the Rajya Sabha polls in which Ahmed Patel had narrowly escaped a defeat. The 80-year-old politician had left Congress in mid-2017 to float his own party “Jan Vikalp Morcha” but failed to make a mark. He joined NCP and in 2019 he joined NCP only to leave it a year later.   Congress was last in power in Gujarat when Vaghela broke away with the BJP and joined hands with Congress to form the government in 1995-1996 which didn’t last long.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-ex-cm-vaghela-wants-to-rejoin-congress-947268.html
04-02-2021||West||Breaking the cycle: Mumbai youth pedals to Delhi and back||Work from home can often get boring but a Mumbai youth broke the monotonous cycle as he pedalled from his hometown to New Delhi and back -- all of this while still hustling and attending work with Zoom calls.   25-year-old IT professional Andrew Menezes saw it all -- beaches, mountains, jungles, rural, semi-urban and urban settings -- in his 3,000-km trip as he rode along the highways to the national capital and back to the financial capital.  A resident of Mumbai's Dahisar suburbs, Menezes attended Zoom meetings, worked and cycled, showing others how it can all be done. Andrew started off on October 23, mixed work from home with his passion for cycling during the lockdown/unlock and the 'new normal  and was back in Mumbai on 18 December. “I cycled for 100 to 120 kms per day.... There’s never been a better challenge than to pick yourself up, pack up, and hit the road, not knowing where your destination lies...in nearly two months, I covered 23 cities,” he told DH. Over the course of his journey, Menezes traversed through Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, New Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. In the middle, he also took a small break in Goa where he used a bus. Besides, there was some thrill, too. Menezes recalled the time his cycle broke down along the ravines of Chambal and he had to walk with his cycle for nearly four hours in heavy rain. His dawn-to-dusk routine was full of activity. “I used to start off at sunrise, cycle till around 10 to 10.20 am, look for a dhaba, have brunch and work there till 2 to 2.30 pm. I used to start the ride around 3 pm and end by sundown, check into a lodge or guesthouses by 7.30 pm and then work till 10 to 10.30 pm,” he added. Coming to the expenses and other essentials for the trip, Menezes said that his daily expenditure never shot over Rs 800. “My cycle with gears is second-hand and cost around 10,000 when I bought it two years ago. My bag, which was mounted behind my cycle, contained three pairs of clothes, a sweatshirt, my laptop, my repair kit, patch kit, medical kit and personal kit, water and some emergency food like Maggi and biscuits. I would eat all meals at dhabas/kitchens along the highway and stay the night in lodges/guest houses/dharamshalas, whichever was cheapest," he said. Menezes said that he would wash his clothes and gear every day and would repair flat tires himself as he was travelling with the tools. "Only for major repairs and maintenance, I would take my cycle to the shop. I managed to survive on Maggi and biscuits if food was scarce along the highway,” he said. Talking about the challenges, Menezes said that he was left pleasntly surprised. “The first challenge that I thought I would face was network reception on my mobile. This was a crucial factor without which I would face connectivity issues at work. Surprisingly, I got better reception on the highways than I would get in the city. I was attending Zoom calls sitting at dhabas with hot parathas and chaas served fresh. I was surprised myself, with very few stretches of the highway having low or no reception at all, I was able to seamlessly get work done. This was one of the most motivating factors for me that wherever I went, I didn’t have to worry about network connectivity,” Menezes said. Some cities that he covered on his trip include Pune, Nashik, Indore, New Delhi, Ujjain, Chittorgarh, Ajmer, Agra, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/breaking-the-cycle-mumbai-youth-pedals-to-delhi-and-back-947304.html
04-02-2021||West||Goa govt seeks Centre's help to revive tourism industry||The Goa government has sought financial assistance from the Centre to revive the state's tourism industry which has been hit by the Covid-19 pandemic, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said. Talking to reporters on Wednesday, Sawant said he has written to Union finance minister for helping the industry, which was one of the largest revenue earners for the state. "We are aware that the tourism industry has been affected by the pandemic and the Centre's support is required for its revival," the chief minister said. He did not specify the quantum of financial assistance sought from the Centre. Sawant said the state's revenue has already taken a hit due to the closure of the mining industry, which was one of the prominent economic pillars of the state. The revenue from tourism has also gone down due to shutdowns as part of precautions against Covid-19, he said. The financial assistance has been sought to revive the tourism industry, specially hinterland tourism, Sawant said. "I am confident that the central government will consider our demand," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-seeks-centres-help-to-revive-tourism-industry-947310.html
04-02-2021||West||Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari takes dig at Maharashtra govt over job for athlete||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari has taken potshots at the state government over not giving a job to long-distance runner and Asian Games medallist Kavita Raut, saying there is something wrong somewhere. The governor, who has in the past been critical of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on certain issues, made the remarks on Wednesday at an event in Nashik district. Raut (hailing from Nashik) was among eight sportspersons whom the state government offered jobs in 2016. Koshyari said Raut has a job in the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation inDehradun, a postingwhich people vie for. "But, she wants to live in her village and serve there. I wrote to the sports minister (Sunil Kedar). He told me that he would give a job to Kavita," the governor said. But, she is saying she has not got the job yet, he said. "The governor talked about it, the minister too talked about (giving the job). Still, she did not get it. So, there is something wrong somewhere," Koshyari said. He assured Raut that she will be given the job. It will take some time because the "government works in a way that people create some or the other problems", the governor said. How will they (sportspersons) work if you are not going to encourage them? he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-takes-dig-at-maharashtra-govt-over-job-for-athlete-947353.html
04-02-2021||West||Cyber fraud: Two held for duping Gujarat businessman of Rs 7.15 lakh||The Ahmedabad cyber crime branch has arrested two persons for allegedly duping a businessman of Rs 7.15 lakh on the pretext of helping him get back his security deposit made for an online auction, officials said on Thursday. The accused, Bhupat Savani (50) and his son Brijesh Savani (26), both residents of Ghodasar area in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city, were arrested on Wednesday on charges of cheating, the cyber crime branch said in a release. In 2019, the city-based businessman took part in an online auction conducted by the state's geology and mining commissioner for 32 sand blocks in Sabarkantha district. As part of the bidding process, the businessman deposited a refundable security amount and linked his bank account with an online portal meant for the bidding process. Since he won two out of 32 blocks during the online bidding, he was entitled to get a refund of Rs 7.15 lakh for the remaining 30 blocks, said the release. As the businessmen did not receive any refund, the two accused got in touch with him. They posed as government employees working with the commissioner's office, and told the businessman that they can help him get the refund using their connections in the office. However, after obtaining necessary details from the victim, the accused allegedly linked their own bank account with the system and transferred Rs 7.15 lakh to it through an online process, the cyber crime branch said. A preliminary investigation into the case revealed the two accused knew about the nitty-gritty of the system as they are also into the business of sand mining since 2013, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyber-fraud-two-held-for-duping-gujarat-businessman-of-rs-715-lakh-947376.html
04-02-2021||West||Shiv Sena assures action against Sharjeel Usmani||Assuring that student leader Sharjeel Usmani would be arrested for his anti-Hindu remarks, the Shiv Sena on Thursday criticised Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis for targeting Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray over the issue. "Fadnavis shouldn't doubt the credentials of the state police. Just the other day, he was in the ruling dispensation. Be rest assured...Sharjeel would be arrested. Under the Thackeray rule, not just Hindus all sections of the society are safe and secure," said an editorial published in Saamana, the Shiv Sena's Marathi mouthpiece. The editorial described Sharjeel as a “snake” and “insect” even as it came down on the Elgar Parishad, that had organised the January 30 meeting in Pune, in which the former student of Aligarh Muslim University spoke making objectionable comments against the Hindu community. Fadnavis had shot off a letter to Thackeray demanding the arrest of Usmani. The Swargate police station, meanwhile, lodged a FIR against him under section 153A of the Indian Penal Code, after state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh asked the police to analyse the video recording of the meeting and do the needful. The Saamana editorial pointed out that the onus of handing over Sharjeel to Maharashtra is on Yogi Adityanath's Uttar Pradesh government since he is now in Aligarh. The editorial noted that insulting Hindus is the business of liberals and this is a blot on society. The editorial demanded to know when the Centre will send with honour the Hindu and Sikh farmers protesting on the streets of Delhi back home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-assures-action-against-sharjeel-usmani-947401.html
04-02-2021||West||We are not terrorists, say widows of farmers slamming Kangana Ranaut's remarks||We are farmers and not terrorists, said a group of widows of farmers who had died by suicide, as they staged a protest in Yavatmal against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut’s statements. The protesting women carried banners and placards which read, “Yes We Are Farmers, But We Are Not Terrorists” – referring to Ranaut’s recent statement. The protesters also announced their unanimous resolve to boycott Kangana's movies till she withdrew her remarks and tendered an unconditional apology to the entire farmers’ community. Leading the protests was social activist Smita Tiwari along with many widows Bharati Pawar, Poornima Kopulwar, Kavita Sidam, Lakshmi Gandhwar, Rama Thamke, Vandana Mohurle, Rekha Gurnale, Aparna Malikar, Yogita Choudhary, who burnt photos and effigies of the actress. Other farm activists like Anil Tiwari, Ankit Naitam, Sunil Raut, Suresh Talmale, Neel Jaiswal, Manoj Chavan, Sandeep Jajulwar, Chandan Jainkar, Pradeep Kosare, Bablu Dhurve, Ashutosh Ambade also joined the protests and raised slogans against Kangana.  “The farmers will return home only after the 3 new agriculture laws are withdrawn by the BJP government,” said Pawar.  Veteran farmers’ leader Kishore Tiwari, who is the chairman of the Vasantrao Naik Sheti Swavlamban Mission (VNSSM) said comparing the poor farmers with terrorists is an outcome of a ‘perverted mindset’. “Kangana had insulted the annadatas,” said Tiwari, who is the founder of Vidarbha Jan Andolan Samiti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/we-are-not-terrorists-say-widows-of-farmers-slamming-kangana-ranauts-remarks-947444.html
04-02-2021||West||Goa also victim of propaganda, external forces creating unrest: CM Sawant||A day after a politician from the Opposition wrote to global environment and heritage bodies to lobby against three road, rail and power projects in protected forest areas along the Goa-Karnataka border, CM Pramod Sawant has now claimed that external forces were trying to stall development projects in the state. "Goa has been a victim of propaganda for the past several months, which has been significantly fueled by external forces. Some of the Opposition parties in Goa have also been motivating such external forces to create an unrest in the state," Sawant said in a tweet on Thursday.  "No propaganda shall derail our sincere efforts towards building a progressive state," the Chief Minister also tweeted. The debate over “external forces” interfering in India’s sovereignty was triggered by recent tweets from global entertainment icon Rihanna and environment and climate change activist Greta Thunberg backing farmer protests at the borders on the national capital.  Inspired by the tweet from Rihanna, former Deputy Chief Minister Vijai Sardesai had said that the the opposition to the three projects needed to be escalated to a global level.  The three projects related to road and rail expansion and drawing of a power transmission line are located in the Western Ghats region — a UNESCO-endorsed world heritage site — along the Goa-Karnataka border.  Opponents of the three projects have alleged that more than 50,000 trees in the protected forest areas are expected to be cut to make way for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-also-victim-of-propaganda-external-forces-creating-unrest-cm-sawant-947447.html
04-02-2021||West||190 pigeons found dead in Ahmedabad, officials suspect bird flu||In yet another suspected case of bird flu, around 190 pigeons were found dead in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city over a period of two days, said officials on Thursday. To ascertain the exact cause of death of the pigeons in the Narol area, two carcass samples were sent to a Bhopal laboratory for testing for avian influenza, said Dr Rajendra Patel, Assistant Director, animal husbandry department, Ahmedabad district. "Around 190 pigeons were found dead in the Narol area of the city during the last two days in a suspected case of bird flu. We have discarded the carcasses as per protocols and sanitised the area. "We have sent two samples to a Bhopal-based laboratory for confirmation (of bird flu)," said Patel. Bird flu cases were first reported in Gujarat on January 8 when samples of some dead birds, found near a dam in Junagadh district, later tested positive for avian influenza. Later, bird flu cases were also reported from Surat, Vadodara and Valsad districts, where samples of dead crows returned positive tests for the virus. Bird flu is a highly infectious and severe respiratory disease in birds caused by the influenza virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/190-pigeons-found-dead-in-ahmedabad-officials-suspect-bird-flu-947456.html
04-02-2021||West||Maharashtra Assembly Speaker Nana Patole resigns, likely to become next state Congress chief||Senior Congressman Nana Patole is likely to be appointed as the new President of Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC). Patole (57) on Thursday resigned as the Speaker of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. Patole handed over his resignation letter to Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal. The senior Congress leader is an MLA from Sakoli in Bhandara district. “The Congress high-command asked me to step down from the post of Speaker, which I did accordingly...I thank the party for allowing me to serve as Speaker for the people of the state,” he said.  Asked whether he would be the next MPCC chief, he said, “The party has not conveyed me any new responsibility.” Patole was a Congress MLA from 1999-2014 – three terms before he left the party to join BJP. He entered the Lok Sabha in 2014 after defeating NCP troubleshooter Praful Patel, a close aide of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. Popularly known as Nana Bhau, he was the first to revolt against Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he resigned as BJP MP from Bhandara Gondiya in 2017. In 2019 Lok Sabha polls, he unsuccessfully contested against BJP stalwart Nitin Gadkari from Nagpur. In 2019, he won the Sakoli seat to enter the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. He is also the Chairman of the All India Kisan Congress.  The current MPCC president is Balasaheb Thorat, who is the state's Revenue Minister.  Besides Thorat, there are five working-Presidents - Dr Nitin Raut, Yashomati Thakur, Muzaffar Hussain, Basavraj Patil and Vishwajeet Kadam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-assembly-speaker-nana-patole-resigns-likely-to-become-next-state-congress-chief-947473.html
04-02-2021||West||Don't be complacent in Covid-19 fight: Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday asked the authorities and citizens not to become complacent in the fight against coronavirus in view of its second wave in Britain and Brazil. Speaking during the Covid-19 presentation in the cabinet meeting, Thackeray said the number of patients here have decreased due to herd immunity. "But despite this, Europe has seen a second wave that is spreading faster," he said. State health secretary Pradeep Vyas said during the presentation that on January 20, there were 1,820 deaths in Britain due to the new strain, while in Brazil there are 1,000 deaths every day. In Brazil, there are 50,000 new patients daily, he said. "In these countries, the number of positive cases had declined from June-July last year due to the herd immunity. But then the new strain, which spreads 70 per cent faster, came to light. As per a news report, 40 per cent more deaths have been caused due to the new strain," he said. Thackeray said the new virus strain has been found in South Africa, Britain and Brazil. "We need to take care that the new strain does not spread here. We have started vaccination, but we should follow all safety protocols," he said. The chief minister added that his government will be cautious in lifting the lockdown restrictions currently in place. "The state government is in correspondence with the Centre for quarantining passengers in the same city's international airports on arrival," he said. Vyas said the state has got 18,02,000 Covishield vaccines and 1,70,400 Covaxin doses and 3,54,633 people have so far received the first jab. Even though the number of positive cases is on the decline, districts like Amravati, Yavatmal, Akola, Bhandara, Nandurbar, Wardha, Ratnagiri, Gadchiroli and Nanded are witnessing a rise and the testing is less. After the suburban trains opened for all from February 1, around 20 lakh commuters travel on the Central Railway route and 14 lakh on the Western Railway daily, it was told in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dont-be-complacent-in-covid-19-fight-maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-947563.html
