05-02-2021||First Edit||Shut down illegal mining||The death of six people in an explosion of gelatine sticks at a stone crushing quarry in Shivamogga recently should have sounded a warning bell to the Karnataka government, but far from it, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa seems to be set on regularising illegal mines, rather than shutting them down. Ironic as it may seem, a day after the blast, Yediyurappa called upon illegal mines and quarries to submit applications to regularise themselves. Following a public outcry, the Chief Minister retracted his statement and vowed to come down heavily on them. Within hours, he took a U-turn, as has been his recent practice on most matters of significance, stating that mines and quarries were inevitable in view of the ongoing roads and highway projects and once again reiterated that those operating without permission could apply for regularisation and continue with their activities. Now, Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani has given a new spiel by announcing that illegal mines would be normalised but after imposing five times the tax as penalty, in order to generate revenue to the state exchequer. The manner in which the government is acquiescing to the mining lobby is only indicative of the influence the latter wields in the corridors of power. Illegal mining is a crime and instead of meting out the harshest of punishments to those involved, it is unfortunate that the government is looking to help them continue by giving them its stamp of approval. By condoning such activities, both Yediyurappa and Nirani are giving an impression that they are actively cooperating with illegal miners. In addition to those already in operation, new ones are likely to be encouraged to go into business, based on the Chief Minister’s assurance of regularisation. It is common knowledge that ‘regularising’ anything that is unlawful involves big money and the talk of mopping up revenue for the exchequer is only aimed at hoodwinking the public. Going by the slow pace of investigations into the Shivamogga blast and the inability of police to trace the origin and journey of the gelatine sticks to the ill-fated spot even after more than 10 days, the Opposition has alleged that illegal mining has the blessings of the Chief Minister and his family. Yediyurappa will only lend credence to such charges if he fails to act decisively against the wrongdoers. Any attempt to legitimise illegal mines will make the government a partner in crime. Yediyurappa must remember that he had to step down during his previous term as CM on this very issue. Unless he immediately shuts down all illegal mines and initiates criminal action against the owners, instead of appearing to be complicit, history could well repeat itself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/shut-down-illegal-mining-947647.html
05-02-2021||First Edit||99% sheep, 1% lions||The nagging fact of the world's richest 1% owning more than twice as much wealth as 6.9 billion people makes us queasy, for growing income and wealth inequality counts as a great social threat today and is a blot on policymaking. India lies somewhere between the more equal East Asia and highly unequal Latin America in terms of economic inequality. So, what’s the fuss? The knowledge that Indian billionaires increased their wealth by 35% during the lockdown to Rs 3 trillion, ranking India’s rich after those of the US, China, Germany, Russia and France, could make one ask: Did they make hay while the sun shone? But why do revelations that India’s rich got richer and the poor poorer during the pandemic continue to occasion surprise or look epiphanic? The answer possibly is that despite our instinct of becoming economically better off, we do not react kindly to tales of vast inequalities existing between us in a democracy.   “In fact, the increase in wealth of the top 11 billionaires of India during the pandemic could sustain the NREGS scheme for 10 years or the health ministry for 10 years," Oxfam’s ‘Inequality Virus Report’ analysed, further calculating that the money was enough to credit every one of the 138 million poorest Indians with Rs 94,045 each. We had similar comparisons when we heard about economic offenders such as Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi, Vijay Mallya, Sanjay Bhandari and Lalit Modi who had fled the country, defrauding the nation of billions of rupees, with graphics illustrating how the money could be spent on immunising every child, shoring up our healthcare, or addressing hunger (India ranked 94 among 107 countries in the Global Hunger Index 2020). In the methodology explainer of the Oxfam report, we learn that “between 18 March and 31 October 2020, Mukesh Ambani, India’s richest man and chairman, managing director and largest shareholder of Reliance Industries Ltd – which specializes in petrol, retail and telecommunications – more than doubled his wealth, which rose from $36.8bn to $78.3bn in eight months. This meant that he jumped from being the 21st richest person in the world to the sixth richest”. “While we acknowledge that the increase was not linear, considering the 227 days between 18 March and 31 October, the $41.5bn increase in his wealth means an average increase of $182.8m per day,” it added editorially. The corresponding loss of jobs and income of the vast army of India’s migrant workers, however, is yet to be accounted for. The pandemic has already divided India into digital haves and have-nots. Sometimes, the discretion as to when we need to prize inequality and chutzpah to promote entrepreneurialism over inequality to ensure the monopoly of the rich gets lost to the diktats of remaining in the levers of power. Well, it’s not class angst. We already know of many economic inequalities to prevail across the states of India, between rural and urban areas, between organised and unorganised sectors, and between capital income and wage income. For instance, one might argue that inequalities do exist even among the farming communities in India, that the protesting farmers of Punjab and Haryana are way richer than their counterparts elsewhere (mostly marginal and small farmers making two ends meet) and thus cannot be taken to be true representatives of the typical Indian farmer. The number of landless agricultural workers in India increased from 106.7 million, as per Census 2001, to 144.3 million in 2011, registering a rise of 35% in a decade. But having said that, what adds legitimacy to the worry of the agitating farmers is their fear that the new farm laws have been drafted to facilitate ease of doing business for large corporations, and their larger fear of wholesale corporatisation (and crony capitalism) of Indian farming, for the prognostications of the ruling dispensation have given enough reason for such suspicion to gain ground. That the government of the day keeps on trying to make corporates richer at the expense of others, be it in agriculture, aviation, natural resources or telecom sector, in ruthless disdain of the popular consensus, and bulldozes those standing in opposition, is the crux of the problem. If attempts have been made to correct the distortions of social disparities, they are too few and far between. Oxfam’s report further notes that “India has the world’s fourth-lowest health budget in terms of its share of government expenditure, and people pay for more than 70% of health expenses themselves, yet only half the population has access to even the most basic healthcare services.” That historically oppressed communities have also often been ignored in health-promoting responses, that (even as late as May 2020) 90% of Dalits had no health or life insurance – and 64% had received no instruction or training regarding their safety -- are also among a clutch of indictments made against India in the report. A few budgetary corrections, or bump-up in outlays apart (Rs 71,268.77 crore allocated to the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry, an increase of about 10% from the previous year) is nowhere close to what the National Health Policy of India envisaged in 2017, that India spend at least 2.5% of its GDP on the health sector by 2025. India hovers between 1% and a little more of GDP on health – 1.8% in 2020-21 – that places it in the league of top 10 nations with the highest out-of-pocket healthcare expenditure. According to Oxfam’s report, in India, inequality, which fell between Independence and the 1990s, has recently shot back to levels last seen in colonial times. One of the abiding lessons of the pandemic is that we cannot emulate the unsustainable growth model of the West, nor long for "development" with all its inegalitarian trappings. Post-pandemic, the prescription to bring down inequality is time-tested – the provisioning of public goods such as education and public healthcare, and redistributive mechanisms such as effective pension coverage, unemployment assistance, and poverty relief programmes – despite proclivities to shy away from welfarism by ‘atmanirbhar’ shenanigans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/99-sheep-1-lions-947648.html
05-02-2021||In Perspective||Private schools’ finances in doldrums||The recent government order slashing 30% off tuition fee of private schools for the current academic year has come as a severe body blow to the private schools. They were already in the doldrums, having had to go back to last year’s fee structure and not being permitted to charge for online classes, for which they had to augment their resources in terms of hardware and software. The rationale cited for the government order is that private schools have not functioned during the past months, ever since the Covid-19 pandemic hit us.  While the schools did not have physical classes, they were running online classes all through this period. The online classes require much more effort on the part of the teachers, and the school authorities have been saddled with the responsibility to provide logistical support required for them. The teaching and non-teaching staff also had to be paid their salaries. The argument that schools have had less expenditure during the year is wholly untenable. The only area where some reduction in expenditure has come about is in the consumption of electricity. There has been absolutely no reduction in expenditure in any other area. Even assuming that there is some saving on electricity bills, it’s more than neutralised by the additional investments made for online classes.  Salaries of staff, statutory obligations, maintenance of buildings and equipment including school vehicles, salaries of the bus crew, are all recurrent expenses, inescapable for any school worth its salt. The government should have made a thorough study of the financial commitments of the private schools. It had several months to undertake such a study. Had it done so, it would not have arrived at this decision. Populism vs pragmatism The government has responded to the woes of parents affected by the pandemic.  While that is appreciated, they should have approached the issue more pragmatically. Had it done so, the decision would have been a lot different. If the government wanted to give relief to the parents, they were duty-bound to compensate the loss of fee income to schools. Education is the right of the child and it is the State’s responsibility to provide it to every child. When that is the premise of the RTE Act, the government cannot afford to be the Good Samaritan at the expense of the private schools. This is nothing but populism.  Populism will always have an intangible long-term price to pay. In this context, the price is the morale of private schools.  The government should recognise and appreciate the contribution of private educational institutions in nation-building. Our country’s progress in the field of education is not only on account of government initiatives but also because of the contribution of philanthropists and charitable institutions who provide quality education. This is an incontrovertible fact, borne out by the history of our country. Unfortunately, most politicians and officials adopt a cat-and-mouse policy.  They pay lip service to private institutions but entertain a prejudice against them and secretly vilify them. This is most frustrating for all honest providers of education in the private sector. If there are black sheep among them, like there are in every field, it is for the government to track them down. It is wrong to paint all of them with the same brush. Responsible institutions have come to the aid of the parents in distress, giving them fee concessions, scholarships, etc. I know of some that have provided even 50% concession to every parent who approached them. At the same time, the salaries and other commitments had to be honoured. Without compromising on the essentials, such institutions have been managing during this crisis situation.  To them, this government order has come as a bolt from the blue. Way forward It’s always tough to practise probity in public life. It’s tougher to convince others that you are indeed practising probity and prudence in handling public funds. This is the real test of leadership.  Private schools also have a lesson to learn from this crisis. They need to be focussed on their mission. Education should be seen as a service to society. It should not be used for profiteering.   There is an obvious trust deficit, and that’s the crux of the problem. Private institutions have to impose on themselves certain internal discipline and ethics in the way they transact day-to-day activities. They must practise transparency, and take the various stakeholders into confidence while taking major initiatives. Educational institutions are not mere providers of knowledge; they are indeed torchbearers for the next generation. Their fundamental and unshakable mandate must be to practise integrity and ethics. Integrity in the personal sphere and ethics in the institutional realm. This must be a divine covenant between them and society. Let that be the watchword of every private educational institution. (The writer is Director, Little Rock Institutions, Udupi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/private-schools-finances-in-doldrums-947649.html
05-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Lithium deposits found in Mandya: Jitendra Singh||The Union government has said that preliminary surveys have shown the presence of Lithium deposits in Mandya district of Karnataka. “Preliminary surveys on the surface and limited subsurface by Atomic Minerals Directorate for Exploration and Research (AMD), a constituent unit of Department of Atomic Energy has shown the presence of Lithium resources of 1,600 tonnes (inferred category) in the pegmatites of Marlagalla – Allapatna area, Mandya district,” Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions Jitendra Singh said in a written reply to a question by G S Basavaraj. “AMD is presently carrying out exploration. Reconnaissance surveys have been also carried out along Saraswati River Palaeochannel, in Jodhpur and Barmer districts, Rajasthan for locating Lithium mineralisation associated with brine (saline water from salt lakes),” he said. The well-known uses of Lithium are in Lithium-ion batteries, lubricating grease, high-energy additive to rocket propellants, optical modulators for mobile phones and as convertor to tritium used as a raw material for thermonuclear reactions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lithium-deposits-found-in-mandya-jitendra-singh-947659.html
05-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bird census begins at Bandipur||The three-day bird census began at Bandipur National Park limits on Friday, after a gap of around 20 years. In all, 77 people participated on Day One. The participants included 50 from Hediyala sub-division, 14 from Gundlupet and 13 from Bandipur division. They started identifying the birds aided with binoculars and cameras. Forest department personnel accompanied them. The bird watching and documentation will be held from Friday to Sunday and the report submitted to the respective Range Forest Officers through power-point presentation. Those who capture the movement of the winged beauties in a unique manner would be identified and prizes will be distributed, said Bandipur Project Director Natesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bird-census-begins-at-bandipur-948015.html
05-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Attack on writer condemned||Office-bearers of Akhila Bharatha Praja Vedike and Mysuru unit of People's Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) have condemned the smearing of black ink by advocate Meera Raghavendra on the face of writer K S Bhagawan on the court premises in Bengaluru on Thursday. In a press release, issued here, on Friday, Dr V Lakshminarayan, Panditaradya and G P Basavaraju have said, her accusation is that Bhagawan has insulted Hindu dharma. "But, in Bhagawan’s writings, there is no insult to any religion. It is logical criticism. Such criticism is only debatable on ideological basis. The arrogance cannot be tolerated. This is an act to snub the Right for Expression. Meera has blackened her own face, in the process,” the press note states. “There is difference of opinion in the society, because India is a democracy. There are activists like Suresh Bhat Bakrabail of PUCL, Jignesh Mewani and Kanhaiya Kumar, who think rationally and differently. If somebody has a complaint against their opinion, it can be debated publicly. Personal attack, such as smearing of black ink on one’s face, is only cowardice and escapism,” the activists said. "The incident should be viewed in the light of the government’s recent decision, not to buy Bhagawan’s books for libraries. In general, right wing communalism and fascism is spreading which tentacles in Karnataka and across India. There is a need for an united resistance against such forces,” the press note reads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/attack-on-writer-condemned-948016.html
05-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Multiplexes evoke good response, registers 80% occupancy||With the state government allowing 100% occupancy in cinema theatres from Friday, there was a good response from film lovers of Mysuru city. Multiplexes saw almost 80% occupancy. While multiplexes started functioning, single screen theatres of Mysuru city, remained closed, with the tug-of-war between Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Federation (KFEF) and producers. However, a few theatres opened in Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts, with 100% seating capacity, though there was not much response. The state government, after much persuasion by representatives of the film industry, agreed for 100% seating capacity in theatres, on Wednesday evening. However, it will be on trial for four weeks. The government will take a decision after a month, based on the outcome.  It may be mentioned that the Karnataka government allowed the theatres to function only with 50% audience, even though the Union government had allowed the states to take a decision on cinema halls functioning with full capacity. DRC multiplex in the city registered 80% occupancy on Friday. Three Kannada films are screened in the multiplex and there is a good response for two films, said Vaishali Hanumanth Padki, Promoter of DRC Cinemas. Speaking to DH, Vaishali said that it has come as a big relief, not only to multiplex owners, but for the film industry as a whole. The industry suffered a setback since the theatres were closed on March 13, after the breakout of Covid pandemic. The government later allowed 50% occupancy in theatres from October 15, with standard operating procedures. As recommended, multiplexes are following the digital mode of payment for tickets. For those who buy tickets offline, their contact details are procured. Besides, it is ensured that all wear masks while on the premises. The theatre is sanitised after every show, Vaishali said. Other multiplexes - Inox and Mysuru Vision - too received good audience. M R Rajaram of Gayathri Talkies opined that the KFEF has proposed a new percentage module to bail out theatre owners. “The exhibitor sector is a major contributor for the growth of Karnataka film industry over the years. Yet it is the most neglected one. A large number of cinema theatres have closed down. Many more will close, if immediate change in the business model is not done,” he opined. While three theatres Padma, Balaji Deluxe and Mahadeshwara opened on Friday, eight main theatres remain closed, extending support to the federation, he said. A few theatres have resumed functioning in Mandya, Chamarajanagar and Hassan districts, but the response was poor. While Sanjay and Gurushree theatres have opened in Mandya, Prithvi in Hassan, two theatres in Chamarajanagar and one in Kollegal have started functioning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/multiplexes-evoke-good-response-registers-80-occupancy-948017.html
05-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Meera and Muthalik are black mark on Hinduism, says Prof Guru||Retired professor B P Maheshchandra Guru, on Friday, criticised Meera Raghavendra, who smeared black ink on writer K S Bhagwan. Speaking to reporters during a protest against Meera, near Town Hall here, Prof Guru said that Sri Rama Sene leader Pramod Muthalik and Meera are not protectors of Hindutva. “They are a black mark on Hinduism. They worship Brahminism and their hidden agenda is to protect it,” he said. Guru said, “Muthalik supported Meera and said that the writer is criticising Hindutva by taking money from foreign countries. But, in reality, Muthalik and his organisation, get money from foreign nations for their activities.” “Muthalik, Meera and Sri Rama Sene are anti-Constitution, anti-national and are running organisations to make money. “Being a responsible advocate, Meera should advocate on behalf of her clients, rather than criticise a particular community or ideology. She defamed the Constitution and judiciary, by smearing ink on Bhagwan. Bhagwan washed the ink, but, the black mark on Meera’s personality will remain throughout her life,” he said. “Bhagwan has expressed his views under the provisions of the Constitution. Who is she to question his writings and opinion?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/meera-and-muthalik-are-black-mark-on-hinduism-says-prof-guru-948018.html
05-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Students develop Integrated Road Safety System||Even as the National Road Safety Month is underway (January 18 to February 17), the project of the students of Mandya-based PES College of Engineering, an ‘Integrated Road Safety System’ (IRRS), assumes significance. IRRS may help to reduce the response time of the medical staff, which is vital for the survival of individuals involved in a mishap, and also send signals to road users for safety. ‘Revolution in Travelling with Integrated Road Safety System’ by N S Sanjay, B S Sammith, B Nived and V Soumik, had the guidance of Deepika, assistant professor, Computer Science and Engineering. The project also won the second prize in South India level Hackmania competition, held in association with Binghamton University of New York, USA, and Uma Nath Singh Institute of Engineering and Technology, Jaunpur, Uttar Pradesh, under Third phase of Technical Education Quality Improvement Programme (TEQIP-3) sponsorship. Principal of PES College of Engineering, Mandya, H V Ravindra said that according to the Union Surface Transport Ministry, over 1.5 lakh people were killed in road accidents in 2015. “It is more than the number of people killed in all our wars combined. One serious road accident occurs in every country per minute and 16 die on Indian roads every hour. The aim of the project was to reduce the response time of the medical staff, which is vital for the survival of the victims of mishaps,” he said. He said, "There are many reasons for traffic accident fatalities. One of them is delay in emergency assistance. To overcome this, IRRS identifies an accident, using various sensors and notifies the personnel concerned within 20 seconds. It also provides a geolocation of the place of accident.” Deepika, assistant professor, said that the Indian Road Congress (IRC) specifications for road humps are clear. But, it is just theory. "The statistics prove that 11,000 fatalities happened in 2015 due to road humps alone. The project uses geofencing to detect and notify road humps as early as possible. A geo fence is a virtual parameter for a real-world geographic area. It is dynamically generated, like in a radius around the point location. Once all humps are identified, whenever the vehicle enters the geo fence radius of a hump, a notification is sent to the vehicle to slow down," she said. “Under IRRS, a cloud black-box is installed for real-time tracking and anti-theft. All data, read from the sensors of the vehicles are stored in this black box, which can be accessed from anywhere, any time. The retrieved information is uploaded into the cloud, when internet is available. Once uploaded, the data in the black-box can be rewritten. These details can be used to analyse the problem that caused the accident,” she ssaid. Deepaika further explains, “Besides, the project makes use of an SOS button, to send the precise location of the vehicle. This is to call an emergency team for assistance in case of an undetected problem, like sudden health issues. The project also has a wheel alignment fault detection and notification system." "Usually faults in wheel alignments are recognised only when it is dangerous. But, IRRS has real-time monitoring of wheel alignment, so that possible accidents can be prevented. Generally, such features are seen in high-end cars, as separate individual devices. However, IRRS has integrated all these features in a single unit, which costs approximately Rs 7,000. This unit can be used in economy cars, to enhance road safety,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/students-develop-integrated-road-safety-system-948019.html
05-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka to discuss removing taluk panchayats||Rural Development & Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa told the Legislative Assembly on Thursday that the state government will consider the possibility of doing away with taluk panchayats and have a two-tier rural governance system.  At present, Karnataka has a three-tier system of rural governance: gram panchayat, taluk panchayat and zilla panchayat.  Legislators expressed concern on how taluk panchayats are becoming stagnant without funds. BJP’s Sorab MLA Kumara Bangarappa said taluk panchayats were not receiving adequate funds. “It is better to have a two-tier system by doing away with them,” he said.  JD(S) Sindhanur MLA Venkatrao Nadagouda concurred with Bangarappa and said there was no coordination between taluk panchayats and the zilla panchayats. “The earlier two-tier system was ideal,” he added.  Such a change would require a Constitutional amendment, Eshwarappa pointed out.  “We have to send a request to the Centre. We will discuss this in the Cabinet,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-to-discuss-removing-taluk-panchayats-947638.html
05-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||I’ll hang myself in front of Vidhana Soudha: V Somanna||Housing Minister V Somanna vowed to "hang himself in front of Vidhana Soudha" during a heated debate in the Legislative Assembly where he locked horns with the Congress's Eshwar Khandre over alleged irregularities.  During a debate on the motion of thanks for the Governor’s address, Khandre, who represents Bhalki in Bidar, attacked the government over the delay in releasing instalments for beneficiaries selected under various housing schemes.  “Based on GPS, we found people having built farmhouses and cattle sheds. They aren’t poor people. In Bhalki, over 16,000 homes were sanctioned and 43% of them are bogus. The sanction letter is to be given by the PDO. In Bhalki, however, the MLA has given the letter ahead of elections and got Rs 30,000-40,000 instalment released,” Somanna said.  An inquiry was ordered and six PDOs are under suspension, Somanna said.  An angry Khandre refuted this and said Somanna was targeting him for political reasons. “In the garb of an inquiry, the government doesn’t want to release the money to beneficiaries,” he said. “You have appointed a corrupt officer Mahadeva Prasad at the Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation and you are doing this,” he said, adding that Somanna’s department was deep in corruption.   According to Khandre, beneficiaries who have built homes below the stipulated 250 sqft area were declared as ineligible. “The government is recovering money from them. How just is this?” he said.  Both got personal and levelled allegations against each other. At one point, Somanna said he was "an open book" and that he was ready to "hang himself in front of Vidhana Soudha" if he had erred.  Khandre said he would resign if it was proved that he had issued the sanction orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-ll-hang-myself-in-front-of-vidhana-soudha-v-somanna-947655.html
05-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Horticulture Minister R Shankar struggles to explain Bill as Congress stages walk out||Horticulture Minister R Shankar found himself in an awkward situation on Friday, as Congress MLCs staged a walkout from the Legislative Council over a Bill that he could not explain properly. The University of Horticulture Sciences (Amendment) Bill seeks to reduce the number of members in the Board of Management of the University by dropping one farmer. Apart from the preliminary information, the newly-appointed minister was unable to provide a detailed context to the Bill. While he explained that the amendment was suggested by the ICAR and it was not the state government's call, confusion prevailed as the Congress MLCs questioned how a farmer could be dropped from the Board. Not satisfied by the minister's explanation, the Congress leaders staged a walkout, calling it an "anti-farmer" move. JD(S) MLC Srikante Gowda criticised the BJP for being unable to defend their stance. "The ICAR is an autonomous body like the UGC and the state government is bound to follow its directions. You did not know how to defend this position," he said. The Bill was eventually passed with the support of the JD(S).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/horticulture-minister-r-shankar-struggles-to-explain-bill-as-congress-stages-walk-out-947919.html
05-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Not in my hands, says Karnataka CM Yediyurappa on quota demands||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday said he was powerless in deciding on demands to revise the reservation for the Panchamasali Lingayat and Kuruba communities, throwing his hands up on a politically-sensitive issue. “We’re a national party, not a regional party. On any issue, decisions have to be taken after consulting the PM and other leaders. I don't have any authority to take any decision (on any of these issues)," Yediyurappa said in the Assembly, angering those from the Panchamasali sect who are asking to be given Category 2A status. The Kurubas are agitating for ST status.  "We have 25 MPs. You can take whoever you want and meet Central leaders. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not in any position to give any solution. I state clearly that it can't be done," Yediyurappa added. He made this statement in response to BJP legislator Basangouda Patil Yatnal, who sought clarity from the CM over demands made by the communities. Kudalasangama Panchamasali Mutt pontiff Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami, who is leading the Category 2A agitation, asked Yediyurappa to resign. "This has rubbed salt on our wound. (Yediyurappa) had assured us that it would be done. He has lost his mind and age is catching up. It's time he stepped down and another Lingayat is made the CM," he told reporters. The Panchamasali seer is leading a padayatra to Bengaluru to press for their demand. At present, the Veerashaiva-Lingayats currently get 5% reservation under Category 3B. They will get 15% under Category 2A. Numerically, the Panchamasali sect is the most influential among Lingayats. Yediyurappa belongs to the Ganiga sect of Lingayats. In November 2020, Yediyurappa deferred a decision on including the Veerashaiva-Lingayats in the central OBC list after he reportedly got a call from Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Soon after Yediyurappa made the statement, Yatnal lashed out saying the CM cannot take shelter under the PM. "It's your responsibility to send a recommendation to the Centre. This is a conspirancy to deprive our communities of better opportunities," he said. Later in the day, Small Scale Industries Minister CC Patil, Mines & Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani and Yatnal - all Panchamasalis - held talks with Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami to chalk out the next course of action. The Kuruba community is also taking out a 20-day padayatra seeking ST status. They are currently OBCs in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/not-in-my-hands-says-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-on-quota-demands-947971.html
05-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Issue digital health cards: Doreswamy to Karnataka govt||Adviser to the government of Karnataka (Education Reforms) Prof M R Doreswamy has recommended the state government to issue digital health cards to the government school students in the state. In a pre-budget meeting with Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar here last week, he requested the government to issue digital health cards to students of government schools and sought adjunct positions in RGUHS to invite global experts and NRIs to facilitate the transfer of knowledge and technologies in key areas of health services and education in the state. Doreswamy called for the introduction of a mentoring system in medical colleges because of the overwhelming student-teacher ratio there. He said both the Medical Council of India and the National Education Policy mandated incorporation of mentoring practices in all streams of education. The NEP even proposed a National Mission for Mentoring for smooth implementation of the Policy across the country. He further said that yoga and meditation should be integrated with medical education. This was important because there's no provision for extra-curricular activities and value education in medical colleges, Doreswamy added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/issue-digital-health-cards-to-govt-students-doreswamy-to-karnataka-govt-948025.html
05-02-2021||Mysuru||Fake account under Yaduveer Wadiyar's name tweets in support of farmers' protest||A Twitter account under Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar's name has tweeted in favour of the farmers' protest. Wadiyar, a member of the erstwhile Mysore royal family, has declined that he has tweeted in favour of the protests against the farm laws. However, he said, when there is a problem, it is solved by the government. But, it is not right to use my name for a fake tweet. In fact, he has clarified that he does not have a Twitter account. He has only a Facebook account and an Instagram account. He said, that earlier, he had complained about the fake account and he will lodge a complaint again, in this regard. However, with a minor change in the spelling, the account @YaduveerWodiyar posted a tweet which reads: “It’s our moral obligation to support our farmers. Dear @narendramodi please address the agrarian problems. #IStandWithFarmers.” It has received over 1,500 likes and has been retweeted over 300 times. The tweet also has two photos, one of a worried farmer and the other of rice and dal.  The Twitter account was started in March 2015 and has 4,968 followers. Earlier, on August 27, 2020, the same account conducted a poll. The tweet posed a question, “Should I join Politics?”, with ‘Yes’ and ‘No’ options, the office of Wadiyar had clarified that Wadiyar does not have a Twitter account. “Wadiyar has only a Facebook account and an Instagram account,” the communication had stated. Yaduveer had even put an Instagram post: ‘Fake account, please do not follow’, in the backdrop of the screenshot of the Twitter account, on August 27, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/fake-account-under-yaduveer-wadiyars-name-tweets-in-support-of-farmers-protest-947819.html
05-02-2021||National||Closely monitoring developments in Myanmar: India||Days after Myanmar's powerful military seized power in a coup, India on Thursday said it was "closely" monitoring developments in the neighbouring country. "India and Myanmar are neighbours with close cultural and people-to-people ties, bolstered by trade, economic, security and defence-related exchanges. We are, therefore, monitoring developments in that country closely," external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. At a media briefing, he said India is also engaged on the issue as a member of the UN Security Council. Myanmar's military grabbed power in the coup against the civilian government and imposed a state of emergency after detaining Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi and other leaders of her National League for Democracy (NLD) on Monday. Following the coup, India expressed "deep concern" and said the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld in the country. "India has extended assistance to Myanmar in its fight against Covid-19 by providing medicines, test kits and vaccines," Srivastava said at the briefing. "We remain committed to continuing our humanitarian support for the people in Myanmar in mitigating the health and economic impact of the pandemic," he added. The Myanmarese military staged the coup amid its rising friction with the ruling NLD government over the results of the November 8 general election. The NLD had registered a thumping victory in the polls. However, the military had alleged discrepancies in the electoral process. The democratic transition in Myanmar had taken place in 2011 after decades of military rule||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/closely-monitoring-developments-in-myanmar-india-947639.html
05-02-2021||National||India's considerable vaccine productivity will serve needs of all: PM Modi to South Africa President||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday told South African President Cyril Ramaphosa that India's considerable productive capacity for pharmaceuticals and vaccines would continue to serve the needs of all countries, including those in Africa. Modi and Ramaphosa, during a telephonic conversation, discussed the continuing challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, and in this context the vaccination campaigns being undertaken in their respective countries, a Prime Minister's Office (PMO) statement said. "Spoke to President @CyrilRamaphosa about the measures India and South Africa are taking to fight the Covid-19 pandemic domestically and internationally. India's capacity to produce medicines and vaccines is supporting the efforts of many nations, including our friends in Africa," Modi said in a tweet. The PMO also said in its statement that the prime minister reiterated to the South African president that India's considerable productive capacity for pharmaceuticals and vaccines would continue to serve the needs of all countries, including those in Africa. The two leaders also discussed possibilities of collaboration between India and South Africa in various international fora, to facilitate access and affordability of vaccines and medicines. Modi and Ramphosa agreed that officials of both countries would remain in touch over the coming days to exchange experiences and explore potential for collaborative efforts against the pandemic, according to the PMO. Earlier this week, made-in-India vaccines reached South Africa in an aircraft and President Ramaphosa received the consignment of doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-considerable-vaccine-productivity-will-serve-needs-of-all-pm-modi-to-south-africa-president-947640.html
05-02-2021||National||India sent 56 lakh Covid-19 vaccines to foreign nations as gift;100 lakh doses as commercial supplies: MEA||India provided 56 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccines under grants assistance to a number of countries while 100 lakh doses were sent under commercial supplies, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Thursday. MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Indian vaccines are scheduled to reach the Caribbean countries, Pacific Island states, Nicaragua, Afghanistan and Mongolia, in the coming weeks. "We have so far supplied vaccines to Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar, Mauritius, Seychelles, Sri Lanka, the UAE, Brazil, Morocco, Bahrain, Oman, Egypt, Algeria, Kuwait and South Africa," he said at a media briefing. "Supplies made under grant amount to 56 lakh doses and commercial supplies amount to over 100 lakh doses," he added. Srivastava said external supplies of vaccines are an ongoing process, depending on availability and domestic requirements. "In the coming weeks, Indian vaccines are scheduled to reach CARICOM countries (the Caribbean), Pacific Island States, Nicaragua, Afghanistan, Mongolia etc," he said. The Caribbean Community (CARICOM) is a grouping of 20 island nations which are home to approximately 16 million people.  In a major announcement, India on January 19 said it will send Covid-19 vaccines under grant assistance to several countries, including Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar, Seychelles, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Mauritius. India is one of the world's biggest drugmakers, and an increasing number of countries have already approached it for procuring the coronavirus vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sent-56-lakh-covid-19-vaccines-to-foreign-nations-as-gift100-lakh-doses-as-commercial-supplies-mea-947641.html
05-02-2021||National||Onus on Pakistan to create environment free of terror and hostility: India||India on Thursday said the onus is on Pakistan to create an environment free of terror and hostility, days after Pakistan Army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa's comments that it is time to extend a "hand of peace in all directions".   "Our position is well-known. India desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence," external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. He was asked to comment on Bajwa's remarks. "The onus is on Pakistan for creating such an environment," Srivastava said. In an address at the graduation ceremony of Pakistan Air Force cadets, Gen Bajwa on Tuesday said Pakistan was firmly committed to the ideal of mutual respect and peaceful co-existence. "It is time to extend a hand of peace in all directions," he said in comments largely seen as a message to India. The ties between India and Pakistan came under severe strain after India's war planes pounded a Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist training camp in Balakot in Pakistan in February 2019 in response to the Pulwama terror attack. The relations further deteriorated after India in August 2019 announced withdrawing special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcation of the state into two union territories. Notwithstanding the coronavirus pandemic in the region, Pakistan has been resorting to unprovoked ceasefire violations along the LoC and making concerted efforts to push militants into Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/onus-on-pakistan-to-create-environment-free-of-terror-and-hostility-india-947643.html
05-02-2021||National||DH Toon | The curious case of Indian stars and ground reality||Popular artist Rihanna tweeted on February 2 about the farmers' protests ongoing in New Delhi for 71 days, asking "why aren't we talking about this?" A day later, young climate activist Greta Thunberg took to Twitter to extended her support to farmers in India. What ensued was a raging battle on social media ensued over these tweets and made the hashtags "India Against Propoganda" and "India Together" trend. Cricketing legend Sachin Tendulkar, along with other players, also extended his support to the farm laws and the government, saying that "Indians know India and should decide for India".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-the-curious-case-of-indian-stars-and-ground-reality-947660.html
05-02-2021||National||Farm Laws: US reaction to farmer protests must be seen in its entirety, asks India||Hours after the Joe Biden Administration reacted to the farmer protests, India on Thursday said the comments must be seen in their entirety and compared reactions to the violence at the Red Fort with those seen after storming of the US Capitol. At a media briefing, External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said any protests must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity, and the ongoing efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse. Srivastava said India has taken note of the comments by the US, adding the two countries are vibrant democracies with shared values. "The incidents of violence and vandalism at the historic Red Fort on January 26 have evoked similar sentiments and reactions in India as did the incidents on the Capitol Hill on January 6 and are being addressed as per our respective local laws," he said. "The temporary measures with regard to internet access in certain parts of the NCR region were therefore understandably undertaken to prevent further violence," he said. In its first reaction to the ongoing farmers' agitation, the new US administration on Thursday said it encourages that any differences between the parties be resolved through dialogue and described peaceful protests and unhindered access to the internet as "hallmarks" of a "thriving democracy". The US also said it backed steps that can improve the efficiency of India's markets and attract greater investment. "As you can see, the US state department has acknowledged steps being taken by India towards agricultural reforms," the MEA spokesperson said. "We have taken note of comments of the US State Department. It is important to see such comments in the context in which they were made and in their entirety," he said. On the issue of restrictions on internet services at the protest sites, the US embassy spokesperson said: "We recognise that unhindered access to information, including the internet, is fundamental to the freedom of expression and a hallmark of a thriving democracy". Asked if a "motivated campaign" was being run and whether any entity was behind foreign reactions to the farmers' stir, Srivastava did not give a direct reply. "What I will say broadly is that the debate on reforming the agricultural sector is an issue best addressed by the Indian democratic polity. Those following it should have an informed and objective view. We are making sure through our activities that this is what happens," he said. Srivastava also said India has issued a mutual legal assistance request to the US for investigation in the matter of 'Sikhs for Justice and Referendum 2020'. "As per procedure, the request has been sent directly by the concerned authorities to the US Department of Justice (DoJ)," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-us-reaction-to-farmer-protests-must-be-seen-in-its-entirety-asks-india-947668.html
05-02-2021||National||BKU official complains against fake Facebook profile of Rakesh Tikait||A Bharatiya Kisan Union official here lodged a complaint on Thursday alleging that some miscreants had opened a fake Facebook page of farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and posted obnoxious photos on it. A complaint along with screenshots of the page were sent to Kaushambi police station officials, BKU press cell in-charge Shamsher Rana told PTI adding that an acquaintance had informed him about the fake ID. Superintendent of Police (City 2) Gyanendra Singh said action would be initiated as and when police would receive the complaint in writing. Rana had received a friend request from the fake ID and got alerted as he was already connected with Tikait on the social networking site, the complaint stated. Going through the fake ID, Rana saw that the BKU leader's photo was affixed as the profile picture and some images of adult film actors were also seen on the page. The IP address mentioned on the ID originates from Ludhiana district in Punjab, Rana alleged in the complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bku-official-complains-against-fake-facebook-profile-of-rakesh-tikait-947672.html
05-02-2021||National||Delhi to have EV charging stations within every 3 km distance: Delhi transport minister||The Delhi government on Friday floated a tender to set up 100 charging stations for electric vehicles across the city. The tender, which is largest in the country for setting up charging stations, has been floated by Delhi Transco Limited (DTL), Power Minister Satyendar Jain said at a press conference. Each station will have five charging points, making it a total of 500 such points. The charging stations will be set up within a year, Jain said. There will be a mandate for minimum 20 per cent slow chargers and 10 per cent fast chargers at these charging stations to cater to all kinds of EVs. Majority of these sites will be at Metro stations and DTC bus depots, he said. Under the electric vehicle policy of the Delhi government launched in August last year,  electric vehicles are targeted to comprise 25 per cent of the total vehicle registrations in the city.  Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday launched the 'Switch Delhi' campaign for promoting the adoption of electric vehicles and replace petrol and diesel driven ones that are one of the main sources of pollution in Delhi. Industry leaders have hailed Delhi government's 'Switch Delhi' campaign, said a city government statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-to-have-ev-charging-stations-within-every-3-km-distance-delhi-transport-minister-947677.html
05-02-2021||National||Mathura court reserves order on admissibility of civil suit seeking removal of mosque||A court has reserved its judgment on the admissibility of a fresh civil suit seeking the removal of the Shahi Idgah mosque and ownership of 13.37-acre land surrounding Katra Keshav Dev temple here. “Additional District and Sessions Judge Dev Kant Shukla, after hearing the plea presented on behalf of plaintiff Pawan Kumar Shastri, the Sevayat of Old Keshav Dev temple, has reserved the judgment on the admissibility of the suit and would pronounce the judgment on February 6,” advocate Rama Shankar Bharadwaj, counsel for priest Pawan Kumar Shashtri of old Keshav Dev temple, said. The suit was presented on February 2 in the court of Civil Judge Senior Division Chhaya Sharma. However, since the judge was on leave on Thursday, it was heard by Additional District Judge Dev Kant Shukla, he said. Annulment of a 1968 court order ratifying a land deal between Shahi Masjid Idgah management committee and Sri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan has been requested in the suit. Shashtri said the court has also been requested to issue an order for party no 1 and 2 (secretary Intazamia committee Shahi Masjid Idgah and president Sunni Waqf Board Lucknow) directing them to remove Shahi Masjid Idgah from a part of land of the temple within a stipulated time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mathura-court-reserves-order-on-admissibility-of-civil-suit-seeking-removal-of-mosque-947681.html
05-02-2021||National||Uttarakhand Police to scrutinise social media behaviour of passport applicants||The Uttarakhand Police has decided to scrutinise social media behaviour before giving their clearance for people applying for passports. Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said on Thursday that online behaviour of passport applicants needs to be scrutinised to stop growing misuse of social media platforms. Uttarakhand Police had decided to make examination of social media behaviour of passport applicants a part of the verification process at a meeting chaired by the Director General of Police. Justifying the decision, Kumar said the measure is needed to stop growing misuse of social media platforms to foment trouble. However, the DGP denied he had introduced anything "new or drastic" saying he had only spoken in favour of enforcing a clause already there in the passport law.  "There is a clause in the passport law not to issue the document to anyone indulging in anti-national activities. I have only spoken in favour of its enforcement," Kumar said. "As a police officer I stand against anything that falls into the category of anti-national activities as defined by our Constitution," he said. Replying to a question, he admitted that the way social media was used to "escalate tension" during the recent tractor parade in Delhi may have acted as a catalyst or taking the decision. "Deterrents like these are necessary to discourage the growing misuse of social media and send a message to users to be more responsible," he said. Earlier, police only checked whether or not FIRs were lodged against passport applicants. However, the decision to add scrutiny of social media behaviour of passport applicants to the police verification process was taken during the police conference where the role of social media platforms in recent times came up prominently for discussions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-police-to-scrutinise-social-media-behaviour-of-passport-applicants-947693.html
05-02-2021||National||2008 Mumbai terror attack accused Tahawwur Rana opposes extradition to India||Pakistani-origin Canadian businessman Tahawwur Rana, a key accused in the 2008 Mumbai terror attack, has opposed his extradition to India, arguing that he has previously been acquitted of the offences for which his extradition is sought. Rana, 59, a childhood friend of David Coleman Headley, was re-arrested on June 10 in Los Angeles on an extradition request by India for his involvement in the 2008 Mumbai terror attack in which 166 people, including six Americans, were killed. He has been declared a fugitive by India. Pakistani-American Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist Headley was involved in plotting the 2008 Mumbai terror attack. He was made an approver in the case, and is currently serving a 35-year prison term in the US for his role in the attack. The motion in opposition of Rana's extradition was filed by his attornies early this week before the US District Court Judge in Los Angeles Jacqueline Chelonian. Rana's extradition is barred under Article 6 of the United States-India extradition treaty with India because he has previously been acquitted of the offences for which extradition is sought, and under Article 9 of the Treaty because the government has not established a probable cause to believe that Rana committed the alleged offences, his attorneys argued. The US government, which is supporting his extradition, expected to file its motion soon. “This is the rarest of cases: the government seeks to extradite Tahawwur Rana to India to face the death penalty based on alleged criminal conduct for which an American jury acquitted him,” Rana’s attorneys said. “The US government seeks to accomplish this inequitable result by reading… double jeopardy, provision of the extradition treaty contrary to its text, to international and Indian law, to the interpretation the government gave that provision in its plea agreement with Rana's alleged co-conspirator, David Headley, and even to United States double jeopardy principles,” they said. The government relies for its required showing of probable cause on the very witness -- Headley -- whose testimony the American jury rejected. The court should dismiss the extradition complaint and deny the request for extradition, they argued. Rana was previously prosecuted in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. He was charged with conspiring to provide material support to terrorism in India. The motion also argues that the US government has failed to establish probable cause to believe that Rana committed the crimes charged in India. It says that the US government relies for its probable cause showing almost entirely on Headley's direct-examination testimony and other evidence from the Illinois trial, at which Rana was acquitted on India-related charges. The government's theory has two essential pillars. One that Headley told Rana he was working with LeT, including in preparation for the Mumbai attack and secondly that Rana furthered Headley's efforts on LeT's behalf by, for example, opening the Mumbai office of Immigrant Law Center to provide cover for Headley's surveillance of potential attack sites and helping Headley obtain a business visa for India through the submission of false documents. His attorney’s claim that Headley lied to Rana about his true plans in Mumbai. “He then brazenly lied to his handler in Pakistan -- telling Major Iqbal he was using the USD 25,000 to pay for the office when in fact Rana was paying for it -- to con the Pakistanis out of thousands of dollars,” the motion says. Giving several examples, the motion to oppose extradition says that the government's probable cause rests on Headley's uncorroborated and at times demonstrably false testimony. “The Illinois jury rejected that testimony. The government nonetheless insists that the court must accept Headley's testimony at face value, without any inquiry concerning his credibility,” it says. It would be no less of an "unthinkable imposition" on this court's duty to "determine independently" whether probable cause supports Rana's extradition if the court had to swallow uncritically Headley's false testimony, it said. “Probable cause may not be a stringent standard, but it requires something more than the say-so of a twice-convicted drug dealer and conman who has repeatedly and admittedly lied to judges, prosecutors, federal agents, his own family, and anyone else necessary to get what he wanted -- particularly because what he wanted here was of utmost importance to him: to avoid a death sentence in the United States and his own extradition to India, where he would surely face execution,” his lawyers added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2008-mumbai-terror-attack-accused-tahawwur-rana-opposes-extradition-to-india-947710.html
05-02-2021||National||Actor Sonu Sood withdraws plea in SC against Bombay High Court order in illegal construction case||Bollywood actor Sonu Sood Friday withdrew from the Supreme Court the plea against the Bombay High Court order dismissing his case on alleged illegal construction at his residential building in Mumbai's Juhu area. The apex court, which permitted the withdrawal of the petition, orally observed that no coercive action be taken against Sood until the civic authorities decide on his application for regularisation. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, was informed by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, counsel for Sood, that he would withdraw the plea from the top court and seek a decision on his application for regularisation of alleged illegal construction from the civic body. The high court had dismissed the actor's appeal against the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) notice to him over alleged illegal construction at his residential building at Juhu. At the outset, Rohatgi said he has advised the actor to withdraw the plea and would rather seek the liberty that BMC decide his plea for regularisation. "That is good advice Mr. Rohatgi. This is absolutely correct advice which does not happen very often. The Authorities to decide the application according to law," said the bench in the proceedings conducted through video conferencing.   Sood, who was in the limelight for helping migrants reach their homes during the lockdown last year, had stated in his plea that his application for conversion has been approved by the Municipal Commissioner subject to Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) permission. The plea had said the high court order of January 13, 2021 has been passed without considering the provisions of Section 43 (1) of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966 and his application for conversion of residential premises into a residential hotel was submitted in 2018 before the department concerned. The plea had contended that their application for conversion, which has been approved by the Municipal Commissioner subject to MCZMA, be directed to be decided by authorities concerned. “The petitioners have already stopped the work of internal renovation which require no permission as per the provisions of Section 43 of Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966, therefore, the respondents may kindly be restrained from demolition of the renovation work already done in the building,” the plea filed by Sood and his wife had said. He further stated that if the application of the petitioners for conversion is approved, the financial loss due to demolition will not be recovered in any manner and would cause miscarriage of justice to the petitioners. The High Court, while dismissing the actor''s appeal and application, said, 'Law helps only those who are diligent.' Sood's lawyer had sought a time of 10 weeks to comply with the notice issued by the BMC in October last year, and requested the high court to direct the civic body to not initiate demolition action. The high court, however, refused and said the actor had ample opportunity in the past and if required, he could approach the civic body. Sood had approached the high court earlier this month challenging an order of a city civil court at Dindoshi that had dismissed his suit against the BMC's notice issued over the alleged illegal construction carried out by him. The actor, in the interim application in the high court, had sought an order from the high court restraining the BMC from taking any coercive action against his residential property in Juhu area. “The petitioner (Sood) has not made any changes in the building that warrants permission from the BMC. Only those changes that are allowed under the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act have been done,' Sood's advocate had argued in HC. As per the BMC, the Bollywood actor had carried out structural changes in the six-storey residential building ''Shakti Sagar'', and allegedly converted it into a hotel without taking requisite permissions. The BMC earlier this month also filed a complaint at the Juhu police station, seeking an FIR to be lodged against Sood for allegedly converting the residential building into a hotel without permission. The complaint letter was sent to the police after the BMC inspected the building and found that Sood had allegedly not complied with the requisitions and was continuing unauthorised construction even after the notice was served to him in October last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/actor-sonu-sood-withdraws-plea-in-sc-against-bombay-high-court-order-in-illegal-construction-case-947732.html
05-02-2021||National||Greta Thunberg faces backlash after 'toolkit' tweet: Key things to know||Following on the heels of American pop icon Rihanna, Swedish environmentalist Greta Thunberg on Wednesday took to Twitter and drew the world's attention to the near three-month-long farmers' protests over the new farm laws. Both Rihanna's and Thunberg's comments were met with sharp criticism from the government and its various officials in the days that followed. The government also drummed up support from celebrities from the sports and Bollywood industry, who slammed the comments made on India's "internal matter", which 'dented' the country's sovereignty. Thunberg, despite the backlash, has stood her ground, stating that she would not change her stance at all. Here are four things to know about the ongoing battle between Greta Thunberg and the Government of India: What did Thunberg say? How did the government respond? The government through the Ministry of External Affairs, in response, said in a statement that "vested interests" had been trying to  ''mobilise international support against India." "Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken," the statement added.   The hashtags "#IndiaTogether" and "#IndiaAgainstPropaganda" were also used in the tweets posted by Indian celebrities like Sachin Tendulkar and Suniel Shetty. FIR against Thunberg? Reports on Thursday evening suggested that the Delhi Police, which is under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had filed the teenage activist's tweets in a First Information Report (FIR) for the 'toolkit' that she shared about the farmers' protest.  Thunberg, on hearing this, reiterated her support for the farmers' protest. The FIR was filed by the Delhi Police Cyber Cell. Meenakshi Lekhi's comments BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi took a dig at the Swedish environmentalist, saying that Thunberg should be awarded the child bravery award for having uploaded a document which in the Centre's eyes is "proof about hatching a conspiracy to destabilise" the country. I propose Greta Thunberg for Child bravery Award which Govt of India should bestow on her as she has done a huge service by uploading the document providing proof about hatching of a conspiracy to destabilise India from 1/1/ & leading up to 26/1/2021 She added that she "despised" the people that nominated a "child" for the Nobel Prize.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/greta-thunberg-faces-backlash-after-toolkit-tweet-key-things-to-know-947733.html
05-02-2021||National||Why India's coronavirus cases have fallen so sharply||With its 1.3 billion population, India has the world's second-highest number of coronavirus infections -- more than 10.8 million -- but new cases and deaths have fallen sharply in recent weeks. This week, new daily infections were the lowest in eight months, while deaths fell below 100 -- the smallest single-day total since May. AFP looks at how the South Asian giant has tackled the pandemic: India reported its first Covid-19 infection on January 30, 2020 and its first death in mid-March. The number of new daily cases peaked at just over 97,000 infections in September, with deaths averaging 1,000 a day that month. Deaths then started to decline. On Tuesday, just 94 fatalities were reported, out of 8,635 fresh infections. India has one of the lowest case-fatality ratios among the top 20 worst-affected nations in the world. Experts say the number of people in India who have contracted the disease is probably much higher than the official figure. They are backed by various state and national surveys measuring antibodies for the virus. An official national survey in December-January of urban and rural neighbourhoods as well as healthcare workers suggested that some 21.5 percent -- almost 280 million people -- carried antibodies. In the capital New Delhi, one of India's worst-hit cities, serological data released this week found that more than half of the 28,000 people sampled had developed antibodies. Experts had warned that the coronavirus would wreak havoc in India's densely populated cities, which are plagued by poor sanitation. There were also fears the chronically underfunded healthcare system would not be able to cope. The government sought to clamp down early, halting international flights and imposing one of the world's strictest lockdowns in March. Masks were made compulsory in many states. Restrictions have been gradually eased since June as the government sought to boost the pandemic-devastated economy. The population has become more relaxed. Hundreds of thousands flocked to the Kumbh Mela Hindu festival in January, mostly without masks. And tens of thousands of farmers have been taking part in crowded protests in Delhi since November to fight new agriculture laws. Doctors in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh states, as well as in major cities Delhi and Mumbai -- with a combined population of more than 330 million -- told AFP they have seen a significant decline in cases at their hospitals. In Delhi, the government said 90 percent of dedicated Covid-19 beds were unoccupied. "Earlier there used to be a huge waiting list. Now hardly 40-50 patients are here," said Deven Juneja, a doctor AFP met at the Max Smart Super Speciality Hospital in June. "We are now slowly limping back to normalcy in terms of offering our services in departments, which until now, were virtually paralysed due to the pressure of Covid-19 cases," said Sudhir Singh, spokesman at King George's Medical University in Lucknow, capital of Uttar Pradesh. Experts said that without conclusive data, it was impossible to say why India's figures had fallen so dramatically. There are mixed views on whether herd immunity -- when a significant proportion of a population is immune to an infectious disease -- may be present in much of India. "My understanding is that there are enough people in India who have been exposed to the virus. And that's possibly why the numbers are going down," virologist Shahid Jameel told AFP. "But in the absence of real numbers, it's really hard to say." The World Health Organization's regional director, Poonam Khetrapal Singh, praised the country's mask wearing, distancing and hygiene, saying they had proved effective in curtailing transmission. But she added: "India is a vast and diverse country and it's hard to attribute the decline in cases to herd immunity." Meanwhile, India has rapidly rolled out vaccinations with the ambitious goal of inoculating 300 million people by July. A study published in The Lancet last week noted that in the hard-hit city of Manaus, Brazil, there had been a resurgence of Covid-19 -- despite a high prevalence of people with antibodies. Some of the reasons offered include waning immunity from prior infections, and a new, stronger variant. Experts say such developments mean it is too soon for India to celebrate. "We cannot let our guards down," Singh said. "The longer we let the virus transmit anywhere, the higher the risk of variants. This risk is real, globally."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-indias-coronavirus-cases-have-fallen-so-sharply-947736.html
05-02-2021||National||FIR against deceased farmer's family for insulting national flag||The mother and brother of a farmer, who died in a road accident near the Ghazipur protest site, have been booked along with another person for allegedly insulting the national flag after a video of his last rites here showed the body draped in the Tricolour, police said Friday. According to the flag code of India, draping the Tricolour in a civilian funeral is an offence. The farmer had gone to the farmers' protest site on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border and died in an accident near there, police said. "Baljindra, a resident of Bari Bujhia village in Sehramau area had gone to participate in the farmers' agitation on January 23 with his friends. He died in a mishap on January 25 and is body was kept in a mortuary as that of an unidentified person. His family members came to know about the incident on February 2 and they brought the body here," Superintendent of Police, Jai Prakash Yadav, said. "The family members covered the body with the national flag like that of a martyr and took it for last rites on Thursday. The video of the last rites went viral on social media after which an FIR was registered against Baljindra's mother Jasvir Kaur, brother Gurvinder and one unidentified," the SP said. Thousands of farmers are camping at Delhi borders since November demanding that the Centre take back the three agri laws enacted last September and guarantee minimum support price for crops. The Centre has maintained that the laws are pro-farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fir-against-deceased-farmers-family-for-insulting-national-flag-947737.html
05-02-2021||National||Veteran PTI journalist K Narayanaswamy no more||S K Narayanaswamy, a former senior PTI journalist, died here on Friday after a brief illness. He was 76. He is survived by wife and two daughters. In his long career, Narayanaswamy, who was fondly known as KNS by his initials in the organisation, served as Kerala Bureau Chief in Thiruvananthapuram and later headed the news agency's South operations as its Regional Manager. He retired from PTI New Delhi as Deputy Editor. Narayanaswamy tested Covid-19 positive two weeks ago and was hospitalised, family sources said. He had recovered but the heavy medication took a toll on his health. Former colleagues recalled him as a person who was always ready to help others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/veteran-pti-journalist-k-narayanaswamy-no-more-947743.html
05-02-2021||National||Rajasthan BJP MLA booked for rape on pretext of marriage||A BJP MLA in Rajasthan's Udaipur has been booked for allegedly raping a woman on the pretext of marriage. The FIR against Gogunda MLA Pratap Lal Bheel (52) was registered at Sukher Police Station on Thursday. “The medical examination of the victim, who is aged around 35 years, was conducted and statements were recorded yesterday (Thursday),” SP Udaipur Rajeev Pachar said. The case was referred to the CID for investigation, he added. “The victim is from Madhya Pradesh and has alleged that the MLA promised to marry her and then raped her on several occasions. They belong to the same community and have been in touch for a few years,” another police officer said. The MLA was not available for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-bjp-mla-booked-for-rape-on-pretext-of-marriage-947752.html
05-02-2021||National||SC declines to hear traders body's plea against WhatsApp updated policy||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to hear a plea by the Confederation of All India Traders for a restraint against Facebook-owned WhatsApp from sharing users' data in violation of the right to privacy of citizens. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said the Delhi High Court was already examining a similar plea. The court gave liberty to the petitioner-organisation to approach the High Court. In its plea, the petitioner maintained that WhatsApp's updated policy, introduced since January 4, 2021, was against public law and policy and cannot be sustained on the grounds of legality. The messaging platform had already announced that it was delaying implementation of its updated privacy policy till May, 2021. Notably, the updated privacy policy does not apply to the users in the European Region, due to strict provisions of the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation and the imposition of multimillion-dollar fines against such arbitrary privacy policies. "WhatsApp, which is rendering essential public services by enabling citizens to communicate, has imposed unconstitutional privacy conditions, which are not only violative of the law but can impact the national security of the country," it said. The confederation asked the court to direct the government to formulate appropriate guidelines to regulate the functioning of internet-based messaging services including their privacy policy for handling of or dealing in personal information to ensure that the privacy rights of the users are not compromised. The traders body, in its plea, said all internet-based messaging services should duly inform their users about the actual and true import of their privacy policy. This was necessary in respect of the information provided and shared by the users and in order to safeguard the rights of minors, it said.   "The details and data which travel on the internet messaging service provider do not belong to the said service provider, but are owned by the users, constituting a class in itself. Therefore, nobody can claim the right to share this data," it said. However, several users are left with no option but to compromise their privacy, owing to WhatsApp's dominant position in the market. WhatsApp, after being launched in 2009, has grown substantially with a strong network and currently has over 2 billion users worldwide and 400 million users in India. Since August 2016, WhatsApp has been retracting its stance and altered the most valuable, basic and essential feature of its messaging service i.e. protection of user’s personal data, it said. "The change in privacy policy of WhatsApp, and the Facebook group of companies amounts to a direct invasion of privacy of the millions of users," it claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-to-hear-traders-bodys-plea-against-whatsapp-updated-policy-947755.html
05-02-2021||National||Wrong to term economic crisis act of God, govt policies responsible: CPI||The CPI on Friday hit out at the government for terming the economic crisis as an act of God, and said the policies of the government are squarely responsible for the situation and not the almighty. Participating in a discussion on the motion of thanks on the President's address, CPI member Binoy Viswam said the government's much-touted Rs 20 lakh crore financial package was only a "gimmick" as only around Rs 2 lakh crore reached the people instead. The CPI member did not support the motion of thanks on the President's address.He also urged the government to bring a national employment act on the MGNREGA model and said there should be an employment scheme for addressing the problem of unemployment among the youth of the country.   Viswam said the finance minister termed COVID-19 and the crisis in the economy as an act of God. "How can it be an act of God," he asked, noting that it is true that the country faced difficulty during the lockdown days, but the economy was on the downturn even before COVID-19. In 2020 March, the economy had fallen down to the level of 3.1 per cent GDP, whereas in 2018 March it was at 8.2 per cent. He said from 8.2 per cent GDP to 3.1 per cent in March 2020 in the beginning of lockdown, means that under the BJP government the economy was in "shambles". "Don't try to put that blame on God. I am not a believer in God, but I believe in the true believers of all religions. I am sure that God is not so cruel. God cannot be so cruel. So don't put the blame on Gods. God was not the culprit, the culprit was government's policies," he said. "So instead of taking the blame for its failures, the government was trying to say that it all happened because of the Gods which is not a good thing," the CPI member said. Viswam also said that private construction expenditure was 5.1 per cent in 2019-20 and it collapsed to 2.7 per cent in 2020 March and this figure has been the lowest since 2012. On the Rs 20 lakh crore financial package announced by the finance minister, the CPI member held that this money did not reach the people of the country. "In fact, it was a gimmick with figures and only Rs 2 lakh crore was disbursed at the maximum and the government is preaching everything that it has spent lakhs and lakhs for the poor to save their interests, which cannot be understood or accepted," he said. Viswam said corporate profits during COVID-19 rose to the level of 35 per cent and the money of 100 billionaires was enough to give to 138 million poor, but the government was not keen on that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wrong-to-term-economic-crisis-act-of-god-govt-policies-responsible-cpi-947757.html
05-02-2021||National||Tomar defends farm laws; says Opposition couldn't point out shortcomings||Putting up a strong defence of the new farm laws, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday said the government's offer to amend them to assuage farmers' sentiments did not mean they had any flaws and none from the protesting unions or their sympathisers have been able to point out any lacuna. Countering the Opposition's claim that farmers across the country are agitated over the three laws, he said in Rajya Sabha that peasants of just one state are being misinformed and instigated. In an apparent reference to a booklet released by the Congress recently, the minister slammed the party saying: "Duniya janti hai pani se kheti hoti hai. Khun se kheti sirf Congress he kar sakte hai, BJP khun se kheti nahi kar sakti (The world knows water is required for farming. Only Congress can do farming using blood. BJP cannot do this)". Acknowledging that the three laws are currently a burning issue, the senior minister said Opposition parties criticised the government and even termed the three legislations as "kala kanun" (black law). "For two months I kept asking farmer unions what is kala in the laws so that I can try to rectify. But I could not get the answer... Also nobody (from opposition benches) tried to point out the provisions in the laws which are against farmers," he said. Tomar, along with two other union ministers has held 11 meetings with farmers' representatives in wake of the ongoing protests. But the deadlock still continues. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and Wester Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at different borders of the national capital demanding repeal of The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement On Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The Supreme Court has stayed their implementation till further order. They are also demanding a legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP) for crops. The government, Tomar stressed, is committed to welfare of farmers and to the continuation of the 'mandi' system of procurement of crops on MSP-based mechanism. The laws give farmers alternatives to sell their produce outside 'mandis', and unlike the state government notified market places, such sale would not attract any tax, he said. "The agitation should have been against the tax levied (by state government) on sale made in mandis but strangely the protests are against freeing of the system from such taxes," he said, intervening during the discussion on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha at the start of the Budget Session. The Union Minister said that while the central law on contract farming free farmers from paying taxes on their sale and also empowers them to exit agreement with traders, as per the provisions of Punjab contract law, a farmer could be sent to jail or liable to pay penalty of up to Rs 5 lakh for violation of agreement. "I also want to ask farmers, specially those from Punjab where norms are different, including commission for ahratiays,...we have freed farmers from tax and state governments are levying taxes...so should the agitation be against those who are levying taxes or the one who is freeing them of taxes? "Lekin desh mein ulti Ganga beh rahi hai (flow is against the tide)," Tomar said. Referring to the law on farm trade, he said it allows farmers to sell their produce outside mandis, including from their own homes, warehouses and farm land. And there will be no state or central tax. He also informed the House that there are state levies for trade inside APMC mandis. The central law is applicable outside the mandis and there are no taxes. Tomar reiterated that the NDA government and the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi are fully committed towards farmers. He said the government has held several rounds of talks while respecting their protest. He said farmers were asked to tell about problematic provisions in the laws and the government even tried to anticipate their concerns, like on continuation of APMC and offered solutions. "We told them APMC system will not end. We gave them proposals. But at the same time I told them that if the government is ready to make amendments it should not be construed that there are shortcomings in the legislations," he said. "But farmers are protesting. People in one state are victims of misinformation," he said.   When some opposition parties tried to point out the agitation was not limited to only one state, Tomar categorically said, "It is an issue of only one state". He further said farmers have been instigated and misled that these laws would snatch their farm lands. "Please tell me one provision in the contract act...which authorises a trader to take away land from farmer. But people are being instigated that they will lose their land," he rued. Tomar said the government has made efforts to double farmers income and increase share of agriculture sector in the country's GDP. "These agriculture reform laws are important steps towards these goals...the legislations will bring revolutionary changes in the lives of farmers and boost their income," he added. During his intervention, the minister highlighted various measures the NDA government has taken for the growth agriculture sector and increasing income of farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tomar-defends-farm-laws-says-opposition-couldnt-point-out-shortcomings-947771.html
05-02-2021||National||Brazilian, Indian startup satellite in ISRO's first mission in 2021 on February 28||In its first mission in 2021, India's space agency ISRO planned to launch on February 28 Brazilian satellite Amazonia-1 and three Indian payloads, including one built by a home-grown start-up. The satellites are slated to be launched onboard the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) C-51 at 10.24 am from the Sriharikota spaceport, over 100 kms from Chennai. Secretary in the Department of Space and Chairman of Bengaluru-headquartered ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) K Sivan confirmed the PSLV-C51 schedule to PTI on Friday. Amazonia-1, reportedly the first earth observation satellite entirely developed by Brazil, is the primary payload. 'Anand', 'Satish Dhawan' satellite and 'UNITYsat' will be the co-passengers. 'Anand' is built by Indian space startup, Pixxel, and 'Satish Dhawan Satellite' by Chennai-based Space Kidz India. UNITYsat is a combination of three satellites designed and built as a joint development by Jeppiaar Institute of Technology, Sriperumpudur (JITsat), G. H. Raisoni College of Engineering, Nagpur (GHRCEsat) and Sri Shakthi Institute of Engineering and Technology, Coimbatore (Sri Shakthi Sat). "PSLV-C51 marks the launch of the country's first commercial private remote-sensing satellite (Anand) on an ISRO PSLV rocket", an ISRO official said. Sivan had earlier described the upcoming mission as "special for us, special for the entire country" and beginning of a "new era of space (sector) reforms". Pixxel CEO, Awais Ahmed had said: "We are elated with the fact that India's first commercial private satellite will now launch on an Indian rocket. This is not only a proud moment for us as an organisation but also as citizens to work with our nation's capabilities". Bengaluru-based Pixxel has said it plans to build a constellation of 30 satellites by 2023. The company inaugurated it's new facility here last month. According to Space Kidz India, Satish Dhawan satellite (SD SAT), named after former ISRO chairman Satish Dhawan, aimed to study space radiation and Magnetosphere and demonstrate the indigenously designed and developed nanosatellite components. "The satellite also tests the capabilities of LoRa technology in Space which could be helpful for many applications in the future in short and M2M communication", it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brazilian-indian-startup-satellite-in-isros-first-mission-in-2021-on-february-28-947775.html
05-02-2021||National||Inclement weather at Ghazipur; Tikait says chakka jam to be pan-India except Delhi||Going firm on their demand for repeal of the new agri laws, hundreds of farmers spent another night in the cold and withstood spells of drizzle on Thursday at Ghazipur, their heavily-secured protest site at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait, leading the stir here since November with his supporters, said the movement at Delhi's outskirts could continue till October this year and would be supported by villagers. He also took a veiled jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the fortification of the protest sites at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu as he shared with the press the details of the proposed February 6 'chakka jaam' (blockading of roads as a form of protest). He said the blockade will not be done in Delhi but will take place in other parts of the National Capital Region, which comprises parts of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Rajasthan, and the rest of country including the southern states. “Dilli mein hum nahi kar rahe, wahan to raja ne khud qile-bandi kar li hai humare jaam karne ki zaroorat hi nahi hai (We are not going to do anything in Delhi, the king there has already fortified it, there is no need for us to do a blockade now),” he told reporters here. On the proposed 'chakka jaam', he said, “There will be a three-hour blockade on roads. It won't happen in Delhi but other parts of the country. The vehicles which will come and stop will be given water and food. Items like 'chana' and peanuts will also be distributed to these people and we will apprise them of what the government is doing with us.” The influential farmer leader, credited with reviving the farmers' protest after a brief lull following the January 26 violence, said the movement for the repeal of the contentious laws could continue till October. “The framework for furthering the movement is being in villages. Two tractors will come from villages and they will stay here for five days. Then they will leave and other two tractors replace them,” he said, replying to a volley of questions by the press. About the stringent security measures and road blockades at Ghazipur, he said the Delhi Police should rather be asked about it as they have done it. “The farmers will pull out all iron nails of the government, and also pull out those fixed at protest sites one by one,” he said, on the police repositioning iron nails at the protest sites. On further talks between the farmers and the government to break the impasse, Tikait said that decision will be taken by the committee of the farmers unions. Tikait, who has maintained that the ongoing protests are apolitical despite Opposition political parties reaching protest sites, said politicians visiting Ghazipur are “not doing it as part of any agenda” but only to know about the farmers. Asked about the protestors being dubbed as “Khalistanis” and “anti-national” by some people, the BKU national spokesperson said these charges are a “thing of the past” and it was time for everyone to “move on”. Meanwhile, many farmers camped in temporary tarpaulin-roofed shelters that have come up on a stretch of the Delhi-Meerut highway, while many had their tractor-trailers double up as their resting place and scores stretched out on mattresses put on the key road that until November had thousands of vehicles passing through daily. The protesters withstood the cold conditions of the night and the morning drizzle, but spells of rain towards the evening brought down their numbers at Ghazipur. The Ghaziabad police officials estimated a crowd size of 2,000 to 3,000 here during the day. Police and paramilitary forces, deployed in large numbers here in the wake of the Republic Day furore, remained on the ground while multi-layered barricades and concertina wires remained in place along with iron nails studded on roads to prevent any movement towards Delhi. Iron nails, which were studded on the roads around the protest site, were being removed, a move that drew jibes from protesters against the stringent security measures, even as Delhi Police officials said the spikes were just being "repositioned". "The way they are taking the nails off, they will repeal the laws also," a man from a group of protesters at the Uttar Pradesh Gate (Ghazipur) told a television news channel. Delhi Police's Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Deepak Yadav asserted that the security arrangements at the border will remain the same. "Videos and photos are getting circulated in which it is shown that nails are being taken off at Ghazipur. These are just being repositioned. Security arrangement at the border remains the same," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inclement-weather-at-ghazipur-tikait-says-chakka-jam-to-be-pan-india-except-delhi-947785.html
05-02-2021||National||Budget Session: BJP defends farm laws, Congress seeks their repeal||The ruling BJP on Friday defended the three new farm laws in Rajya Sabha, while the opposition Congress sought their repeal and a probe by a Supreme Court judge into the violence during the Republic Day tractor rally by protesting farmers. Speaking on the Motion of Thanks to the President's address to the joint sitting of Parliament, BJP member Vinay P Sahasrabuddhe said the government is committed to the welfare of farmers and has taken a slew of steps in the last six years in that direction. "Everyone keeps saying that the government must leave its arrogance but where is the arrogance... We are ready for talks. We even offered to put it (the laws) in abeyance for 18 months. If we are showing so much flexibility why don't they (protesting farmers) show similar flexibility... If people in support of the laws also sit on dharna, do we want civil war. We say it is supreme House... no one can take this House for granted," he said in Rajya Sabha. He said that "we don't work on the basis of populism. There were 11-12 rounds of talks", but to no avail. People are experiencing democracy of aspirations under the current government and it is not "Modi magic but Modi labour", he said, adding it was hard work by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that led to India emerging strong on every front, be it foreign policy or domestic reforms. Highlighting a series of reforms initiated under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi, he said the government has devolved powers to states and district authorities in order to ease accessibility of developmental funds. "The Centre is working with the vision of Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas," he said. Participating in the discussion, Congress member Anand Sharma demanded repeal of the three contentious farm laws. "Indian economic growth was sluggish before the Covid-19 affected the country. The situation worsened after the pandemic hit the nation, especially due to lockdown which resulted in many job losses. The government is responsible for this situation," he said. In these circumstances, he stated, the farmers were forced to fight for justice and their rights. The government is responsible for the current situation on the farm laws, he said. He paid tributes in the House to 194 farmers who have lost their lives during the ongoing agitation against farm laws and the healthcare professional who were at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic. He also criticised the attack on Delhi Police personnel during the farmers' tractor rally on January 26. The farmers, protesting against the laws at border points of Delhi for over two months, took out a tractor rally on January 26. But some farmers violated the designated routes and reached the Red Fort. Some of them hoist religious flags there. Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa demanded setting up of a committee headed by a Supreme Court judge for an impartial probe into the January 26 incidents. Referring to the hoisting of religious flags at the Red Fort, Sharma said the entire nation was hurt because of the incident but there should be an unbiased inquiry into the incident as demanded by Bajwa. He also said that the "unnecessary" mention about the farm laws in the president's address was "unfortunate". He demanded that the government repeal these farm laws without making it a prestige issue. On the authorities snapping internet at farmer protest sites and disrupting water and electricity supplies, Sharma said, "We have become internet shutdown capital of the world. It is time to mend ways, especially during this Parliament session." He also dismissed the finance minister's claims that a total package worth Rs 28 lakh crore was provided during the pandemic. Sharma told the House that the government provided only Rs 1.5 lakh crore to people, which is just 0.073 per cent of the country's GDP. Taking on the Congress over allegations that journalists and intellectuals were being arrested under the present government, Rakesh Sinha of the BJP said he would like to show a mirror to the party. He claimed that 53,000 people were imprisoned under the now-scrapped Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, and only 434 of them were convicted after seven years. Sinha said that famous poet Majrooh Sultanpuri was imprisoned for two years for his speech in Mumbai criticising India for taking membership of the Commonwealth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/budget-session-bjp-defends-farm-laws-congress-seeks-their-repeal-947803.html
05-02-2021||National||Have notified minimum standards to be maintained by mental health establishments: Centre to HC||The Centre on Friday told the Delhi High Court that it has notified the minimum standards to be maintained by different categories of mental health establishments under the Mental Healthcare Act. The submission was made before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh during the hearing of a PIL for framing regulations for advance directives and minimum standards for different categories of mental health establishments. The court, which disposed of the plea by advocate and mental health activist Gaurav Kumar Bansal, however, gave him the liberty to challenge the notified regulations before an appropriate forum in accordance with law after he said that there were some "irregularities" in the regulations which were notified on December 18, 2020. Bansal had contended in his plea that under the Mental Healthcare Act of 2017 the minimum standards were to be notified within 18 months of commencement of the statute. The high court on October 12, 2020 had directed the Centre to treat the advocate's earlier similar plea as a representation and to decide it in accordance with the law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the facts of the case as expeditiously as possible and practicable. The October 2020 direction had come after the central government said the draft minimum standards are ready and would be published/notified as soon as they are finalised. In his present petition, Bansal had said there are many establishments in the country which claim they can cure or treat mentally ill people through Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy. "However, these establishments never register themselves with the Central Mental Health Authority or State Mental Health Authority as required under the Mental Healthcare Act, 2017," he had said and added that since there were no regulations in place, persons with mental illness were finding it difficult to approach such entities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-notified-minimum-standards-to-be-maintained-by-mental-health-establishments-centre-to-hc-947806.html
05-02-2021||National||Covid-19: 10 key takeaways from the latest national sero-survey||The ICMR and the Union Health Ministry on Thursday made the findings of the third sero-survey public, highlighting the necessity of vaccination as a large proportion of the population was still vulnerable to the virus. The latest serosurvey, conducted between December 17 last year and January 8, was carried out in the same 700 villages and wards in 70 districts of 21 states which were selected during the previous two sero-surveys held in May-June and August-September last year, respectively.   Here are 10 key takeaways from the latest survey: - Overall seroprevalence is 21.5 per cent of the population, aged 10 years and above. - India's Covid-19 cumulative positivity rate has declined to 5.42 per cent. The weekly positivity rate (last week) was recorded at 1.82 per cent. - About 21.4 per cent of the 28,589 people aged 18 years and above surveyed showed evidence of past exposure to Covid-19. While 25.3 per cent of children between 10 and 17 years from the same number of surveyed population have had the disease, the number stood at 19.9 per cent in the age group of 18-44 years and  23.4 per cent among 45-60 years. Seroprevalence was 23.4 per cent among individuals above 60 years of age. - Urban slums (31.7 per cent) and urban non-slums (26.2 per cent) have a higher SARS-CoV-2 prevalence than that in rural areas (19.1 per cent). - Among the surveyed male population, the sero-prevalence was 20.3 per cent, while it was 22.7 per cent among the surveyed female population. - Out of the 7,171 healthcare workers surveyed, the prevalence of the infection has been found among 25.7 per cent. The seroprevalence was found to be 26.6 per cent among surveyed doctors, 25.4 per cent among paramedical staff, 25.3 per cent among field staff and 24.9 among administration staff. - 49,93,427 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the country out of which 11 states and Union Territories, including Tamil Nadu, Assam, Ladakh, Chandigarh, Meghalaya and Manipur. 30 per cent or less healthcare workers have been covered through the Covid-19 vaccination drive. - 47 districts have not reported any new case of Covid-19 and 251 districts have not registered any new deaths in the last three weeks. - Two states -- Kerala (69,365) and Maharashtra (38,762) -- account for 70 per cent of the total active cases in the country. - The current serosurvey shows that even now, the infection can spread to more than 75 per cent people, said Niti Aayog member V K Paul. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-10-key-takeaways-from-the-latest-national-sero-survey-947809.html
05-02-2021||National||Meet Ayesha Aziz from Kashmir, India's youngest female pilot||A 25-year-old woman, with a Kashmiri lineage, who has become the country’s youngest pilot, is set to be a source of inspiration for numerous women from the violence-hit region. 25-year-old Ayesha Aziz, who grew up in Mumbai, aspired to become a pilot from her childhood. “Becoming youngest pilot was not important for me, but what exactly is joyous is that I have achieved my dream and goal of my life,” she told reporters over the phone. Her father resides in Mumbai while her mother belongs to Kashmir. “As my mother belongs to Kashmir, we stayed there for nearly four years after completing my class 12th. I have been flying in and out of Kashmir for my training and other purposes after my high school,” Ayesha said. In 2011, she became the youngest student pilot to get a license at the age of 15 and underwent training to fly a MiG-29 jet at Russia's Sokol airbase the following year. “As I used to fly frequently from Mumbai to Kashmir and vice-versa with my mother since childhood, I developed interest in flying. I wanted to be a pilot when I was in my middle,” she said. Ayesha graduated in aviation from the Bombay Flying Club (BFC) and obtained a commercial license in 2017. “Soon after getting my first license, I got a commercial license after that very shortly,” she said. Asked how she feels about becoming the youngest female pilot in the country, Ayesha said she is glad that she achieved her dream. “It is soothing that I achieved what I always dreamt of,” she said. Her message to youngsters in Kashmir is to focus on their target and “don’t bother to think about what society thinks.” “There would be people who will speak against you. But, one must remain focused towards his/her goal to achieve it.” She also suggested parents support their children to achieve their dreams. “Youth can’t go ahead until they have the support of their parents. They are the responsibility of their parents who play a pivotal role in fulfilling their dreams. Parents should give freedom to their children to pursue their goals,” Ayesha said. The 25-year-old pilot says she holds a strong identity of herself from the place where her mother belongs. “Even when I am in Mumbai, I only sip Nun Chai (Kashmiri salt tea). I always prefer Kashmiri food. Despite spending most of the time outside Kashmir, I know my language (Kashmiri) and often speak it,” she said. Besides achieving her goal by becoming a pilot, Ayesha wants to do humanitarian service. “I want to help the poor and needy in my life. I am looking forward to collaborating with UNICEF soon,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meet-ayesha-aziz-from-kashmir-indias-youngest-female-pilot-947817.html
05-02-2021||National||Nearly 50 lakh in India vaccinated against Covid-19||Nearly 50 lakh beneficiaries have been inoculated under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise, while India's total active cases have dropped to 1.51 lakh, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. India's total active cases continues to follow a consistent downward slide, consisting of just 1.40 per cent of total infections. Following a downward trajectory, 12,408 daily new cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours. "India's cases per million population (7,828) are amongst the lowest in the world. This count is much higher for countries like Russia, Germany, Italy, Brazil, France, UK and USA," the ministry said. It said 17 states and UTs have a lower case per million population than the national average. Lakshadweep has the lowest average of 1,722 cases per million among all states and UTs. Till February 5, 49,59,445 beneficiaries have received the vaccination with 5,09,893 people receiving the shots in a span of 24 hours across 11,184 sessions, the ministry said. A total of 95,801 sessions have been conducted so far. The ministry said that 61 per cent of beneficiaries vaccinated are from 8 states and UTs. Uttar Pradesh accounts for 11.9 per cent (5,89,101) of the total beneficiaries vaccinated in India. A total of 1,04,96,308 people have recovered so far with 15,853 patients recuperating in a span of 24 hours. "The higher number of recoveries via-a-vis new cases has widened the gap between recovered and active cases to 1,03,44,848," the ministry underlined. It said 85.06 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 6 states and UTs. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 6,341 newly recovered cases. A total of 5,339 people recovered in Maharashtra in a span of 24 hours followed by 517 in Tamil Nadu. The ministry said 84.25 per cent of the 12,408 new cases registered in a day are from 6 states and UTs. Kerala continues to report the highest daily new cases at 6,102. It is followed by Maharashtra with 2,736, while Tamil Nadu reported 494 new cases. A total of 120 deaths were recorded in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said adding six six states and UTs account for 74.17 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (46). Kerala follows with 17 daily deaths, while Punjab and Delhi reported 7 deaths each.Fourteen states and UTs have reported no deaths in a span of 24 hours, the ministry highlighted. These are Andhra Pradesh, Jharkhand, Puducherry, Manipur, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Nagaland, Mizoram, Ladakh (UT), Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, A&N Islands, D&D & D&N and Lakshadweep. India's 112 deaths per million population are also amongst the lowest in the world, the ministry underscored. On the positive side, 19 states and UTs have reported lower deaths per million average than the national average. Lakshadweep leads with an average of 0 deaths per million. Seventeen states and UTs have reported higher deaths per million population than the national average. Delhi's figure of 581 deaths per million is the highest among all the states, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-50-lakh-in-india-vaccinated-against-covid-19-947822.html
05-02-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination Phase 3 begins in March: Here's who can get jab||The third phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive targeted at senior citizens is likely to get underway anytime in March, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan told the Lok Sabha on Friday. In the third phase, the government aims to administer the vaccine to those above 50 years of age, which is expected to cover Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several chief ministers and a host of political leaders. The government aims to cover an estimated 27 crore persons during the third phase of the vaccination drive, which would also include persons below 50 years, but with co-morbid conditions. Replying to supplementaries during Question Hour in the Lok Sabha, the Health Minister said the third phase of vaccination would begin after the completion of the first and the second phase. “It may not be possible to given an exact date right now, but as per our assessment the third phase of vaccination can begin anytime in March,” the minister said. Separately, the Health Ministry said 52,90,474 beneficiaries have been administered the Covid-19 vaccines till 6:00 p.m. on Friday. It said that a 77-year-old man from Agra had died within a week of vaccination due to shock with pre-existing diabetes. A total of 22 deaths have been reported post-vaccination, but none have been causally linked with the Covid-19 vaccines. Harsh Vardhan said that the finance minister has allocated Rs 35,000 crore for vaccination in the budget and has assured that it could be increased if required. He said two vaccines – Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute, and indigenously developed Covaxin of Bharat Biotech – have been approved for emergency use authorisation. Besides these, work is in progress on seven vaccines of which three were in the Phase III clinical trial stage, two in Phase I and II stages and the remaining two in advanced pre-clinical stage. The minister said that India has received requests for vaccines from 22 countries and 61 lakh doses have been shipped to 15 countries, including five lakh under contracts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-phase-3-begins-in-march-heres-who-can-get-jab-947837.html
05-02-2021||National||Can give one extra chance to civil services aspirants with certain conditions: Centre tells SC||The Centre and the UPSC on Friday agreed before the Supreme Court to give an extra chance to candidates who appeared for Civil Services Examinations-2020. In a written note, the Union government submitted before a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar stated that relaxation, only to the extent of providing one extra attempt for Civil Service Examination (CSE), specifically limited to CSE-2021, may be granted to only those candidates who appeared in 2020 exam as their last permissible attempt. Such candidates should otherwise be not age-barred from appearing in 2021. At present, candidates from general category get six attempts till the age of 32, nine attempts by the OBC till 35 and SC/ST candidates unlimited attempts till 37 in the Civil Services examinations conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). The Friday's note further said no relaxation should be granted for CSE-2021 to those candidates who have not exhausted their permissible number of attempts or to those candidates who are otherwise age-barred. Further, it said, this should be considered as one-time relaxation only for CSE-2021 and should not be treated as a precedent.  The court directed for circulating the note to the petitioners Rachna and others and put the matter for consideration on February 8. The petitioners sought an extra attempt for the UPSC Civil Services Prelims 2021 as some of the candidates could not perform up to their optimum level due to the disruptions caused by the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-give-one-extra-chance-to-civil-services-aspirants-with-certain-conditions-centre-tells-sc-947843.html
05-02-2021||National||DPIIT working on new ecommerce policy: Govt official||The commerce and industry ministry is "definitely" working on a new ecommerce policy which will have various features such as those related to data and consumer rights, a senior government official said on Friday. The other issues which need to be looked upon while formulating the policy are about the problem of counterfeit products, packaging and rules of origin, the official of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) said. DPIIT is an arm of the Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry. "Who should be accountable for counterfeit products sold through an ecommerce company. Data is an important issue. The entire data issue will be governed by what actually the data law will be, which is before Parliament. That is why we are not in a hurry to finalise it (the policy)... So, whatever will be the final outcome of that data bill, it will apply to everybody who will deal with data," the official said a regulator for the sector may come if required. The official said that ecommerce sector is not only about foreign direct investment (FDI) in the sector, as a large number of ecommerce firms are outside FDI. "We are definitely working on the policy," the official said. The government in 2019 had released a draft national ecommerce policy which had proposed setting up a legal and technological framework for restrictions on cross-border data flow and also laid out conditions for businesses regarding collection or processing of sensitive data locally and storing it abroad. Several foreign ecommerce firms have time and again raised concerns over some points in the draft pertaining to data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dpiit-working-on-new-ecommerce-policy-govt-official-947849.html
05-02-2021||National||Budget Session: Lok Sabha adjourned till 6 pm||Lok Sabha was adjourned till 6 pm on Friday after Opposition members disrupted the proceedings demanding the repeal of three farm laws. As soon as the House convened at 4 pm, members from the Congress, Left parties and the DMK rushed to the Well raising slogans against the new laws and holding placards. Speaker Om Birla continued with the Question Hour with Health Minister Harsh Vardhan responding to supplementaries on Covid-19 vaccination. As Opposition members continued to raise slogans, Birla appealed to them to participate in the Question Hour as an important issue related to vaccination was being discussed. While Congress, DMK and Left members were in the Well, members from the TMC did not participate in raising slogans. Around 4.15 pm, Birla adjourned the House till 6 PM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/budget-session-lok-sabha-adjourned-till-6-pm-947861.html
05-02-2021||National||Registered unrecognised political parties increased two-fold from 2010 to 2019: ADR||The number of registered unrecognised political parties has increased two-fold from 2010 to 2019, according to a report by Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), a poll rights group. Either newly registered parties or those which have not secured enough percentage of votes in the assembly or general elections to become a state party, or those which have never contested elections since being registered are considered unrecognised parties. From 1,112 such parties in 2010, the number of unrecognised registered parties has increased to 2,301 in 2019. "The number of registered unrecognised political parties has increased two-fold in the last 10 years. It is important to note that the number of such parties increases disproportionately during the year of Parliamentary elections especially. "Between 2018 and 2019, it increased by over 9.8 per cent while between 2013 and 2014, it increased by 18 per cent," the report said. The registered unrecognised parties analysed in this report declared a total of 6,860 donations worth Rs 65.45 crore during FY 2018-19 and 6,138 donations of Rs 24.6 crore for FY 2017-18, amounting to 12,998 total declared donations of Rs 90.05 crore in two years. Apna Desh Party of Uttar Pradesh declared the highest donations for both financial years combined of Rs 65.63 crore (4,300 donations) or 72.88 per cent of the total declared donations by unrecognised parties in their contribution reports of FY 2017-18 & 2018-19, the report said. "Of the 138 parties analysed in this report, more than 50 parties' contribution reports are unavailable in the public domain for either of the two financial years," the report said. Of the total 2,301 registered unrecognised parties as of March 2019, 653 parties or 28.38 per cent of them belong to Uttar Pradesh, followed by 291 parties or 12.65 per cent from Delhi and 184 or eight per cent from Tamil Nadu. The Election Commission of India issued guidelines on 'Transparency and Accountability in party funds and election expenditure – submission of reports by unrecognised political parties' which were applicable to all political parties w.e.f October 1, 2014. As per these guidelines, all unrecognised parties are required to submit their requisite reports in the office of the respective state CEOs. On receipt of the reports from the state level unrecognised political parties, scanned copies of annual audited accounts, contribution reports and statements of election expenditure shall be uploaded on the websites of CEOs of the respective states, within three days of receipt of the same for viewing by the public. In view of the above, this report by Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) analyses the status of submission of contribution reports of registered unrecognised parties between FY 2017-18 and FY 2018-19. The report looks at the number of parties that submitted their contribution reports on time, those that delayed their submission as well as parties whose contribution reports are not available in the public domain after the due date for the said time period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/registered-unrecognised-political-parties-increased-two-fold-from-2010-to-2019-adr-947862.html
05-02-2021||National||2-year-old Indian youngest hair donor for cancer patients in the UAE||A two-year-old Indian boy has become one of the youngest donors of hair in the UAE, as part of a charity drive to help cancer patients, according to a media report. At two years and 10 months, Taksh Jain is one of the youngest children to have enrolled in the Friends of Cancer Patients' (FOCP) hair donation campaign, the Gulf News reported. His mother, Neha Jain, a housewife, said Taksh was inspired by his older sister, who donated her locks for a similar cause in 2019. "My son used to listen to that and started telling us that he too wanted to give his hair like his sister. I was touched and started growing his hair." Jain said they are going to wait for Taksh's hair to grow a little longer, before it is finally donated. The FOCP launched the hair donation drive on Thursday, marking World Cancer Day. As of now, seven schools in the UAE are part of the initiative. Founded in 1999, the FOCP is a non-profit umbrella organisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-year-old-indian-youngest-hair-donor-for-cancer-patients-in-the-uae-947872.html
05-02-2021||National||Transgender persons to be appointed as cops in every district of Bihar||Bihar will soon recruit transgender persons as police sub-inspectors and constables. According to an affidavit submitted by the Nitish Kumar regime in the Patna High Court, the State government will post a sub-inspector and four constables in each of the 38 districts in Bihar from the transgender community. A direction in this regard has been issued to the Bihar Police Subordinate Selection Commission (BPSSC) and Central Selection Board of Constable (CSBC) to make provisions for recruitment of transgender persons whenever the examinations for sub-inspectors and constables are held in the near future. The move comes after a petition was filed by an activist Veera Yadav in 2020 in which it was said that people from the transgender community were not being appointed in the police department as there was no separate column for their gender in the recruitment form. According to the 2011 census, Bihar, with a population of around 11 crore, has 40,827 transgender persons. The State Government, in its affidavit submitted to the Patna HC Chief Justice Sanjoy Karol, said that it would create a separate squad of members from the transgender community if their population was found to be higher in the next census. The Nitish regime, last month, had paved the way for appointment of people from the transgender community as cops when it decided on January 16 that for every 500 appointments of constables and sub-inspectors, one transgender should be appointed as a cop. The state government, sources said, is likely to issue notification for the appointment of 10,000 cops in the Bihar soon. The transgender persons will, however, not be given any relaxation in physical test or written examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/transgender-persons-to-be-appointed-as-cops-in-every-district-of-bihar-947885.html
05-02-2021||National||India gets lion’s share of Covax Covid-19 vaccines despite tepid demand||India is set to receive the most number of Covid-19 vaccine doses -- 97.2 million shots -- in the first tranche of distribution from the World Health Organization’s Covax initiative, despite the fact that supply in the country appears to outstrip demand currently. The Covax initiative, aimed at creating equitable global access to Covid vaccines especially for developing countries, is planning to distribute an initial 337.2 million doses starting as early as later this month, the first delivery of some 2 billion shots it’s ordered so far. According to an interim distribution forecast published on Wednesday, countries are allocated doses according to population size. The second-biggest tranche of 17.2 million shots will go to Pakistan, followed by 16 million doses to Nigeria and 13.7 million to Indonesia. North Korea will receive 2 million shots. The large allocation to India may raise eyebrows given that, unlike many places, India seems to have plenty of shots currently but few takers. Only around half of those eligible to get vaccinated in its inoculation drive have come forward, and local media reports say that India producer Serum Institute of India is sitting on over 55 million doses and has temporarily halted production. India has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the world, topping 10 million, though the daily rate of infections has eased considerably since reaching a peak in September. Some higher-income countries are also on the Covax list, with South Korea expected to get 2.6 million doses, Canada 1.9 million doses and New Zealand 250,000. The principal vaccine to be distributed by Covax is the one developed by AstraZeneca Plc and Oxford University. Some 1.2 million doses of the Pfizer Inc.-BioNTech SE one, which requires deep freeze conditions, will also be allocated to nations like Peru, the Philippines and Colombia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-gets-lion-s-share-of-covax-covid-19-vaccines-despite-tepid-demand-947887.html
05-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Third phase of Covid-19 vaccination to begin next month||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Third phase of Covid-19 vaccination to begin next month; Sensex jumps 117 points after Reserve Bank keeps interest rates unchanged and US warship moves close to South China Sea.  The third phase of Covid-19 vaccination is going to begin next month, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan told Lok Sabha on Friday. "Persons above 50 years of age and those below 50 years but with co-morbidities will be administered the vaccine in the third Phase," he said. Extending its winning run to the fifth session, equity benchmark Sensex jumped 117 points on Friday after the Reserve Bank kept interest rates unchanged but continued its accommodative stance to revive growth. The 30-share BSE benchmark briefly crossed the 51,000-level, before ending 117.34 points or 0.23 per cent higher at its fresh closing record of 50,731.63. Similarly, the 50-share NSE Nifty scaled the 15,000 mark during the day but shed some ground to close at its all-time high of 14,924.25, up 28.60 points or 0.19 per cent. A US warship sailed near the Chinese-controlled Paracel Islands in the disputed South China Sea on Friday in a freedom of navigation operation, the US Navy said China's military condemned the move, saying it had dispatched naval and air units to follow and warn away the ship.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-third-phase-of-covid-19-vaccination-to-begin-next-month-947897.html
05-02-2021||National||Accused arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari's bail in UK extradition case extended to April 9||A UK court presiding over the extradition case of Sanjay Bhandari, an accused arms dealer and “proclaimed offender” wanted in India on money laundering charges, extended his bail until April 9 at a case management hearing in London on Friday. Bhandari, who was arrested on an extradition warrant in July 2020 and is contesting his extradition to India, appeared at Westminster Magistrates’ Court before District Judge Angus Hamilton. The judge confirmed that a full hearing in the case will be conducted as scheduled between June 7 and 10. Bhandari, wearing a facemask in compliance with the Covid-19 lockdown requirements in court, was accompanied by his wife and spoke only to confirm his name and date of birth. The 59-year-old‘s lawyer, Robert Berg, informed the court that he had taken over the case on late last month and therefore required additional time to serve evidence in the case. The judge demanded a “decent explanation” for a nearly 10-week extension being sought for the submission of defence evidence. He was informed that the previous law firm, Bindmans, had withdrawn from the case after Bhandari was unable to make a second “significant payment” due to his assets in India being attached. “So is there no preparatory work been done between September 2020 and January 2021 that could be passed on to avert such a lengthy delay,” questioned Judge Hamilton. Bhandari’s lawyer, from the firm Janes Solicitors, submitted that he had made considerable progress since he took over the case, which involves very “vast” evidence of nearly 3,000 pages of financial data and legal matters ongoing in India. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS), appearing on behalf of the Indian authorities, submitted a “rejigged timetable” for the case and CPS counsel Ben Lloyd informed the court that both sides hope to be able to keep to the June hearing dates unless there are “big surprises” thrown up in the defence evidence. The hearing in April will be another case management hearing before the final extradition hearing in the case in June. Bhandari is sought by the Indian authorities for prosecution for money laundering contrary to the Prevention of Money Laundering Act 2002. He faces cases against him in India filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The Indian government’s extradition request for Bhandari had been certified by UK Home Secretary Priti Patel on June 16 last year and he was arrested a month later on July 15. He was granted bail on a GBP 120,000 security and seven overall conditions, including the surrender of his passport, a daily curfew at his home in central London and regular visits to a police station. Bhandari has been linked with Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi’s husband, Robert Vadra, who has denied any business connections with the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/accused-arms-dealer-sanjay-bhandaris-bail-in-uk-extradition-case-extended-to-april-9-947906.html
05-02-2021||National||No nation has permitted use of vaccine against bird flu, says govt||India has not given permission for use of any vaccine against bird flu nor other countries like the US, UK and the European Union have approved any such vaccine, the government informed Parliament on Friday. "As per World Organization of Animal Health (OIE), vaccination is not considered the solution for the control of Avian Influenza (Bird Flu) if eradication is the desired result," Union Minister Sanjeev Kumar Balyan said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha. Without the application of monitoring systems, strict biosecurity and depopulation in the face of infection, there is a possibility that these viruses could become endemic in vaccinated poultry populations, he said. Long-term circulation of the virus in a vaccinated population may result in both antigenic and genetic changes in the virus and this has been reported to have occurred in several countries, the Minister of State for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying said. The minister further explained that with the long-term use of vaccination either the disease becomes endemic and therefore widespread, or the infection in affected animals gets too difficult to detect. "The Government of India has not permitted use of any vaccine against bird flu in the country. Further, it is gathered from the Central Drugs Standards Control Organization (CDSCO) that no such vaccine is approved in countries like the USA, UK, EU etc. to prevent/cure bird flu in birds," he noted. In a separate reply, the minister said bird flu among commercially reared and wild birds have been confirmed from 14 states and union territories namely Kerala, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Delhi, and Jammu and Kashmir. So far, the Centre has provided Rs 103.56 crore assistance to these 14 states/union territories for control of bird flu, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-nation-has-permitted-use-of-vaccine-against-bird-flu-says-govt-947911.html
05-02-2021||National||SC stays HC order on Lokayukta's plea against quashing of disciplinary proceedings on acquittal||The Supreme Court on Friday stayed a Karnataka High Court order which held that no disciplinary proceedings can be initiated against a government employee in case of acquittal in a corruption case. A bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud and comprising Justice M R Shah suspended the operation of the High Court's order passed on May 29, 2020. The court issued notice to Aejaz Hussain who, then working at Town Municipal Council, Sedan, was ordered to compulsorily retire on a recommendation by Upalokayukta following disciplinary proceedings initiated on lodging of a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act, due to demand of bribe. Senior advocate Devadatt Kamat and advocate Nishanth Patil, appearing for the Karnataka Lokayukta, contended, notwithstanding the acquittal in criminal prosecution under the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988, the disciplinary enquiry can be initiated as the standard of proof and the governing rules of evidence in a disciplinary enquiry are distinct from a criminal trial. They also said the employee was acquitted as the shadow witness had turned hostile and the grant of sanction was found as faulty. The counsel submitted that judgements of three-judge benches of the Supreme Court have repeatedly held that since the purpose, procedure and principles guiding departmental proceedings were wholly different from criminal proceedings, departmental proceedings cannot be quashed only on the basis of an acquittal by the criminal court. "The acquittal in the criminal proceedings are not relevant for adjudging guilt in departmental proceedings. This is because the standard of proof, the rules for evidence, the procedural vigour are all of a much higher level in criminal proceedings," they said. The Upalokayukta, who initiated an enquiry, challenged the HC's order, saying the case against the employee was of a far-reaching nature, concerning his integrity and honesty.  The employee was charged on the ground of demanding and accepting a bribe amount, which is unacceptable for a government servant. The disciplinary proceedings were initiated and resulted in a proportional and just finding and punishment against him, the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-hc-order-on-lokayuktas-plea-against-quashing-of-disciplinary-proceedings-on-acquittal-947912.html
05-02-2021||National||Railways to complete 56 key projects in priority basis||The Indian Railways has set the target to complete 56 key existing projects over the next one and half years. “As far as new big projects are concerned, Rs 40,932 crores have been allocated for new lines, Rs 26,116 crore for doubling, Rs 5,263 crore for traffic facilities and Rs 7,122 crore for ROBs/RUBs (road over bridge and road under bridge). Traffic facilities have seen a whopping 156% jump in allocation while new lines have got 52% increase in allocation as compared to last year," The Railway Ministry said. In this fiscal, our priority will be development of terminal facilities, augmentation of speed of trains, signalling systems, improvement of passenger and user amenities, among others, Railway Board chairman and chief executive officer, Suneet Sharma said. Other than these major projects, Indian Railways is set to complete more than 1,200 road over bridges, road under bridges and subways this year. Currently, there are 14,000 ROBs and RUBs in the country, he said. "Railways is now focused on the completion of existing projects quickly as well besides simultaneity working on the new projects announced," Sharma said. Indian Railways got its highest-ever total capex of Rs 2,15,058 crores in 2021-22 with Rs 7,500 crores from internal resources, Rs 1,00,258 crores from extra-budgetary resources and Rs 1,07,100 crores for capital expenditure allocation was given in the General Budget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-complete-56-key-projects-in-priority-basis-947917.html
05-02-2021||National||SC collegium approves judges’ appointments in HCs of Allahabad, Calcutta, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh||The Supreme Court Collegium headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde has approved the proposals for the elevation of 22 judicial officers as judges in High Courts of Allahabad, Calcutta, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh. Besides, two advocates Narendra Kumar Vyas and Aditya Sondhi have also been recommended for elevation as judges of Chhattisgarh and Karnataka High Courts respectively. In a statement published on its website on Friday, the top court said, the Supreme Court Collegium in its meeting held on February 4, 2021, has approved the proposal for elevation of the two judicial officers, Karnataka HC's registrar general Rajendra Badamikar, and registrar (vigilance) Khazi Jayabunnisa Mohiuddin as judges of the same high court.  The judicial officers whose names have been recommended as judges of the Allahabad High Court are Mohd Aslam, Anil Kumar Gupta, Anil Kumar Ojha, Sadhna Rani (Thakur), Om Prakash Tripathi, Naveen Srivastava, Umesh Chandra Sharma, Syed Aftab Husain Rizvi, Ajai Tyagi, Syed Waiz Mian, and Ajai Kumar Srivastava-I. In the context of elevation of judicial officers as judges of Calcutta High Court, the Collegium approved names of Kesang Doma Bhutia, Rabindranath Samanta, Sugato Majumdar, Ananya Bandyopadhyay, Rai Chattopadhyay, Bivas Pattanayak, Subhendu Samanta, and Ananda Kumar Mukherjee. Besides Chief Justice, Justices N V Ramana and R F Nariman are part of the three-member Collegium which takes a decision in connection with the High Court judges. Additionally, the Collegium recommended for the elevation of a judicial officer, Naresh Kumar Chandravanshi as judge of the Chhattisgarh High Court.  The government informed Lok Sabha on Wednesday that as on February 01, 2021, there were four vacancies of judges in the  Supreme Court and 419 vacancies of judges in 25 High Courts. Further, there were 31, 30 and 40 vacancies of judges in the High Courts of Delhi, Bombay and Calcutta respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-collegium-approves-judges-appointments-in-hcs-of-allahabad-calcutta-karnataka-and-chhattisgarh-947929.html
05-02-2021||National||Conduct of functions must not disturb citizens' right to clean environment: NGT||Insisting that conduct of functions must not disturb other citizens' right to peaceful and clean environment, the National Green Tribunal has directed all states to implement the guidelines for pollution control in marriage and banquet halls. Principal Bench of the& NGT headed by its Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said "Conduct of functions must not disturb other citizens right to a peaceful and clean environment. Information as to any particular establishment has been given consent and is compliant or not should be placed on the website of the state pollution control board as well as the establishment concerned for information of the concerned public." The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Westend Green Farms Society alleging that banquets and marriage halls in Mahipalpur and Rajokri in Delhi were causing vehicular congestion and environmental pollution. Apart from the licensing provisions for fire safety, building safety, etc, the regulatory bodies must enforce the environmental norms to ensure that water and air pollution is prevented and the environment is not degraded. "Effluent Treatment Plants needs to be installed by all the big units, not connected to the sewer lines, apart from ensuring compliance of rainwater harvesting systems, adequate safeguards in operating the kitchen need to be adopted, composting facilities, control of noise levels and providing parking space," the bench said. Without such safeguards, no consent should be given or renewed even in respect of the establishments already set up, the green panel clarified. It said the consent conditions must require the owner/manager of establishment informing the organizer/user in writing in advance about the conditions applicable for ensuring compliance. The green body said that placing such information in the public domain will be one of the conditions while granting consent and failure to do so may render the consent granted to any establishment being withdrawn. The NGT had earlier directed all the states and union territories to enforce guidelines on the regulation of banquets and marriage halls and ensure adequate parking facility, disposal of solid and liquid waste.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/conduct-of-functions-must-not-disturb-citizens-right-to-clean-environment-ngt-947930.html
05-02-2021||National||Nails on roads for farmers will be nails in BJP's political coffin, says Jayant Chaudhary||Asserting that farmers will not settle for anything less than the repeal of the new farm laws, RLD vice president Jayant Chaudhary on Friday said the government's "strong arm tactics" will not work against the tillers and the nails being laid on roads for them would turn out to be the nails in the "political coffin" of the BJP. Chaudhary, who has participated in a number of 'kisaan panchayats' in western Uttar Pradesh and is campaigning aggressively against the Centre's farm laws, said the government must immediately withdraw the legislations and draft them afresh after taking the consent of farmers. In an interview with PTI, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice president alleged that the current leadership of the country is far removed from sentiments and is not perturbed by riots, deaths or big agitations as it is "cocooned" in its own bubble. "It is a totalitarian administration. They are not even listening to their own political people on the ground. If you speak to BJP MLAs or MPs off the record, they are not happy and they can feel the angst rising in the people of India, in the common man who voted for (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi," the former MP said. Chaudhary said he has been to almost every 'dharna' site of the farmers, has sat among them, spoken to them at different levels, addressed 'kisaan panchayats', and feels that the farmers have formed an emotional connect cutting across different states like Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. "There is unity building, and I don't think that these farmers are going to take anything less than what they have come this far for (which is repeal of the laws)," he said. The farmers have left their villages, walked for miles, have faced so many hardships with "about 150 of them even losing their lives" and they are still not willing to back down even in the face of the government hardening its stance, the RLD leader said. The farmers' stance is very clear and they are saying that these laws are not made for them and they will not accept them, he said. It is always the prerogative of the government of the day to make laws but ultimately it is the people's will that must prevail, Chaudhary asserted. Asked about the multi-layered barricading and iron nails studded on roads at protest sites on Delhi's borders, he said, "These are not nails being put on the roads going to Delhi, these are nails being put into the political coffin that is being made for the BJP." "This is a very hurtful image that has gone out. These are the people who freed Delhi from the British, who fought against the Mughals, whenever there was a crisis in Delhi, it was the farmers close to Delhi in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh that were first there. Today, the Kisan Ghat (memorial of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh), Parliament and Rajghat are in Delhi, and you are forbidding these farmers from even entering Delhi," he said. On the government's offer to suspend the farm laws for 18 months, he said the offer has not found favour with either the protesting farmer organisations or with the farmers themselves. The questions the farmers are asking is why 18 months suspension and why the Supreme Court is being involved in the work of Parliament or the government, he said. After 18 months again the same problems will arise and the government will say "we have given an undertaking in the Supreme Court, so, therefore, we cannot do anything about it", Chaudhary said. "So in a way it will create disharmony between the judiciary and the role of the executive in Parliament," he said. "My suggestion is that they (government) should completely do away with these laws and communicate more effectively, reach out to the farmers, if they feel there is a reform that is needed, take their consent and then draft anew," he said. People are not liking the government's approach in dealing with the agitation, Chaudhary asserted. "These strong arm tactics -- please use these strong arm tactics with the nation's enemy China or with other countries you are in conflict with, do not use these tactics with the citizens of India," the former MP said. Asked about his father and RLD chief Ajit Singh announcing support to the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) in their protest, Chaudhary said it is not just an alliance with the Tikaits (Naresh and Rakesh), but is an expression of solidarity with farmers. "We are facing the regime of Yogi Adityanath (in UP) where any sort of dissent is crushed by immoral use of power. That is why Chaudhary Ajit Singh reached out to the Tikaits and said 'we are with you, don't back down. That had a huge impact and that has led a lot of people to come out in support," he said. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nails-on-roads-for-farmers-will-be-nails-in-bjps-political-coffin-says-jayant-chaudhary-947931.html
05-02-2021||National||Farmers call for nationwide 'chakka jam' on Saturday except in Delhi, UP and Uttarakhand||After violence-marred tractor rally on Republic Day, farmers protesting against the three farm laws have given a call for a three-hour “peaceful chakka jam” across the country, except Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, on Saturday. The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), spearheading the agitation against the farm laws, had given a call for blocking national and state highways on Saturday to protest against the internet ban near the protest sites and alleged harassment of the protesters by the police. Keen to avoid a repeat of the events of January 26, the Delhi Police has stepped up security across the three protest sites – Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders of the national capital by erecting cement barriers, putting barbed wires and iron spikes to prevent the entry of farmers’ tractors in the city. “There will be no chakka jam programme inside Delhi since all the protest sites are already in a chakka jam mode. All roads for entering into Delhi will remain open except where farmers' protest sites are already located,” Darshan Pal, leader of the SKM said. Pal said the 'chakka jam' would be observed between 12:00 noon and 3:00 p.m. on Saturday when all national and state highways would be blocked. “Emergency and essential services such as ambulances and school buses will not be stopped and the chakka jam would be peaceful,” Pal said. In a separate statement, Bhartiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have been exempted from the chakka jam as he apprehended that a few people could attempt to spread violence. “We have decided to tweak the protests in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and will be handing over a memorandum to district magistrates,” Tikait and BKU leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur – for over 70 days, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws. According to the SKM, the 'chakka jam' will conclude at 3 pm by blowing vehicle horns for one minute, a move aimed at expressing support and solidarity with the farmers. Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava held a meeting with the senior officers to review the security arrangements. Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said in view of the violence on January 26, adequate security arrangements have been put in place by the Delhi Police at the borders so that miscreants are not able to enter the national capital. “We are monitoring content on social media to make sure rumours are not spread against the police,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-call-for-nationwide-chakka-jam-on-saturday-except-in-delhi-up-and-uttarakhand-947935.html
05-02-2021||National||Over 12,000 complaints about misleading TV advertisements in 4 years: Govt||More than 12,000 complaints were received with regard to misleading advertisements on television between 2017 and 2020, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting informed Lok Sabha on Friday. In a written response to a question, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said that a total of 12,187 complaints were received in the Grievance Against Misleading Advertisements (GAMA) portal during the period. The portal where consumers can lodge complaints relating to misleading advertisements was launched by the Department of Consumer Affairs in 2015. The minister said that out of these complaints, 8,963 were resolved either by withdrawal or modification of advertisements. "All advertisements telecast on TV channels are regulated in accordance with the Advertising Code prescribed under the Cable Television Networks Rules, 1994. The Advertising Code also provides that no advertisement which violates the Code of self-regulation in advertising as adopted by the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI), Mumbai for public exhibition in India shall be carried in the cable service,” the minister told Lok Sabha. The Consumer Complaints Council of Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) deals with complaints received on the GAMA portal, he said. "Out of 12,187 complaints during the three years under consideration, 8,963 were resolved, including by way of withdrawal or modification of the advertisements. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting issues advisories from time to time to broadcasters for ensuring compliance to the Advertising Codes,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-12000-complaints-about-misleading-tv-advertisements-in-4-years-govt-947940.html
05-02-2021||National||India witnessing sustained decline in number of Covid-19 cases: Govt||A total of 1,07,77,284 Covid-19 cases have been reported in India till February 3, the second-highest in absolute numbers after the US, the government told Lok Sabha on Friday, underlining that the country is witnessing a sustained decline in the number of infections reported daily since the reported peak in mid-September 2020. "Although high in absolute terms, India has managed to restrict the morbidity to 7,801 cases per million population, which is far lower than other similarly affected countries," Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey said in a written reply. Six states - Kerala (43.37 per cent), Maharashtra (26.76), Karnataka (3.71), West Bengal (3.31), Uttar Pradesh (3.13) and Tamil Nadu (2.82 per cent) --account for 83 per cent of all active cases in the country. "Since the reported peak in mid-September 2020, India is witnessing a sustained decline in the number of cases reported daily. However, the resurgence of Covid-19 cases has been reported from a number of countries in Europe and Americas, therefore continuous monitoring of the evolving situation is being undertaken at all level, to pick up on the earliest signs of resurgence and issue necessary existing SOPs/Advisories accordingly," the minister said. Further, the government continues to focus on intensive risk communication to limit viral transmission by advocating adherence to Covid appropriate behaviours (wearing of mask/face covers; physical distancing and hand hygiene), he said.  Additionally, the government has rolled out Covid-19 vaccination since January 16 and till February 3, 41,38,918 people have been inoculated. Responding to a question on the number of people found positive with the new UK strain of Covid-19 in the country and the effect of new Covishield and Covaxin vaccines therefore, Choubey said a surveillance system has been put in place to identify this variant among those with travel history to the UK from December 23. Till February 1, 147 travelers and their contacts have been tested positive for UK strain in India.  "At present there is no evidence to suggest that current vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) will fail to protect against Covid-19 variants reported from the United Kingdom," Choubey underscored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-witnessing-sustained-decline-in-number-of-covid-19-cases-govt-948006.html
05-02-2021||National||Covid-19: India fastest country to vaccinate 50 lakh citizens, says govt||India has become the first country in the world to reach the 5 million Covid-19 vaccination mark in just 21 days, the Union Health Ministry said as nearly 53 lakh beneficiaries have been administered shots under the countrywide inoculation exercise till Friday evening. The USA, the UK and Israel have reached 5 million vaccinations in 24, 43 and 45 simultaneous days respectively. "The countrywide Covid-19 vaccination program was conducted successfully on the twenty-first day as well," the ministry said. The cumulative number of healthcare workers vaccinated against Covid-19 is nearly 53 lakhs.  A total of 52,90,474 beneficiaries were vaccinated through 1,04,781 sessions, as per the provisional report comprising data collected till Friday 6 pm. As many as "3,31,029 beneficiaries have been vaccinated till 6 pm on the 21st day of the vaccination drive," the ministry said, adding, the final report would be completed by late in the night. The final report would be completed for the day by late Friday night, the ministry said. One of the highlights of the vaccination process is a link for downloading the certificate which is also a part of the confirmatory SMS sent to the beneficiary post-vaccination.   The Certificate can also be downloaded by the Vaccinator and District Immunization Officer and handed over to the beneficiary, the ministry said. Total 27 persons have been hospitalized so far which translates to 0.0005 per cent of the total vaccinations done so far. No new hospitalization has been recorded in the last 24 hours, the ministry said. The ministry further said that total of 22 deaths have been recorded till date and none of these deaths have been causally linked with Covid-19 vaccination. "One new death was reported in the past 24 hours, of a 77-year-old male in Agra, seven days after vaccination. It was a case of shock with pre-existing diabetes. None of these deaths has been causally linked with Covid-19 vaccination," the ministry said. Total 3,31,029 beneficiaries who have been vaccinated on Friday 6 pm include 29,229 from Bihar, 12,992 from Kerala, 23,291 from Karnataka, 1,104 from Madhya Pradesh, 35,172  from Maharashtra, 6,258 from Tamil Nadu, 8,038 from Delhi, 27,862  from Gujarat, 53,959 from Uttar Pradesh and 17,329 from West Bengal, according to the provisional report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-fastest-country-to-vaccinate-50-lakh-citizens-says-govt-948020.html
05-02-2021||National||Vaccination beneficiaries below target due to vaccine hesitancy, others: govt||Fewer than planned beneficiaries attended the coronavirus vaccination sessions at the start due to transient technical issues in CoWIN portal and vaccine hesitancy, among others, the government informed the Parliament on Friday. A total of 7,580 adverse events following immunisation have been reported till January 31 under the rollout. None of the 12 deaths of vaccinated persons has been causally attributed to the vaccination as per the current evidence, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told the Lok Sabha. Responding to a question on the urgency on part of the government to go ahead with the vaccination when the cases are declining, Choubey said a second or third peak was experienced in other countries during the later part of the pandemic. "Therefore, a declining trend of cases in the country does not necessarily promise a continued and steady decrease in cases," he said. "Hence, it is necessary to provide prompt protection to the vulnerable and at-risk population and maintain low case count through Covid-19 vaccination." As per the fact sheet of the vaccine manufactured by Bharat Biotech, one should not get Covaxin if the person has any allergies, fever, bleeding disorder or are on blood thinner, immune-compromised individuals or on medicines that affect the immune system, pregnant, breastfeeding, received another coronavirus vaccine or any serious health-related issues, Choubey said in a written reply. As per the fact sheet of Serum Institute, one should not get Covishield if a person had a severe allergic reaction after a previous dose of this vaccine and had a severe allergic reaction to any ingredient of this vaccine, he said. The healthcare provider needs to be consulted about medical conditions, including a severe allergic reaction after any drug, food, any vaccine or any ingredients of Covishield; fever; bleeding disorder; immunocompromised; pregnant; breastfeeding or received another Covid-19 vaccine, the minister said. Only those Covid-19 vaccines that have been granted permission for restricted use in an emergency situation by the Drugs Controller General of India have been used for Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country. As per New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has granted permission to manufacture two vaccines based on the prescribed procedure and due evaluation of pre-clinical and clinical trial data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccination-beneficiaries-below-target-due-to-vaccine-hesitancy-others-govt-948021.html
05-02-2021||National||FM holds bilateral meeting with UK's Secretary of State for International Trade||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday held a bilateral meeting with the UK's Secretary of State for International Trade Mary Elizabeth Truss and highlighted the various reforms undertaken by India as well as areas of closer cooperation between the two countries. During the meeting, Truss complimented India on the prompt and effective response to Covid-19 pandemic.  "The close collaboration in the sphere of Covid vaccine demonstrated the close and trusted partnership between the two countries. The UK government looks forward to working closely with the world's largest democracy," the finance ministry said in a statement. Sitharaman highlighted the reforms brought in through the Budget and suggested areas of closer cooperation with the UK, including investments in infrastructure, insurance sector, integrating small and medium enterprises in the global value chain. The finance minister recognised the close collaboration between the two countries in various fields being pursued through the India-UK annual Economic and Financial Dialogue, it said. It was noted that India and the UK are also working on customs cooperation and mutual administrative assistance in customs matters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-holds-bilateral-meeting-with-uks-secretary-of-state-for-international-trade-948042.html
05-02-2021||National Politics||Govt insensitive; if farmers leave peaceful path it would lead to major crisis in country: Sharad Pawar||Calling the Centre "insensitive" over the handling of farmers' protests, NCP President Sharad Pawar on Thursday said if farmers leave peaceful means of agitation it would lead to a major crisis in the country and the BJP government will be responsible for it. Slamming the government for erecting multi-layered barricades, concertina wires with iron nails studded on roads, Pawar said this did not happen even during the British rule. Pawar, who was Union Agriculture Minister from 2004-2014, accused the government of not willing to solve the farmers' protest issue. "They don't want to solve the problem. I am worried that today, if the farmers, who are peacefully agitating, take some other path, then this would lead to a major crisis. And the BJP government has to take responsibility for this. There are many issues but today those who are in power are not sensitive," he said. He warned that the end of the government which is not sensitive is near sooner or later. Pawar also attacked the government for not allowing Opposition MPs to visit the protesting farmers at Ghazipur. Pawar's daughter and Lok Sabha MP Supriya Sule was among the Opposition lawmakers. "They (the opposition MPs) had gone there peacefully just to check the well-being of farmers but even they were not allowed to go. If this is the case in democracy then they (the government) have to pay a heavy price today or tomorrow," he said. Sule also took to Twitter and slammed the government. In her tweet in Marathi, she said the government should shed arrogance and engage in talks with the farmers and address the issue. Pawar was among the Opposition leaders to visit President Ram Nath Kovind in December to seek repeal of the three contentious farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-insensitive-if-farmers-leave-peaceful-path-it-would-lead-to-major-crisis-in-country-sharad-pawar-947644.html
05-02-2021||National Politics||Congress received over Rs 139 crore in donations in 2019-20; Sibal gave Rs 3 crore||The Congress received over Rs 139 crore in donations in 2019-20 with senior leader Kapil Sibal being the biggest individual donor among its members by contributing Rs 3 crore to the party fund. The contribution report for 2019-20 of the Congress has been put in the pubic domain by the Election Commission. It shows that donations by ITC and associated companies were over Rs 19 crore, while Prudent Electoral Trust contributed Rs 31 crore. As per provisions of the electoral laws, political parties have to report contributions above Rs 20,000 made by individuals, companies, electoral trusts, and organisations. While former prime minister Manmohan Singh donated Rs 1,08,000, former party chief Rahul Gandhi donated Rs 54,000 and party president Sonia Gandhi donated Rs 50,000 between April 1, 2019, and March 31, 2020. Sibal, part of the group of 23 leaders who wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi in August 2020 seeking radical organisational overhaul, emerged as the biggest individual donor among the party's members, giving Rs 3 crore to the party fund in 2019-20. Other members of the ‘G23’ in the list of donors include Anand Sharma (Rs 54,000), Shashi Tharoor (Rs 54,000), Ghulam Nabi Azad (Rs 54,000), Milind Deora (Rs 1 lakh) and Raj Babbar (Rs 1,08,000). The total donations of over Rs 20,000 amounted to Rs 139,01,62,000. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, A K Antony, Kumari Selja and Ahmed Patel, who passed away last year, were among those who made financial donations to the party. Interestingly, Jyotiraditya Scindia, who quit Congress in March 2020 to join the BJP, had donated Rs 54,000 to the party in the 2019-20 financial year. The contribution document was submitted to the EC by Congress in December last year and was signed by the party's interim Treasurer Pawan Bansal. In its contribution report Bahujan Samaj Party had said it has not received donations above Rs 20,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-received-over-rs-139-crore-in-donations-in-2019-20-sibal-gave-rs-3-crore-947673.html
05-02-2021||National Politics||Nana Patole appointed Maharashtra Congress President||Congress on Friday appointed Nana Patole as the President of the party’s Maharashtra unit, a day after he quit as the Speaker of the state’s legislative assembly. Patole’s resignation, though anticipated in Congress circles, had caught the alliance partners Shiv Sena and NCP by surprise as the ruling coalition will now have to agree on a consensus candidate for the post of the Speaker. Patole, considered close to Rahul Gandhi, hails from Vidarbha region of the state and is known for his confrontational brand of politics which is expected to come handy as Congress seeks to assert itself in the political map of the state. A four-term MLA, Patole had quit the Congress and won the 2014 Lok Sabha elections as a BJP candidate but quit the party in 2017 after criticising Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an internal meeting. A prominent OBC leader, Patole re-joined the Congress in 2018 and has seen a meteoric rise since. Congress also named six working presidents – Shivajirao Moghe, Basavraj Patil, Naseem Khan, Kunal Patil, Chandrakant Handore and Praniti Shinde – to the Maharashtra unit to ensure representation to the different regions of the party. While Moghe hails from Vidarbha, Basavraj Patil represents Marathwada, Khan and Handore come from Mumbai. Kunal Patil, the son of former minister Rohidas Patil, hails from north Maharashtra, while Shinde, the daughter of veteran leader Sushilkumar Shinde represents western Maharashtra. Congress also named ten vice presidents and a 37-member Parliamentary Board to accommodate leaders from across the state. The party also set up a Strategy, Screening and Coordination Committee for the upcoming local body elections. The committee has been tasked with finalising alliance strategy, select candidates, review poll preparedness, identify organisational gaps and plan public programs, outreach and meetings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nana-patole-appointed-maharashtra-congress-president-947804.html
05-02-2021||National Politics||Opposition parties in Rajya Sabha demand repeal of farm laws||Various opposition parties like the Shiv Sena, SAD, NCP, Samajwadi Party and Left parties on Friday demanded in Rajya Sabha that the three new farm laws be repealed and fresh ones brought after wider consultations. Participating in the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's address, the members of opposition parties attacked the government for dubbing the farmers protesting against the farm laws as "anti-nationals" and for "defaming" their agitation. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut alleged that anyone speaking the truth is dubbed as a "traitor" or "anti-national" and that cases of sedition have been slapped against those criticising the government. Participating in the debate, he said farmers fighting for their rights have been branded as anti-nationals or Khalistanis. He said the farmers, who were known as 'warriors' when they fought the Mughals and the British, are now dubbed as anti-nationals when they are fighting for their rights on Delhi's borders. Raut said farmers from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, who are sitting on the borders of Delhi, are fighting for the peasants from across the country and demanded that their voice be heard and the farm laws be repealed. "We heard minister Dharmendra Pradhan asking us to listen to the truth. For the last six years, we have been listening to the truth, even the untruth dubbed as truth. The atmosphere in the country today is such that anyone writing the truth is dubbed as traitor and anti-national," he alleged. "When the farmers are uniting and fighting for their rights, you see anti-national acts. They are not anti-nationals or 'khalistanis' "Till the time this movement is alive, the nation will remain alive and this 'andolan'," he said. "If you would have built such barricades at the international borders, as those put up at Delhi borders, China would not have dared to come into Indian territory," the Sena member said. Praful Patel (NCP) said the Centre and states have together fought the COVID-19 pandemic along with medical professionals and the mortality rate in the country was low as compared to other countries. He said when the government is talking of working for the welfare of farmers, why did it not send the farm laws to the Select Committee for wider consultations to avoid the situation that has arisen now. "On our demand, had the government sent the bills to a Select Committee for wider consultations, the scenes witnessed today around Delhi would not have been witnessed. What was the hurry to bring these laws," he asked. Patel sought to clarify that former Agriculture Minister Sharad Pawar's letter of 2007 is being circulated to misrepresent the facts. "The 2007 letter he wrote to chief ministers was to seek their comments on the amendment to farm laws. The Bill was never brought in Parliament. The government, however, is unnecessarily raising the issue to misrepresent facts," he said. The NCP leader said if the government is ready to put these laws in abeyance for 1.5 years, why does it not repeal them and bring new ones after proper consultations. BSP member Satish Chandra Misra demanded that the government should repeal the three new farm laws and also provide legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP) on all crops, alleging that the government's intention are not clear. Misra slammed the government for trying to stop farmers' protest and alleged that multi-layered barricades, barbed wires and iron nails studded on roads have been put up on Delhi-borders. He said water and electricity supplies have been cut and access to toilets have also been stopped. "This is a human rights violation." "I am not able to understand when you (the government) are ready to suspend the laws for 1.5 years, what is stopping you to withdraw these Acts," he said, urging the government to shed its ego and accept the farmers' demand. SAD leader Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa said the prime minister should intervene and listen to the farmers' demands. The Akali Dal member said the government should accept the farmers' demand to repeal the three laws. He said all Opposition parties are also demanding the same. Dhindsa said he had written to the prime minister when Ordinances were brought but did not get any reply. He said agriculture is a state subject and the Centre is weakening the federal system by bringing these farm laws. Highlighting the sacrifice made by Sikhs during the country's Independence struggle, Dhindsa rued that Sikhs are being described as terrorists and Khalistanis. Dhindsa also said there should be a scientific method to fix the MSP. Congress leader Pratap Singh Bajwa demanded setting up a committee headed by a Supreme Court judge to conduct an impartial probe within two months into the incidents on January 26 that led to violence. He compared the barricades set up at the farmers' protest site at Ghazipur with the Berlin Wall and concentration camps, and took a strong objection to farmers being branded as anti-national and Khalistanis. IUML member Abdul Wahab demanded restoration of MPLADs fund. Earlier, CPI member Binoy Viswam hit out at the government for terming the economic crisis as an act of God, and said the policies of the government are squarely responsible for the situation and not the almighty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-parties-in-rajya-sabha-demand-repeal-of-farm-laws-947811.html
05-02-2021||National Politics||Nails on roads for farmers will turn out to be nails in 'political coffin' of BJP: Jayant Chaudhary||Asserting that farmers will not settle for anything less than the repeal of the new farm laws, RLD vice president Jayant Chaudhary on Friday said the government's "strong arm tactics" will not work against the tillers and the nails being laid on roads for them would turn out to be the nails in the "political coffin" of the BJP. Chaudhary, who has participated in a number of 'kisaan panchayats' in western Uttar Pradesh and is campaigning aggressively against the Centre's farm laws, said the government must immediately withdraw the legislations and draft them afresh after taking the consent of farmers. In an interview with PTI, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) vice president alleged that the current leadership of the country is far removed from sentiments and is not perturbed by riots, deaths or big agitations as it is "cocooned" in its own bubble. "It is a totalitarian administration. They are not even listening to their own political people on the ground. If you speak to BJP MLAs or MPs off the record, they are not happy and they can feel the angst rising in the people of India, in the common man who voted for (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi," the former MP said. Chaudhary said he has been to almost every 'dharna' site of the farmers, has sat among them, spoken to them at different levels, addressed 'kisaan panchayats', and feels that the farmers have formed an emotional connect cutting across different states like Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. "There is unity building, and I don't think that these farmers are going to take anything less than what they have come this far for (which is repeal of the laws)," he said. The farmers have left their villages, walked for miles, have faced so many hardships with "about 150 of them even losing their lives" and they are still not willing to back down even in the face of the government hardening its stance, the RLD leader said. The farmers' stance is very clear and they are saying that these laws are not made for them and they will not accept them, he said. It is always the prerogative of the government of the day to make laws but ultimately it is the people's will that must prevail, Chaudhary asserted. Asked about the multi-layered barricading and iron nails studded on roads at protest sites on Delhi's borders, he said, "These are not nails being put on the roads going to Delhi, these are nails being put into the political coffin that is being made for the BJP." "This is a very hurtful image that has gone out. These are the people who freed Delhi from the British, who fought against the Mughals, whenever there was a crisis in Delhi, it was the farmers close to Delhi in Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh that were first there. Today, the Kisan Ghat (memorial of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh), Parliament and Rajghat are in Delhi, and you are forbidding these farmers from even entering Delhi," he said. On the government's offer to suspend the farm laws for 18 months, he said the offer has not found favour with either the protesting farmer organisations or with the farmers themselves. The questions the farmers are asking is why 18 months suspension and why the Supreme Court is being involved in the work of Parliament or the government, he said. After 18 months again the same problems will arise and the government will say "we have given an undertaking in the Supreme Court, so therefore, we cannot do anything about it", Chaudhary said. "So in a way it will create disharmony between the judiciary and the role of the executive in Parliament," he said. "My suggestion is that they (government) should completely do away with these laws and communicate more effectively, reach out to the farmers, if they feel there is a reform that is needed, take their consent and then draft anew," he said. People are not liking the government's approach in dealing with the agitation, Chaudhary asserted. "These strong arm tactics -- please use these strong arm tactics with the nation's enemy China or with other countries you are in conflict with, do not use these tactics with the citizens of India," the former MP said. Asked about his father and RLD chief Ajit Singh announcing support to the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) in their protest, Chaudhary said it is not just an alliance with the Tikaits (Naresh and Rakesh), but is an expression of solidarity with farmers. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nails-on-roads-for-farmers-will-turn-out-to-be-nails-in-political-coffin-of-bjp-jayant-chaudhary-947821.html
05-02-2021||National Politics||Not the India that Gandhi envisaged: Opposition compares barricades at farmers' protest with Berlin Wall||The Opposition on Friday pounded the government on the contentious Agri laws, questioning the internet shutdown and snapping of power and water supply at protest sites and targeting of critics with sedition cases, with a senior Congress MP comparing the barricades erected at a farmers' protest site with the Berlin Wall and war prison. Top guns from the Opposition benches like Congress' Anand Sharma and Mallikarjun Kharge, BSP's Satish Chandra Mishra, Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut and NCP's Praful Patel sought to put the government on the mat during the debate on Motion of Thanks to the President's Address even as they condemned the violence at Red Fort during tractor rally on Republic Day. Pratap Singh Bajwa, a senior Congress MP from Punjab, made a spirited attack while seeking to find holes in the government's defence of the three farm laws as well as its handling of the farmers' protests at Delhi borders and comparing it with the scenes in Afghanistan, Libya, Iraq and Uganda. "This is not the country that Mahatma Gandhi envisaged," he said. "(Prime Minister Narendra) Modi-ji says he is just a call away. Who has your phone number, Modi-ji?" Bajwa said, referring to the prime minister's comments during the all-party meeting in which he said that the government's doors are open for discussion. Describing the farm laws as "death warrants" for farmers, Bajwa told Modi that this is the time to become a statesman by going to the Delhi borders to meet the farmers and announce the repealing of laws. "How can farmers trust you...You are erecting barbed wires as if the Berlin Wall is being built. You are giving Delhi borders the shape of war prisons...Parliament is in session. Leaders of Opposition parties went to Ghazipur border but police did not allow them to meet the farmers. Is this democracy?", he said while referring to the snapping of power and water supply as well as the internet. "You brand us as Khalistanis...anti-nationals...Don't teach us nationalism. Every month a child from Punjab and Haryana returns home wrapped in the Tricolour...Guru Tegh Bahadur sacrificed his life to protect the Kashmiri Brahmins...My brother, a brigadier at 192 Mountain Brigade, led the victory in the Tiger Hills," he said. BSP floor leader Mishra said that the government has "dug up trenches to suppress farmers' stir". "You've not done it for them, but for yourself. You snapped their water and electricity supplies and even removed toilets, without thinking that women are also there. This is a human rights violation," he said. Shiv Sena's Raut said people speaking the truth are dubbed as a "traitor" or an "anti-national" and cases of sedition have been slapped against those criticising the government. "We heard minister Dharmendra Pradhan is asking us to listen to the truth. For the last six years, we have been listening to the truth, even if the untruth has been dubbed as truth. The atmosphere of the country today is such that anyone writing the truth is dubbed as a traitor and an anti-national," he alleged. BJD's Sasmit Patra demanded that the Centre implement the recommendations of the Swaminathan Committee report properly, which asks for Minimum Support Price at 1.5XC2 (comprehensive assessment of the cost of production).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/not-the-india-that-gandhi-envisaged-opposition-compares-barricades-at-farmers-protest-with-berlin-wall-947826.html
05-02-2021||National Politics||2021-22 Budget 'booster rocket' for economy, will make this decade 'Roaring 20s' for India: Sinha||Describing the 2021-22 Budget a "booster rocket" for the economy, BJP leader Jayant Sinha on Friday said it will place India on the path of non-inflationary growth and make this decade "Roaring 20s" for the country. This Budget has focused on supply-side investment and this is going to ensure that the country has a non-inflationary growth for very long period of time, Sinha, who chairs the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance, said. "This budget is a booster rocket for the economy. The country is proceeding on a V-shaped recovery path and will immensely benefit from this booster rocket. It will firmly place the country on a non-inflationary growth trajectory, which is going to sustain for a very long period of time," he told PTI. The impact of this Budget will be that the country will not only see a very strong recovery this fiscal, but also in the following years, India will continue to grow at seven to eight per cent, said Sinha, who was the minister of state for finance in the first term of the Modi government. "This budget and the reforms which were carried out by the Narendra Modi-led government in the last six years, will make this decade a decade of Roaring 20s for India," he said. 'Roaring 20s' refers to the decade of the 1920s, which followed after war devastation and the 1918 Spanish Flu. In that decade, the US and several European nations saw prosperity and economic boom. Talking about fiscal deficit, which is pegged at 9.5 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), Sinha said fiscal deficit numbers this year includes the spending on the Food Corporation of India (FCI), and those were extra budgetary receipts. The former Union minister said besides looking at fiscal deficit, it is also important to note where those extra resources were used. Lot of those resources were used for providing relief to the poor and the marginalised during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. These resources were used to help people during the challenging time, he said. Sinha also asserted that mega reforms were announced in the Budget, including setting up of an asset reconstruction company and an asset management company to clean up non-performing assets in the banking sector. Setting up of textile parks was also announced, he said. On disinvestment of Air India, Sinha, who also held the civil aviation portfolio in the previous government, said the intent of the Centre is clear and it is to do a strategic sale of the national carrier. There were issues related to non-core assets, core assets and subsidiaries of the airline, now all those have been dealt with, he said underlining that the disinvestment of Air India is a complicated process. He also said for disinvestment of the carrier, the government will also take note of market conditions and also of the aviation sector which has been deeply impacted by COVID-19 pandemic. PTI JTR JTR ANB ANB||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/2021-22-budget-booster-rocket-for-economy-will-make-this-decade-roaring-20s-for-india-sinha-947863.html
05-02-2021||National Politics||Rakesh Tikait cannot get away by shedding tears after tractor rally violence: BJP leader K J Alphons||Stating that hoisting a religious flag at the Red Fort was "treason", BJP leader and former Union minister K J Alphons on Friday said in Rajya Sabha that farmer leader Rakesh Tikait cannot get away by shedding tears after the violence during their tractor parade seeking the repeal of new farm laws. Defending the three farm laws, Alphons said there was nothing wrong in them. Farmers protesting against the laws at border points of Delhi faced criticism after the violence during their January 26 tractor rally. However, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Tikait's emotional outburst provided a fresh momentum to the agitation. "If you are leading an agitation Mr Tikait, and you tell people take rods with you and then you finally shed tears and say sorry 'I didn't know'. Have a backbone," Alphons said during a discussion on Motion of Thanks on Presidential Address. He also accused the Opposition of sowing the seeds of dissent and hatred against the government. "When you sow the seeds of hatred against the government...you are sowing the deep seeds of extremism. What happened at Red Fort is treason. If not treason, tell me what was it?" he told the House. Interjecting on this issue, Congress leader Digvijay Singh challenged the BJP leader for a debate on the issue of minimum support price (MSP) for crops. Defending the new Agri laws strongly, BJP leader Neeraj Shekar asked the protesting farmers to recognise people who have boycotted the presidential address and now participating in the debate to give a speech on the injustice meted out to farmers. "I want farmers to recognise these people. Some say they want their party to come to power in Punjab and Haryana, that's why they are giving speeches here. They don't have empathy towards you (farmers). They are talking because they want to come to power," he said targeting the Opposition. In an apparent swipe at Rahul Gandhi, Shekar advised Congress MPs to "listen to your senior party leaders" and added "if you take decision based on Yuvraj, then the party which...has come down to 40 seats will next reach a low of 5". Tikait is one of the 41 farmer leaders negotiating with the government on the farm laws. Eleven rounds of formal talks between the Centre and farm leaders have failed to produce any concrete results. The government has offered concession including suspension of laws for 18 months, which the unions have rejected. BJD leader Sasmit Patra attacked the government for not properly implementing the Swaminathan Committee report on MSP. Subhash Chandra Bose Pilli of YSRCP raised state issues such as special status to Andhra Pradesh and approval of revised cost estimate of the Polavaram Irrigation project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rakesh-tikait-cannot-get-away-by-shedding-tears-after-tractor-rally-violence-bjp-leader-k-j-alphons-947867.html
05-02-2021||National Politics||Centre 'fielded' Sachin Tendulkar to counter comments from Rihanna, Thunberg: RJD leader||Cricketers like Tendulkar, Ravi Shastri, Virat Kohli, on Wednesday joined Bollywood superstars Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn to support the Centre's call on standing against "propaganda" against the Indian government and its policies after international personalities like Rihanna and Greta Thunberg extended their support towards farmer's protest. "Indias sovereignty cannot be compromised. External forces can be spectators but not participants. Indians know India and should decide for India. Lets remain united as a nation. Tendulkar had tweeted on February 3, 2021 with hashtag #IndiaTogether #IndiaAgainstPropaganda. "Farmers do not know about Twitter. This Twitter politics has started recently and everyone is doing it. What do the farmers know about Greta Thunberg or Rihanna? And you have fielded Sachin Tendulkar against them," the RJD leader said. Climate and environmental activist Greta Thunberg had come out in support of the farmers' protest at Delhi's borders against the Centre's new agri laws. "We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India," she had tweeted soon after singer Rihanna shared a news article highlighting the Centre's crackdown on the farmers by cutting off internet services in many regions. "Why aren't we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest," Rihanna had tweeted. Tiwari's remark came in for sharp criticism from the ruling BJP and its ally JD(U) which demanded an apology from him. However, the RJD distanced itself from the remark, terming it as Tiwari's "personal opinion". Condemning the RJD leaders statement, the BJP and the JD(U), describing it as "absurd and uncalled for". "Nowadays Shivanand Tiwari is representing a group of frustrated opposition leaders, crazy to grab headlines. His statement on Sachin Tendulakar is absurd and uncalled for. Shivanandji should apologise to the people of the country. "The RJD is free to express grievances and demand Bharat Ratna for anybody but Shivanandji doesn't have the right to abuse anyone who is conferred with Bharat Ratna. We seriously condemn the statement and demand that Tejashwi Yadav should come up with a clarification on his party leader," Bihar BJP spokesman Nikhil Anand said. Echoing similar sentiments, Bihar JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, "Showing respect for foreign celebrities like Greta Thunberg and Rihanna and insulting legendary cricketer Sachin Tendulkar, who is loved and admired by millions of people, can only be expected from a leader of the RJD". If Tiwari does not apologise, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav should take stern action against him, Prasad said. Bihar RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwary said, "It is his (Shivanand Tiwari's) personal opinion which he may have given considering the conditions and sufferings of the protesting farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-fielded-sachin-tendulkar-to-counter-comments-from-rihanna-thunberg-rjd-leader-947889.html
05-02-2021||National Politics||50 MPs participate in Prez address debate in Rajya Sabha; PM to reply on Monday morning||The Rajya Sabha on Friday concluded the 15-hour-long debate on the President's Address with 50 MPs airing their views even as Lok Sabha is struggling to start the proceedings since the Budget was tabled. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will reply to the debate on February 8 after the Question Hour ends at 10:30 am. Fifty MPs from 25 parties have participated in the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address in between Wednesday 9:40 AM and Friday 2:30 PM. Eighteen lawmakers from the ruling BJP, seven of Congress and 25 from other parties participated in the marathon debate. The first full working day of Rajya Sabha on February 2, a day after the tabling of Budget, was washed away after the Opposition remained adamant on a separate discussion on the contentious farm laws and the farmers' agitation at Delhi borders. However, a consensus was reached on February 2 evening with the government agreeing to increase the time for debate from 10 hours to 15 hours. Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad held consultations with other Opposition parties after which they agreed for the start of the debate on February 3 as scheduled earlier. However, three-member AAP did not agree with it and continued to stage protests in the House on Wednesday, following which they were marshalled out of the House on the orders of Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu. The decision of Congress leadership in Rajya Sabha exposed chinks within the party as its Lok Sabha wing refused to go along. Though Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Chief Whip Kodikkunnil Suresh initially agreed to allow the discussion by increasing the debate time by five hours like in Rajya Sabha, party MPs resisted the idea and said they would not settle for anything other than a separate debate on farmers' issues. This led to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who was said to be not in agreement with the line taken by the party in Rajya Sabha, chairing a meeting of Lok Sabha MPs where a large majority of MPs supported disruption of the House if their demand was not met. Rahul also met other Opposition leaders and convinced them to join hands. For the past three days, the ruling BJP has not been able to initiate the debate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/50-mps-participate-in-prez-address-debate-in-rajya-sabha-pm-to-reply-on-monday-morning-947902.html
05-02-2021||National Politics||Khoon ki Kheti vs Corporate Kheti: Battle of barbs between government, Opposition||As the farmer agitation expanded further with big turnouts at Mahapanchayats in last few days and farmer unions threatening a blockade of national highways on Saturday, the government went ballistic against the Opposition, accusing it of doing "Khoon Ki Kheti" and asserting that farmer unions and the Opposition parties had failed to point out a single flaw in the three new farm laws. While the battle of barbs between the government and the Opposition reached a flashpoint in the Rajya Sabha on the last day of the second week of the Budget session, a show of Opposition unity could also be visible on Monday when Prime Minister Narendra will reply to the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address in the House. BJP has issued a three-line whip to all its members to be present in the House. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who rued "nobody is ready to tell what is wrong in these" (koi batane ko taiyar nahin isme kaala kya hai) when the agri laws were being called black laws, went hammer and tongs against the Opposition in the Upper House. On day 72 of farmer protest that showed signs of further consolidation with the Mahapanchayats in support of them in two BJP-ruled states — Haryana and UP — besides the nerve centre of protest — Congress-ruled Punjab, the Agriculture Minister said protests over farm laws are "limited to only one state" and farmers are being instigated. He also sought to make it clear that the "government's offer to amend them to assuage farmers' sentiments did not mean they had any flaws". "For two months I kept asking farmer unions what is kala in the laws so that I can try to rectify. But I could not get the answer," he said. Apparently referring to the release of booklet titled ‘Kheti Ka Khoon,’ finding fault with the three contentious agri laws by Congress earlier, Tomar slammed the main Opposition party saying, "Khoon se kheti sirf Congress hi kar sakte hai, BJP khoon se kheti nahi kar sakti (Only Congress do farming with blood on their hands, not the BJP)." Such hyperboles have flown between the two parties during the current farmer protest as well as in the past. Two days ago, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh cited Operation Blue Star and threat from Pakistan as he pressed for early resolution of farm issues while Congress MP in Rajya Sabha Pratap Singh Bajwa barricades erected at a farmers' protest site with the Berlin Wall and war prison and scenes in Afghanistan, Libya, Iraq and Uganda. BJP on Wednesday said the Opposition should not make farmers' protest another Shaheen Bagh, referring to last year's anti-CAA protest that had lasted for over 100 days. In October 2016, Rahul Gandhi had accused the Modi government of doing "Khoon Ki Dalali" with soldiers' lives after the surgical strike. In 2014, Sonia Gandhi had accused the BJP of doing "Zeher Ki Kheti (farming poison) and in 2007 she had made the "Maut Ka Saudagar' (merchant of death) barb against Modi. Opposition parties have failed to point out a single flaw in three new farm laws, Tomar insisted peasants of just one state are being misinformed and instigated. Union minister K J Alphons said farmer leader Rakesh Tikait cannot get away by shedding tears after the violence during their tractor parade. Insisting that hoisting a religious flag at the Red Fort was "treason", Alphons said, "if you are leading an agitation Mr Tikait, and you tell people to take rods with you and then you finally shed tears and say sorry 'I didn't know'. Get a backbone". BJP Vice President Vinay P Sahasrabuddhe asked "Where is the arrogance" in the government when it is ready to talk even after offering to put the agri laws in abeyance for 18 months and farmer unions even rejecting that? "People in support of the laws can also sit on dharna, do we want a civil war?" he asked as he stressed that the Modi government does not work on populism. The BJP leaders defended the farm laws and listed out initiatives of the Modi government for farmers to project the government as farmer-friendly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/khoon-ki-kheti-vs-corporate-kheti-battle-of-barbs-between-government-opposition-947958.html
05-02-2021||National Politics||Speaker Om Birla steps in to end Lok Sabha deadlock||As Lok Sabha proceedings remained deadlocked for the fourth consecutive day on Friday, Speaker Om Birla stepped in to broker truce between the government and the opposition. Birla met opposition leaders on Friday evening who conveyed their demand for a separate discussion on the farmers’ issue. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi had already rejected the demand for a separate discussion and insisted the opposition can raise the issue during the discussion on the Motion of Thanks on the President’s address. Joshi reiterated the stand of the government to the Speaker following which the opposition leaders told him that they would convey their final stand after a meeting of like-minded parties on Monday after the reply of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the discussion on the Motion of Thanks in the Rajya Sabha. On Wednesday, Congress had made a U-turn on its assurance to take up a discussion on the Motion of Thanks on the President's address and forced repeated adjournments in the Lok Sabha insisting on a separate discussion on the farmers' issue. The Rajya Sabha has concluded the 15-hour extended discussion on the Motion of Thanks on Friday. BJP member from West Bengal Locket Chatterjee had moved the Motion of Thanks on Tuesday and had barely begin her speech when the House had to be adjourned amid sloganeering and waving of placards by the Congress. Congress member Manish Tewari is scheduled to speak on behalf of the party, while Trinamool is likely to field feisty orator Mahua Moitra in the debate keeping an eye on the West Bengal Assembly elections. A section of the Congress too is upset at the aggressive stand taken by Rahul Gandhi and is keen to put the party view on record in Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/speaker-om-birla-steps-in-to-end-lok-sabha-deadlock-947986.html
05-02-2021||National Politics||Congress extends support to 'chakka jam' called by farmer unions||The Congress on Friday extended support to the countrywide 'chakka jam' called by farmer unions on February 6, saying party workers will stand shoulder to shoulder with farmers in their protest. The Congress also hit out at Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, who defended the three new farm laws and criticised the Opposition while speaking in Rajya Sabha. Whatever the agriculture minister said was "not only totally bereft of facts" but also "grossly objectionable", the party claimed. Farmer unions on Monday had announced 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways for three hours in protest against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. Congress general secretary (organisation), K C Venugopal, said the party fully supports the farmers' movement and appeals to the government to climb down from the "high horse of false and misplaced pride", and accede to the justified demands of the farmers by repealing the three farm laws. On February 6, when the farmer organisations will hold a three-hour nationwide 'chakka jam' from 12 pm to 3 pm in a non-violent and peaceful manner on the national and state highways, the Congress will extend its full support to farmer groups, Venugopal said in a statement. Congress workers in solidarity with the protesting farmers will stand shoulder to shoulder in this "symbolic and Gandhian" way of protest, he said. Farmers' organisations have already exempted emergency and essential services from this protest, Venugopal noted. "Joining in the spirit, Congress workers will take full care that the ambulance services, school bus, elderly, patients and women and children are not inconvenienced due to the bandh call," he said. Venugopal said that this farmers' movement, which is being steadfastly supported by the poor, farm labour, SCs, STs, OBCs as well as every "right-minded Indian", is not only aimed at protecting agriculture and farming but also saving the public distribution system. "However, the power drunk Modi government is trying every mean trick of the trade to tire out and defame the protesting millions. Even today, the Union Agriculture Minister (Narendra Singh Tomar), while speaking in the Parliament, blatantly tried to mislead the House and the nation," Venugopal alleged. It is public knowledge that the farmers' organisations have held eleven rounds of talks with the government during which they provided point-wise detail of the deficiencies and lacunae in the three laws, "consequent to which even the government has openly agreed to bring about as many as 18 amendments to the said laws", he said. "In the light of this, whatever the agriculture minister said today in Parliament is not only totally bereft of facts but is grossly objectionable," Venugopal said. Intervening in the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar alleged that farmers were being misled by the Opposition and the agitation was only in one state. Hitting out at the government, Venugopal alleged, "Driven by the sole motive of benefiting its corporate cronies and steamrolling the laws by the brute force of parliamentary arithmetical majority, the government neither consulted the opposition parties nor took any farmers organisation in confidence, before enacting the laws." Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-extends-support-to-chakka-jam-called-by-farmer-unions-948009.html
05-02-2021||National Politics||Centre always ready for discussion, hopeful LS will function smoothly from Monday: Pralhad Joshi||Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Friday said that the government has always been ready for discussion and it is hopeful that Lok Sabha will function smoothly from Monday. Proceedings of the Lok Sabha were impacted for the fourth consecutive day on Friday as opposition continued to protest over the new farm laws. The government has always been ready for discussion and "we are hopeful that Lok Sabha will function smoothly from Monday", Joshi said. Sources said that the government has indicated that it is open for a separate short duration discussion on farmers' issues provided the opposition lets the House function and participates in the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address, Budget and passage of four ordinances. On February 3, Locket Chatterjee of the BJP had initiated the discussion on the Motion of Thanks but she could not complete her speech due to disruptions. She has not yet resumed her speech. While demanding the repeal of the three laws, Opposition parties are also insisting on a stand-alone debate on the farmers' issue. The government has maintained that the Opposition can raise farm issues during the debate on the motion of thanks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-always-ready-for-discussion-hopeful-ls-will-function-smoothly-from-monday-pralhad-joshi-948033.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||Don't know Rihanna, Greta but welcome their support: Rakesh Tikait||For all the global uproar the farmers' movement against the new Agri laws has caused, the man at its centre seems oblivious of the celebrity support he has been getting. Rakesh Tikait, the 51-year-old Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader from the hinterlands of Muzaffarnagar in western Uttar Pradesh, welcomed the support from international artists and activists, including Rihanna and Greta Thunberg, but acknowledged he does not know them. Talking to the media at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, Tikait, who is credited with reviving the agitation that had gone slim after the January 26 violence in Delhi, sought to know who these people were. "Who are these foreign artistes?" Tikait said exhibiting unawareness when asked about the foreigners supporting the farmers' movement. When informed about American pop-singer Rihanna, adult star Mia Khalifa and Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg, the Sisauli-born Tikait responded: "They may have supported us, but I don't know them." "If some foreigner is supporting the movement, then what is the problem. They are not giving us or taking anything away from us," he said. Commenting on a futile attempt of 15 members of parliament to reach Ghazipur and meet protestors earlier on Thursday, the BKU national spokesperson said the MPs should have sat on the ground on the other side of the barricading where they were stopped by the Delhi Police. "A barricading has been set up here. They had to come, but they should have sat down there itself. They would have been on the other side and we on this side (of the barricades),” he said. Tikait said he did not have any talk with the 15 MPs who had tried to come to Ghazipur to meet the protestors. They were also not allowed to speak to the protestors, he added. The 15 MPs from 10 Opposition parties, including the SAD, the DMK, the NCP and the Trinamool Congress, wanted to meet protestors at Ghazipur. Members of the National Conference, the RSP and the IUML were also part of the delegation. Parliament member and Shiromani Akali Dal leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal, who coordinated the visit, said the leaders were not allowed to cross the barricades and reach the protest site, where thousands of farmers are camping since November with a demand that the government repeal the new agri-marketing laws enacted last September. The farmers protest at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu at Delhi borders have now attained global spotlight with prominent international celebrities and rights activists talking about the stir. In its pushback, the government said the facts on the issue must be ascertained before rushing to comment on it, and asserted that the "temptation" of sensationalist social media hashtags and views is "neither accurate nor responsible".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-know-rihanna-greta-but-welcome-their-support-rakesh-tikait-947654.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||Mortal remains of Sepoy Laxman, killed during India-Pakistan firing at LoC in Kashmir, reach Jodhpur||The mortal remains of Army soldier Sepoy Laxman who was killed in Pakistani firing along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district arrived here on Thursday, officials said. The mortal remains of the soldier arrived in the city in the evening and will be taken to his ancestral village Khjarla in Bilara sub-division where the cremation will take place on Friday with full military honours, they said. Laxman was critically injured in the Pakistani firing on Wednesday and later succumbed to injuries. "Sepoy Laxman was a brave, highly motivated and a sincere soldier. The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty," the Army has said. A family member of Laxman said preparations for his marriage were underway and he was expected to come to the village by March-end. “He had come to the village two months back and had begun the construction of the house, which he wanted to complete before his marriage,” the family member said. Belonging to a farmers’ family, Laxman had joined the Army five years ago. He is survived by parents and two younger siblings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mortal-remains-of-sepoy-laxman-killed-during-india-pakistan-firing-at-loc-in-kashmir-reach-jodhpur-947690.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||India reports 12,408 new Covid-19 cases, tally tops 1.08 crore||India's Covid-19 tally of cases went past 1.08 crore with 12,408 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, while the recoveries surged to 1,04,96,308, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The total cases mounted to 1,08,02,591, while the death toll increased to 1,54,823 with 120 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.    The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,04,96,308 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 97.16 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,51,460 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.40 per cent of the total cases, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 19,99,31,795 samples have been tested up to February 4 with 7,15,776  samples being tested on Thursday. The 120 new fatalities include 46 from Maharashtra, 17 from Kerala, 7 each Delhi and Punjab.  A total of 1,54,823 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,215 from Maharashtra followed by 12,375 from Tamil Nadu, 12,227 from Karnataka, 10,871 from Delhi, 10,199 from West Bengal, 8,680 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,157 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-reports-12408-new-covid-19-cases-tally-tops-108-crore-947702.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||80-year-old woman raped in UP village||An 80-year-old woman was allegedly raped in a village in Kharela area here, police said on Friday. The incident took place on February 2 when the woman was alone in the house as her family members were out attending a religious function, SHO, Kharela, Anil Kumar said. A complaint was lodged by the victim's grandson who alleged that two people entered the house from the terrace and one of them identified as Phoolchandra alias Phullu raped the woman, Kumar said. An FIR was registered against Phoolchandra, a resident of Jalalpur area in Hamirpur and an unidentified person on Thursday, the SHO said. Kumar said the accused are absconding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/80-year-old-woman-raped-in-up-village-947720.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||Interim bail to comedian Munawar Faruqui; SC notice to MP government||The Supreme Court on Friday granted interim bail to comedian Munawar Faruqui in a case of hurting religious sentiments, prima facie agreeing to his contention that arrest did not follow due procedure. The court also issued a notice to the Madhya Pradesh government on his plea against the high court order which refused to release him. A bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai stayed the production warrants issued against the petitioner in Uttar Pradesh. The court also sought response from the Madhya Pradesh on his plea quashing of the case as his counsel senior advocate Vikram Chaudhri and advocate Saurabh Kripal said the allegations against him were vague. The counsel also said the arrest did not follow Section 41 of the Criminal Procedure Code and the Supreme Court's judgement in Arnesh Kumar versus State of Bihar (2014). In the landmark ruling, the top court had then directed the accused in all cases relating to the offences—where the punishment was up to seven years imprisonment—should not be arrested casually and mechanically as arrest brings humiliation, curtails freedom and cast scars forever. In his plea, Munawar challenged the January 28 order of the high court.The high court had said no case for bail was made out in view of the material seized and the statements of the witnesses. “It is the constitutional duty of every citizen of the country and also of the states to promote harmony and the spirit of common brotherhood amongst all the people of India irrespective of religious, linguistic, regional or sectional diversities and to value and preserve the rich heritage of our composite culture," the high court had said. Munawar, a resident of Gujarat, was arrested on January 2 along with four others on the allegations that he made derogatory remarks against Hindu gods during a recent stand-up show in Indore. The other arrested persons were identified as Edwin Anthony, Nalin Yadav, Prakhar Vyas and Priyam Vyas. Munawar claimed that he came on an invitation from the organisers of the comedy show and was though present on the spot but did not utter anything as alleged. The case was registered following a complaint from Eklavya Singh Gaud against the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/interim-bail-to-comedian-munawar-faruqui-sc-notice-to-mp-government-947725.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||Pro-farmer messages find space on wedding invites in Haryana||Some farmers in Haryana have found a novel way to support the ongoing agitation against the Centre's new agricultural laws by getting catchy slogans like “no farmers, no food” and photos of peasant leader Sir Chhotu Ram printed on wedding invitation cards. According to a printing press owner here, photos of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh too are finding their way on to the invitation cards amid peak wedding season. “We are getting requests from many farmer families and some others as well to have slogans like 'no farmers, no food' and photos of Sir Chhotu Ram and Bhagat Singh printed on the wedding cards,” said the owner. Sir Chhotu Ram was born on November 24, 1881 and is regarded as a messiah of peasants. He was instrumental in empowering farmers in the pre-Independence era and fought for their rights during the British rule. Slogans coined by several farmers' unions to highlight their struggle have played a pivotal role in helping the agitation resonate with the masses especially the city dwellers. Prem Singh Goyat, a farmer from Dundhrehri village here, is among those who has got the slogan printed on his son's wedding invitation card. “Thousands of farmers are protesting against these laws and we stand in solidarity with them. My son was getting married and it struck me... why not have pictures of Sir Chhotu Ram and Shaheed Bhagat Singh printed on the invitation card," Goyat said. The farmer's son is set to tie the knot on February 20.   He said farmers have been protesting peacefully and the government should accept their demand to repeal the three laws. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh since November last year, demanding a rollback of the three agricultural laws. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities for farmers and help introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pro-farmer-messages-find-space-on-wedding-invites-in-haryana-947741.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi's minimum temperature dips to 6.8 degrees Celsius||Delhi's minimum temperature dropped to 6.8 degrees Celsius on Friday due to cold, dry winds blowing in from snow-laden western Himalayas, the India Meteorological Department said. The city had recorded 2.1 mm rainfall on Thursday under the influence of Western Disturbance which also led to widespread snowfall in the hilly region. "Cold, dry winds from the mountains have started blowing towards the plains, resulting in a dip in the minimum temperature," an IMD official said.  The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 6.8 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal, on Friday as against 12.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday. The maximum temperature on Thursday stood at 23.2 degrees Celsius, normal for this time of the year. The minimum temperature had settled at 10.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday, 6.2 degrees Celsius on Tuesday and 5.3 degrees Celsius on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-minimum-temperature-dips-to-68-degrees-celsius-947746.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||Magisterial probe ordered into allegation of custodial killing in UP's Mahoba||The district administration has ordered a magisterial probe into the allegation of custodial death of a 36-year-old-man during his detention by police. Pankaj, a resident of Subhash Nagar locality was detained by the police in a cycle theft case on Thursday evening. "Pankaj allegedly died in police custody at city police station here. A magisterial probe has been ordered into the matter," District Magistrate Satyendra Kumar told PTI. According to Kumar, the postmortem will be done by a panel of doctors and it will be video graphed. The probe report will be out soon, he said. Additional Superintendent of Police, Rajendra Kumar Gautam said, "Pankaj was handed over to the police at about 5 pm after locals caught him. At the police station, he did not feel well and was rushed to the hospital, where he died during treatment." However, Pankaj's family claimed that he was "perfectly fine" before the police took him in custody. They said that the police beat him up and took him to a hospital only after he had succumbed to injuries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/magisterial-probe-ordered-into-allegation-of-custodial-killing-in-ups-mahoba-947764.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||Slight respite from cold as minimum temperatures rise in Kashmir||The minimum temperatures across Kashmir barring the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg settled above the season's average on Friday as the weather improved at most places providing relief to the people from the intense cold wave conditions, officials said. All weather stations in the Kashmir valley except Gulmarg experienced above normal night temperatures on Thursday night much to the relief of the residents, the officials said. They said Srinagar city -- the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir -- recorded a low of 1 degree Celsius last night – up from the previous night's 0.4 degrees Celsius. The minimum was 1.4 degrees above the normal for this time of the season, the officials said. On Thursday, the night temperature in the city settled above the freezing point for the first time in over a month. Qazigund – the gateway town to the valley – recorded a minimum of minus 0.8 degrees Celsius – same as the previous night, the officials said, adding it was 0.7 degrees above the normal. Pahalgam tourist resort, which also serves as a base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 3.6 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature last night was 2.6 degrees above the normal. The minimum temperature at Gulmarg, in north Kashmir's Baramulla district, settled at minus 9.4 degrees Celsius on Thursday night – down from minus 6.4 degrees Celsius the previous night. The night temperature was 2.7 degrees below the normal and the resort was the coldest recorded place in Jammu and Kashmir. Gulmarg also experienced light snowfall during the night, the officials said. Kupwara town, in north Kashmir, recorded a low of 0.8 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature at Kokernag, in the south, was minus 1.3 degrees Celsius. The Met office has said that the weather is expected to stay mainly dry for the next one week, but the minimum temperature is likely to fall by two to three degrees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/slight-respite-from-cold-as-minimum-temperatures-rise-in-kashmir-947772.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court hints at resuming physical hearing in March||The Supreme Court on Friday hinted that physical hearing in the top court may resume from March. A five-judge Constitution bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan hoped that physical hearing may start from March and posted a matter related to Maratha quota in jobs and education for consideration from March 8. The bench also comprised Justices Ashok Bhushan, L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and Ravindra Bhat. During the hearing, it was also suggested that Attorney General K K Venugopal should impress upon the government to release Covid-19 vaccine for lawyers. The top court has been conducting the hearing through virtual mode since March last year due to Covid-19 pandemic. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi submitted before the court volumes of documents are being printed and it will take two weeks. He asked the court to fix the matter in the first week of March as physical hearing might commence then.  The court posted the matter for final hearing on March 8. A batch of petitions challenged the Bombay High Court verdict which upheld reservations to Marathas in jobs and education under Maharashtra Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018. The court proposed to complete the hearing by March 18. "Post the matter for March 8. If physical hearing starts by then, then hearing through physical mode, and those who want to appear through video conference can argue through it," the court said.  "We fix March 8, 9 and 10 for hearing on behalf of petitioners. Respondents (State) to start arguments on March 12, 15, and 16. On March 17, we will hear intervenors and others. On March 18, the court will hear Attorney General and rejoinder by petitioner on the same day," the bench said in its order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-hints-at-resuming-physical-hearing-in-march-947794.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||Two BSF men go missing in J&K’s Rajouri||Two Border Security Force (BSF) personnel have gone missing from a paramilitary camp in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday night, officials said. They said the two constables of general duty category were posted in BSF camp at Sunderbani sub-district headquarters in Rajouri district. “A missing report has been lodged by BSF battalion at Sunderbani police station after the duo went missing,” the officials said and added there is no trace of both the missing constables so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-bsf-men-go-missing-in-jk-s-rajouri-947814.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||Haryana Police step up security ahead of 'chakka jam' on Saturday||Haryana police have stepped up security measures in view of the protesting farmer unions' call for a countrywide 'chakka jam' on Saturday, an official said. Senior police officers have been asked to personally supervise security and traffic arrangements at vital junctions and roads while district police chiefs have been directed to ensure deployment of adequate personnel, according to an official communication issued to them. "In view of the January 26 incidents in Delhi, some anti-social elements and aggressive youth creating law and order problems, cannot be ruled out,” as per the communication dated February 4. “It is assessed that as part of the protest programme on February 6, protesting farmers/unions may attempt road blockades of important national highways, state highways and interior roads,” it said, asking the police to ensure necessary security arrangements are in place. The police commissioners and district police chiefs have also been asked to make all out efforts to liaise with local leaders of farmer organisations to ensure peaceful conduct of their proposed programme, it said. Farmer unions had on Monday announced that they would hold a countrywide chakka jam on February 6 and block national and state highways for three hours to protest against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. Meanwhile, Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij has appealed to the peasant leaders to call off the chakka jam.        Replying to a question on the issue in Gurugram on Thursday, Vij said, "Biggest problems in the world and even international issues are solved through dialogue”. Vij said the government is always ready for talks and the protesting farmers must come forward. “The government is always ready for talks and the prime minister has said the doors for talks are open. So, they should come forward,” he said. He also said that in a democracy everyone has the right to protest and hold dharnas, “but while exercising that right, one should also keep in mind that they should not violate the rights of others and common people should not be inconvenienced”. "So, it is my appeal to farmers leaders that they should call off their chakka jam programme,” said Vij. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the three agri laws. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and help introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-police-step-up-security-ahead-of-chakka-jam-on-saturday-947816.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||Jaish-e-Muhammad's top OGW arrested by Jammu and Kashmir Police at Delhi airport||A team of Jammu and Kashmir police on Friday arrested an alleged over ground worker (OGW) of Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) from Indira Gandhi International (IGI) Airport in New Delhi, after his deportation from Qatar. “Muneeb Sofi, a native of the Bijbehara area of south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, was arrested by a team of J&K police from the IGI Airport, New Delhi, this morning after his deportation from Qatar. He was a top OGW of banned terrorist organisation JeM,” Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said. The police said that Muneeb was working for Pakistani militant Waleed Bhai who was killed in an encounter at Kulgam last year. “His role surfaced in FIR no 58/2020 U/S 13, 18, 19, 38, 39 ULA (P) Act. An accused arrested in the said case disclosed that he along with other OGWs were collecting money for the JeM from various districts in Kashmir and were handing over the collected amount to Muneeb Sofi who was in Qatar and was in contact with an active terrorist of JeM Waleed Bhai of Pakistan for purchase of arms and ammunition from Pakistan,” police said A lookout notice was published against Muneeb and a non-bailable warrant u/s 25 Police Act was obtained from the concerned court, police added. The arrested ‘OGW’ is being brought to Kulgam for further questioning and investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaish-e-muhammads-top-ogw-arrested-by-jammu-and-kashmir-police-at-delhi-airport-947833.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||Gave no false declaration regarding educational qualification: AAP MLA Preeti Tomar to Delhi HC||AAP MLA Preeti Tomar on Friday refuted in the Delhi High Court the allegation that she gave a false declaration regarding her educational qualifications in her nomination form, saying her MSc and BEd degrees were issued in her maiden name which she changed after her marriage. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA has claimed that prior to her marriage to former AAP MLA Jitender Singh Tomar, her maiden name was Kumari Tulsa Solanki and she was enrolled under that name in the Raghunath Girls Degree College which is affiliated with the Chaudhary Charan Singh University, earlier known as Meerut University. She has also claimed, in her response to the petition challenging her election, that she was issued the BSc and MSc degrees in 1988 and 1990, respectively, from the Meerut University and the BEd degree from Chaudhary Charan Singh University in 1995. After her marriage in 1998, she had changed her name to Preeti Tomar, the reply filed through advocate Kush Sharma has said and added that the change was announced in 2017 in two daily newspapers. Subsequently, she again changed her name to Preeti Jitender Tomar in March 2020, her reply has claimed. Jitender Singh Tomar, a former cabinet minister in the Delhi government, was found guilty by the high court of furnishing a fake degree in his election nomination of 2015 and his election as AAP MLA that year was set aside   The petition challenging the election of Tomar's wife has been moved by Tri Nagar constituent Naveen Parashar, represented by advocate Anil Soni, who has alleged that she has misrepresented herself to be "MSc and BEd passed" and "thus, was successful in exercising undue influence over the voters, which amounts to corrupt practice within the meaning of the Representation of the Peoples Act". Opposing the allegation, the AAP MLA in her reply has contended that the election petition has been filed with the malafide intention to defame and harass her and deserves to be dismissed with heavy costs. Her reply has also contended that the petition was not filed within 45 days of the election, which concluded on February 11, 2020, as provided under the Representation of the People Act of 1951 and was filed in September last year after a delay of 166 days. The petition by Parashar has alleged that Chaudhary Charan Singh University, from where the AAP MLA claimed to have completed her BEd in 1994, did not have that course in that year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gave-no-false-declaration-regarding-educational-qualification-aap-mla-preeti-tomar-to-delhi-hc-947852.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||Farmers' Chakka jam: Delhi Police tightens security at border points near protest sites||Security at the city's border points near the three protest sites have been tightened by deploying extra forces and putting up multi-layered barricades, barbed wires and nails studded on the roads ahead of the proposed 'chakka jam' by farmers protesting the Centre's three agri laws, police said on Friday. Earlier in the day, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava also held a meeting with the senior officers of the force and reviewed the security arrangements. The police will also be monitoring content on social media to keep a watch on those spreading rumours against the force, officials said.  Farmer unions on Monday had announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways for three hours in protest against the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. Elaborating about the security arrangements for the proposed 'chakka jam', Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said in view of the violence that took place on January 26, adequate security arrangements have been put in place by the Delhi Police at the borders so that miscreants are not able enter the national capital. "We are monitoring content on the social media to make sure rumours are not spread against the police. The protestors are camping at the borders of Delhi. We are in touch with the police force of other states also," he added. A senior police officer said to prevent any kind of law and order situation and disruption of normal life during the 'chakka jam', adequate forces are being deployed across the outer-north district of Delhi Police.  "We have a very high security arrangement at Singhu at present but for Saturday, we are strengthening it at the border. "We are deploying forces at all important points in the entire outer-north district of Delhi Police as a preventative measure to ensure that traffic and normal life is not affected, and also to ensure that there is no law and order situation or unauthorized 'chakka jam' being done by violating norms," he said. Another senior police officer from the east district of Delhi Police said as a precautionary measure, iron nails studded on the roads have also been repositioned behind the barricades at the Ghazipur border, another protest site. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Deepak Yadav said, "According to the protesting farmers, they will not enter the national capital, but still as a precautionary measure, we have made adequate security arrangements to maintain law and order. Adequate police presence will be in place at all important points and junctions across the district. "There will additional deployment of pickets at all the border points. All vehicles will be checked thoroughly at the entry and exit points of pickets and borders. Additional buses have already been taken and extra barricades are being put up at the picket points across the city."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-chakka-jam-delhi-police-tightens-security-at-border-points-near-protest-sites-947866.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||Farmers meet in Shamli as clamour against farm laws grows in west Uttar Pradesh||Thousands of farmers turned up for a meeting in Shamli district in western Uttar Pradesh on Friday amid a growing clamour against the Centre's agri-marketing laws in the region. People from Shamli and nearby districts started reaching Shamli's Bhainswal village on tractors, two- and four-wheelers and on foot for a 'kisan panchayat' being held there by the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD). The people gathered there despite the Shamli administration denying permission for the meeting and imposing prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC. This is the fourth major farmers’ meeting in western Uttar Pradesh after Muzaffarnagar, Mathura and Baghpat, besides some in Haryana, to support the ongoing stir against the farm laws. Scores of regional ‘khap’ leaders, Bharatiya Kisan Union members and RLD vice president Jayant Chaudhary, among others, attended the event, even as security personnel were deployed in large number in the area. RLD leader Chaudhary had on Thursday tweeted that there are "144 reasons why I will go to Shamli tomorrow”, attaching to it a news article on the denial of permission for the event by the Shamli district administration. The RLD has already extended support to the ongoing peasants' demonstrations at Delhi's borders and in parts of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. The party's farmer outreach programmes which began Friday in Shamli are further scheduled to be held in Amroha, Aligarh, Bulandshahr, Mathura, Agra, Hathras, Pilibhit in Uttar Pradesh and a couple of them in Rajasthan during the February month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-meet-in-shamli-as-clamour-against-farm-laws-grows-in-west-uttar-pradesh-947900.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||High speed 4G internet restored in all parts of Jammu and Kashmir after 18 months||After remaining suspended for 18 months, Jammu and Kashmir adminstration on Friday restored high-speed 4G internet services in the entire union territory (UT). “4G mobile internet services being restored in entire J&K,” government spokesperson, Rohit Kansal, tweeted. The services were suspended on August 5, 2019 when the Centre abrogated the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 and bifurcated the erstwhile state into two union territories. 2G internet service on mobile phones was restored on January 25, 2020. On August 16 last year, high speed mobile data services were restored in two out of 20 districts of J&K - Ganderbal and Udhampur - on “trial basis” as part of “calibrated easing of restrictions.” On September 9, the Centre refused to extend high speed mobile internet outside the two districts, citing inputs about “terror modules” trying to lure youth into terrorist organisations. Suspending internet services in Kashmir has been common over the last few years. After every gunfight between militants and security forces, the government blocks the internet as a “precautionary measure.” In 2016, following the unrest after Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani was killed by security forces, mobile internet services were suspended for 133 days from July 8 onwards that year. Internet bans in Kashmir have not only proved calamitous for the economy, crushing innovation in the region and leading to joblessness, but has also impacted patient care in times of Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/high-speed-4g-internet-restored-in-all-parts-of-jammu-and-kashmir-after-18-months-947934.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||Punjab govt refuses to hand over custody of mafia-turned-MLA to UP govt||The Punjab government has refused before the Supreme Court a plea by the Uttar Pradesh government to shift mafia don, BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari to face trial in as many as 14 cases pending over there. It cited Ansari’s hypertension, diabetes, depression, back pain and skin allergy, to reject the UP government’s request.   Ansari, MLA from Mau remained lodged in a Rupnagar jail in Punjab since January 2019 where he was named in an extortion case.  Responding to the Yogi Adityanath government's petition alleging trials, having been held up against Ansari due to his absence, Punjab government said that it was acting as per the medical opinion and that there was no “pre-conceived conspiracy” to keep Ansari away from UP.  In an affidavit, the Punjab government asked the court to dismiss the writ petition filed by the UP government. It said that the writ petition by UP was not even maintainable in law since the state could not claim infringement of its fundamental right on account of Ansari’s detention in Punjab. It also claimed though Ansari faced trial in 14 cases in Uttar Pradesh, the law empowered the jail superintendent to abstain from complying with a judge’s order to hand over custody of a prisoner on account of sickness.  “The responsibility of ensuring safe custody, wellness and good health of Ansari while in custody is solely of the jail superintendent and that all decisions taken were as per the mandate of the law, tempered with the express medical advice regarding the condition of the health of Ansari,” the affidavit stated. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan is to take up the UP government's petition on Monday. Out of 26 production warrants issued by UP courts for Ansari’s appearance, the Punjab government has claimed that 10 of these were not received by the jail authorities.  On other dates, Ansari was advised “bed rest” by the government doctors and medical boards, the Punjab government claimed.  Ansari did not apply for bail in the FIR registered in Punjab in January 2019 and the police have also not filed any charge-sheet against him. Ansari, for his part, apprehended threat to his life in Uttar Pradesh and sought to appear in cases through video conferencing only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-refuses-to-hand-over-custody-of-mafia-turned-mla-to-up-govt-947969.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||Farmers' protest: Govt directs Delhi Police to ensure foolproof security at key installations in national capital||Ahead of a planned 'chakka jam' by agitating farmers in several parts of the country, the Centre has directed the Delhi Police to ensure foolproof security at all key installations in the national capital to prevent any 'January 26 Red Fort-like incident', official sources said. The Delhi Police has been instructed to use minimum force, but also told that those endangering the safety of the security personnel should be dealt with sternly, sources said. These instructions were given at a high-level meeting chaired by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and attended by NSA Ajit Doval, city Commissioner of Police S N Shrivastava among others on Thursday, official sources said on Friday. The Delhi Police has been directed to ensure foolproof security at places of national significance like the Parliament, the India Gate, sources said. During the meeting, held to discuss the security arrangements being made ahead of Saturday's 'chakka jam' by farmer unions, it was emphasised that there should not be a repeat of the Republic Day violence. Large scale violence was reported during a tractor rally on January 26 in the national capital. A group of protesters also stormed the historic Red Fort, indulged in vandalism and hoisted a Sikh religious flag there. Hundreds of people, including security personnel, were injured and one protestor died after his speeding tractor overturned. The Union Home Minister was informed by the Delhi Police that it was coordinating with the Uttar Pradesh and and Haryana police to ensure that there were no incidents of violence during the 'chakka Jam' and there is minimum inconvenience to general public. The SKM (Samyukt Kisan Morcha) had earlier this week announced the nationwide chakka jam on Saturday for three hours from 12 pm to 3 pm, saying that farmers would block national and state highways for three hours in protest against the Internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. However, according to Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leaders, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand will be exempted from the jam. Meanwhile, the government has also decided that additional paramilitary personnel will be Integrated into the security grid wherever needed in view of the 'chakka jam', sources said. Thursday's meeting also discussed the Delhi government's decision to withdraw a substantial number of buses provided by the Delhi Transport Corporation for security duties. The Delhi Police will make alternative arrangements for transportation of its personnel for which drivers of the forces with heavy vehicle licence are being identified, sources said. The Delhi Police has tightened security at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --where farmers have been protesting for over 70 days, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws --Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. These laws were enacted in September last. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the central government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-govt-directs-delhi-police-to-ensure-foolproof-security-at-key-installations-in-national-capital-948000.html
05-02-2021||North and Central||4G internet restoration: LG, JKAP thank PM; Omar says better late than never||Lt Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha and J&K Apni Party president Altaf Bukhari thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the restoration of 4G internet mobile services in the Union Territory. National Conference vice president and former Chief Minister Omar Abdullah also welcomed the development as "better late than never" in his reaction, shortly after the LG's administration announced the restoration of the 4G mobile internet services in entire J&K after an over 18-month long suspension. "I thank the Hon'ble PM @narendramodi Ji and HM @AmitShah Ji for acceding to our request and restoring 4G services in the entire J&K UT. The move will fulfil the aspirations of the people, particularly the youth," the office of LG J&K said in a tweet. The restoration of the 4G internet services in the entire J&K comes close on the heels of a four-day visit of Manoj Sinha to the Union Capital where he met the Union Home Minister and top officials in the central government. "4G Mubarak! For the first time since Aug 2019, all of J&K will have 4G mobile data. Better late than never," tweeted Abdullah in his first reaction to the news. In a tweet on the official Twitter handle of J&K Apni Party, its president Altaf Bukhari also extended gratitude to the Prime Minister for restoring the 4G mobile internet services. Terming it as a "positive development" for students and the youth of J&K, Bukhari thanked the Prime Minister for fulfilling this demand of the people of J&K.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4g-internet-restoration-lg-jkap-thank-pm-omar-says-better-late-than-never-948044.html
05-02-2021||Opinion||Trolling global celebrities, a poor advertisement for India||In his book Media, Sustainability and Everyday Life (2019), Geoffrey Craig writes about how celebrities are “complex vehicles that have communicative, cultural and economic and social functions.” In one of the chapters, titled “Celebrities and Environmental Activism,” he unravels how they become “a conduit of affective power” and “give expression to social values and styles and the way they identify with –- and often speak for – different public constituencies and audiences.” Touchy, defensive response from Indian celebrities Why are these Indian celebrities being touchy and defensive? What is their grouse against international celebrities using social media platforms to raise awareness about the farmers' protests and the subsequent crackdown by the Indian government? If India wants to be a big player and a force to reckon with in the global economy, Indians will have to get used to the attention that comes with it. These Indian celebrities are parroting the stance taken by India’s Ministry of External Affairs in an official statement rebuking “sensational social media hashtags and comments.” The ministry urged international commentators to view these protests “in the context of India’s democratic ethos and polity, and the efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse.”  Suspending Internet access to muzzle protestors is not the best way to publicise one’s democratic credentials. However, managing India’s image on the global stage is part of the ministry’s job, so the official statement is understandable. What is surprising is the backlash from Indian celebrities, their ardent desire to be cheerleaders for the government, and their shallow grasp of political issues. When George Floyd, an African American man in Minneapolis, was killed in May 2020, several Indian celebrities including Priyanka Chopra Jonas, Kareena Kapoor Khan, Deepika Padukone, Karan Johar and Sonam Kapoor Ahuja spoke up against racism and police brutality in the United States. If Indians can talk about human rights violations in another country, why can’t international celebrities do the same? A counterproductive move In a journal article titled “One tweet to make so much noise: Connected celebrity activism in the case of Marlee Matlin” (2018), Elizabeth Ellcessor explains that “social movements are transitioning from ‘collective’ to ‘connective’ action, relying less upon established organizations and social groups and more upon loose networks of social connections to organize and act.” In such a scenario, celebrity social media accounts serve as nodes for the distribution of crucial information. Thunberg, an 18-year-old, is known for speaking truth to power – even when people at the receiving end include high-profile political leaders such as Emmanuel Macron, Vladimir Putin, Donald Trump, Angela Merkel and Scott Morrison. Effigies of Thunberg were burnt in Delhi. By doing this, Indians are only conveying the impression that freedom of speech is not respected in our country, and women who think critically and speak fearlessly are threatened, shamed and abused.  People who are concerned about India’s international image might want to read Simon Mark’s paper “A Greater Role for Cultural Diplomacy” (2009). He outlines how “the deployment of a state’s culture in support of its foreign policy goals” can contribute to “national image, branding and social cohesion” and also “overcome audience suspicion of official messages and serve to provide substance to national reputation.” Trolling international celebrities does not help accomplish these goals. Indians who assume that celebrities articulate their thoughts on political issues only when they are paid to do so might find it beneficial to review that perception. Some might be up for hire but not everyone needs to be painted with the same brush. There are enough people in the world with voice and clout who want to use these in service of the values that they cherish.  (Chintan Girish Modi is a writer, educator and researcher who tweets @chintan_connect) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/trolling-global-celebrities-a-poor-advertisement-for-india-947854.html
05-02-2021||Opinion||The end of demand is not the end for Big Oil||By David Fickling, The oil market is taking reports of the death of crude surprisingly well. Crude jumped to its highest level in more than a year on Friday, on signs that inventories are declining amid a hoped-for recovery from Covid-19. Brent moved as high as $59.12 a barrel, within a whisker of the $60 level where swathes of the industry find it easy to balance their books. There’s a lesson in all this from the second-most consumed commodity, iron ore, and how it has handled the ups and downs of the past decade. Many oil producers still see the end of 150 years of almost uninterrupted demand growth with trepidation. If the iron ore industry is any guide, though, small may still prove to be beautiful.  While steel production has continued to grow in recent years, the bit of it that matters to iron ore producers have mostly stagnated. Global output of pig iron — the hot metal that comes out of blast furnaces — grew at an average 6.2% a year in the decade through 2012. In the subsequent five years, that pace slowed to 1.1%. That ought to have been bad news for the people digging rust out of the ground — and, indeed, in 2015 they had a brush with death due to signs that Chinese steel demand was drying up altogether. Once that storm settled and demand regained a measure of equilibrium, though, BHP Group, Rio Tinto Group, Vale SA and Fortescue Metals Group Ltd. found business rather profitable:   What happened? The best argument is that the bull case for iron ore went from a demand-led to a supply-led story. A short spike of extreme demand — like the one we saw last year, driving ore prices to a multi-year high of $176 a metric ton — provides a nice sugar boost. When demand growth is both strong and sustained, though, margins suffer, as miners spend all their cashflow on an orgy of capital expansions to provide the extra raw materials that consumers are crying out for.  Put that way, the end of demand growth isn’t all bad. The machinery built and deposits developed at the peak of the market should be able to keep chugging along, without adding too much more, reducing capex budgets. So long as producers are able to restrain supply, prices should hover around profitable levels. Once you’ve dealt with the debt hangover from boom times, business starts looking a lot more sane and sensible than it was in the glory days.  That’s the best case for what could be happening in the oil market right now. For all the apparent strength of crude demand growth out of China, there’s still very little sign that transport consumption is going to resume its upward trend.  China’s apparent gasoline demand has gone sideways for five years, with most of the growth in refinery output soaked up by exports. Covid-19 shows little sign of reversing that. Indeed, looking down the list of China’s major refinery products, it’s hard to see any that have seen a sustained improvement in consumption over the past year, with the exception of a minor bump in kerosene that matched the brief recovery in the country’s aviation industry. That suggests growth is being driven by less-noticed fractions used as feedstock for China’s fleet of new petrochemicals plants — ultimately representing a shift in the location of the global chemicals and refining industry, rather than an increase in ultimate end-user demand. As we’ve argued, the prospect of a plateau or decline in crude demand may not initially be as bad for oil producers as feared. Saudi Arabia, for instance, may see healthier oil revenues from throttling back output than opening the spigots. That’s one possible explanation for its current willingness to shoulder the burden of supply restraint within OPEC+ on its own. Even Exxon Mobil Corp., the industry’s most perennial demand bull, seems to be capitulating to peak-ism, judging by its own spending plans. Maintaining that happy equilibrium depends on accepting that the world has changed. Iron miners have shown impressive conformity in refusing to ramp up capital spending to previous levels in spite of their healthier profits in recent years — helping in the process to keep supply tight and prices elevated. Oil producers are a much larger and more disorderly bunch, one reason the likes of OPEC+ exist in the first place. The biggest players will have to work harder than ever to enforce the sort of supply restraint that the miners have exhibited. If Big Oil wants to make the most money out of petroleum’s twilight years, the first step is accepting that the oil era is really coming to an end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-end-of-demand-is-not-the-end-for-big-oil-947893.html
05-02-2021||Panorama||Why the academic community should support Sci-Hub||The academic journal subscription model is pretty old and has been accepted by the academic community for decades. But, unfortunately, some publishing giants have become too greedy. Everyone wants free access to scholarly information, but no one thinks of publishing in open-access journals or adopting alternative models. They publish in commercial journals despite the hefty Article Processing Charges (APC). Ultimately, it is the knowledge creators (authors), and not librarians, who have to tame the big publishers to bring down journal subscription prices. Commercial interest Publishing giants Elsevier, American Chemical Society and Taylor & Francis filed a case in the Delhi High Court against Sci-Hub, which provides free access to millions of research papers and books, and Libgen, a file-sharing website for scholarly articles and books, demanding that they should be completely blocked in India. The big publishers claimed that they own exclusive rights to the manuscripts they publish and Sci-Hub and Libgen are engaged in violating the rights conferred on them under the copyright law by providing free access to their content. These three publishers together publish 40% of scientific publications and the top five publishers control 50% of the publications in Science and Social Sciences. The prices of these journals has gone up 521%, or more than five times, in the last 30 years, against a consumer price index rise of only 118%. The publishers charge $30-60 per article. No surprise then that Elsevier rocked with an operating income of 982 million pounds in 2019. The profit margin of Elsevier is 37% (2018), twice that of Google, which is under attack globally for its monopoly practices and ‘super profits’. Elsevier’s parent company, RELX Group, has a $35 billion market capitalisation. The American Chemical Society (ACS) is a scientific society started in 1876. Generally, non-profit organisations would have supported free access to research articles, but that the ACS does not is puzzling. ‘Copyright infringement’ Three publishing giants -- Oxford University Press, Cambridge University Press and Taylor & Francis -- sued Delhi University and a photocopying shop operating on its campus. The court ruled, however, that compilation and distribution of copies of textbooks prescribed in the syllabus did not infringe any copyrights of the publisher as it is intended for the “purpose of educational instruction.” Fighting commercial interest In 1980, the University of Ottawa published guidelines for legal deposit legislation, where it clearly states that though the publishers have control over their publications, the objective of accessibility to the national deposit collection cannot be ignored. The journal article should be deposited at the National Legal Deposit Institution. A majority of library professionals have expressed their strong view against the ban on Sci-Hub in Lis-forum, an email-based discussion forum. Authors should follow some alternative ways to tackle copyright issues posed by commercial publishers, for which the authors should also know copyright laws, embargo period, and different open-access (OA) methods to re-invent the OA movement. The Indian scientific community should boycott review and publishing in foreign commercial journals. To access free full-text articles, apart from OA journals, the next best option is to upload preprints of their papers in IRs. Plan S (Shock), an initiative for OA Science-publishing launched in 2018 by “cOAlition S”, a consortium of national research agencies and funders from 12 European countries, advocates authors to publish their work in open repositories.  The central government’s proposed Science & Technology Innovation Policy (STIP) needs to consider the following suggestions: i. As per the existing Book Act, submission of a published book in India in any language by the author/publisher is mandatory. In the same way, a rule can be made to make submission of an article published by the author mandatory. ii. Well-known institutions like the IITs, IIMs, IISc, etc., can start domain-based journals at par with foreign publishers like ACS. iii. The proposed “One Nation, One Subscription” plan for the government to buy bulk subscription to journals and give free access to them to all in India would prove to be a game-changer. iv.  Government can strengthen Indian Science Abstract (ISA), which covers more than 1,500 journals by taking steps like: including journals from not only Science but also the Social Sciences and Humanities; recognising peer-reviewed OA journals and assisting authors in avoiding predatory journals; basing the ranking of Indian institutions by the National Institutional Ranking Framework on ISA rather than on Scopus, which will save foreign exchange as well as force authors to publish in Indian journals which are OA-compliant. Commercial journals are a twice-paid product – first bought by taxpayers and again paid-for by researchers. It is important to note this in view of the fact that academicians are not using these research articles for any commercial purpose, and Sci-Hub and Libgen are not making any profits out of their services. I would like to conclude by arguing that Intellectual Property Rights are like any other property rights for something that is intangible in nature. The IPR is the exclusive right of the creator over the use of his/her creation for a certain period of time. Note that there is no benevolence on the part of commercial publishers towards the authors, nor any expenditure involved in reviewing of papers. So, why should they be entitled to the copyright? ‘Intellectual Property Right’ has been turned into ‘Investor’s Property Right’. There is an urgent need to redefine copyright for publishers as only a ‘lease period’ for them for a limited period and not as their exclusive lifetime copyright. (The writer is Librarian, Nitte Meenakshi Institute of Technology, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-the-academic-community-should-support-sci-hub-947651.html
05-02-2021||Panorama||Genetic testing to prevent cancer||Genetic testing estimates genetic risks or predispositions to various diseases based on one’s DNA. Technologically advanced prevention tools like genetic testing can contribute in personalising the healthcare for an individual, thereby, reducing the curative costs on non-communicable diseases like cancer. As DNA is the blueprint of life, doing a genetic test uncovers an array of genetic information that makes one unique. This may range from knowing about one’s ethnic roots and family tree to their risk for developing various complex health conditions. Some of these tests may also give information related to nutrition, fitness, skincare, habits, and even food preferences, based on their genetic make-up. It lets them personalize everything according to what suits them the best.  Considering a case that one opts for a direct-to-consumer genetic test, they receive a detailed report based on their DNA which majorly helps to: Understand their genetic makeup Personalise their lifestyle by making changes in diet and fitness plans Delay or prevent the onset of diseases by observing relevant symptoms, following a healthy lifestyle and planning regular health checkups Around 5 to 10% of cancer cases are hereditary in nature and are passed down across generations. Inheriting a genetic variant linked to a particular cancer or a spectrum of cancers from either of the parents makes the person much more likely to develop that cancer. Cancers like breast, ovarian, colorectal, prostate, and endometrial occasionally run in the family.  However, it is important to realise most cancers are related to a sedentary lifestyle, smoking, and unhealthy dietary habits, which means that a significant proportion of cancer cases can be prevented through correct and timely intervention.  Cancer is a critical illness that causes trauma and out-of-pocket expenses for the family. Prior knowledge about genetic risk for certain cancers can help in devising a focused screening strategy that may facilitate prevention and early detection thereby reducing the emotional and financial stress related to cancers. An increased level of awareness and education about early detection can effectively contribute to curbing cancer incidences.  Personalised genetic testing analyses an individual’s genome at various positions that help scientists identify specific genetic variants that are linked with the disease. Genetic testing may involve a play of highly advanced technology and analytical minds at the background, but for the user, it is a simple process - mostly done through saliva or blood sample. The reports outline the diseases and traits that an individual is predisposed to. Post the reporting procedure, a genetic counsellor recommends lifestyle changes based on your genetic test report and your medical & family history. Different types of genetic test are available in the market which makes it important to understand the nature of information gained from each type of test so that you choose the right test which may provide the answers to your questions. Individuals who are at increased risk for developing certain cancers because of family history should opt for a specific clinical genetic test.  Genetic testing very beautifully completes the circle of prevention. If an individual has a genetic risk towards developing a disease, she/he can avoid or delay the onset of the disease by making proper dietary and fitness modifications as per their genetic code. Additionally, the genetic counsellor helps in personalizing the required health checkups and their timelines as per the need.  (The writer is Joint Managing Director and Preventive Healthcare Specialist at a hospital)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/genetic-testing-to-prevent-cancer-947652.html
05-02-2021||Panorama||Seeing the balance||There is no conclusive proof that one doesn’t exist after one passes away physically. Because no logic known to humanity so far is capable of proving it. But, not proving doesn’t mean non-existence. There are higher fields of consciousness where one experiences no need for proof. And something that is not needed but is still put to practice by us brings out our downfall. Suppose, your own higher realisations show its proper place to your logical understanding of apparent reality, by placing a mirror of higher consciousness before it, so that it accepts its beauty as well as limitation both. Now if you ask a counter question, that, is there proof, that one does exist after passing away? Then you are not only exposing the poverty of your own intellect but also that of logic itself. Be it providing proof for or against a phenomenon, the field is still that of logic only. And, it is by transcending this field that we may glimpse into the limitations of the field left behind.  Those who have experienced higher dimensions of consciousness say, humans have the potential to transcend the cause and effect relationship and experience a field where higher intelligence operates. This intelligence is commonly termed as divine will. As, unlike common human intellect there is no trace or residue of bitterness in it. Realisation means becoming witness to reality.  At that level, everything is always in balance. That is how divinity is indicated as even and evenness (sam). It is indicated as truthful, beautiful and eternal (Satyam, Shivam & Sundaram). The balance is never lost. Whether divine will is operating through us in our awareness or not, maybe tested by ourselves and no one else. If the blissful acceptance of all that is seen (i.e. happening in one’s presence) is intact then divine will is operating through you. Blissful acceptance means when one doesn’t need to resist. There is no friction of movement.  This is not an ordinary state of spiritual realisation. As we will be doing all that is required on the surface level of our appearance without ever losing remembrance of the truth, acceptance, peace, bliss, immortality, beauty…operating at the deepest or highest point of seeing. Where everything is always in balance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/seeing-the-balance-947653.html
05-02-2021||Panorama||Slow pace of vaccinations pushes Europe toward economic slump||The new year was supposed to bring improved economic fortunes across Europe, as coronavirus vaccines made their way into the bloodstream. Instead, the eurozone economy shrank at the end of 2020, according to official figures out Tuesday, raising fears of a double-dip recession and demonstrating that the pandemic is likely to remain a force for at least a few more months in the face of the European Union’s pronounced failure to distribute vaccines. Economic output in the 19 countries that belong to the eurozone fell 0.7% in the fourth quarter from the previous quarter, according to a preliminary estimate by the European Union’s official statistics agency. For the full year, overall output fell 5.1%. Europe is likely to suffer continued economic contraction over the first three months of 2021 and perhaps into the early part of the next quarter, as governments are forced to maintain restrictions on commercial life, according to a report released Tuesday by Oxford Economics in London. “There is definitely a risk that vaccine distribution continues to be disappointing,” said Tomas Dvorak, a eurozone economist with Oxford Economics. “There is risk that the second quarter will also get quite bad.” The failure of European governments to get vaccines to their citizens could create a political backlash, fueling resentment toward Brussels and souring the already uneasy relations among the 27 countries that belong to the European Union. Competition for vaccines has already strained the bloc’s relations with Britain. “We have to watch the potential political consequences,” Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London, said in a note. Previously, Oxford and other economists had forecast stagnation for the first quarter of the year, followed by a marked improvement in the spring. That view was guided by the assumption that vaccines would be distributed widely, allowing authorities to lift restrictions imposed to choke off the spread of the coronavirus. As people returned to shops, restaurants and holiday destinations, and as factories resumed production, economies would again expand. That outcome now appears set for a delay as Europe struggles to secure and distribute vaccines. The eurozone faces its second recession in six months after its economy shrank in the first half of 2020. European factories have largely adapted to the pandemic and are operating almost normally, but people whose jobs depend on face-to-face contact are suffering. More than half of Germans who work in hotels or restaurants, about 600,000 people, are on government-subsidized furloughs and effectively unemployed, according to the Ifo Institute in Munich, a research organization. Germany managed only meagre growth in the fourth quarter of 2020, and the economies of Italy and France declined. All three remain in tight lockdown. Across the 27 states of the European Union, only 2.5% of national populations on average have received at least one dose of vaccine, while Germany, Italy, and France are all below that dismal mark. By contrast, Britain — which aggressively purchased vaccines while relying on its national health system to distribute them — has injected at least one dose into more than 13% of the population. The United States has vaccinated about 7% of its population. Economists assume that the European Union will succeed in substantially ramping up vaccination by spring, allowing restrictions to be gradually lifted. But the potential for further disappointment remains. “The tough corona restrictions have once again plunged the euro area economy into recession,” Christoph Weil, an economist at Commerzbank, said in a note to clients. He predicted that the downturn in the current quarter would be even steeper. Europeans had hoped for stability after a roller coaster year. In the second quarter of 2020, gross domestic product fell 11.7% as the pandemic took hold. Then growth rebounded 12.4% in the next quarter, the most on record, as lockdowns eased and firms adjusted to the crisis. Economists do not expect such severe gyrations in 2021, but few expect the eurozone to recover its previous economic strength until 2022. Often maligned for ponderous and bureaucratic ways in the face of crisis, the European Union dickered over contract terms with pharmaceutical companies, allowing more aggressive governments in London, Washington and elsewhere to lock up supplies. Many member states then opted not to buy their full allocations from the European bloc. If shortages and distribution bottlenecks persist, the economic recovery could be further stymied as governments maintain restrictions even longer. Beyond the timing of the eventual return to economic growth, the botched European vaccination drive also threatens the magnitude of the recovery. As hopes that vaccines would prove transformative give way to a more complex understanding of the continued risks of the pandemic, people may prove more cautious even after governments allow a return to shops, offices and entertainment venues. Companies that have figured out how to substitute Zoom calls for business travel may be slow in putting employees back on airplanes. If an aversion to risk persists, that could limit economic growth even after the pandemic is controlled. Eventually, however, the vaccines will find their way into European arms and the infection rate will slump, allowing a return to places now shunned as vectors for the virus. “I’m wary of saying we’ll get back to normal, because it’s quite hard to pin down what normal is,” Dvorak said. “But I think it’s reasonable to assume that consumers will resume their spending patterns.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/slow-pace-of-vaccinations-pushes-europe-toward-economic-slump-947657.html
05-02-2021||Right in the Middle||Pair of hands||Just be a pair of hands, no more no less,” is the advice my elder daughter gave when I was about to leave for to assist my younger daughter in taking care of her newborn baby overseas. She further elaborated that her sister has been reading various parenting books, taking classes in parenting and so on, hence I should not impose my old-fashioned ideas on her about bringing up her child. Now, this idiom ‘be a pair of hands’ implies that our hands are used only for manual labour and not for any communication skills or emotional and intellectual quests.  If only my hands could speak out, they would certainly express their dismay.  Scientifically speaking, the hand is simply a puppet of the forearm which controls it through the attached ligaments. Yet, it gives the powerful grip on the rocks to a mountain climber as well as the great finesse to the performance of a concert pianist, a violin virtuoso or a veena player in creating melodies. Indeed the hand is one of the most complex and beautiful pieces of natural engineering in the human body.  The world of hearing impaired is brightened due to sign language with a pair of hands communicating effectively.  In the arena of sports, umpires declare results with hand-signals from the middle of the field to the rest of the world. When traffic needs to be regulated, constables use a pair of hands admirably at road junctions. Blessing gestures, crossing fingers, palms together postures are part of everyday life. Shh… the forefinger on the lips ensures silence in hospitals, movie theatres or classrooms. Dwelling into the artistic realm, ‘abhinaya’ is used as an integral part of all Indian classical dance styles. The dancer communicates with the audience through extensive use of hands in conjunction with face, head, eyes, waist and so on. Mudras are symbolic gestures that use palms and fingers. These ‘mudras’ are part of the rituals in several Indian religions. Millennials and Gen Z kids will vouch for the use of ‘mudras’ in the form of emojis for communication. Two fingers held up in one hand making a ‘V’ for peace, thumbs up for appreciation, thumbs down for denouncement, clapping hands emoji to applaud, shaking hands to convey congratulations are commonly used in messages. Divers use the OK gesture underwater where the thumb and index finger together form a circle.   Wait, what’s that my hands are doing? Flipping the bird, oh, right, they are registering their dissent that I am being asked to be ‘just be a pair of hands’!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/pair-of-hands-947650.html
05-02-2021||Second Edit||Ramp up on cancer treatment capacity||It is important that health facilities strengthen their capacities to diagnose and treat cancer patients. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the number of people diagnosed with cancer has been growing every year. It is up from an estimated 10 million cases in 2000 to 19.3 million detected in 2020. There is a likelihood that there will be a spike in the number of cases that come to light this year in the wake of the pandemic. With Covid-19 striking last year, the situation for people, in general, and cancer patients, in particular, has become perilous. Due to the pandemic, hospitals were forced to shift resources away from dealing with other diseases to dealing with the flood of Covid-19 cases. Cancer treatment facilities, too, suffered in this regard. Given their compromised immunity and vulnerability to infections, several cancer patients ended up contracting Covid-19. Patients were not able to access tests and treatment during the long lockdown. A 2020 WHO study found that cancer treatment was disrupted during the pandemic in over 40% of the countries surveyed. Surgeries had to be postponed. Around 51,100 cancer surgeries were put off over a 12-week period at the height of the disruptions. Disruption of treatment has resulted in higher fatalities. Early diagnosis of the disease, which is imperative for successful treatment of a patient, has not been possible in many cases. All this is already snowballing into a rise in late-stage cancer cases and fatalities. The world has only started to see the impact of the pandemic on cancer. A cancer healthcare crisis may well be looming. Access to early and affordable testing and treatment is vital for the treatment of cancer. In India, such access has been severely limited by geography, too. It is only the metros and major towns that have cancer treatment facilities. Even basic facilities are lacking in rural India. The situation in North-East India is particularly worrisome. The incidence of cancer in the North-East far exceeds the national average of 106.6 per one lakh population. It is around 269.4 and 219.8 per lakh population in Mizoram’s Aizawl and Arunachal Pradesh’s Papum Pare districts, respectively. Yet, the entire North-East region has only one full-fledged cancer care facility located at Guwahati. During the lockdown, chemotherapies, radiotherapies and surgeries dropped drastically across the country, especially in Guwahati. Expertise to treat cancer and facilities for the treatment of cancer are difficult to build overnight. But we need to accelerate such capacity building not just for urban India but for remote parts of the country as well. We must not wait till the crisis engulfs us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/ramp-up-on-cancer-treatment-capacity-947646.html
05-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu govt announces Rs 12,110-crore farm loan waiver||The AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu on Friday announced waiver of Rs 12,110 crore farm loans availed by 16.43 lakh farmers from cooperative banks. Making the announcement in the state assembly, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said the scheme would come into immediate effect and the required financial allocation would be made by his government. He said the AIADMK was the only party that fulfils promises and also comes up with fresh welfare measures. Targeting the opposition DMK, he said the party had promised two acres of land, but failed to implement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-announces-rs-12110-crore-farm-loan-waiver-947778.html
05-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu govt waives off cooperative banks-issued crop loans worth Rs 12,000 cr||With assembly elections round the corner, the AIADMK Government in Tamil Nadu on Friday waived off crops loans worth Rs 12,110 crore availed in cooperative banks across the state by over 16.43 lakh farmers. Making a statement under Rule 110 in the State Assembly, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said his government decided to waive off the loans based on demands from farmers who were affected due to the Covid-19 lockdown and cyclones that hit the Tamil Nadu coast late last year. He also recalled that his predecessor and late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa had waived off crop loans worth Rs 5,381.73 crore after assuming power for a second straight term in May 2016. The move, Palaniswami said, benefited 12.02 lakh small farmers in Tamil Nadu. “Considering the current situation, crop loans availed by 16.43 lakh farmers in cooperative banks in the state with the value of Rs 12,110 crore are being waived off. I am very happy making this announcement,” Palaniswami told the last day of the four-day assembly session. Palaniswami, who faces an acid test in the April-May assembly elections, projects himself as a “humble farmer” having risen to the top though hailing from a “farmer’s family.” In his speech in the Assembly on Friday, the Chief Minister recalled several initiatives taken by his government for the betterment of farmers. He also utilized the occasion to criticise arch-rival DMK for “failing to fulfil” promises made during elections. “The DMK, during its campaign in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, said it will take steps to waive off loans of farmers. 38 of their people won the elections but nothing was done,” he added. Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu are scheduled in April-May and the AIADMK government has been making a slew of announcements in the past few weeks to woo voters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-waives-off-cooperative-banks-issued-crop-loans-worth-rs-12000-cr-947873.html
05-02-2021||South||Cases filed during jallikattu protests will be withdrawn: Tamil Nadu CM||Four years after several cases were filed against youngsters during the Jallikattu protests, the Tamil Nadu government on Friday announced all cases except those filed against people for attacking police personnel and destroying public property, will be withdrawn. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami made the announcement in the state Assembly on Friday. In a statement moved under Rule 110, Palaniswami said the government has decided to withdraw cases filed against individuals during the 2017 Jallikattu protests. However, cases relating to assaulting policemen on duty and setting vehicles on fire would not be withdrawn, the Chief Minister said. “Cases will be withdrawn after consultations with legal experts,” Palaniswami told the Assembly. Numerous cases were filed against individuals during the Jallikattu agitation in January 2017 that drew the attention of the nation. Though the protests remained peaceful for over a week, the agitation ended in violence with police and protesters fighting pitched battles in the city. Jallikattu agitation, which began as a small protest at Marina Beach in Chennai, grew into one of the biggest protests that Tamil Nadu saw in decades as lakhs of people converged at the beach to demand that the bull-taming sport be allowed. The protests came to an end only after the Tamil Nadu Assembly passed a state-specific amendment to Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act paving the way for the conduct of Jallikattu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cases-filed-during-jallikattu-protests-will-be-withdrawn-tamil-nadu-cm-947876.html
05-02-2021||South||MP Sudhakaran's remark on Kerala CM not abusive: Congress||In a sort of u-turn, several Congress leaders on Friday sought to play down the controversial remark of party MP K Sudhakaran against Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, saying it was not abusive. A day after the Congress disciplinary committee said it will look into the matter, party general secretary K C Venugopal said the statement was made in a colloquial manner. Leader of the opposition in the state assembly Ramesh Chennithala said his observation on Thursday that such remarks should have been avoided was a "general statement" and maintained he later learnt Sudhakaran had not made any abusive comment. Lone woman Congress MLA Shanimol Usman, who had earlier lashed out at Sudhakaran for his remarks, tendered an 'unconditional' apology to the MP saying she should have spoken to him before reacting. Speaking at 'Aishwarya Yatra', led by Chennithala, Sudhakaran had on Wednesday said Vijayan, who hails from a family of "toddy-tappers", will be remembered "as the first CM from the working class to use a helicopter." On Friday, Chennithala said "Sudhakaransaid he didn't make any abusive statement against the CM. When I enquired, it was true. I made a general statement in the matter (earlier) when the reporters asked me. He is a popular leader and an asset for the Congress party." Meanwhile, Sudhakaran, who met the media in Delhi, stood by the statement, saying he only mentioned the occupation of Vijayan's family to point out his "lavish lifestyle" now. "The discussion for the last two days has been that I had made casteist remarks. The CPI(M) reacted to my Tuesday's speech on Thursday. They woke up from their sleep," he said. Venugopal said Sudhakaran made the statement "in a colloquial manner. He has clarified that he was not intending to make any casteist abuse." However, maintaining that Sudhakaran made casteist remarks, state law minister A K Balan alleged the MP from Kannur, home district of the chief minister, always had 'hatred' towards Vijayan and Congress leaders were afraid of their colleague. "The Congress leaders should show some spine to stop Sudhakran from making such casteist remarks," Balan said. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran also said there was no need to consider the statement made by Sudhakaran as casteist. "There is no need for such a controversy. The Left leaders have made even more derogatory statements earlier," he alleged while talking to reporters in Kozhikode.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mp-sudhakarans-remark-on-kerala-cm-not-abusive-congress-947884.html
05-02-2021||South||DMK cadre block road, protest arrest of party orator||Over 300 DMK workers on Friday protested against the arrest of the party's public speaker Nanjil Sampath here for addressing a demonstration that was organised by the party without police permission. Sampath was the chief speaker in the demonstration held to condemn the alleged delay in schemes taken up by the Local Administration Minister S P Velumani. Since no permission was obtained for the meeting, police arrested Sampath, leading to the protest by the DMK cadre. The partymen blocked a police vehicle and indulged in a scuffle with the lawmen. Sampath said the days of the AIADMK rule were numbered and DMK, under its president M K Stalin, would form the government in another three months when the Assembly elections were due. On waiver of agricultural loans, the Minister said this was a long-pending demand of Stalin and it was nothing but a move by AIADMK party to return to power. The road blockade lasted for more than two hours, resulting in a traffic problem and policemen removed over 300 party workers. Meanwhile, a DMK senior functionary Mohammed Yasin fainted at the scene and was hospitalised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-cadre-block-road-protest-arrest-of-party-orator-947888.html
05-02-2021||South||Doctors in Kerala observe fast protesting anomalies in pay revision||A section of government medical college doctors in Kerala on Friday staged a one-day relay hunger strike demanding that government rectify 'anomalies' in the pay revision of medical college lecturers. The protest was led by the Kerala Government Medical College Teachers Association (KGMCTA) and the Kerala Government Postgraduate Medical Teachers Association (KGPMTA). "Medical teachers are fighting for their professions dignity.The doctors have been at the forefront of fighting the Covid-19 pandemic." "As responsible healthcare professionals, we are staging theprotest without causing inconvenience to the public. Our demand is that government provide arrears from January 1, 2016," Dr Unmesh, Ernakulam unit president of KGMCTA told reporters. KGMCTA claimed that the government hadn't given any assurance on providing arrears while implementing the pay revision. The pay revision, which was due in 2016, was done only in 2020 and the government had assured that it will have a retrospective effect from January 1, 2016, it said. But, it has not given any commitment on arrears, the KGMCTA said in a release. The anomalies in pay structure of entry cadre doctors resulted in a shortfall of around Rs 15,000 for those who joined service after 2016, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/doctors-in-kerala-observe-fast-protesting-anomalies-in-pay-revision-947905.html
05-02-2021||South||UDF, LDF protest against Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary Eco-Sensitive Zone notification||Mainstream political parties in Kerala are up in arms against the recent notification of the centre to make the 3.4-kilometre area around the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary ecological sensitive zone. While the Congress-led United Democratic Front has called for a local 'hartal' on February 8 demanding the centre to withdraw the notification, CPM-led Left Democratic Front burnt copies of the draft in protest on Friday. BJP local leaders said that they would convey their stand soon. Various farmers’ organisation and religious outfits are also expected to join the protests. The draft notification issued by the Environment, Forest and Climate Change Ministry would bring 118.59 square kilometres under the Eco-Sensitive Zone. It includes 99.5 square kilometres outside the sanctuary. Six human-inhabited villages also come under the zone and restrictions on activities like mining, industrial units and other polluting industries in the region would be imposed. Environmentalists welcomed the notification and condemned the protest by political parties. "It is unfortunate that political parties are coming together against decisions to protect the environment," said Wayanad Prakrithi Samrakshana Samiti president N Badusha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/udf-ldf-protest-against-wayanad-wildlife-sanctuary-eco-sensitive-zone-notification-947927.html
05-02-2021||South||Congress trying to get electoral gains by raising Sabarimala issue again: Kerala CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Friday that the left-front government would take further decision on the Sabarimala issue through discussions with all sections after the Supreme Court verdict on review petitions come. Addressing a press conference in Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayan alleged that the Congress was trying to get electoral gains by raising the Sabarimala women entry issue now even as it was not relevant now. The Congress triggered the Sabarimala women entry issue now by assuring that if it comes to power, a law to protect the faiths over Sabarimala would be introduced. After the Supreme Court took up the review petitions against the order allowing women of all ages to the temple, things were going smoothly at the temple now. Hence there was no point in making any stand on the matter until the verdict on review petitions came, the chief minister said. The Congress also demanded the CPM to clarify its stand on the matter and also to move SC for an expedited hearing on the review petitions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-trying-to-get-electoral-gains-by-raising-sabarimala-issue-again-kerala-cm-947955.html
05-02-2021||South||Pinarayi Vijayan says he is proud to be from a toddy-tapper family||Kerala Chief Minister Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that Congress MP K Sudhakaran's statement that he is from a toddy tapper family is not insulting as he is indeed proud of that. Vijayan said that he himself  has reiterated his background that he is from a toddy-tapper family. His father and brothers were engaged in the job and he felt proud of it. Hence he did not felt insulted by Sudhakaran’s statement. Making an indirect reference to the infighting in the Congress, he said that that it was only Congress leaders who triggered a row over Sudhakaran’s statement. Meanwhile, Congress senior leaders including Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, who earlier flayed Sudhakaran for the remark, had retracted from his earlier stand. He said that Sudhakaran only criticised the extravagance of Pinarayi Vijayan by stating that a person who emerged from a toddy tapper family was now using a helicopter to commute. Congress MLA Shanimol Osman who earlier demanded Sudhakaran tender an apology, on Friday tendered his apology to Sudhakaran. Sudhakaran, who is a working president of Kerala PCC, had recently said openly that he wished to be PCC president and had conveyed his desire to the party leadership as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pinarayi-vijayan-says-he-is-proud-to-be-from-a-toddy-tapper-family-947967.html
05-02-2021||South||Centre's plan to privatise Vizag Steel Plant sparks massive protests in Steel City||The Narendra Modi government's plans to privatise the Vizag Steel Plant – a major icon of Visakhapatnam in north coastal Andhra Pradesh – has sparked massive protests in the city on Friday. The plant is spread over 22,000 acres, with a production capacity of 7.3 million tonne per annum (MTPA). It is a Navratna Public Sector Enterprise, operating under the Ministry of Steel. Visakhapatnam is popularly known as “steel city,” because of the plant. Employees and trade unions, supported by political parties in the state except the BJP, have come together in their demand to the Centre to withdraw its decision to disinvest the government share in VSP. The unions have been warding off the Centre's disinvestment proposals for some years now. On Wednesday, secretary of the department of investment and public asset management, functioning under the union finance ministry, tweeted, “Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs has, on 27th Jan 2021, given in principle approval for 100 per cent strategic disinvestment of GoI shareholding in RINL along with management control by way of privatization.” On Friday, a large bike rally was taken out from the plant on the outskirts to the Gandhi statue in the heart of the city, in protest. Vizag steel plant (VSP), run by its corporate entity named Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited, is the first shore-based integrated steel plant in the country. VSP employs about 15,000 permanent and 20,000 contract workers and provides indirect livelihood to over 65,000 people. The plant thus supports one lakh jobs and about five lakh people – about a quarter of Vizag city population, unions say. VSP foundation was laid in 1977 by the then prime minister Indira Gandhi, after a prolonged agitation in the seventies, when people rallied with a popular slogan “Visakha ukku-Andhrula hakku” (Vizag Steel is Andhra's right). The agitation has reportedly claimed over 30 lives. The plant was commissioned in 1992. However, the main drawback and the reason for the losses reported of RINL-Vizag Steel, over the years, is the lack of captive iron ore mines. “We are forced to buy the ore from NMDC, which shoots up our production costs. Forget losses, VSP would show massive profits if we are allocated captive mines,” says VVGS Durga Prasad, a senior employee. The unions have been agitating for allocation of captive mines over the last few years. The demand is now being echoed by the political parties. “Vizag Steel is the representation of the Telugu self-respect. The ruling YSRCP, with 28 MPs, has failed to protect the state people's interest,” alleged TDP general secretary Nara Lokesh, while demanding Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy to move a resolution in the state Assembly and acquire the plant. TDP's local legislators are supporting the agitation, some of them threatening to resign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centres-plan-to-privatise-vizag-steel-plant-sparks-massive-protests-in-steel-city-947991.html
05-02-2021||South||Modi, Bedi have hidden agenda of merging Pondy with TN: CM||Chief Minister of Puducherry V Narayanasamy on Friday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the territorial Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi of trying to dismantle the separate status of Puducherry and merge it with neighbouring Tamil Nadu. The Chief Minister said, "The Prime Minister and the Lieutenant Governor, along with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), have been slowly depriving Puducherry government of its powers and impeding several welfares and developmental schemes proposed by the elected government." Addressing participants of the day-long fast to press for the demand to recall Bedi, Narayanasasmy said there was indeed a threat of merging Puducherry with Tamil Nadu. If merged, Puducherry would be reduced to a status of a district like Villupuram or Cuddalore, he said. Appealing to the people to be wary of the merger which he called as a hidden agenda, the Chief Minister said Puducherry would be safe only in the hands of the Secular Democratic Alliance (SDA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/modi-bedi-have-hidden-agenda-of-merging-pondy-with-tn-cm-948031.html
05-02-2021||State||Karnataka logs 474 new Covid-19 cases, 21 infected with UK strain||Karnataka reported 474 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths, taking the total number of infections to 9,41,070 and the toll to 12,227, on Thursday. The day also saw 470 patients getting discharged as the total recoveries rose to 9,22,907. Of the fresh cases, 263 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. There were 5,917 active cases, of which 146 were in the intensive care units of various hospitals. Both the deaths reported on Thursday were from Bengaluru Urban. Dakshina Kannada accounted for 42 cases, Bidar 18, Chitradurga 16, and Hassan and Kalaburagi 14. A total of 1,72,94,005 samples have been tested so far, with 75,842 samples being tested on Thursday alone. The government, after a long gap, gave details of Covid patients with the UK strain of the virus. Presently, there are 21 patients with the UK strain; 58 UK returnees have tested positive for Covid so far, apart from 26 primary contacts of these returnees.   Vaccination drive  On Thursday, 11,321 people were administered the Covid vaccine. This took the total on Day 20 of the vaccination to 3,28,381, which is 50% of the targeted beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-logs-474-new-covid-19-cases-21-infected-with-uk-strain-947623.html
05-02-2021||State||Advocate splashes ink on writer K S Bhagwan||Kannada writer and rationalist K S Bhagwan was smeared with ink by a woman advocate and activist outside the sessions court in Bengaluru on Thursday. Bhagwan was attending the court in connection with a case and was granted bail by the ACMM court. While walking out of the court premises, Prof Bhagwan was smeared with black ink by advocate Meera Raghavendra. Later, Meera uploaded the video of the incident on her social media account with a slogan “Jai Shri Ram” and justified her actions. Later, Bhagwan filed a complaint with the Halasurugate police station. Meera, as seen in the video, was shouting at Bhagwan, “Are you not ashamed to talk about Sri Rama, religion at this age? I wanted to bring you to the court for what you have done. I am ready to face anything.” The clip was streamed live on her social media accounts.  Bhagwan was escorted out of the court by a gunman and a police constable. Sources in the police department revealed to DH that Meera had filed a complaint against Bhagwan in October 2020 and a criminal case was registered against him under sections 298 and 505 of IPC. Meera’s social media post also referred to the case against Bhagwan. He had reportedly attended the court in connection with the case. Later, Meera told reporters outside the court, “I have smeared him with ink and I stand by it. But if he steps out, people will hurl stones at him.” The state government had provided Bhagwan with a gunman after his name figured on the hit list of journalist Gauri Lankesh’s assassins. Recently, Bhagwan courted yet another controversy with his book ‘Rama Mandira Yake Beda’ (Why we do not need Ram Mandir?) with derogatory remarks against Lord Sri Rama.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/advocate-splashes-ink-on-writer-k-s-bhagwan-947637.html
05-02-2021||State||B-1B at Aero India to bolster India-US relationship: Pilot||The B-1B Lancer, one of the star attractions at Aero India, is the first American bomber to land in India since 1945.  Its pilot Lt-Colonel Michael Fessler sees this as an extraordinary move to showcase the India-United States relationship in the Indo-Pacific region. Fessler, the commander of the 34th Expeditionary Bomb Squadron, who flew into Bengaluru with three other pilots in a B-1 Lancer stealth bomber earlier this week, said that he and his crew had undertaken a mammoth 11,000-mile journey in order to join the aerial display component of the air show on Wednesday. “We are based out of Ellsworth Air Force Base in South Dakota. We had four separate aerial refuellings during the 26-hour flight. The US government and the Air Force put a ton of emphasis in making sure that we could get over here and operate with our Indian Air Force partners,” Fessler said. He added that the main objective for coming to Aero India was to build on the partnerships with the Indian Air Force. “While our fighter brothers have had an opportunity to get out here and do some interoperability, by and large, US bomber (crews are yet) to do that,” Fessler said, adding the visit had broadened their exposure to the Indian Air Force in addition to highlighting the American partnership with the country. During Aero India 2021, Fessler’s B-1 was escorted by Tejas fighters. The American officer praised the Indian pilots as “unfaltering and solid.” “Due to a few troubles we had on the ground, we actually took off a little bit late. So it kind of put us into a little bit of an odd situation being off timing. We ended up getting into the ‘marshall,’ which is a chunk of airspace in which we fly circles to rejoin with the fighters. The Tejas pilots were incredibly flexible and resourceful. Before we even got into the ‘Marshall,’ they were already rejoining on our wing and pulling in tight. We had never flown in formation before. But by the second run around the ‘hole,’ they were tucked in very tight and we probably had about one fighter size aircraft spacing between us,” Fesselr said. The American air officer said that the appearance of the Lancer shows that the US Air Force is able to respond and help out at a moment’s notice. “I can take off from any place in the United States and be halfway around the world in essentially one day. So I think that that was one of the things that we wanted to demonstrate,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/b-1b-at-aero-india-to-bolster-india-us-relationship-pilot-947656.html
05-02-2021||State||Karnataka milk set to foray into global markets||Milk products of Karnataka are set to cross the national borders as the union of milk producers from three districts has received export licence certificate. This development is seen as a big step forward for the surplus-hit union, which is struggling to find markets for its products. Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural and Ramanagara District Cooperative Milk Producers’ Societies Union Ltd (Bamul), which has secured the licence, is set to begin a survey with Karnataka Milk Federation, the marketing arm of all milk producers unions, and third party exporters to understand the dynamics of demand for milk products in the international market. “In terms of quality, we are second to none. We have installed state-of-the-art machines and technology, which have been recognised by the Export Inspection Council. We need to build an identity for the brand at the global stage for which work needs to be done,” Bamul president Narasimhamurthy told reporters. Surplus milk He said milk procurement by Bamul is expected to cross 21 lakh litres per day in the next one year. “We are procuring 19 lakh litres everyday. The supply has already exceeded demand. By next year, we will have 21 lakh litres coming in everyday. Exporting the products, especially cheese, butter and ghee, will boost revenue,” he said. As part of the plan, Bamul is set to build a new plant in Kanakapura to manufacture milk powder. “The board has cleared the DPR and the tender for construction of the plant at a cost of Rs 220 crore will be called soon. We are also building a godown at a cost of Rs 18.5 crore to store 5,000 tonne butter,” he said. The Bamul president said marketing within the country and beyond was needed. “We are turning milk into products to avoid wastage. We now have 6,000 tonnes of milk powder in our shelves. The demand is lower than the supply,”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-milk-set-to-foray-into-global-markets-947658.html
05-02-2021||State||LPG tanker topples in Mangaluru, traffic hit on Shiradi Ghat for 3 hours||Traffic on Shiradi Ghat on NH 75 was affected for more than three hours after an LPG-laden tanker which was bound for Bengaluru from Mangaluru toppled near the second curve of the Shiradi Ghat on NH 75, on Friday.  The tanker had toppled at 10 am, according to DK SP B M Laxmi Prasad. Owing to the leakage, the traffic was suspended on the stretch at Gundya.  Following the mishap, the traffic was diverted via Sampaje-Madikeri and Belthangady-Charmadi road. However, the movement of vehicles on the stretch was restored at 2 pm. The second curve of the Shiradi Ghat connects Mangaluru with Bengaluru and comes under the jurisdiction of Sakleshpura police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lpg-tanker-topples-in-mangaluru-traffic-hit-on-shiradi-ghat-for-3-hours-947823.html
05-02-2021||State||President Ram Nath Kovind to inaugurate General Thimayya memorial museum in Madikeri on Saturday||"Sunny Side", the erstwhile ancestral house of General K S Thimayya, who served as the Chief of Army Staff from 1957 to 1961, has been converted into a museum, which would be inaugurated on Saturday by President Ram Nath Kovind, here in Kodagu district. Key attractions on the premises of this war memorial, housing antique weaponry and war relics, include a battle tank, one of those used by the Army during war with Pakistan in 1971. Decades-old arms and ammunition, Army guns and rifles and a decommissioned MiG-21 fighter jet besides a collection of art, books and articles are among the things treasured at the museum. "General Thimayya is the pride of Kodagu and the museum aims to retell the life-story of the General in an inspiring manner," a local official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/president-ram-nath-kovind-to-inaugurate-general-thimayya-memorial-museum-in-madikeri-on-saturday-947879.html
05-02-2021||State||Journalist cheats PSI of Rs 8.5 lakh in SP’s name, nabbed||A local news channel reporter has been arrested for allegedly cheating Rs 8.5 lakh to a police sub-inspector working with District Crime Branch (DCB) in the name of Kalaburagi Superintendent of Police Simi Mariam George. The police gave the name of the arrested as Kasim Patel (30), the reporter of Janashakti news channel. In a complaint lodged on Thursday, PSI Manjunath Hugar said the arrested befriended him when he was working in Jewargi police station. Kasim has shown the photos of his family members posing with the politicians and higher officials and made him to believe that he will get problems solved if you have. The arrested also gave a mobile number-74114-47060 to the PSI and told him not to share this number to anybody as it is the SP's personal number. "You should not give a call on this number and instead should drop a message in Whatsapp," he said. Kasim has also kept the SP's photo as display photo (DP). The arrested has sent a Whatsapp message from 74114-47060 to 94821-15117 that money is required urgently. Hence, the PSI sent Rs 2,50,000 first and Rs six lakh later with his friend. The PSI received a WhatsApp call on February 3 in the evening and grew suspicious as he heard a woman speaking Urdu mixed Hindi language, the complaint stated. Manjunath met the superintendent of police on Friday and informed her about the incident. The SP clarified she doesn't have such mobile number and has not messaged anything. Police Commissioner N Sateesh Kumar said the police arrested Kasim near Chigarahalli Cross in Jewargi taluk on Friday and a complaint has been registered under column 419,420 of Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/journalist-cheats-psi-of-rs-85-lakh-in-sp-s-name-nabbed-947992.html
05-02-2021||State||Karnataka govt postpones Kannada Sahitya Sammelana||The government on Friday decided to postpone the 86th All India Kannada Sahitya Sammelana, the flagship literary event scheduled to be held on February 26 at Haveri.  “It has been decided to temporarily postpone the event,” Kannada and Culture Minister Aravind Limbavali said. “Preparations for the event at Haveri are incomplete. Also, with many people attending turnig up for the convention, following Covid-19 regulations will be difficult,” he said.  “Since new Covid-19 guidelines are expected to be out by the end of February, a meeting will be held on March 9 to fix a new date for the Sahitya Sammelana,” Limbavali said.  The 86th Akhila Bharata Kannada Sahitya Sammelana, under the presidency of poet Doddarange Gowda, was to be held from February 26 to 28 at Haveri. The postponement of the event was decided at a meeting Limbavali held with Law and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Agriculture Minister B C Patil, Horticulture Minister R Shankar, MLA Nehru Olekar - all from the Haveri district - and Kannada Sahitya Parishat president Manu Baligar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-postpones-kannada-sahitya-sammelana-948001.html
05-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmer groups call for shutting national, state highways on February 6||A joint committee of farmers and rights organisations has called for shutting down state and national highways on Saturday to protest against the union government's 'harassment and oppression'.  In a statement issued on Thursday, Samyukta Horata stated that farmers in Karnataka would demand the repeal of the three controversial three farm laws and the new electricity bill in solidarity with peers protesting near New Delhi.  The committee said that over the past two months, the union government had "harassed" farmers protesting peacefully. "On February 6, we will shut down all state and national highways from noon to 3 pm. There will also be protests in taluk and district headquarters," it said.  The statement, which carried the names of farmer leaders Badagalapura Nagendra, Kodihalli Chandrashekhar and G C Bayyareddy among others, described the union government's 2021-22 budget as "anti-farmer and pro-corporate".  The budget has ignored the demands of farmers protesting across the country for minimum support price (MSP) and only announced measures to benefit the uber-rich, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farmer-groups-call-for-shutting-national-state-highways-on-february-6-947625.html
05-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Won't give up as long as PM Modi, Shah support me: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa vows to prove his innocence||Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday ruled out resignation and vowed to prove his innocence in the coming days. In his reply to the discussion on the motion of thanks for the Governor’s address, Yediyurappa hit back at the Congress, dismissing cases being probed against him as "false and baseless". "As long as Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and the people of the state support me, I will have the power to face 100 such cases," Yediyurappa said. He was responding to Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah who said that Yediyurappa should consider quitting as there were cases against him. Recalling that the Anti-Corruption Bureau was set up during Siddaramaiah's tenure, Yediyurappa said that the agency was misused by the Congress to file 'B' reports on cases filed against ministers. He also accused Siddaramaiah of denotifying thousands of acres of Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA) land. "Your national leaders on bail," Yediyurappa said, adding that Congress's state leaders also were fighting several cases of irregularities against them. Yediyurappa contended that cases filed against him were false, and were based on RTIs filed by those who weren't well aware of the regulations. "I will ensure that BJP secures 150 seats in the next Assembly elections and the Congress is permanently relegated to the Opposition," he said, adding that the BJP would also win the upcoming Belgaum Lok Sabha, Maski and Basavakalyan assembly bypolls. Advising Siddaramaiah to refrain from criticising the government just for the heck of it, he said that Opposition leaders should "rather shed light on issues than breathe fire." Before the Congress staged a walkout unhappy with the government's response, Siddaramaiah said that there were 'talks' of Yediyurappa's resignation after Ugadi festival. "Your (BJP) MLAs are saying that you are going to resign," Siddaramaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wont-give-up-as-long-as-pm-modi-shah-support-me-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-vows-to-prove-his-innocence-947908.html
05-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||86th Kannada Sahitya Sammelana postponed||The government on Friday decided to postpone the 86th All India Kannada Sahitya Sammelana, the flagship literary event scheduled to be held on February 26 at Haveri. “It has been decided to temporarily postpone the event,” Kannada & Culture Minister Aravind Limbavali said. “Preparations for the event at Haveri are incomplete. Also, with many people attending it, following Covid-19 regulations will be difficult,” he said. “Since new Covid-19 guidelines are expected to be out by the end of February, a meeting will be held on March 9 to fix a new date for the Sahitya Sammelana,” Limbavali said. The 86th Akhila Bharata Kannada Sahitya Sammelana, under the presidency of poet Doddarange Gowda, was to be held from February 26 to 28 at Haveri. The postponement of the event was decided at a meeting Limbavali held with Law and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Law Minister BC Patil, Horticulture Minister R Shankar, MLA Nehru Olekar - all from the Haveri district - and Kannada Sahitya Parishat president Manu Baligar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/86th-kannada-sahitya-sammelana-postponed-947918.html
05-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Snippets: February 6, 2021||Election for Council chairperson on Feb 9 Following Legislative Council chairperson K Pratapchandra Shetty’s resignation on Thursday, election for the chairperson’s post will be held on February 9. The nominations for the poll will be received on February 8, according to the Council secretariat. The Legislative Council session, which was expected to conclude on Friday, has now been extended until February 10. Since the BJP has tied up with JD(S) in the Upper House, the ruling party will not be fielding any candidate for the chairman’s post. JD(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti is likely to be elected unopposed.    St Joseph’s University Bill passed The Legislative Council on Friday approved the St Joseph’s University Bill, which was withheld on Wednesday for technical reasons. On Wednesday, the Bill could not be passed in Council as it had not yet received the Governor’s approval. Since the varsity is receiving a funding of Rs 55 lakh under RUSA from the Centre and the state government, it required the Governor’s approval. With his assent, the state government tabled the Bill again on Friday, which was passed.    ‘Weavers’ fabric for uniforms’ The state government will henceforth buy fabric for uniforms only from the weavers in Karnataka, Textiles Minister Srimanth Patil said. The minister was responding to a question by MLC Bharathi Shetty, who pointed out that much of the material was being imported from other states. Over the years, the quantity of cloth bought from weavers in Karnataka had reduced as the material was being procured from Maharashtra and Gujarat. The state’s weavers were losing out on opportunities owing to this, Shetty said. To this, Patil said the government planned to source all the cloth requirements for uniforms from the state’s weavers. The government needs about 4 crore metres of fabric for the purpose, he added.    State seeks four more smart cities The government has sent a proposal to the Centre to include four more cities - Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Vijayapura and Ballari - under the Smart Cities Mission. Responding to a question by MLA L Nagendra, Urban Development Minister B A Basavaraja said that the proposal was sent to the Centre in May 2020. “We haven’t received any response yet,” he said. Another BJP MLA Karunakara Reddy urged the minister to include more cities from Kalyana Karnataka region, as they were underdeveloped.   Special discussion on SCP/TSP Following a heated exchange between the ruling and opposition parties, a special discussion on Special Component Plan and Tribal Sub Plan (SCP/TSP) will be held during the upcoming budget session of the legislature. The Congress complained that SCP/TSP funds were being diverted as ‘deemed expenditure’. Though Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa assured to spend 85% of the SCP/TSP allocations, opposition MLAs objected noting that the target was impossible to reach as tenders for many projects under the scheme were yet to be invited.DyCM Govind Karjol disputed this saying that the funds were serving the purpose and BJP had spent the highest for SC/ST welfare. This resulted in a loud disagreement in the floor of the House, following which Yediyurappa proposed a special discussion on the issue during the upcoming budget session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/snippets-february-6-2021-948003.html
05-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM orders socio-economic survey of Panchamasalis||Hours after Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa expressed helplessness over satisfying demands of including Panchamasali sect in 2A category, he ordered a study into the socio-economic and educational status of the community. Karnataka State Backward Classes Commission will conduct the study, according to the CMO. In another letter, Yediyurappa said that he was committed to the welfare of all communities in the state. "We cannot take any hasty decisions on such matters, and have to proceed after comprehensive discussions with experts and by taking everyone into confidence," he said, seeking cooperation from Panchamasali community leaders for the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-orders-socio-economic-survey-of-panchamasalis-948012.html
05-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Govt needs Rs 10,000 cr to recruit new staff in varsities'||The state government will require an additional Rs 10,000 crore to fill all the existing vacancies in higher education institutions, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said Friday.  Narayan, also the higher education minister, was responding to a concern raised in the Legislative Council during Zero Hour by BJP MLCs S V Sankanur and N Ravikumar. Several universities, including those in Dharwad, Mysuru and Bengaluru, lack staff. More than 19,000 teaching and 5,000 non-teaching positions vacant across universities. "The universities are functioning mainly with the help of guest faculty. Ï urge this government to make health and education sectors their priority," Ravi Kumar urged.  Narayan, who acknowledged the persisting problem, said the government will have to fill 10,000 to 12,000 posts across all higher educational institutions, which would cost nothing less than Rs 10,000 crore. "Sourcing the finance for this is a challenge," he said.   JD(S) MLC Marithibbe Gowda also spoke about the pending honorarium to guest lecturers for over five months. Owing to the pandemic, they also risked losing their jobs, he said, demanding the government to retain all the guest lecturers who were recruited in the previous academic year, he said. Narayan said the government was already in the process of settling the dues and would ensure that none of the guest lecturers lost their jobs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-needs-rs-10000-cr-to-recruit-new-staff-in-varsities-948013.html
05-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka slips to 18th position in Covid-19 vaccination coverage||Karnataka, the state that once enjoyed the status of having vaccinated the highest number of beneficiaries in the country has slipped to the 18th position in terms of percentage and third place in the country in terms of absolute numbers.  Till Friday, it vaccinated 46.39% of its target beneficiaries - that is 7,73,362- as per figures provided by Press Information Bureau (7,42,702 according to state government). Till Friday, the state vaccinated 3,58,768 beneficiaries. Karnataka has the third-highest number of healthcare workers registered for vaccination after Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. Even then, UP and Rajasthan have vaccinated more in absolute numbers, and MP and Maharashtra are catching up. “This has demotivated all of us including all senior officers in the department,” said a Health Department official requesting anonymity. “Co-WIN has duplicated many beneficiaries’ names. Names of beneficiaries in nursing and paramedical colleges have been uploaded centrally but in these colleges, students have either gone home or are refusing to take the vaccines,” the official quoted above said.  However, epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu said vaccine hesitancy is a phrase that has to be used with caution. “People are not vaccinated for many reasons. The detailed information regarding Covid vaccines came very late and is also incomplete. Not much of expertise, knowledge or resources are available to resolve queries. Instead of resolving queries that people have, a paternalistic approach of ‘take vaccines, they are good’ won’t help. Listening is more important than speaking here,” Babu said. “Regulators did not provide adequate information to enthuse healthcare professionals. Added to this, some experts provided conflicting explanations on how these vaccines can be used. The net result is confusion everywhere,” he said. “There are also several problems with the Co-WIN app. Many updates are happening in a dynamic manner. For example, it wasn’t allowing more vaccination sessions in the same site but now it allows up to seven per site. I am hesitant in clubbing these and other reasons into one phrase -- ‘vaccine hesitancy’. This is a confusing term and shifts responsibility from implementers to the often helpless and powerless people,” he argued. Four experts in the forefront of the vaccination drive in Karnataka discussed issues and concerns that are being encountered in Covid vaccination in the state in a panel discussion moderated by Dr S Sacchidanand, Vice-Chancellor, Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Health Sciences. Dr U S Vishal Rao, Associate Dean, Centre of Academic Research, Health Care Global (HCG) Cancer Centre, said, “Based on the Covaxin phase 1 trial results published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases journal, the efficacy of Covaxin is not established from this phase 1 study. We will have to wait for phase 3 trial data.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-slips-to-18th-position-in-covid-19-vaccination-coverage-948023.html
05-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 430 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths||Karnataka reported 430 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths, taking the total number of infections to 9,41,500 and the toll to 12,230, on Friday. The day also saw 470 patients getting discharged as the total recoveries rose to 9,23,377. Of the fresh cases, as many as 217 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. There were 5,874 active cases of which 144 were in intensive care units of various hospitals. Two deaths reported on Friday were from Bengaluru Urban and one from Dharwad. Tumakuru accounted for 35 cases, Udupi 21, Uttara Kannada and Dakshina Kannada 17 each followed by others. A total of over 1,73,68,124 samples have been tested so far, with 74,119 samples tested on Friday alone. There are 21 patients with the UK strain, 59 UK returnees have tested positive for Covid-19 so far, apart from 26 primary contacts of these returnees who have also tested positive. Covid-19 vaccination On Friday, 27,825 people were given Covid vaccine till 5.30 pm. This took the total on day 21 of the vaccination to 3,56,206 which is 48% of the targeted beneficiaries of 7,42,620, as per the state Covid bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-430-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-948024.html
05-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government extends PU admission dates||The Department of Pre-University Education has extended admission dates for both PUC 1 and 2, for the current academic year. Considering requests from parents and students, the department has extended the dates till February 6th for PUC 2 and till February 13th for PUC 1, said an official press release from the department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-extends-pu-admission-dates-948026.html
05-02-2021||West||Biggest discovery of cannon balls in Maharashtra||In what could well be the biggest discovery of its type, nearly 450 to 500 cannonballs were unearthed in the Pavangad Fort in Kolhapur district of Maharashtra. The Pavangad Fort was built in the 17th century by Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the legendary Maratha warrior. Pavangad is a hill fort on the Panhala spur about half-a-mile east of the Panhala Fort from which it is separated by a ravine. The chief defence of the fort is a scarped rock 15 to 25 feet high. In most places, the steepness of the rock has been increased by artificial scraping and it has been strengthened by a parapet wall of black stone 14 feet high. This parapet wall has collapsed in many places. The two main entrances were pulled down in 1844 when the fort was dismantled. The fort, though deserted, has a good water supply. On Thursday, when a group, ‘Team Pavangad’, was digging pits to install signboards, a group stumbled across a few cannon balls. Thereafter, it was systematically dug and the cannon balls were secured. The Directorate of Archaeology & Museums, Government of Maharashtra, and experts in the field would be examining the cannon balls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/biggest-discovery-of-cannon-balls-in-maharashtra-947747.html
05-02-2021||West||Two MNS members detained ahead of CM Uddhav Thackeray's visit to Aurangabad||Police on Friday detained two senior local leaders of the MNS as a precautionary measure ahead of the visit of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to Aurangabad, an official said. Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) Aurangabad district chief Suhas Dashrathe and the party's city president Satnam Singh Gulati were detained in the morning, a day after they threatened to stop Thackeray's convoy during his visit to highlight their demand to rename Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar, the police official said. Thackeray is scheduled to review ongoing development works in Aurangabad during his visit on Friday. He will also attend the ground-breaking ceremony of a sports complex in the district and preside over a meeting at the collectorate, another official said. On Thursday, Dashrathe and Gulati stopped Shiv Sena leader and former MP Chandrakant Khaire's car and threw leaflets printed with the demand of renaming Aurangabad. The incident took place in the city's Kranti Chowk area. After the agitation, Dashrathe and Gulati, through social media posts, warned they would also stop the convoy of Thackeray during his visit to the city. "So the police have detained them and will release them after a few hours," the police official told PTI. The Shiv Sena, which shares power with the Congress and NCP in Maharashtra, itself recently raised afresh the demand that Aurangabad, named after Mughal emperor Aurangzeb, be rechristened as Sambhajinagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-mns-members-detained-ahead-of-cm-uddhav-thackerays-visit-to-aurangabad-947800.html
05-02-2021||West||Lonar Lake in Maharashtra's Buldhana to get a facelift||In a bid to boost tourism in the geological and biodiversity site of Lonar Lake in Buldhana district of Maharashtra, the government is planning to ramp up facilities in the area.  Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has sanctioned a development plan to create facilities near Lonar Lake. Already designated as a national geo-heritage site, last year it got the tag of Ramsar Site, which would go a long way in the conservation of Lonar Lake or the Lonar Crater.  The crater-lake was formed nearly 52,000 years ago when a meteorite slammed Deccan Plateau. The meteorite weighed two million tonnes and was travelling at an estimated speed of 90,000 kmph. It created a hole which was 150 m deep and 1.8 km wide! Scientists believe that the energy released during this event was equivalent to a six-megaton atom bomb explosion. The collision led to the formation of one of the largest, most unique basalt impact craters in the world. It has a mean diameter of 1.2 km and is about 137 metres below the crater rim. The meteor crater rim is about 1.8 km in diameter. The Lonar site includes the lake as well as escarpment, which forms the crater walls, and forested zones. The lake is high in salinity and alkalinity because of the lack of an outflow which leads to a concentration of minerals as the lake water evaporates. Specialised micro-organisms such as anaerobes, cyanobacteria and phytoplankton survive in this harsh chemical environment. Outside the lake, there is considerable diversity of plant and animal life. Inhabiting the site are 160 species of birds including the vulnerable Asian woollyneck (Ciconia episcopus) and common pochard (Aythya ferina), 46 species of reptiles, and 12 species of mammals including the iconic grey wolf (Canis lupus). Both these sites are both threatened by household sewage and urban wastewater and by unsustainable tourism. The Smithsonian Institution, the United States Geological Survey, Geological Survey of India, the University of Sagar and the Physical Research Laboratory have conducted extensive studies of the Lonar site. Biological nitrogen fixation was discovered in this lake in 2007. A 2019 study, conducted by IIT Bombay found that the minerals, in the lake soil, were very similar to the minerals found in moon rocks brought back during the Apollo programme.  Numerous temples surround the lake, around the rim of the crater and further down around the lake, most of which stand in ruins today, except for the temple of Daitya Sudan at the centre of the Lonar town, which was built in honour of Vishnu's victory over the giant Lonasur. It is a fine example of early Hindu architecture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lonar-lake-in-maharashtras-buldhana-to-get-a-facelift-947808.html
05-02-2021||West||Major fire at scrap godown in Mumbai's Mankhurd, none injured||A major fire broke out at a scrap godown in suburban Mankhurd here on Friday, but there was no report of any injury to anyone so far, officials said. The incident occurred in Mandala area around 2.45 pm, they said. "The blaze erupted in a scrap material godown. It is a 'level-3' (major) fire. Eleven fire engines and as many tankers are currently engaged in the firefighting operation," a fire brigade official said. "There is no report of injury to anyone so far," he said, adding that the cause of the fire is being ascertained. Further details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/major-fire-at-scrap-godown-in-mumbais-mankhurd-none-injured-947851.html
05-02-2021||West||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh tests Covid-19 positive||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday said he has tested coronavirus positive. He shared the information on his Twitter handle. "I tested positive for coronavirus today, but I am in good health. I appeal to those who came in my contact to get themselves tested. I will return in your service soon after defeating coronavirus," Deshmukh said in his tweet. आज माझी कोरोना चाचणी पॉझिटिव्ह आली असून माझी प्रकृती उत्तम आहे. तरी माझ्या संपर्कात आलेल्या सर्वांनी कोरोना चाचणी करून घ्यावी, असे मी आवाहन करतो. लवकरच मी कोरोनावर मात करून पुन्हा आपल्या सेवेसाठी हजर होईल. A state health official said that Deshmukh was on a tour of east Vidarbha over the last few days and returned to Nagpur on Thursday. "A precautionary test was conducted on him today, which confirmed that he has contracted the infection. Deshmukh is currently at his residence in Nagpur," the official said. It is not yet clear whether he has been advised to remain in home quarantine or get admitted to a hospital, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-tests-covid-19-positive-947964.html
05-02-2021||West||Maharashtra: Former BJP leader Krishna Hegde joins Shiv Sena||In a surprising development on Friday, senior politician Krishna Hegde joined the Shiv Sena on Friday night. Hegde was the Mumbai BJP unit vice president.  Hegde was welcomed into the Shiv Sena by its president and Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.  An excellent organiser, Hegde's quitting BJP and joining Shiv Sena assumes importance in view of the 2022 polls to BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation.  Recently, he was in the news when he came to the rescue of social justice minister and NCP leader Dhananjay Munde, who was accused of rape by a Mumbai-based singer.  Hegde had said that the women had in the past attempted to honey-trap him. The former BJP leader would be helpful for Shiv Sena in Mumbai Suburbs as he successfully handled 2004 Lok Sabha election of former Union Minister Sunil Dutt. He also successfully handled 2005 and 2009 Lok Sabha election of Priya Dutt. He is the first South Indian face to join Sena. He is the President of Kamgar Seva Sangh - Union of Rickshaw drivers and Taxi Drivers in Mumbai Suburbs. He is the son-in-law of former Sena MLA and Mayor Dr Ramesh Prabhoo. His wife Leena Prabhoo is the granddaughter of former Governor Ganpatrao Tapase. Shiv Sena strategist and Minister  Anil Parab and Yuva Sena Secretary Varun Sardesai had detailed round of talks with Hegde. "I was impressed by Uddhav Thackeray ji's handling of the Covid-19 crises and how he guided Maharashtra in a difficult time. I will work hard for the Sena and ensure that the saffron flag flies over BMC headquarters yet again," said Hegde.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-former-bjp-leader-krishna-hegde-joins-shiv-sena-947985.html
