06-02-2021||Comment||‘King’ and ‘Common Good’||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, while presenting the Budget on February 1, quoted Thiruvalluvar -- “A king or ruler is one who creates or acquires wealth, protects and distributes it for the common good.” The Finance Minister who is not otherwise known for her literary sensibility has been remarkably uncanny in drawing attention to present-day realities. There are three important elements in this quotation. Firstly, she seemed to make no distinction between a ‘king or ruler’ of a pre-democratic, pre-republican age and the ‘rulers’ of today, who both treat their citizens as subjects that are to be bestowed with the grace of their rule.  Second is the task of “creating and acquiring wealth”. Taxation, either direct or indirect, such as the GST, or simply printing money, or selling national assets built with taxpayer’s money, are the known means of “creating and acquiring wealth” for the State. The Budget is an instrument to inform the public as to how the State intends to do it. Third, “distributing it for the common good” is the stated goal. This is a bit more problematic, because the notion of ‘the common good’ that this king or ruler has is unclear. ‘Common good’ is a much-misused term and often, it is neither common nor good. Let us go by the commonly understood idea of ‘common good’. First, it is different and considered more valuable than ‘individual good’. Second, it is not a statistically derived notion of ‘the greatest happiness of the greatest number,’ but an aspirational goal to be achieved by various policy measures, including the Budget which is intended to allocate scarce resources in a ‘just and equitable’ manner. At the heart of the conception of ‘common good’ is a notion of justice and equity. Both these terms require further elaboration. Political philosophers from time immemorial have grappled with questions of justice, equality, freedom, right and wrong, rights versus duties, and as to what constitutes a ‘just society’. Harvard University’s Prof Michael Sandel has explicated these terms that often confound politicians and policymakers in his excellent lecture series on ‘Justice’. He says that there are three ways of thinking about justice and they revolve around “maximising welfare, respecting freedom and promoting virtue.” Maximising welfare is now reduced to a mechanistic calculation of GDP growth and a few development schemes, though ‘welfare’ is a much broader term than economic prosperity and includes several non-economic indicators. ‘Promoting freedoms’ is another essential component of ‘common good’ as that liberates a human being to pursue his interests and talents. But, as Amartya Sen argues, there can be no pursuit of freedoms without social and economic development. Thus, welfare and freedoms are intricately intertwined.      Now, coming to one of the great questions of political philosophy: Should the State seek to promote ‘virtue’ among its citizens? Can the State tell them what to eat, dress or who to marry? Or should it be neutral towards competing questions of virtue so that citizens can be free to choose for themselves the best way to live? Prof Sandel suggests that modern political philosophers from Immanuel Kant in the 18th century to John Rawls in the 20th century argue that the principles of ‘Justice’ that define our rights should not rest on any particular conception of individual virtue or the best way to live. Instead, a ‘just society’ respects each person’s freedom to choose her own conception of the good life. That, in essence, is the ‘common good’ as it is understood today. Let us take one of the above notions and contextualise it: the concept of ‘maximizing welfare’ in a free-market economy, as this is at the heart of the neo-liberal economic reforms that we are now witnessing in the agricultural sector with the passing of the three farm laws. Sandel points out that ‘the standard case for unfettered markets rests on two claims – one about welfare and the other about freedom. First, the markets promote the welfare society as a whole by providing incentives for people to work hard, supplying the goods that other people want. Second, markets respect individual freedom; rather than impose a certain value on goods and services, markets let people choose for themselves what value to place on the things they exchange. There is, however, an important and valid criticism of both these arguments. First, the free market is not truly free, and the buyer and seller do not have equal power to bargain -- the playing field is never level. Second, the welfare of the whole society is never served when a seller sells his goods at exploitative prices and the buyer, with his enormous resources, can drive a section of the population to penury and servitude. This eventually results in outrage at the injustice, a feeling that people are not getting what they deserve. How should a ‘king or ruler’ treat those who feel a deep sense of injustice? Should he treat them as enemies of State and block them with barricades, barbed wires and iron nails on their path of commerce or should he negotiate with them and remove the source of their grief?    A clearer perception of the ‘common good’ will emerge if we go back to our Constitution and read the Preamble. If only our ‘rulers’ held all their legislations to the bar set by the Preamble to see if they met any or all of the four goals enshrined in it; the ‘ruler’ will go a long way in ensuring the ‘common good;’ Justice, social, economic and political; Liberty of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship; Equality of status and of opportunity; and to promote among them all Fraternity assuring the dignity of the individual, and the unity and integrity of the Nation. (The writer, a former Cabinet Secretariat official, is Visiting Fellow, ORF, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/king-and-common-good-948098.html
06-02-2021||Davangere||Davangere Police seize unaccounted cash of Rs 1.47 crore||Davangere police seized unaccounted cash of Rs 1.47 crore from a four-wheeler on K R Road near Galaxy convention hall in the city on Friday evening.  Police stopped the vehicle as part of inspection and found cash of Rs 1.47 crore in three bags in the car. The three persons, Srikanth (26), Mahesh (23) and Beeralinga (25), residents of Kalaburagi, did not give supportive documents to prove that the cash belonged to them. The trio was transporting cash from Kalaburagi to Davangere city. Azad Nagar police seized the vehicle and cash. The cash has been handed over to the Income Tax Department for further investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/davangere-police-seize-unaccounted-cash-of-rs-147-crore-948175.html
06-02-2021||First Edit||Farmers' protest: An insecure, paranoid govt||The government’s response to some tweets that originated in foreign countries about the farmers’ agitation may prove to be unwise and counterproductive for itself. It has overreacted to them. The tweets made earlier this week by pop star Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg did the rounds in the world Twitter circuit, attracting attention. Both of them supported the farmers and criticised the measures taken by the government, including the suspension of internet services, to tackle it. The farmers’ agitation had elicited attention even before this, and various personalities, groups and organisations abroad had commented on it, especially from countries with large Indian diasporas. Rihanna’s huge following on Twitter seems to have been the trigger for the government's response but it may have only helped to draw more attention to its own deeds.  The government has acted in an insecure and paranoid way to any favourable view of or expression of support for the farmers. Within the country, many such supporters have been called anti-nationals. But it is laughable to see in the expression of support for farmers by Rihanna, Thunberg and others conspiracies against the Indian government. The government had first wanted some tweets to be removed. Twitter blocked them, but then unblocked them as it said they constituted free speech. Then came the External Affairs Ministry’s objection to the two celebrities’ tweets and the stepped-up campaign against a presumed vilification campaign against India. It has said that the "temptation" of sensationalist social media hashtags and views is "neither accurate nor responsible,” and launched a drive to counter what it thinks is propaganda to discredit India. Even an FIR has been filed against imagined conspirators. Prominent personalities of the country from fields like films and sports found it necessary to run an orchestrated campaign to counter Rihanna and Thunberg. This could only have been masterminded by the government.  The Indian State should not allow itself to be provoked by some tweets made outside the country and act in such a paranoid fashion. There is bound to be a criticism of the government’s policies and actions outside the country, just as there is criticism within India of the policies and actions of the governments of other countries. The Indian government has also commented on events or matters that happened in other countries. It is not good for it to be seen as easily touched and swayed by the criticism of individuals elsewhere. The government’s reputation is already in tatters given the iron-handed way in which it has dealt with the farmers’ protest, disregarding their fundamental rights. Its intolerance of criticism is known within the country, now it has directed such intolerance abroad and attracted negative global attention to itself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/farmers-protest-an-insecure-paranoid-govt-948100.html
06-02-2021||In Perspective||Our women actors have been activists, too||When Omar Sharif was chosen for the lead role in David Lean’s film Dr Zhivago, the actor was stunned. He told the director that he could ride a camel in the desert (Lawrence of Arabia) but did not know how to act the role of a Russian poet. Lean told him not to act but simply be himself. The film was a runaway success winning 33 international awards, including 10 Oscars. This remarkable director knew that the secret of great acting lay in its spontaneity. India can boast of several such actors in its long motion picture saga. When I read about the veteran Hollywood actress Jane Fonda being honoured for her acting and activism, I was reminded of our own Indian film stars of yesteryears who made cinematic history. They were great in their chosen profession not only for their superb histrionic skills but for working with minimal stage trappings. The Priyanka Chopras and Deepika Padukones who grab headlines today owe their place in the sun to a long line of committed artists whose main forte was acting -- with the barest of cosmetics. The earliest of these was the gorgeous Devika Rani, with her spectacular acting added to her arresting personality. Known as the first lady of Indian cinema, she made the 1940s famous for her uninhibited style of acting. Again, who can forget the incomparable Sharmila Tagore, whose “powerhouse acting” was discovered by a Satyajit Ray; or a Sridevi who lent colour and innocent allure to whichever role she donned. Was there a parallel to the Telugu stars Bhanumathi or Suryakumari, who charmed audiences off their feet; to the irrepressible Vyjayanthimala, or her even more gifted mother, Vasundhara Devi? Nor is it easy to replicate the superb acting skills of an LV Sharadha whose few films did the Kannada film world proudly. These gifted artists were the forerunners of the present generation of stars. They were not just talented. Their films are timeless. Sharadha could portray a young, disturbed widow with the same panache as she did the role of Adi Sankara’s serene mother in GV Iyer’s timeless classic. She could also do art cinema with the same ease as a blockbuster. All these stars of yesteryears were versatile actors whose mind-blowing activism in other realms won them national awards. They were artists who straddled many fields, like the actor-turned-politician Jayalalitha.    Perhaps the best example of a multifaceted artist is MS Subbulakshmi, who transformed cinema halls into music sabhas with her exquisite music woven into epic films that ushered in a new era in Indian cinema, such as Shakuntalai, with which she made her screen debut, paired with the equally talented GN Balasubramaniam. Subbulakshmi’s film career has been linked to a unique sort of activism. Here is the fascinating story of her next film, Savitri, which was a media sensation concerning the popular Tamil journal Ananda Vikatan where her husband Sadasivam worked as an advertising manager. A patriotic rebel, he got embroiled in the freedom struggle of the forties, with his colleague Kalki Krishnamurthy. When they were both fired for this professional “misconduct”, they decided to launch their own newsmagazine, for which they needed money. A 23-year-old MS agreed to don the male role of Narada in this film, which raked in the necessary funds. Even as people queued up to buy tickets for the opening night, the press began churning out the first edition of Kalki, which recently completed its 80th year of publication. Her next film Meera saw the beginning of her “singing for a cause.” Subbulakshmi’s art has supported innumerable initiatives, such as hospitals and charity homes, schools for disabled children and orphaned girls. The revenue from every public performance has gone to support mindboggling charities. She would have done the Cecil B. de Mille award proud with her art and activism. Indian cinema can boast of several such women actors who have used their popular public image to promote different public services, such as helping women in distress, children with serious afflictions, families which need to be rehabilitated. Their involvement with deadly diseases like AIDS or cancer, and their efforts to fight these scourges or to rehabilitate those who are already afflicted has been remarkable despite the pressures they face in their careers. Many have ploughed in their own earnings to support these causes. The present generation of actors such as Deepika Padukone have done something more daring. She shed her inhibitions and laid bare her life with its traumas before the public in order to create a greater understanding of an ailment such as depression. If there was an award for activist female actors, the judges would have found it hard to select one out of the deserving hundreds of Indian theatre personalities. Acting is a demanding profession, and especially so for women in Indian cinema. It requires talent, discipline and guts to face an array of insurmountable challenges -- starting from the casting couch. They are not as lucky as Omar Sharif, who could simply be himself and win awards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/our-women-actors-have-been-activists-too-948099.html
06-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farmers prepare to block highways in Mysuru, Mandya||Agitating farmers from organisations in Mysuru, Mandya and Hassan district are prepared to block national and state highways passing through the respective districts as part of the nationwide 'chakka jam' called by farmer unions to protest the three farm laws.  The block will be between 12 noon to 3 pm. Police have deputed additional men at vantage points to blockage on highways. Traffic movement on Mysuru-Bengaluru, Mysuru-Ooty and other highways, in the region, is likely to be affected on Saturday noon. Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) leader Badagalpura Nagendra said that highways will be blocked under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha. Mysuru-Bengaluru Highway will be blocked at Columbia Asia Hospital junction, Mysuru-Ooty highway will be blocked at Bandipalaya in Mysuru, he said. Thousands of activists will block the Mysuru-Bengaluru highway near VC Farm in Mandya district. They will prepare food on the highway and hold a discussion. Activists in Hassan district will block the highway at Channarapayatna. Nagendra said, “The protest will continue until the Union government withdraws three farm laws. Farmers and their family members will participate in the protest on Saturday.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-prepare-to-block-highways-in-mysuru-mandya-948206.html
06-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Deceased Belagavi ASHA worker had previous complaints of headache, say officials; deny link between Covid-19 vaccine and death||The Health Department officials on Saturday said that the death of an ASHA worker from Belagavi, who passed away on February 3, was not due to the side effects of the Covid-19 vaccine that she's received recently but following an ailment she had been suffering from for a while. "Side effects, if any, should have shown in two days but none were noticed. She worked as per assignment and carried out survey and other duties," RCH Officer Dr I P Gadad told DH. The ASHA worker, a resident of Galatga village in Nippani taluk, was administered the Covid-19 vaccine on January 22 at the Galatga Primary Health Centre. She faced health problems on January 30 and died on February 3 during treatment. Family members said that she was suffering from headache and similar ailments and was availing treatment every three months, Gadad added. Gadad also said that the family members didn't heed to the officials' efforts to convince them for their approval for the postmortem to ascertain reasons behind the woman's death. Even police officials tried to convince them but could not succeed, he said. "We have been informed that she died due to bleeding in the brain. Postmortem, if conducted, could have given a clearer picture," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/deceased-belagavi-asha-worker-had-previous-complaints-of-headache-say-officials-deny-link-between-covid-19-vaccine-and-death-948178.html
06-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||K'taka Tulu Sahitya Academy chief injured in car accident||Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy President Dayanand Kattalsar sustained minor injuries when his car collided with a truck carrying fish in the wee hours at Nanthoor junction on Saturday. Kattalsar suffered an injury on the forehead and is being treated in a private hospital, sources close to the President told DH. Kattalsar and members of the Academy had engaged a vehicle from Tulu Bhavan in Urva Stores to attend a Tulu language programme in Karwar.  Kattalsar was travelling from his house in Shaktinagar to Tulu Bhavan when the accident occurred near Nanthoor junction. Mangaluru North traffic police station had registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ktaka-tulu-sahitya-academy-chief-injured-in-car-accident-948180.html
06-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kundapur beggar donates Rs 1 lakh for meals in temples||An elderly beggarwoman not only raised Rs 1 lakh but also donated it to serve meals to devotees in Gurunarasimha Temple in Saligrama. Ashwathamma, a resident of Kanchikodi in Gangolli in Kundapur, collects alms. So far, she has donated over Rs 5 lakh to different temples in order to help them continue serving mid-day meals to devotees visiting the temple. She is an avid devotee of Lord Ayyappa and follows austerity by wearing the customary Ayyappa Mala for many months every year. She seeks alms at many places and donates the same to temples. Ashwathamma reveals that her wish is to ensure the welfare of all and eradication of Covid-19 from the world. To ensure that people do not go hungry, she gives the money from begging to temples. She said she has already donated her savings to Gurunarasimha temple in Saligrama, Polali Rajarajeshwari temple among others. Ashwathamma begs from dawn to dusk and deposits the day’s collection in her bank account. Every year before undertaking the pilgrimage to Sabarimala, she donates the entire savings to the temples. Before leaving for Sabarimala, Ashwathamma will take part in the ritual at Gurunarasimha Temple in Saligrama on February 9. Temple priest Janardhan Adiga felicitated her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kundapur-beggar-donates-rs-1-lakh-for-meals-in-temples-948189.html
06-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangalore University proposes to introduce courses in Beary art forms||The Mangalore University has proposed to introduce certificate and diploma courses on Beary art forms from the academic year 2021-22. The university has issued a notification on January 28 constituting a committee for drafting the curriculum and regulations to introduce the courses in Beary art forms. The committee is headed by Prof Uday Barkur, Dean of Faculty of Arts at Mangalore University. Karnataka Beary Sahithya Academy Chairman Rahim Ucchil said that the Academy had written to the university to introduce courses in Beary art forms like 'Duff', 'Burda', 'Mehandi', 'Oppana', and 'Kolkali' on September 16, 2020. The university has accepted the request and constituted a committee the draft the regulations. The introduction of the courses will help in saving the art forms and promoting it, he added. Beary is an ethnic Muslim community, mainly concentrated in coastal Karnataka, and has its own language and culture. The committee constituted by the university comprises organisers of Beary programmes Bashir Baikampady and Ahmed Bava Moideen, teachers Abdul Razak Ananthady, Haidarali, language expert S B Darimi, writers K M Siddique Montugoli and Mariyam Ismail, 'Duff' teacher Noor Mohammad, 'Oppane' and 'Kolkali' artist Rahis, artiste Zulfikar Ahmad, member coordinator Aboobakkar Siddique, Academy President Rahim Uchil said. The courses in art forms will help in warding off the feeling of inferiority among a few people on the art forms. If it is introduced as a course, it will help in passing on the art forms to the future generation. It may be recalled that the Academy had recently introduced Beary script and numerals. Beary script has 13 vowels, 33 consonants and nine numerals. The Academy had released a calendar with all 12 months in Beary language. The academy intends to submit a proposal on introducing Beary language as the third optional language in schools from sixth standard onwards. The Chairman said that Beary language has a history of 1,400 years and is spoken by over 20 lakh people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangalore-university-proposes-to-introduce-courses-in-beary-art-forms-948212.html
06-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Six women rescued from brothel, seven held||City Police rescued six women from a brothel and arrested seven persons who involved in a prostitution racket in the city. Police raided a lodge at Hebbal and took three pimps and four others into custody. According to the police, the accused were running the brothel in a planned manner. They were taking women through cellar to maintain secrecy. A police officer said, a tea stall in front of the lodge was the meeting point of victims and customers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/six-women-rescued-from-brothel-seven-held-948272.html
06-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farmers block highways; police detain protesters to ease traffic||Members of farmers’ and other organisations in the region, comprising Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajanagar, blocked national and state highways, passing through their respective districts as a mark of support to the protest against farm laws in Delhi. The protest commenced at 12 noon, as per schedule. It was planned to continue till 3 pm. But, the police detained the agitators in parts of the region and allowed movement of vehicles on the highways. Traffic movement on Mysuru-Bengaluru, Mysuru-Ooty, Hunsur Road, Mangaluru-Bengaluru highway and other highways were affected. In Mysuru, the highways were blocked under the banner of Samyukta Kisan Morcha. While agitators blocked Mysuru-Bengaluru Highway at Columbia Asia Hospital junction, Mysuru-Ooty highway was blocked at Bandipalaya near APMC Yard in Mysuru. The police took nearly 150 activists into custody in Mysuru city and released them later. The oolice forcefully evicted Badagalpura Nagendra, president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS), M Umadevi and others as they refused to move from Mysuru-Bengaluru highway at Columbia Asia Hospital junction.    Members of Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene and Sugarcane Growers’ Association blocked the road near the APMC yard. Along with cattle and sheep, they blocked the road. The police took a few of them into custody when they tried to cook food on the highway. Nanjundaswamy, a farmer, collapsed on the protest venue when the police tried to stop him from tying a green shawl on his neck. In Mandya, agitators blocked the Mysuru-Bengaluru National Highway for 90 minutes, near VC Farm Gate, from 12 noon. They cooked food on the highway and served among themselves. As there was traffic jam, for nearly one km, vehicles took to alternative roads. Superintendent of Police K Parashuram monitored the security arrangements. In Hassan, Mangaluru-Bengaluru NH was blocked at Bustenahalli Cross. However, KSRTC buses and private vehicles bound for Bengaluru took to alternative route via Shantigrama. Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda convinced the protesters and cleared the way. In Chamarajangar, roads were blocked in the city, Kollegal town and Gundlupet. The police took the agitators into custody as they blocked NH-209 in Chamarajanagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-block-highways-police-detain-protesters-to-ease-traffic-948395.html
06-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Architect converts construction debris into building materials||A broken concrete block or pieces of bricks may be waste materials for common people. But, for this architect, such waste materials are useful construction materials. City-based architect M Rakesh Kumar Jain collects all kinds of debris and recycle them to convert into strong building materials. Jain, who owns Regional Low Energy Environment-Friendly (RLEEF), manages construction and has been constructing sustainable ‘zero waste homes’, using construction debris. He uses debris like broken concrete blocks, bricks and mud for the construction of non-structural members, such as below flooring, pillar wall, compound and parapet wall. According to him, one floor building with tiles or sheet roof can be constructed using debris. Zero waste home is conservation of all resources, by means of responsible production, consumption, reuse and recovery of products, packaging, and materials without burning and with no discharges to land, water, or air that threaten the environment or human health. Jain said, “We aim to facilitate the practice of increasing efficiency with structures. To minimise energy, water and materials and reduce harmful effects on human health and environment. In our quest to give back to nature, we prioritise region-based solutions and make sure that the building construction consumes low energy and is environment-friendly. For the purpose, there is a network of dedicated professionals, who provide support services such as structural design, solar lightning, grey water recycling, kitchen water harvesting, and kitchen waste biogas plant." “We are trying to use debris where certification is not required. Apart from constructing the structures using innovative technique, we also guide and impart training to interested people on constructing eco-friendly houses and utilising debris for construction," he said. Jain said that the utilisation of debris is a good solution for the local bodies and the government to address construction debris menace. "Usually, remains of buildings are dumped. But, utilisation of such items is definitely a solution for the issue. I have a plan to set-up a construction debris processing unit and have approached the authorities concerned in this regard. Converting large quantities of debris will have several benefits. Besides addressing the waste issue, it will significantly bring down the construction cost," he said. In addition, it is a boon to the environment as use of stone quarries for boulders, mud and other naturally available resources will be minimised. According to him, utilising debris will cut construction cost up to 40%. However, cost-effectiveness depends on sourcing of materials. "Now, we are concentrating on people who are conscious about nature and ready to invest. When people are more concerned about environment, they will be proud of not using more new materials from the nature," he said.     In order to sensitise the people about eco-friendly structures, Jain has prepared a book ‘Green Home Guide’ for Mysuru City Corporation (MCC). The MCC will utilise the document to educate the people on eco-friendly structures. The book contains details on eco-friendly alternative materials and technologies that can be used as components of buildings. Jain said that he has approached the MCC authorities to enter an agreement to process construction debris. "It is the responsibility of the local bodies to process debris. But, it is a challenge to segregate and process construction waste scientifically. We have urged the MCC to extend support, by providing land and dumping the waste on one site. We will segregate, recycle and reuse the materials for building construction," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/architect-converts-construction-debris-into-building-materials-948396.html
06-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||CEN police investigating fake notices sent to banks in name of ED||Cyber Economic Offences and Narcotics (CEN) wing of City Police is investigating the fake notices sent to some banks in the name of Enforcement Directorate to block transactions of bank accounts with cash balance above Rs 10 lakh and provide KYC details of such accounts. Banks following the notices had sent the details to ED which reverted back that they had not sought any such information or sent notices to banks. Banks after realising that the notices sent were fake filed complaint with the CEN police. Customers faced problems with banks keeping their accounts on hold as per the notices received by them earlier. Police said that none of the bank accounts have been compromised or money is withdrawn. They were investigating the case and have received some leads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cen-police-investigating-fake-notices-sent-to-banks-in-name-of-ed-948427.html
06-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||4,945 youth empowered with new skills during pandemic||The pandemic, which came unannounced in India, took away jobs of many. However, it also created opportunities to learn new skills and launch new enterprises. Thousands of youth benefited from skill-based education conducted between July 1 and December 31, last year, under the Atmanirbhar skill abhiyan launched in a few districts in the state, including, Dakshina, Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Hassan, Mandya, Chitradurga, Chamarajnagar, Davangere and Chikkballapur. According to statistics, 4,945 youth received free skill training for ‘employability’ organised at 35 centres in these districts by the Grama Vikasa, Vivekananda Vidyavardhaka Sangha and Sahakara Bharathi. Praveen Saralaya of Mangaluru Grama Vikasa said a majority of the youth trained were unemployed. Saralaya told DH that just weeks after the lockdown, youth without work returned to their villages. Grama Vikasa, in consultation with experts, decided to conduct short-term certificate courses in different skills in order to help such youth stand on their feet. Thus, under the banner of Atmanirbhar skill abhiyan, free training in the courses, was launched. Gram Vikasa identified courses with the help of skill mapping exercise and launched in respective villages. For instance, Grama Vikasa anticipated a severe shortage of labourers trained in the art of laying floor-tiles, as the skilled migrant labourers had returned to their villages during the lockdown. The list of courses includes laying floor-tiles, repair of CCTVs, farm equipment, among others. Praveen recollects that the training began in batches from July 1. The 30-hour syllabus for each course was designed by the Vivekananda and Nitte Polytechnic Institutes. The certificates to the participants were also awarded by these two institutions, he informed. He recollected that they had faced many challenges while conducting the six-day training camps in a phased manner. As Covid-19 protocol was followed strictly, none of them reported sick. Saralaya also thanked resource persons, empaneled for training youth. “Many among them flatly refused to even accept the honorarium,” he recollects with gratitude.   On how they were able to cover the huge cost, Saralaya informed that a registration fee of Rs 250 was collected from each participant. Thanks to Sahakara Bharathi, co-operative banks took care of the expenses incurred while providing breakfast and lunch to the participants. Apart from providing training, the organisers also had secured loans for youth from SC/ST communities. Saritha K, after undergoing training, realised that degree alone was not enough. “I also realised that it is possible to set up an enterprise with zero or minimum investment,” she said. Prakash Rai of Darbe in Puttur, who owns an automobile spare parts shop, after attending the camp is keen on starting his own venture. Saralaya says one Soumya Maria, who had attended their home nursing training course, had come to him with a box full of sweets weeks ago. “Soumya, brimming with joy, had informed me that she had landed a job as a home nurse in a foreign country,” informs Saralaya and added that they intend to bring out a booklet on the training and share it with the participants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/4945-youth-empowered-with-new-skills-during-pandemic-948430.html
06-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Congress to field Naseer Ahmed for Council chair poll?||Unwilling to go down without a fight, the Congress is considering fielding Naseer Ahmed as its candidate for the Legislative Council chairperson’s election scheduled to be held on February 9. “This has been discussed and the opinion is that we should field a candidate,” a top party leader said. The Congress is said to be keen on making it a contest by not allowing the new chairperson to be elected unopposed, which has been the practice in the Upper House. The election is scheduled on February 9 for the chairperson’s post that was vacated by Congressman K Prathapchandra Shetty, who resigned to preempt a no-confidence motion against him. Shetty was elected in 2018 when the Congress and the JD (S) were in a coalition. Now, however, the JD(S) has joined hands with the BJP. According to their pact, the BJP will support senior JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti’s election as the chairperson. In exchange, the JD(S) ensured that the BJP’s M K Pranesh became the deputy chairperson. Numerically, the Congress is unlikely to win: The BJP-JD(S) combine has 44 MLCs against the Congress’ 28 in the 75-member House. Apparently, the Congress leadership wants to field Ahmed, a former minister, to “expose” the JD(S). “If the JD(S) allows a Muslim minority candidate to get defeated, it will expose them. That’s what we want,” the leader quote earlier said. Over a week ago, the Congress attempted a similar move to "expose" the JD(S), when it fielded senior leader K C Kondaiah as its candidate against Pranesh, who managed to win comfortably.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-congress-to-field-naseer-ahmed-for-council-chair-poll-948294.html
06-02-2021||National||UNHRC calls on Indian govt, protesting farmers to exercise 'maximum restaint'||The UN human rights office on Friday called on Indian authorities and farmers protesting against the new agriculture laws to exercise maximum restraint, emphasising that it is crucial to find "equitable solutions" with due respect to human rights for all. The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR), in a tweet, said that the rights to peaceful assembly and expression should be protected both offline and online. "#India: We call on the authorities and protesters to exercise maximum restraint in ongoing #FarmersProtests. The rights to peaceful assembly & expression should be protected both offline & online. It's crucial to find equitable solutions with due respect to #HumanRights for all," it tweeted. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for over 70 days, demanding a complete repeal of three central farm laws. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the farmer unions protesting the farm laws, on Friday said there would be no 'chakka jam' in Delhi on February 6 even as it asserted that peasants in other parts of the country will block national and state highways for three hours but in a peaceful way. The SKM had earlier this week announced this nationwide chakka jam on Saturday, saying that farmers would block national and state highways for three hours in protest against the Internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities and other issues. Multiple rounds of talks between the government and the farmer unions have remained deadlocked. The protests at the Delhi borders for the repeal of the three contentious agri laws that was enacted in September last began on November 28. External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said any protests must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity, and the ongoing efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse. "The Parliament of India, after a full debate and discussion, passed reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector. These reforms give expanded market access and provided greater flexibility to farmers. They also pave the way for economically and ecologically sustainable farming," the MEA said in a statement on Wednesday. In a strong response to the remarks made by foreign individuals and entities, the MEA on Wednesday said the "temptation" of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments is "neither accurate nor responsible".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unhrc-calls-on-indian-govt-protesting-farmers-to-exercise-maximum-restaint-948050.html
06-02-2021||National||DH Toon | The varying narratives of farmers' protest||"But farmers are protesting. People in one state are victims of misinformation," he said. One of the placards read, "Mia Khalifa regains consciousness." She quipped about the gaffe and wrote, "Confirming I have in fact regained consciousness, and would like to thank you for your concern, albeit unnecessary. Still standing with the farmers, though."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-the-varying-narratives-of-farmers-protest-948113.html
06-02-2021||National||All you need to know about farmers' chakka jam today||After a violence-marred tractor rally on Republic Day, farmers protesting the three farm laws have called for a three-hour “peaceful chakka jam” across the country, except Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, on Saturday. Here's all you need to know: 1. Reason for chakka jam | The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), spearheading the agitation against the farm laws, had called for blocking national and state highways on Saturday to protest against the internet ban near the protest sites and alleged harassment of the protesters by the police. 2. Security beefed up | Keen to avoid a repeat of the events of January 26, the Delhi Police has stepped up security across the three protest sites – Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur borders of the national capital — by erecting cement barriers, putting barbed wires and iron spikes to prevent the entry of farmers’ tractors in the city. 3. No chakka jam in Delhi | “There will be no chakka jam programme inside Delhi since all the protest sites are already in a chakka jam mode. All roads for entering into Delhi will remain open except where farmers' protest sites are already located,” Darshan Pal, leader of the SKM said. 4. Time | The 'chakka jam' would be observed between 12:00 pm and 3:00 pm on Saturday when all national and state highways would be blocked. 5. Farmers' unions have said that emergency and essential services such as ambulances and school buses will not be stopped and the chakka jam will be peaceful.  6. In a separate statement, Bhartiya Kisan Union spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand have been exempted from the chakka jam, as he apprehended that a few people could attempt to spread violence. 7. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur – for over 70 days, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws. 8. According to the SKM, the 'chakka jam' will conclude at 3 pm by blowing vehicle horns for one minute, a move aimed at expressing support and solidarity with the farmers. 9. The Congress on Friday extended support to the countrywide 'chakka jam' called by farmer unions on February 6, saying party workers will stand shoulder to shoulder with farmers in their protest. 10. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the three new laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-farmers-chakka-jam-today-948118.html
06-02-2021||National||India showing no sign of giving up on extradition of David Headley, says Rana's lawyer||There is no indication that India has given up on the extradition of David Coleman Headley, the Mumbai terror attack accused, attorney of his co-accused Tahawwur Hussain Rana has told a US court. Rana, 59, a childhood friend of Headley, is facing extradition request by India for his involvement in the 2008 Mumbai terror attack in which 166 people, including six Americans, were killed. Rana, who has been declared a fugitive by India, is opposing his extradition. In a submission early this week before the US District Court Judge in Los Angeles Jacqueline Chelonian, opposing his extradition the attorney of Rana claimed that as of now there is no indication in the record that India has agreed to forgo Headley’s extradition to India. “India presumably could have agreed to forgo Headley's extradition in return for his assistance to the United States, but there is no indication in the record that it did so,” the court submission told the court. "In fact, the opinion of the Indian prosecutor serving as the government's expert states: "The present opinion is specific to the extradition request in respect of fugitive Tahawwur Hussain Rana. This opinion may not be construed in any manner to indicate that the various extradition requests pending with different sovereign nations in respect of the above-mentioned case which includes the case in respect of Accused No. 1, David Coleman Headley, is either being given up or not being pursued vigorously," said the motion filed by his attorneys. Pakistani-American Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terrorist Headley was involved in plotting the 2008 Mumbai terror attack. He was made an approver in the case, and is currently serving a 35-year prison term in the US for his role in the attack. Rana’s attorneys said that the Court should not lightly assume (as the government appears to suggest) that the government circumvented its treaty obligation to India through “a sham interpretation” of Article 6 of the India-US Extradition Treaty as part of its deal with Headley. The government's conclusion in Headley's plea agreement that Article 6 defines offences in terms of conduct rather than elements and thus bars Headley's extradition must be taken as its good-faith interpretation of the Treaty's terms, it said. Rana, in the court filing, describes his childhood friend Headley as a liar. Headley lied to federal agents, judges, and presumably prosecutors in relation to these cases. After his first heroin sentence (reduced because of his cooperation), he went back to dealing heroin despite promising that he would not. “He disregarded the agents' instructions regarding his dealings with targets and travelled to Pakistan without permission. After his second heroin conviction, he used his status as a DEA cooperator to deflect government scrutiny of his activities with Lashkar and his statements supporting jihad,” his lawyers alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-showing-no-sign-of-giving-up-on-extradition-of-david-headley-says-ranas-lawyer-948135.html
06-02-2021||National||India reports 11,713 fresh Covid-19 cases, 95 deaths||India reported 11,713 Covid-19 new cases, taking the nationwide tally to 1,08,14,304. With 95 new fatalities in the last 24 hours, the death toll stands at 1,54,918, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has surged to 1,05,10,796 with 14,488 recoveries in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The national recovery rate has climbed to 97.16 per cent. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total Covid-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,48,590 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.40 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-11713-fresh-covid-19-cases-95-deaths-948139.html
06-02-2021||National||Fortunate to contribute to India's growth: Ratan Tata asks netizens to stop Bharat Ratna campaign||Tata Group Chairman Ratan Tata on Saturday took to Twitter to request netizens to stop an ongoing campaign demanding a Bharat Ratna for him. "While I appreciate the sentiments expressed by a section of the social media in terms of an award, I would humbly like to request that such campaigns be discontinued. Instead, I consider myself fortunate to be an Indian and to try and contribute to India’s growth and prosperity." While I appreciate the sentiments expressed by a section of the social media in terms of an award, I would humbly like to request that such campaigns be discontinued. The hashtag #BharatRatnaForRatanTata started trending on Twitter yesterday after support poured in from netizens for recognising his efforts towards the country. It all started after a motivational speaker Dr Vivek Bhindra tweeted about the campaign to confer the highest civilian award to Ratan Tata. Twitterati jumped on the chance to recall instances when Tata displayed characteristics of a true leader, highlighting that he deserves the honour.  In March last year, the Tatas had pledged Rs 1,500 crore for combating coronavirus pandemic. Tata Sons, the holding firm of the Tata group companies, announced an additional Rs 1,000 crore support towards Covid-19 and related activities above the Rs 500 crore pledged by Tata Trusts earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fortunate-to-contribute-to-indias-growth-ratan-tata-asks-netizens-to-stop-bharat-ratna-campaign-948172.html
06-02-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi hails judiciary for safeguarding people's rights, upholding Constitution||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday praised the country's judiciary, saying that it has performed its duty well in safeguarding people's rights and upholding personal freedom, and added that it has also strengthened the Constitution. He said the Supreme Court in India has conducted the highest number of hearings via video-conferencing from among the top courts of all the countries in the world during the coronavirus pandemic. Modi also said that in order to make the country's justice system future-ready, the possibility of using Artificial Intelligence (AI) was being explored. He was speaking after virtually releasing a commemorative postage stamp on the Gujarat High Court for sixty years of its establishment. "Every countryman can say that our judiciary has worked with firmness to uphold our Constitution. Our judiciary has strengthened the Constitution by its positive interpretation," Modi said. "The Supreme Court has conducted the highest number of hearings through video-conferencing in the world during the pandemic," he said. Through constructive and creative interpretation of the Constitution, our judiciary has strengthened the Constitution itself, he added. "Whether it is to safeguard the rights of citizens, question of personal freedom, or a situation wherein the interest of the country is to be given top-most priority, the judiciary has both understood and fulfilled its responsibilities," he said. He said the root of good governance is in law, as has been held in the ancient Indian scriptures, he said. "This idea has been a part of our 'sanskar' since ancient times. This mantra gave moral strength to our freedom struggle, and the makers of our Constitution also gave it top priority," he said. This trust towards the judiciary has given confidence to the common man, given him the strength to stand for truth, Modi said. The prime minister said that "the proud structure of justice stands on the pillar of Bar". "Since decades, bar and judiciary have together been fulfilling the basic purpose of justice in our country," he said. Modi also highlighted that the Gujarat High Court became the first court in India to start live streaming of proceedings during the pandemic. "For us, it is a matter of satisfaction that the digital infrastructure created by the justice department under its e-court integrated mission mode has in such a short span of time helped our courts work in virtual mode," he said. "Digital India mission is rapidly modernising the justice system. Today, more than 18,000 courts have been computerised in the country. With video-conferencing and tele-conferencing getting legal sanctity from the Supreme Court, e-proceedings have gained pace across all courts. "We feel proud to hear that our Supreme Court has become the top among the apex courts in terms of conducting hearings through video conferencing," he said. Facilities like e-filing of cases, unique ID and QR codes to access case details, have given a new dimension to ease of justice, he said. Talking about the National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG), Modi said that the system will help lawyers and litigants see cases and orders with a click of mouse. "This ease of justice is not only improving the ease of living of our people, but has also helped in ease of doing business. This has given confidence among foreigners that their judicial rights will be safe in India. In its 2018 ease of doing business report, the World Bank has also praised the NJDG," he said. The PM said that a Supreme Court committee and National Informatics Centre (NIC) are working together to further ease the justice system in India. "To make our justice system future-ready, the possibility of Artificial Intelligence (AI) is also being explored," he said. "With AI, the efficiency and speed of judiciary will increase. In these efforts, the country's Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign is going to play a big role. Under it, the video conference platform is also being encouraged," he said. Modi said that e-seva kendras are also being opened in the high courts and district courts to bridge the digital divide. He said e-Adalat has become "timely and convenient means of justice". During the pandemic, online e-Lok Adalat has become a new normal, he said. Modi further said the first Lok Adalat was held in Junagadh in Gujarat around four decades back and it was the first state to begin evening courts and took many initiatives for the benefit of the poor. Modi praised judiciary for presenting an excellent example of its dedication and duty during the COVID-19 pandemic period, by dispensing justice through video conferencing, SMS callout, e-filing and e-mail my case status services, streaming on court's display boards, uploading of orders on the daily basis, and others. Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Supreme Court judge Justice M R Shah, Gujarat HC Chief Justice Vikram Nath, state Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and others attended the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-hails-judiciary-for-safeguarding-peoples-rights-upholding-constitution-948184.html
06-02-2021||National||WWF-India and TRAFFIC step up campaign to prevent trade of monitor lizard||Rattled by the trade of medicines made using monitor lizard  in the country, TRAFFIC, an NGO working on the trade of wildlife, and World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF-India) have stepped up their campaign, requesting people protect the species. Monitor lizards (Varanus) are illegally targeted for their copulatory organs (hemipenes) that is structurally similar to “hatha jodi" or the root of the Tiger's Claw (Martynia annua), a plant with diverse traditional uses in Ayurveda. As a consequence, the reproductive organs of monitor lizards are often disguised as the plant and traded illegally. All four species of monitor lizards in India are protected under India’s Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 and listed under Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES), an international agreement between governments. This includes the Bengal Monitor (Varanus bengalensis), Asian Water Monitor (Varanus salvator), Yellow Monitor (Varanus flavescens), and Desert Monitor (Varanus griseus). Monitor lizards are also extensively poached for meat which is considered a delicacy and also believed to have medicinal properties. To highlight this threat to monitor lizards from illegal wildlife trade, TRAFFIC’s India Office with support from WWF-India, is raising awareness about the exploitation of monitor lizards. The key message of the online campaign is “Buying is Stealing” which warns people against buying medicinal products made from monitor lizards, among other protected wildlife species. “The demand for Hatha Jodi is one of the major drivers of poaching and illegal trade of monitor lizards in India today,” said Dr Saket Badola, Head of TRAFFIC’s India office. “There is evidence that populations of the Bengal Monitor, Common Water Monitor and Yellow Monitor are being impacted as a result, so it is therefore crucial that people understand the gravity of threat posed by illegal wildlife trade," he said in a press release. Monitor lizards are essential to agricultural and forest ecosystems as they feast on insects, rodents, bird eggs, snakes, fish, and crabs, thereby regulating their population. In some regions, they are also a source of food for other predators. Monitor lizards are keen scavengers and play a significant role in biomass decomposition and recycling. They clear carrion and help in controlling the spread of disease.  Monitor lizards are also threatened by large-scale habitat degradation due to urbanisation and rapid expansion of agricultural lands, pollution, overfishing, and infringement of forests and water bodies. Human-wildlife conflicts and retaliatory killings also pose a direct threat to the survival of monitor lizard species||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wwf-india-and-traffic-step-up-campaign-to-prevent-trade-of-monitor-lizard-948186.html
06-02-2021||National||US India Caucus leadership urge India to allow peaceful demonstration||The leadership of the powerful Congressional India Caucus has urged the Indian government to ensure that the norms of democracy are maintained and the protesters are allowed to demonstrate peacefully and have access to the Internet, as it discussed the issue of the ongoing farmer's agitation in the country. Congressman Brad Sherman, Co-Chair of the Congressional India Caucus said that he convened a meeting with his other Republican Co-Chair Congressman Steve Chabot, and Vice-Chair Congressman Ro Khanna to speak with India’s Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, regarding farmers demonstrations in India. This was the first meeting of the India Caucus, the largest country-specific caucus in the US House of Representatives, on the issue. “I urged the Indian government to make sure that the norms of democracy are maintained and that protesters are allowed to protest peaceably and to have access to the Internet, and to journalists. All friends of India hope that the parties can reach an agreement,” Sherman said. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for over 70 days, demanding a complete repeal of three central farm laws. Multiple rounds of talks between the Government and the farmer unions have remained deadlocked. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the farmer unions protesting the farm laws, on Friday said there would be no 'chakka jam' in Delhi on February 6 even as it asserted that peasants in other parts of the country will block national and state highways for three hours but in a peaceful way. The SKM had earlier this week announced this nationwide chakka jam on Saturday, saying that farmers would block national and state highways for three hours in protest against the Internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities and other issues. The External Affairs Ministry has said that any protests must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity, and the ongoing efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse. "The Parliament of India, after a full debate and discussion, passed reformist legislation relating to the agricultural sector. These reforms give expanded market access and provided greater flexibility to farmers. They also pave the way for economically and ecologically sustainable farming," the MEA said in a statement on Wednesday. "The temporary measures with regard to internet access in certain parts of the NCR region were ...understandably undertaken to prevent further violence," it said on Thursday, referring to the incidents of violence and vandalism at the historic Red Fort on January 26. Congressman Steve Cohen said that India is the largest democracy in the world and free speech is one of the finest hallmarks of democracy. “I am closely watching the #FarmersProtests with concern about potential attacks on freedom of speech including cuts to internet service and state-sponsored violence,” he tweeted. "The USA and India were built by small farmers, diversity, and democracy. We cannot stray from our shared values,” tweeted Congressman Eric Swalwell. “India must commit to peace, negotiate with small farmers, restore internet access, and reject discrimination,” he said. In a strong response to the remarks made by foreign individuals and entities, the MEA on Wednesday said the "temptation" of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments is "neither accurate nor responsible".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-india-caucus-leadership-urge-india-to-allow-peaceful-demonstration-948195.html
06-02-2021||National||Nine rounds of military talks held with Chinese, will continue, says External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said senior military commanders of India and China have held nine rounds of talks on the process of disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh and the parleys will continue in future also. Addressing reporters in Vijayawada, he said so far there was no "visible expression" of the talks on ground. "The disengagement talks, because it is a very complicated issue, because it depends on troops, you have to know the geography (like) which position and what is happening, this is being done by the military commanders," he said. He was replying to a query on whether there would be any ministerial level talks between both the countries on skirmishes between troops of the Asian giants. China and India are locked in a military standoff in eastern Ladakh since May 5 last. The two countries have held several rounds of military and diplomatic talks to resolve the face-off, but no significant headway has been made so far. "So, military commanders have held nine rounds of meetings so far. We believe some progress has been made, but it is not, in a kind of situation where there is a visible expression of that on the ground," he said. Jaishankar said he and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh held parleys with their counterparts of China last year and agreed that they should disengage in some parts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-rounds-of-military-talks-held-with-chinese-will-continue-says-external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-948201.html
06-02-2021||National||Soon, you may be able to get a driving licence without a test||You may soon be able to get a driving licence without a test.  The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has issued a draft notification inviting public comments on a system where if one learns to drive at an accredited driver training centres, they may be exempt from test to obtain a driver's licence. To impart quality driver training to citizens, the ministry has proposed certain requirements to be met and procedures to be followed by such centres. Moreover, if one successfully completes driver training from such centres, they will be exempted from the requirement of a driving test while applying for a driving licence, according to the notification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/soon-you-may-be-able-to-get-a-driving-licence-without-a-test-948205.html
06-02-2021||National||Had existing farm laws been beneficial, many farmers would not have committed suicide: BJP leader||Defending the Centre's new farm laws, BJP Kisan Morcha national spokesman Kamal Soi said that had the existing legislations been beneficial for farmers, so many of them would not have committed suicide. Talking to PTI during his visit to Shimla on Friday, he said, "In Punjab, 700 to 800 farmers commit suicide in a year." A resident of Ludhiana district in Punjab, Soi further stated that 95 per cent agricultural land in his state has been mortgaged to banks as farmers are under the burden of Rs 125 lakh crore debt. Had existing farm laws been beneficial for the farmers, so many of them would not have committed suicide facing burden of huge bank loans. That is why the Union government enacted the three new farm laws for the benefits of the farmers but they are being misled, he said. Soi said he had difference of opinions with the agitating farmers but he went to the Singhu border in December and distributed 500 jackets and other items to them on humanitarian grounds. The BJP Kisan Morcha national spokesperson urged the agitating farm leaders not to remain adamant on their demand for repeal of the new laws and to help reach a solution to the ongoing agitation. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/had-existing-farm-laws-been-beneficial-many-farmers-would-not-have-committed-suicide-bjp-leader-948207.html
06-02-2021||National||Modi govt allocated 438% more budget to agriculture sector as compared to UPA: Union Minister Giriraj Singh||Union Minister Giriraj Singh on Saturday said the budgetary allocation made by the Modi government for the agriculture sector during 2014-2020 was 438 per cent more than what it was during the previous UPA rule. He also accused the Leftists and the "tukde-tukde gang" of defaming the Modi government's achievements in the farm sector. The Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying was speaking to reporters here. "I want to stress on the budget (allocation) for the agriculture sector. The budget allocation for agriculture was Rs 88,811 crore between 2009 and 2014, which was increased to Rs 4,87,238 crore between 2014 and 2020, registering a growth of 438 per cent," he said. "The Leftists and the 'tukde-tukde gang' are defaming the achievements of the Modi-led government in the farm sector," he alleged. He said the agriculture credit during 2013-14 was Rs seven lakh crore, which has gone up to Rs 16.5 lakh crore during the FY 2021-22, reporting an increase of 135 per cent. Singh said that wheat worth Rs 33,000 crore was procured during 2013-14, which increased to Rs 62,000 crore during the 2019-2020 fiscal, with a growth of 87 per cent. Similarly, paddy worth Rs 63,298 crore was procured between 2013-14 which went up to Rs 1.41 lakh crore in 2019-2020, he added. Singh said that 106 lakh farmers in the country have benefited through the Direct Bank Transfer (DBT) of Rs 6,000 each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-allocated-438-more-budget-to-agriculture-sector-as-compared-to-upa-union-minister-giriraj-singh-948209.html
06-02-2021||National||Jaipur Literature Festival to be held virtually from February 19 to 28||The 14th edition of the Jaipur Literature Festival (JLF) will be held virtually from February 19 to 28, its organisers announced on Saturday. The literary extravaganza brings together a feast of transformational perspectives and literary thought in its remarkable line-up featuring some of the world's greatest writers, thinkers and speakers, they said. Celebrated author and poet Mark Haddon, famous for his global bestseller 'The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time', will talk about the inspiration that guides his pen. The festival will also see acclaimed and popular writer Philip Pullman talking about his vision of alternative reality. At another session featuring two disquieting novels, writers Deepa Anappara and Annie Zaidi will examine inequity and alienation across Indian society, and speak about their writing process. Ireland's greatest living novelist Colm Tóibín will take the audience to the roots of his writing process and celebrated career at a session on his bestselling book 'The Master'. The festival will also feature an exclusive conversation between celebrated actress Priyanka Chopra and well-known writer and columnist Shobhaa De, discussing Chopra's autobiography 'Unfinished'. Author and JLF Co-director Namita Gokhale said, "It's been a joyous challenge to work on the programming for Jaipur Literature Festival 2021. We look at our transformative times and try to understand the future through the lens of the present and the past. Our hybrid digital outreach has opened up a new universe of possibilities." Writer and JLF Co-director William Dalrymple said, "Our spectacular Jaipur 2021 programme is now online. I am bowled over by what we've managed to achieve despite the pandemic. This is one of our strongest line-ups yet and we still have some literary superstar surprises to reveal."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaipur-literature-festival-to-be-held-virtually-from-february-19-to-28-948214.html
06-02-2021||National||25 countries in queue for 'Made in India' Covid-19 vaccine: S Jaishankar||India has so far supplied Covid-19 vaccine to 15 countries and another 25 nations are in the queue at different levels for the jab, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said here on Saturday. He said there are three categories of countries which are keen to get the vaccine from India- poor, price sensitive nations and other countries which directly deal with pharmaceutical companies that make the antidote. "I think right now we have already supplied to about 15 countries (as per my recollection). I would say there would be another about 25 countries which are at different stages in the pipeline. But what it has done is today it has put India on the map of the world," Jaishankar told reporters in a press conference. The minister said some poor countries are being supplied the vaccine on a grant basis while some nations wanted it on par with the price that the Indian Government pays to the vaccine makers. Some countries have direct contracts with the Indian vaccine producing companies and have negotiated commercially, he said. The Centre has already given the nod for two Covid-19 vaccines - Covaxin of city-based Bharat Biotech and Covishield of Oxford, being manufactured by Serum Institute of India in Pune, which are being administered to frontline workers from January 16, under Emergency Use Authorisation. Jaishankar said Prime Minister Narendra Modis idea was to establish the country as the "Pharmacy of the World", taking advantage of the domestic capabilities and the way India emerged as IT leader during the Y2K issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/25-countries-in-queue-for-made-in-india-covid-19-vaccine-s-jaishankar-948216.html
06-02-2021||National||Over 56 lakh vaccinated against Covid-19, says Health Ministry||Over 56 lakh people have been inoculated till now and there has been no case of serious or severe adverse event following vaccination or death attributable to the vaccination till date, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. Of the 56,36,868 beneficiaries vaccinated, Additional Secretary in the Union health ministry Manohar Agnani said 52,66,175 are healthcare workers and 3,70,693 are frontline workers whose vaccination started on February 2. He further said that 54.7 per cent of the healthcare workers registered on the Co-WIN app have been vaccinated. On Saturday, Agnani said total 2,20,019 beneficiaries were vaccinated. He said there was no case of serious or severe AEFI or death attributable to vaccination till date. "No new case of hospitalization or death reported in the past 24 hours," he added. Agnani said 13 states and UTs, including Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Tripura, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, have vaccination coverage of 60 per cent among health care workers while 12 states and UTs, including Delhi, Punjab and Assam, have less than 40 per cent vaccination coverage among HCWs. He said Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Saturday reviewed the performance of vaccination drives with all states and UTs. "He advised states/UTs to improve coverage, beneficiary turn out per session and minimize vaccine wastage," Agnani said. He said states and UTs have been asked to complete the first dose administration to all health care workers by February 20 and mop-up rounds by February 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-56-lakh-vaccinated-against-covid-19-says-health-ministry-948219.html
06-02-2021||National||India, EU hold high-level dialogue, discuss ways to promote trade||India and the European Union (EU) have held the first high-level dialogue (HLD) and discussed ways to promote bilateral trade and investments, the commerce ministry said on Saturday. The meeting was co-chaired by Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal and the European Union Executive Vice-President and Trade Commissioner Valdis Dombrovskis. It was held on Friday. During the discussions, the ministers "agreed for further deepening of bilateral trade and investment relationship through a series of regular engagements, aiming at quick deliverable for the businesses in these tough times", it said. The ministers also agreed to meet within the next three months, with an objective for reaching consensus on a host of bilateral trade and investment cooperation issues including a bilateral Regulatory Dialogue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-eu-hold-high-level-dialogue-discuss-ways-to-promote-trade-948225.html
06-02-2021||National||Army personnel data leaked using Airtel network; company denies breach||A hacker group has allegedly leaked data of Army personnel using Bharti Airtel network in Jammu and Kashmir, even as the company denied any breach in its system. The group, with the name of Red Rabbit Team, hacked some Indian websites and posted the data on the web pages of those portals. The hackers shared some links of those web pages on Twitter in a comment over a tweet of cybersecurity researcher Rajshekhar Rajaharia and tagged several media organisations. The query sent to the Indian Army did not elicit any reply but an Army official said, "We are not aware of any such information but it appears to be malicious intent of some inimical elements". When contacted, Bharti Airtel spokesperson denied any breach of its server. "We can confirm there is no hack or breach of any Airtel system as claimed by this group. Multiple stakeholders outside of Airtel have access to some data as per regulatory requirements. We have apprised all the relevant authorities of the matter to, therefore, investigate this and take appropriate action." "This group has been in touch with our security team for over 15 months now and has made varying claims in addition to posting inaccurate data from one specific region," the spokesperson said. The links shared by the hacker were initially accessible with mobile number, name and address of subscribers but stopped working after sometime. Red Rabbit Team in a message to PTI claimed that it has access to pan-India data of Bharti Airtel through a shell uploaded on the company's server and will leak more data soon. Rajaharia said that hackers have failed to show any credible evidence of possessing pan-India data of Bharti Airtel and it is also unclear on the way they got subscriber's data. "The hacker group failed to show evidence that they have a whole India database. Their claim of shell upload may be also fake. The video of SDR portal seems real but only a short portion of data may leak via this. It is still unclear how they got access to whole Jammu and Kashmir subscriber data," he said. Telecom operators are required to give access to government and law enforcement agencies of subscriber data registration (SDR) portal through which phone numbers and subscribers details can be verified. Rajaharia said that hackers may be from Pakistan. "The website which was used to upload alleged Airtel data was hacked on December 4, 2020 by Mr Clay (TeamLeets - a Pakistani Hacker Group). This indicates that a Pakistani hacker group TeamLeets may be behind this data leak," Rajaharia said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-personnel-data-leaked-using-airtel-network-company-denies-breach-948227.html
06-02-2021||National||About a quarter of direct tax litigations getting resolved via 'Vivad Se Vishwas'||The Centre's ambitious tax dispute resolution scheme 'Vivad Se Vishwas' has settled almost a quarter of the over 5.10 lakh tax disputes, with about Rs 97,000 crore worth disputed tax being resolved so far under it. As many as 1,25,144 cases have so far opted for the Vivad se Vishwas (VsV) Scheme, which is 24.5 per cent of the 5,10,491 cases that were pending at different legal fora, according to sources in the Department of Revenue (DoR). "The response to VsV Scheme has been very encouraging and so far involves the tax dispute settlement amount to the tune of more than Rs 97,000 crore," sources added. The 'Vivad se Vishwas' Scheme has received 15 times better response in comparison to Direct Tax Dispute Resolution Scheme, 2016 (DTDRS), and with regard to the settled disputed amount, it is 153 times of DTDRS. The 1998's 'Kar Vivad Samadhan Scheme' (KVS) Scheme could gather Rs 739 crore with just few thousand cases, while the 2016's DTDR Scheme resolved just 8,600 odd cases involving an amount of Rs 631 crore.  Sources said that the setting up of Dispute Resolution Committee (DRC) announced in the 2021-22 budget is in furtherance of the VsV Scheme. Under DRC, further impetus is to be provided to resolve the litigations in the best interest of the small taxpayers in a Tax Lok Adalat format which would bring transparency and accountability in a faceless manner. The last date for filing declaration under the VsV scheme has been extended till February 28, while for paying the disputed tax the date is March 31.  The scheme provides for settlement of disputed tax, disputed interest, disputed penalty or disputed fees in relation to an assessment or reassessment order on payment of 100 per cent of the disputed tax and 25 per cent of the disputed penalty or interest or fee. The taxpayer is granted Immunity from levy of interest, penalty and institution of any proceeding for prosecution for any offence under the Income-tax Act in respect of matters covered in the declaration. The Direct Tax 'Vivad se Vishwas' Act, 2020 was enacted on March 17, 2020, to settle direct tax disputes locked up in various appellate forum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/about-a-quarter-of-direct-tax-litigations-getting-resolved-via-vivad-se-vishwas-948240.html
06-02-2021||National||Some people are spreading confusion among farmers about MSP: Union minister||Amid a protest by farmers against the Centre's three farm laws, Union Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Saturday alleged that some people are spreading confusion among farmers about the minimum support price mechanism, whereas the truth is there has been an increase of one-and-half times in the stipulated rate for crops under the Modi government. Speaking to reporters at the BJP Uttar Pradesh state headquarters, Shekhawat said, "The people who have termed the farm laws as black laws and have knowledge about agriculture, they should come and tell what is 'black' in these. The political parties who have been rejected by the people or who apprehend of being rendered useless in future, they are making it an issue and are spreading confusion like they had with the citizenship law amendment." He said the central government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi is committed to the welfare of farmers and doubling their income. On the Union Budget for 2021-22, Shekhawat said, "The budget was presented from the point of view of making the country self-reliant. And whenever the history of 'aatmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) will be written, this budget will prove to be a milestone. The budget was presented to transform adversity to opportunity." The Union minister said that in the budget, the Centre has launched the Jal Jeevan Mission for urban areas, and Uttar Pradesh will gain the most from it. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-people-are-spreading-confusion-among-farmers-about-msp-union-minister-948244.html
06-02-2021||National||Farmers' agitation gives new lease of life to RLD in Uttar Pradesh's 'Jatland'||Almost on the brink of extinction in what once used to be its bastion, the Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) has got a new lease of life in the 'Jatland' of western Uttar Pradesh from the ongoing farmer agitation in protest against the farm laws. RLD leaders, including its vice-president Jayant Chaudhary, the son of former union minister Ajit Singh, have been on the forefront in rallying the farmers of the region against the farm laws and has been attending the farmers' 'mahapanchayats' in different districts. What seems to have come as a big boost for the RLD was the remarks by the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) president Naresh Tikait that the 'Jats' committed a blunder by shifting their allegiance from the RLD. "Ajit Singh ko hara kar hamne bahut bari bhool ki," (it was a great mistake on our part to defeat Ajit Singh), Tikait said at one of the mahapanchayats of the farmers in Muzaffarnagar town, about 500 kilometres from here, a few days back. The RLD top leadership has directed the party workers to fan out in the villages, especially those dominated by the 'Jats' and solicit their support for the ongoing protests against the farm laws. RLD leaders admitted that there was now a 'sympathy' for the party among the 'jat community'. "The farmers protest has come as a huge boost for us...we are now getting good support in the jat dominated areas in western UP," said a senior RLD leader here while speaking to DH. Political analysts also point out that RLD stood to gain the most from the farmers' agitation. "The party can expect to get the support of its former voters now," said a Lucknow based analyst. RLD fared miserably in the 2017 assembly polls in UP. It had contested 357 of the 403 seats in the state but could manage to win only one seat. The party candidates had lost their security deposits on all but three seats in the polls. RLD could secure only 1.80 per cent votes in the assembly elections. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls also the RLD had failed to win any seat in the state and its president Ajit Singh and his son Jayant Chaudhary had also lost from their bastions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-agitation-gives-new-lease-of-life-to-rld-in-uttar-pradeshs-jatland-948245.html
06-02-2021||National||Rejected politicians, bogus Bharat bashing brigade defaming India: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi||Senior BJP leader and Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Saturday said "rejected politicians" and the “bogus Bharat bashing brigade” are involved in a criminal conspiracy to defame the country. Speaking to reporters here, Naqvi said, "Such criminal syndicate of misinformation and Bharat bashing has always been defeated by the commitment of the people of India." "Such people created a ruckus on the so-called intolerance in the country, raised questions on surgical strike on Pakistan, created confusion over CAA, and opposed steps taken for the well-being of people during the Covid-19 pandemic,” Naqvi said. Now, the ‘gumrahi’ (misleading) gang has hijacked the farmers’ agitation and doing politics over it, he said, adding that some people in the country still have “feudal arrogance”. In a statement, Naqvi said the people of the country, while rejecting all criminal conspiracies and political hypocrisies of some vested interests, have expressed trust in the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. People gave a massive mandate to the BJP-led NDA in 2014 and again in 2019. The masses have supported the policies of the prime minister by giving “tremendous support” to the BJP in assembly, panchayat and local bodies elections in different states and union territories, he said. "On one hand, the Bharat bashing brigade raised false and fake propaganda of so-called insecurity among minorities, on the other hand PM Modi worked tirelessly to make all sections of society including minorities an equal partner of mainstream development," he said. “Prime Minister Modi's commitment to ‘sabka sath, sabka vikas’ has always exposed these characters. The entire world is admiring Modi's commitment towards inclusive development,” he added. Naqvi said, "When our security forces destroyed terrorist camps by conducting a surgical strike, then some people outside the country and leaders of the grand old party, demanded proof. It was an amazing 'jugalbandi'.” The Union minister said the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 provides citizenship to persecuted minorities from three countries, but some people deliberately created confusion by linking the Act with the citizenship of Muslims of India. These people with narrow political self-interests tried to “hide the mountain of truth with bushes of lies”, he said. Naqvi said the Union Budget 2021-22 is a gazette of the glorious journey of ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ and will ensure development with dignity of all sections of the society. The budget fulfils the expectations and aspirations of all sections -- poor, farmers, youth, senior citizens, women, labourers, and small traders, he said. It will bring revolutionary reforms in the country’s health infrastructure, MSMEs, and education and research sectors which will help generate ample employment opportunities. Naqvi also discussed the budget with different sections including intellectuals, businessmen, traders, and entrepreneurs, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rejected-politicians-bogus-bharat-bashing-brigade-defaming-india-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-948246.html
06-02-2021||National||Reduce school fees to help lockdown-hit parents: Maharashtra BJP MLA||A Mumbai BJP MLA on Saturday demanded that school fees be slashed by 50 per cent as parents of several students had lost their jobs due to the coronavirus outbreak and resultant lockdown. Atul Bhatkhalkar, MLA from Kandivali East in the metropolis and the BJP's in charge for BMC polls, said state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad should take the initiative on fee reduction. "Several people have lost their jobs in the lockdown. If the demand is not met, then the BJP will take to the streets," he said. "I wonder why Varsha Gaikwad has given a stay on the committee looking into parents' complaints of exorbitant fee hike by some schools in the state. Gaikwad should have permitted the committee to complete its work," the BJP MLA added. He alleged that Gaikwad "tried to malign the image of some of the parents' associations who have been demanding slashing of fees" and asked if Gaikwad, as minister, should be "protecting the interests of students or the school management".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reduce-school-fees-to-help-lockdown-hit-parents-maharashtra-bjp-mla-948255.html
06-02-2021||National||PMO says don't have records of Narendra Modi's donation to PM-CARES: RTI||The offices of the President and Vice President have provided the amount both donated to the controversial PM-CARES through the RTI Act but Prime Minister's Office has said that it has no information about Narendra Modi's contribution as it does not hold any such records. Law student Aniket Gaurav had sought details of donations made by President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Modi separately. In its reply on June 16 last year to the query raised six days earlier, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said the President has contributed his one month salary -- Rs five lakh -- towards PM-CARES fund. On June 9 last year, the Vice President's Secretariat responded that Naidu contributed a month's salary -- Rs 4 lakh -- to the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF). "In addition to the above, he (Naidu) is contributing 30% of his monthly salary towards the PM-CARES Fund until the situation in the country becomes normal. So far, Rs 1.2 lakh per month has been contributed to this fund since April 2020," the Secretariat said its reply to the query filed on May 11, 2020. Gaurav later filed an RTI with the Prime Minister's Office in August last year seeking information. An appeal was filed in October and he received the response from the PMO on January 29 this year. It said, "information regarding donations made by the PM from his personal savings, inter-alia, is personal in nature and therefore not part of the records held by this Office." There were reports earlier that Modi donated Rs 2.25 lakh from his own pocket as the "initial corpus" to the PM-CARES just after it was set up. The Narendra Modi government has been stone-walling RTI queries on PM-CARES citing that it is a private entity not controlled by the government, raising questions from transparency activists and Opposition. The Trust deed dated March 27, 2020 said that the PM-CARES was "not created by or under the Constitution of India or by any law made by the Parliament or by any state legislature". It also went on to say that the Trust is "neither intended to be or is in fact owned, controlled or substantially financed by any government or any instrumentality of the Government". However, a latest RTI in December last year showed that the controversial fund has been provided the official gov.in domain on a request from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) to the National Informatics Centre (NIC). It has also come to light that the letter from the PMO was sent on March 27 and the approval for use of the official domain reserved for a few government departments and agencies for the PM-CARES came on the same day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pmo-says-dont-have-records-of-narendra-modis-donation-to-pm-cares-rti-948257.html
06-02-2021||National||Baghel slams nails, barricades at farmer protest sites, accuses govt of internationalising issue||Slamming the Centre over the treatment of farmers protesting the new farm laws, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Saturday likened the installing of multi-layered barricading and nails at protest sites to the old tactics of "dacoits" blocking routes of villages while caring out robberies, and accused the government of internationalising the farmers' issue. The senior Congress leader also warned that if the government does not resolve the issue of farmers soon, the agitation will spread across the country. In an interview to PTI, Baghel said the farmers were demanding that there should be a guarantee on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) which should be given to them. "Why only Punjab, Haryana and Chhattisgarh, in the whole country, crops should be bought at MSP," he asserted. He dismissed the suggestion that the Opposition could not forcefully raise the voice for the farmers on the three farm laws, saying former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi was the first one to raise the matter. "When these laws were made, Rahul Gandhi was the first one to raise this issue, even in Parliament. He also carried out tractor rallies in Punjab and Haryana. He showed the way and then farmers proceeded on that path," Baghel said. The farmers are carrying out a non-political movement which is a good thing, but Rahul Gandhi had taken the initiative, the Chhattisgarh chief minister added. He asserted that the Opposition strongly opposed the laws both inside and outside Patliament, and to say that they did not raise their voice forcefully is absolutely wrong. Asked about the multi-layered barricading and iron nails studded on roads at the protest sites on Delhi's border points, Baghel said that in the olden days "when dacoits used to carry out dacoities in villages, they used to cut off all the routes by installing nails and leave just one route open for their exit." "Now, the government is doing that," he added. On the controversy over global celebrities such as singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg expressing support to the farmers' protests, Baghel question the government's approach of countering them by issuing an official statement. "You (the government) are further encouraging this by reacting to it. They (the government) have internationalised it. If you would not have reacted, it would not have been internationalised," the Chhattisgarh chief minister said. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the MEA had slammed the remarks made by pop singer Rihanna and other celebrities and activists on farmer protests, saying the facts on the issue must be ascertained before rushing to comment on it. Pointing out that India also speaks on issues of other countries such as on the Capitol Hill violence in the US recently, Baghel took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Howdy Modi event, saying he was seen "campaigning" there. He urged the government to take care of the economic needs of the farmers and fulfil its promises such as the implementation of the Swaminathan committee report and doubling farmers' income by 2022. "You had talked about implementing the Swaminathan committee report and doubling the farmers' income by 2022. Now we are into 2021, how far have we reached in doubling the farmers' income, the government needs to answer these questions," Baghel said. If the government does not resolve the farmers' issue soon, the agitation will spread across the nation, he said. To highlight the widespread opposition to the laws, he also pointed out that Rahul Gandhi had met President Ram Nath Kovind and handed over two crore signatures of farmers collected by the Congress against the farm laws. Baghel alleged that the primary issue was "that this government does not have a vision". From the time of India's first prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru to Indira Gandhi, there was a paucity of foodgrains, but Indira Gandhi gave the slogan of green revolution to which the farmers of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh responded and supported the government, he said. The farmers increased production to such levels that "we became aatmanirbhar as far as foodgrains are concerned", Baghel said. "Now the government does not have a place to keep all the foodgrains. You can't just keep putting it in godowns as there is a limited capacity. They should have acted on time, I had proposed two years ago that states should be allowed to use the surplus foodgrains, be it 'Makka (maize) or Dhaan (paddy)', to produce ethanol," he said. "But it is stuck. If you give this permission to states there will be less pressure on the Centre as well as states," Baghel argued. Farmers are producing at the behest of the government, so who will ensure their welfare and why should they not get MSP, he asked. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/baghel-slams-nails-barricades-at-farmer-protest-sites-accuses-govt-of-internationalising-issue-948260.html
06-02-2021||National||Radical Sikh outfits, Pak-based Twitter handles fomenting trouble: Rawat on farmers' stir||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat Saturday said US-based outfits such as Justice for Sikhs and around 300 Pakistan-based Twitter handles are stoking anger among farmers as he challenged those protesting the three new agricultural laws to prove how they are harmful to farmers. Those behind the farmers' agitation want to break the nation, he said, claiming the new farm laws have brought real freedom to farmers to sell their produce anywhere they want, apart from in the traditional mandis. "I am sure those agitating against the new farm laws will be at a loss if challenged to prove how they are harmful to farmers," Rawat said after distributing Rs 300 crore worth interest-free loans to farmers under the Deendayal Upadhyay Co-operative Farmers' Welfare Scheme. "Anger among farmers is being stoked by US-based outfits like Justice for Sikhs and around 302 Twitter handlers in Pakistan because they don't want farmers in India to grow under the prime ministership of Narendra Modi," Rawat said. Criticising the New York Times for allegedly describing Narendra Modi as a "dangerous patriot", the Chief Minister asked how being patriotic can be dangerous. "If we (the BJP government) had the powers of Hanuman, we would have split our hearts open to show what lies there for farmers," the Chief Minister said. Appreciating the farmers of Uttarakhand who have stayed away from the day's 'chakka jam' in other states against the new farm laws called by the protesting unions, Rawat said he wants to thank them for refusing to submit to the forces that want to "instigate" them to serve their own interests. Reassuring farmers that the Modi government cannot ever think of harming them as empowering them monetarily to increase their buying capacity is integral to the BJP’s ideology, Rawat said the prime minister should be credited for implementing the recommendations of the Swaminathan Commission for farmers. Naming Central schemes such as the PMGSY introduced during the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government, Narendra Modi’s PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana and the Jan Dhan Yojana under which the poor could open zero balance accounts, Rawat said they were all meant to empower the rural populace and small and marginal farmers. As many as 25,000 farmers of the state were distributed interest-free loans worth around Rs 300 crore through the loan distribution programme joined by about 5,0000 farmers from the state physically as well as virtually. Interest-free loans of Rs 3 lakh to each beneficiary and Rs 5 lakh to each farmer group are being provided for investment in agriculture and agriculture-related fields including fisheries, forestry, cultivation of medicinal plants, dairy and poultry activities. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/radical-sikh-outfits-pak-based-twitter-handles-fomenting-trouble-rawat-on-farmers-stir-948265.html
06-02-2021||National||'Saamana' edit indicates disquiet in Sena-Congress alliance over Patole replacing Thorat||The Shiv Sena on Saturday appeared to disfavour ally Congress's decision to replace state Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat with Nana Patole and the latter's resignation as Maharashtra Assembly Speaker. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece `Saamana' also said there was substance in NCP chief Sharad Pawar's reported view that the three coalition partners will take decision on the Speaker's post through negotiations now. Patole resigned as Speaker earlier this week to take over as state Congress chief even as the Budget session is to start from March 1. The Congress shares power in the state with the Sena and the NCP. The Saamana editorial said the Congress had been given the post of Speaker for five years, and not for forcing an election for the post midway through which should have been avoided. "NCP chief Sharad Pawar said the three parties will sit together and decide what is to be done about the Speaker's post. One thing is certain, there is substance in Pawar's view," the Sena said. Though organizational changes was an internal matter of the Congress, extra caution is required to ensure the decision does not impact the government, it said. "Two years ago, the situation was such that no leader was ready to take the mantle of the state Congress chief. Thorat took up the responsibility and the party got more seats than expected in Assembly polls," the Sena said. "In a time of crisis, Thorattook up the responsibility. In Nagpur the Congress won two seats in the assembly polls. If the Gandhis (apparent reference to Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi) had addressed some rallies, the Congress tally in Vidarbha could have increased," it said. In Patole, the Congress seemed to have favored a more aggressive face, but "excessive aggression is also not good", the Sena said. The editorial praised Patole as a "straight-forward and aggressive leader who works for farmers and labourers", but also preferred advise that "restraint" was key to smooth functioning of the three-party government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saamana-edit-indicates-disquiet-in-sena-congress-alliance-over-patole-replacing-thorat-948268.html
06-02-2021||National||BJP govt in Assam gives money, promise of wage hike to tea garden workers ahead of Assembly elections||The BJP-led government in Assam on Saturday transferred Rs 3,000 each to bank accounts of 7.46 lakh tea garden workers and promised to hike their daily wages in the next 10 days as it geared up for Assembly elections slated in April. The government, however, did not say anything about the Scheduled Tribe (ST) status, another major and long demand of the 60 lakh tea garden workers in Assam. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman ceremonially transferred the money to the accounts at a function organised in Guwahati as part of the state government's Cha Bagicha Dhan Puraskar Mela. The state government had similarly paid Rs 2,500 twice each to nearly seven lakh tea garden workers ahead of Lok Sabha elections. The scheme was started after the government decided to open bank accounts of tea garden workers since the Centre's demonetisation drive made it mandatory to make all wage payment in bank accounts. Assam finance minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the state government spent Rs 158 crore and Rs 220 crore in the first and second payment respectively (Rs 2,500 twice), while Rs 224 crore was required for the payment made on Saturday. "This is not the last payment. We hope to make such payment to tea garden workers every month in the days to come like the Arunodoy Scheme, under which Rs 830 is being paid every month to 22 lakh families in the state," Sarma said in an apparent efforts to woo the tea garden voters for the Assembly elections. "The government is also going to issue a notification in the next 10 days to revise the daily wage. The next cabinet meeting will give a good news in this regard," Sarma said. Tea garden workers in Assam, about 20% lakh of Assam's population have been demanding for increase in their daily wage from Rs 167 at present to Rs 351. Sarma also mentioned about the free rice, sugar, new schools, construction of roads inside the gardens, beside other initiatives taken by the BJP-led government since it came to power in 2016. Sitharaman said, "Assam tea is a brand worldwide. But those producing such popular tea are living a pitiable life. We are committed to do everything required to improve life inside tea gardens. Keeping this in mind, Rs 1,000 crore has been earmarked in this year's budget for education and healthcare of tea garden workers in Assam and Bengal." Tea garden workers are deciding factors in at least 40 of 126 Assembly seats in Assam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-govt-in-assam-gives-money-promise-of-wage-hike-to-tea-garden-workers-ahead-of-assembly-elections-948269.html
06-02-2021||National||PM Modi to visit Haldia in West Bengal on Feb 7 to lay foundation stone for infra projects||Prime Minister Narendra Modi to visit Haldia in West Bengal to lay the foundation stone for key infrastructure projects. "At a programme there, will dedicate to the nation the LPG import terminal built by BPCL. Will also dedicate to the nation Dobhi–Durgapur Natural Gas Pipeline section of the Pradhan Mantri Urja Ganga project," PM tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-visit-haldia-in-west-bengal-on-feb-7-to-lay-foundation-stone-for-infra-projects-948287.html
06-02-2021||National||Delhi govt launches social media handles of ‘Switch Delhi’ campaign||The Delhi government on Saturday launched social media handles of the ‘Switch Delhi’ campaign to connect directly with people even as Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that efforts are being made to turn the electric vehicle awareness drive into a mass movement. According to an official statement, the Dialogue and Development Commission (DDC) of Delhi will lead the social media outreach for the campaign on Twitter, Facebook, Linkedin and Instagram. The social media handles will be used for responding to queries and misconceptions about electric vehicles, addressing grievances, and for sensitising the public on the benefits of EVs, the statement said. Meanwhile, actor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan praised the 'Switch Delhi' campaign on Twitter saying it was a step towards controlling pollution. Replying to Haasan, Kejriwal tweeted "Thank you @ikamalhaasan ji, we are committed to develop Delhi as a world-class & pollution-free EV city. Our government is providing all possible facilities to the people to turn this EV campaign into a mass movement." Earlier this week, Kejriwal launched the mass awareness campaign to sensitise Delihiites about the benefits of switching to electric vehicles from pollution causing petrol and diesel ones. Social media outreach is one of the major components of the 8-week campaign. The Delhi government's EV policy launched in August last year envisages that 1 out of every 4 vehicles sold in Delhi should be an electric vehicle by 2024.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-launches-social-media-handles-of-switch-delhi-campaign-948296.html
06-02-2021||National||Modi govt ready for clause-by-clause review of farm laws: Pralhad Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi on Saturday reiterated the Centre’s position that it is ready to review the contentious farm laws clause by clause.  “As the Parliamentary Affairs Minister, I say that the government is open. Let’s talk clause-by-clause. We have an open mind to talk and provide solutions. But we won’t accept the call to repeal the laws,” Joshi told a news conference here.  “Any government, Centre or state, after getting the mandate from the people, introduces Bills that become laws. Some people asking for the laws to be removed can’t be accepted,” he said. “There are no flaws in the farm laws. But the government is open to a review if specific concerns are pointed out.”  Downplaying the ‘chakka jam’ protest by farmers, Joshi said only 100-200 people staged symbolic protests everywhere, except in two states. He also attacked the Congress for supporting the farmers’ protest. “The Congress’ manifesto had similar promises. When Modi fulfilled it, why are they objecting?” Joshi asked.  Targeting Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, Joshi said it was inevitable for the former chief minister to criticise the 2021-22 Union Budget. “He has to stay afloat in his party amid his battle with D K Shivakumar,” Joshi said.  Toeing the party line, Joshi ruled out a change in leadership in Karnataka. “The B S Yediyurappa government is functioning well. If there's any change in leadership, we will tell you,” he said. “The one person who is making statements, the party is taking note,” he said, referring to Bijapur City MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-ready-for-clause-by-clause-review-of-farm-laws-pralhad-joshi-948298.html
06-02-2021||National||Farm stir: Modi govt shouldn't have put Sachin Tendulkar's reputation at stake, says Raj Thackeray||MNS chief Raj Thackeray on Saturday said the Union government should not have exposed Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar to social media trolling by involving them in its campaign to counter tweets by foreign celebrities in support of ongoing farmers' stir. If American pop star Rihanna and others supporting the agitation against new agriculture laws was interference in India's internal matters, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's slogan in support of Donald Trump too was problematic, he said. Many celebrities including cricket icon Tendulkar and legendary singer Mangeshkar rallied around the government on social media using hashtags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda following tweets by Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg backing farmers. "The Centre should not have asked Sachin Tendulkar and Lata Mangeshkar to tweet in support of its stand and put their reputation at stake. Now they have to face the wrath of social media trolling," Raj Thackeray told reporters. The government should have limited its use of celebrities in its campaign to actors such as Akshay Kumar, he said. "They (Tendulkar and Mangeshkar) are true legends in their fields, but otherwise very simple persons. They should not have been asked to tweet with the same hashtag. They tweeted what government asked them to tweet, and now they are at the receiving end," he said. The MNS chief also wondered how many Indians knew who Rihanna was until she tweeted about agitating farmers' plight. There was no need for the government to ask her to not get involved in the issue, Thackeray opined. "By the same logic, there was no need to hold a rally in the United States saying `Agali Baar, Trump Sarkar (next time, Trump government). It was that country's internal matter," he said, referring to Modi's rally in Houston when Donald Trump was US president. Thackeray also said the laws against which farmers are agitating can have some flaws which can be rectified. "If the government wishes to solve the issue, it can sit with farmers' leaders, hold talks and make necessary changes in these laws," he said. The MNS chief also said that the new laws must not benefit only a handful of corporates. "I think the laws have some plus points but the Centre needs to discuss them again with state governments," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-stir-modi-govt-shouldnt-have-put-sachin-tendulkars-reputation-at-stake-says-raj-thackeray-948314.html
06-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Internet ban, arrests mark 'Chakka Jam' called by farmers||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Internet ban, arrests mark 'Chakka Jam' called by farmers; Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa says his government is taking steps to reclaim more than 300 acres of BDA land encroached upon across Bengaluru and Myanmar sees anti-coup protests.  Here is the top news of February 6, 2021: The Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday once again suspended internet services at the farmers' protest sites in Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri at Delhi's borders and adjoining localities for 24 hours. This came against the backdrop of agitating farmers' unions calling for a 'chakka jam' (traffic block) for three hours on Saturday afternoon. Around 50 people were detained near Shaheedi Park in central Delhi on Saturday for allegedly holding a protest in support of the 'chakka jam' call given by the farmers agitating against the Centre's new agri laws, police said. Several agitating farmers in Bengaluru's Yelahanka were detained on Saturday for blocking the highway for over two hours. The state government is taking steps to reclaim more than 300 acres of BDA land encroached upon across Bengaluru, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Friday, pegging its revenue potential at over Rs 3,000 crore. Speaking in the legislative assembly, Yediyurappa, who is also the Bengaluru city development minister, said scams worth Rs 400 crore had been detected in the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) and action was being taken. The government has suspended 22 BDA officials since 2019, and departmental inquiry is underway against 12 of them. Show-cause notices have been issued to 19 officials and their responses are being verified, he said.  Myanmar saw its largest anti-coup protests yet on Saturday with young demonstrators spilling on to the streets to denounce the country's new military regime, despite a nationwide internet blackout aimed at stifling a growing chorus of popular dissent. Around 3,000 demonstrators gathered on a road near Yangon University, most holding up the three-finger salute that has come to symbolise resistance to the army takeover. Source: DHNS/ PTI/AFP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-internet-ban-arrests-mark-chakka-jam-called-by-farmers-948330.html
06-02-2021||National||Delhi resident moves SC over protocol on disposal of dead bodies amid Covid-19 pandemic||A Delhi resident's deceased mother was cremated by somebody else contrary to her faith as hospital authorities' mixed up bodies during Covid-19 pandemic. The other man, however, had to perform the last rites twice. Now, the Delhi resident has approached the Supreme Court for a direction to the Centre and states to lay down a proper mortal remains disposal protocol in the country to avoid such disastrous and irreversible event. In a writ petition, G Manohar asked the court to ensure a most harrowing experience that he underwent should never be repeated for anyone who has to bury or cremate their loved one. He said the right to life included the right to dignity and dignity in death under Article 21 of the Constitution. The petitioner said it was his mother’s right to be buried according to Christian rites and rituals as she had lived and died as the wife of a Christian. But she was cremated by somebody else due to strange mix-up allegedly due to "callous" acts by Manipal Hospital here. "It has become a common feature in many states in the country that dead bodies are managed without any proper protocols which have led to many such incidents," his plea said. On September 14, 2020, his mother collapsed in the bathroom. She was rushed to hospital where she underwent Covid-19 tests, which turned out to be negative. But she was soon declared dead. As relatives were to fly down and preparations were to be made, the family requested hospital morgue to store the body. Next day, when the petitioner went to the hospital, he was shown the body of another woman. When the petitioner and family insisted to ascertain the fate of his mother's body, it was turned out that one Puneet Bali was given her body. On being called, Bali identified his mother's body. He said since his mother had died of Covid-related complications, the hospital authorities scared him up and did not let him see the body, which was hurriedly taken to the Punjabi Bagh Crematorium and cremated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-resident-moves-sc-over-protocol-on-disposal-of-dead-bodies-amid-covid-19-pandemic-948340.html
06-02-2021||National||H-1B visa registration for 2022 to begin on Mar 9, lottery results to be notified by Mar 31||The registration process for the H-1B visa application for the next fiscal year will begin on March 9 and the successful applicants through a computerised draw of lots would be notified by March 31, a federal agency has announced. The notification by the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) on Friday came a day after the Biden administration announced that it will continue with the traditional lottery system to issue the much sought-after work visa to foreign professionals. The USCIS announced that the initial registration period for the fiscal year 2022 H-1B cap will open at noon Eastern on March 9 and run through noon March 25. The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in specialty occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. The technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China. During the registration period, prospective petitioners and representatives will be able to fill out petitioner and beneficiary information and submit their registrations, the USCS said. The agency said if it receives enough registrations by March 25, it will randomly select registrations and send selection notifications by March 31. The successful applicants would be able to join their new jobs in the US on October 1, when the American fiscal year starts. As mandated by the Congress, USCIS can issue a maximum of 65,000 H-1B visas in a year. It can also issue another 20,000 H-1B visas to foreign students who have completed higher studies from a US university in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) subjects. The quick announcement by USCIS on the next year’s H-1B registration process comes a day after it said that it is delaying the implementation of the Trump administration policy of allocation of H-1B through a wage and skilled based process. The Trump era rule was scheduled to go into effect on March 9. On January 7, the USCIS announced to do away with the traditional lottery system in deciding the successful applicants for the H-1B visas. The USCIS had said it would prioritise wages to protect the economic interests of American workers, and better ensure that the most highly skilled foreign workers benefit from the temporary employment programme. In a statement on Thursday, the USCIS, however, said that it is delaying the rule’s effective date until December 31, 2021. The USCIS can issue a maximum of 65,000 H-1B visas in a year. It can also issue another 20,000 H-1B visas to foreign students who have completed higher studies from a US university in Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) subjects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/h-1b-visa-registration-for-2022-to-begin-on-mar-9-lottery-results-to-be-notified-by-mar-31-948348.html
06-02-2021||National||Budget 2021 will help achieve aim of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat': BJP's Bhupendra Yadav||The Union Budget 2021-22, which was tabled on February 1, will help achieve the aim of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' and strengthen the agriculture sector, senior BJP leader Bhupendra Yadav said on Saturday. Yadav met representatives of various trade and social organisations at the BJP's Gujarat state headquarter. He said the Budget was welcomed by all sectors and it will strengthen the resolve of self-reliant India and create a base for the country's progress. "Several organisations said they feared that a new coronavirus cess or tax will be announced in the Budget, but they are thankful that there is no such tax of a single rupee was announced," he said. Yadav said big decisions have been taken in the annual financial plan to ensure "minimum government and maximum governance, and to ensure ease of doing business, and increase investment in the country". He said the government has given priority to double the income of farmers, to increase production, for value addition and storage, and to increase basic amenities in rural areas, like linking rural roads, housing, and expanding health services, he said. "The 2021-22 budget will fulfil the desire of an 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. It is for the development of rural India, for farm welfare...to strengthen the farm sector, for the development of country's infrastructure, to create strong financial base for India, to make better changes in the lives of India's poor, to create startup opportunities for India's youth, to give pace to business, and to give shape to an Aatmanirbhar Bharat," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/budget-2021-will-help-achieve-aim-of-aatmanirbhar-bharat-bjps-bhupendra-yadav-948349.html
06-02-2021||National||J&K records 65 new Covid-19 cases||Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded 65 new coronavirus cases that raised its tally to 1,24,850, officials said. The union territory did not report any death due to the infection in the past 24 hours, they said. Of the fresh cases, 15 were recorded from the Jammu division and 50 from the Kashmir division, the officials said. They said Srinagar district recorded the highest of 26 cases which included 11 travellers. While eight districts of the UT did not report any fresh case, 10 others had fresh cases in single digits, the officials said. Pulwama reported 10 COVID-19 cases. The number of active cases is 631 in the union territory, while 1,22,275 patients have recovered so far, the officials said. A total of 1,994 people have died of coronavirus in the union territory so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-records-65-new-covid-19-cases-948353.html
06-02-2021||National||Finish first Covid-19 vaccine dose for health workers by February 20, Centre tells states||The Union Health Ministry on Saturday asked the states to step up the Covid-19 vaccination drive in order to complete administering at least the first dose of the vaccine for all healthcare workers before February 20 and for all frontline workers by March 6. At a review meeting, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan urged the states to exponentially increase the pace of vaccination and accelerate the coverage after pointing out that there was substantial scope for improvement in the number of average vaccinations per session. So far 52.66 lakh healthcare workers received the vaccine, which is 54.7% of the 96.31 lakh registered healthcare workers. Because of the vaccine hesitancy, only about half of the people who are slated to receive the vaccine, turned up at the sites to receive the jab. Among the front line workers, only 3.70 lakh received the shots as vaccination for them began earlier this week. The Centre plans to inoculate 10 million healthcare workers and 20 million frontline workers in the first round of vaccination before it takes up the more ambitious plan of inoculating 270 million 50 plus Indians and those with serious comorbidity. At the review meeting, it was decided that the states would finish giving the first shot for the health care workers by February 20 so that a mop-up round could be organised by February 25, said Manohar Agnani, Additional Secretary at the ministry. The state health secretaries were asked to analyse the daily variation in the number of average vaccinations and take necessary steps to increase them to ensure 100% saturation of people, who have already been registered on Co-Win digital platform. They were also asked to organise simultaneous vaccination sessions per day in those health facilities where it would be possible. Each state was advised to devise a state-specific strategy to achieve this target. So far 13 states and union territories have vaccinated more than 60% of their total number of healthcare workers but another 12 states and UTs could manage to inoculate only less than 40% of their healthcare workers. Vaccine hesitancy continues even after 20 days as only one-fourth of the people who could have been given the vaccine on Saturday, turned up. Bhushan also informed the states that an updated version of the software, Co-WIN 2.0, would be released soon to aid in the next phase of vaccination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/finish-first-covid-19-vaccine-dose-for-health-workers-by-february-20-centre-tells-states-948355.html
06-02-2021||National||President Kovind to visit Sri M's ashram in Madanapalle on Feb 7||President Ram Nath Kovind is on a five-hour-long visit to the Satsang Foundation ashram of Sri M, a spiritualist, in Madanapalle in the state of Andhra Pradesh on Sunday, a government official said. Chief Minister of the state YS Jaganmohan Reddy and Governor Biswabushan Harichandan would welcome the President at Madanapalle, 130 kms from here. During his visit, the President would inaugurate a yogasala and Bharat Yoga Vidya Kendra in the ashram of Sri M. Then, Kovind would address yoga trainees and teachers at there, the official said. Before addressing a gathering online at the ashram, along with Sri M, Kovind would inaugurate a rangashala (recording studio) there, the official said. Prior to leaving the ashram, Kovind would lay the foundation for a 38-bed Swasthya Hospital to be built for the benefit of the students, staff, family members, and Sugali tribal community from nearby villages. Thereafter, he would arrive in Sodum, 70 km from here, and address the students and teachers of The Peepal Grove School where he would open an indoor badminton court. Then, he would fly to Bengaluru and back to New Delhi, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-to-visit-sri-ms-ashram-in-madanapalle-on-feb-7-948358.html
06-02-2021||National||Challenge mounts for Centre as farmers' agitation assumes national character||The farmers' protest has gradually assumed a national character with the Saturday's road blockades eliciting a mixed response, thereby increasing challenges for the Centre. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had told the Parliament on Friday that protests over farm laws are "limited to only one state". Farmer leaders cited the incidents of farmer groups carrying out road blockades even in southern states to counter the government's narrative of the agitation being limited and farmers being instigated by rival political parties. Buoyed by the response, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait announced that the "non-political" protest of the farmer unions will continue in the whole country. Announcing that farmers will sit in till October 2, Tikait, the national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), indicated that farmers are ready for a long haul. The agitation has moved from the NCR region to smaller towns like Jind in Haryana and Shamli in UP, where Kisan Mahapanchayats with massive gathering were organised. With elections slated for four states including predominantly rural West Bengal, where farm issue is sensitive and BJP's stakes are high, BJP cannot afford the continuation of the protest. Alleging that the Opposition is misleading farmers and using them to regain their lost political ground, Uttar Pradesh minister Sidharth Nath Singh claimed that farmers are much better off than they were in the past, which upsets the Opposition, which has been exploiting them as a mere vote bank. While Union minister Jitendra Singh said the "negative powers" are attempting to create misconceptions over the new laws, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat went to the extent of saying that US-based outfits such as Justice for Sikhs and around 300 Pakistan-based Twitter handles are stoking anger among farmers. Backing the farmer protest, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi sought to counter the charge of anti-national elements and said peaceful 'satyagraha' of the 'annadatas' is in the national interest as the farm laws are "harmful" for the country. He said the three laws were "harmful not just for farmer-labourers, but also for the people and the country".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/challenge-mounts-for-centre-as-farmers-agitation-assumes-national-character-948359.html
06-02-2021||National||India's active Covid-19 cases dip to 8-month low at 1.5 lakh, daily deaths dip to 95||India’s daily Covid-19 deaths dipped below 100 for the second time in a week on Saturday while active cases of the infection dropped below the 1.5 lakh mark – the lowest in eight months. The country reported 95 deaths as of Saturday morning – the second sub-100 fatalities after February 2 when the death toll was 94, the lowest in almost nine months. Of the 95 deaths reported in 24 hours ending 8:00 a.m. on Saturday, 40 were from Maharashtra and 19 from Kerala. The country has witnessed 1,54,918 deaths due to Covid-19 infection and the case fatality rate stood at 1.43%. Though India is the second worst-hit country in the world in terms of absolute numbers, the number of cases have declined substantially surprising experts globally. India also crossed the landmark 20 crore tests for Covid-19 with 7.40 lakh tests conducted on Friday alone with the cumulative positivity rate pegged at 5.39%. From a single lab in January last year, India has 2,369 testing labs for Covid-19 at present, including 1,214 state-run laboratories and 1,155 private laboratories. India's Covid-19 infection tally climbed to 1,08,14,304 with 11,713 new cases in a day, while 1,05,10,796 people have recuperated so far pushing the national recovery rate to 97.19% on Saturday, according to Union Health Ministry data. There are 1,48,590 active cases of Covid-19 infections in the country which accounts for 1.37% of the total caseload, the ministry said. The total 1,54,918 deaths reported so far in the country include 51,255 from Maharashtra, followed 12,379 from Tamil Nadu, 12,230 from Karnataka, 10,873 from Delhi, 10,201 from West Bengal, 8,682 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,158 from Andhra Pradesh, 5,635 from Punjab and 4,393 from Gujarat. Of the daily new cases, six states have been reporting 83.3% of the new cases with Kerala reporting the maximum at 5,610, followed by Maharashtra (2,628), Tamil Nadu (489), Karnataka (430), Chhattisgarh (336) and Gujarat (267). India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and 40 lakh on September 5. It went past 50 lakh on September 16, 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11 and crossed 80 lakh on October 29 and 90 lakh on November 20 and one crore on December 19. The health ministry said that more than 70% of the deaths have occurred due to co-morbid conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-cases-dip-to-8-month-low-at-15-lakh-daily-deaths-dip-to-95-948360.html
06-02-2021||National||Delhi Court issues arrest warrant against LeT chief Hafeez Saeed in J&K terror funding case||A Delhi court on Saturday issued an arrest warrant against Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) chief and 26/11 Mumbai attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed in a money laundering case related to terror funding in Jammu and Kashmir. Besides issuing the non-bailable warrant (NBW) against Saeed, Special Judge Praveen Singh also issued warrants against three co-accused — Kashmiri businessman Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali, separatist Altaf Ahmad Shah alias Funtoosh and businessman from the UAE Naval Kishore Kapoor — who are currently lodged in the Tihar central jail here, seeking their production before the court. The court passed the direction while taking cognisance of a chargesheet filed in the matter by the Enforcement Directorate for alleged money laundering. The judge also issued summons to the representatives of Watali's company M/s Trison Farms and Construction Pvt Ltd, which has also been named as accused in the matter. Special Public Prosecutor Nitesh Rana, appearing for the ED, told the court that the accused hatched a criminal conspiracy to carry out subversive and secessionist activities in Jammu and Kashmir. The accused established a network of cadres who were funded through Pakistani agencies via hawala dealers and local conduits by raising funds through local donations and funds have also been received from abroad, Rana told the court. The ED had filed a case based on an NIA matter against Saeed, Hizbul Mujahideen leader Syed Salahuddin and others for "conspiring to wage war against the government" and fomenting trouble in the Kashmir Valley. The separatist leaders have been accused of taking a cut before handing over the money to generate trouble. Saeed has also been accused of using the services of Watali for passing on the money to the separatists and some individuals who were actively indulging in stone-pelting in various areas of the Valley, the ED said in the charge sheet. In the NIA's case, besides Saeed, Salahuddin and Watali, the agency had also named hardline pro-Pakistan separatist Syed Ali Shah Geelani's son-in-law Altaf Shah alias Altaf Fantoosh, Bashir Ahmad Bhat and Javed Ahmad Bhat as accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-issues-arrest-warrant-against-let-chief-hafeez-saeed-in-jk-terror-funding-case-948374.html
06-02-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi is the most loved, visionary leader, say Supreme Court judge and Gujarat HC Chief Justice||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was on Saturday hailed as a "visionary" and the "most popular and loved" leader in the country by several senior judicial officers, including a sitting judge of the Supreme Court and the Chief Justice of the Gujarat High Court. The praise came during a virtual event celebrating the diamond jubilee of the Gujarat High Court, where Modi released a postal stamp commemorating its 60 years of existence. "I feel proud and privileged to participate in the release of the commemorative stamp, that too by our most popular, loved, vibrant and visionary leader, honourable Prime Minister Narendabhai Modi," said Supreme Court judge Mukesh R Shah. Justice Shah was a judge in the high court, who was elevated to the Patna High Court as chief justice before being promoted to the Supreme Court in 2018. He added, "One of the most important tenets of our Constitution is the separation of powers — between the judiciary, executive and the legislature — which has always been upheld by the Gujarat High Court." He wound up quickly because "we have to hear and listen to our most loved, honourable Prime Minister". Chief Justice of the Gujarat High Court Vikram Nath also praised Modi's leadership. "This is the forum of justice and in the context of Gujarat, I want to mention our popular Prime Minister as a highly followable example of justice. Modiji's sense of justice towards his duties has played a major role in his popularity," he said adding, "A just leadership keeps its citizens inspired." Solicitor General of India Tushar Mehta said that, "Under the Prime Minister's vibrant leadership, our great nation has already commenced its journey to become the Vishwa Guru (world's teacher)." Kamal Trivedi, Advocate General, Gujarat High Court, called Modi a "passionate and dynamic" leader "who has made the whole world take note of the emergence of new India". Even during the pandemic, his confidence and conviction have inspired and galvanised the entire nation, Trivedi said. On the occasion, the prime minister said the judiciary has always strengthened the Constitution by its constructive and positive interpretation. "Be it the protection of rights of countrymen, the question of personal liberty, or the circumstances when national interest had to be given the highest priority, the judiciary understood and fulfilled these obligations," he said. The Gujarat High Court was established in May 1960 after the formation of Gujarat as a state. The celebrations, originally planned in May last year, were postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-is-the-most-loved-visionary-leader-say-supreme-court-judge-and-gujarat-hc-chief-justice-948376.html
06-02-2021||National||Case against Smriti Irani: Court seeks police report on Feb 10||Hearing a case lodged against Union minister Smriti Irani and two others by international shooter Vartika Singh, a court here on Saturday directed police to submit its report regarding this in a sealed cover on February 10. Vartika had moved the court meant to try MPs and MLAs, alleging that the minister and her two alleged aides Vijay Gupta and Rajnish Singh demanded money to make her a member of a central women's commission. Special Judge PK Jayant passed the order while deciding the territorial jurisdiction of the case, Vartika Singh’s counsel Rohit Tripathi said on Saturday. The shooter had alleged that people close to the minister issued her a fake letter, appointing her as a member of the central women's commission, a possible reference to the National Commission for Women. Vartika Singh alleged that Vijay Gupta and Rajnish Singh, the two alleged “aides” of the Union minister, initially demanded Rs 1 crore from her and then brought the amount down to Rs 25 lakh. She also alleged one of the men talked to her in an obscene manner. On November 23, however, Gupta had lodged a complaint against Vartika and another person at the Musafirkhana police station in Amethi district, accusing them of levelling unfounded charges against him and trying to spoil his image, following which police had lodged an FIR against her. Vartika, however, claimed the complaint was lodged after she threatened to expose “corruption”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/case-against-smriti-irani-court-seeks-police-report-on-feb-10-948391.html
06-02-2021||National||Ravi Shankar Prasad donates Rs 11 lakh for Ram Temple||Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday contributed Rs 11 lakh for the construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya. Prasad handed over the cheque to Mohan Singh and Rajesh Pandey, representatives of Sri Rama Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra trust. Singh, who is RSS regional general secretary (kshetra karyawah) of Bihar and Jharkhand and Pandey, the prant Prachar Pramukh of South Bihar RSS, received the cheque at the organisation's state headquarters here. Prasad, the union minister for law and justice, electronics and information technology and communications, said: "I am extremely happy that I am making an announcement of contributing Rs 11 lakh for the construction of a grand Ram temple at Ayodhya." "I was the lawyer for Ram Lalla in Allahabad High Court where we won (the case). It would be great if I had the opportunity to argue the case in Supreme Court but since I was the (union) law minister, I could not argue the case," Prasad said. "It's a matter of pride that I will be going out to collect donations for the purpose of constructing a grand Ram temple," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ravi-shankar-prasad-donates-rs-11-lakh-for-ram-temple-948392.html
06-02-2021||National||Restoration of 4G services will boost economic recovery in J&K: Trade bodies||Trade bodies and tourism players on Saturday welcomed the restoration of 4G mobile internet services in Jammu and Kashmir, saying it will boost economic recovery in the union territory. However, there were some voices that wished the government had shown some courtesy by announcing the restoration with a small apology and also compensation for the loss caused due to internet blockade. High-speed mobile internet services were restored last midnight in 18 districts. The services were there in two districts - Ganderbal and Udhampur - since August last year. "It is better late than never. The government has realised how much losses our economy has suffered. This move will give a boost to the economic recovery now," president, Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), Sheikh Aashiq told PTI. "Every sector was affected, especially our export-oriented industry which officially declined 40-50 per cent due to its non-availability. The low speed 2G services did not serve the purpose," he said. Restoration of high-speed mobile internet would especially help the young, budding, entrepreneurs who are dependent on social media, he said. "Though the government has realised it now, the impact of non-availability of high-speed internet will last long. It will last until the government realises how to boost them, to provide them sops or cushion for running their businesses," he said. Aashiq said education was one of the most important sectors which suffered a great deal over the last year-and-a-half. He hoped that the security situation remains good so that these services continue without any interruption. The valley's tourism industry termed it a big confidence building measure for tourism and other sectors. "The tourism fraternity and all the stakeholders thank the government for the restoration of 4G services in J-K. It is a welcome step and a big confidence building measure for tourism and allied sectors," said Asif Burza, a hotelier and president of Pahalgam Hotel and Restaurant Owners Association. He said the move will not only give a sense of confidence to the tourists, but will also help the industry in providing better logistics and services. Private Schools Association of Jammu and Kashmir (PSAJK) termed the restoration of 4G internet as helpful for the student community. "The 4G internet will definitely help our students who had been at a huge disadvantage over the last so many months. It was kind of a collective punishment to us for no fault and it pushed us years back. Our schools suffered, other educational institutes suffered as no one could work at its optimum," said PSAJK president G N Var. He, however, said the government could have shown some courtesy by announcing its restoration with a small apology. "Like Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF), the PSAJK had been at the forefront of a legal battle to restore 4G internet and the hearing with regards to its petition in the Supreme Court was due next week. The government pre-empted the hearing because on what basis could they have again banned it. "On the one hand they say the situation is normal and on the other the reason for the 4G ban was that the situation is not normal in Kashmir," he said. The association also demanded compensation for the loss caused due to internet blockade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/restoration-of-4g-services-will-boost-economic-recovery-in-jk-trade-bodies-948401.html
06-02-2021||National||Senior BJP leaders highlight Budget 2021 measures in nationwide campaign||A number of Union ministers and other BJP leaders on Saturday addressed press conferences across the country and many others will do so in the coming days as the ruling party launched a nationwide campaign to highlight various aspects of the "pro-people" budget.  In Andhra Pradesh, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said the Modi government has given priority to the health and welfare measures following the Covid-19 outbreak while Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the budget aims to ensure empowerment of all sections of society while boosting 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' exercise.  BJP's chief spokesperson Anil Baluni said Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar will speak to reporters in Mumbai and Pune respectively on Sunday. The outreach will continue.  Union minister Jitendra Singh said in Jammu that the budget has paid special attention to the health, agriculture and infrastructure sectors.  Cabinet colleague Giriraj Singh said in Panaji that the agriculture sector has seen big increase in budgetary allocation during the BJP-led NDA government compared to the preceding Congress-led UPA dispensation.  He said the agriculture budget in the UPA's 2009-14 rule was of Rs 88,000 crore and increased to Rs 4 lakh crore during the NDA's 2014-20 rule.  He claimed that some people are misleading farmers over the new farm reform laws to "weaken" the country and alleged that Left-wing and "tukde-tukde gang" are behind it.  Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat spoke in Lucknow and many other party leaders addressed press conferences in different parts of the country, Baluni said.  Sitharaman had presented the budget in Parliament on February 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-bjp-leaders-highlight-budget-2021-measures-in-nationwide-campaign-948403.html
06-02-2021||National||Aakashvani Sangeet Sammelan to be named after Bhimsen Joshi||The prestigious Aakashvani music festival will be named after legendary classical vocalist late Bhimsen Joshi, it was announced on Saturday. Union Minister for Information & Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar made the announcement at a "Pandit Bhimsen Joshi centenary commemoration function" here, an official release said. The musical festival will now be known as Bharat Ratna Pandit Bhimsen Joshi Aakashvani Sangeet Sammelan, he said. Javadekar also said that Doordarshan and All India Radio have made available Joshi's recordings on YouTube. Bhimsen Joshi (1922-2011) was awarded the Bharat Ratna in 2009.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aakashvani-sangeet-sammelan-to-be-named-after-bhimsen-joshi-948404.html
06-02-2021||National||Nepal, India jointly inaugurate road link connecting Indo-Nepal border||Nepal and India jointly inaugurated a newly-constructed 108-kilometer road that connects the Indian border with several areas of the Himalayan nation on Tuesday, the Indian embassy here said. Built with Indian grant assistance, the blacktopped road from the Indian border Laxmipur-Balara to Gadhaiya in Sarlahi district, Nepal was jointly inaugurated by Nitesh Kumar, Consul General of the Consulate General of India, Birgunj and Binod Kumar Mauwar, division chief of Department of Roads, Chandranigahpur. The India grant assistance of Rs 44.48 million was utilised for the construction of the road, according to a statement issued by the Indian embassy in Kathmandu. The road was taken up as a high impact community development project under an agreement between the governments of India and Nepal, it said. The newly-built road connecting the Indo-Nepal border is expected to ease the movement of daily commuters across the border, it added. India-Nepal bilateral ties came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8 last year. Nepal reacted sharply to the inauguration of the road, claiming that it passed through the Nepalese territory. India rejected the claim, asserting that the road lies completely within its territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nepal-india-jointly-inaugurate-road-link-connecting-indo-nepal-border-948412.html
06-02-2021||National||Opposition misleading farmers to regain lost ground: UP minister||Uttar Pradesh minister Sidharth Nath Singh on Saturday charged the Opposition with misleading farmers and using them to regain their lost political ground. In a statement, Singh alleged that the parties pretending to be championing the farmers' cause have actually been responsible for their plight since the Independence. When the Modi government took over for the first time in 2014, farmers' interests were given a priority, he claimed, adding that the government expedited the implementation of projects that were pending for several decades. It was Prime Minister Narendra Modi who implemented the recommendations of the Swaminathan commission and not the Congress that sat over it for years, Singh said. Farmers are getting one and a half times of their crops' price today while procurement of seeds and fertilisers has also been made much easier for them unlike in the past when there were long queues for it and they were canecharged, Singh claimed. The minister said the PM and Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath are committed to doubling the income of farmers and efforts are on to achieve this goal. Farmers are much better off than they were in the past and this is what upsets the Opposition, which has been exploiting them as a mere vote bank, he alleged. In the Union Budget also, special attention has been given to improving the condition of villages and farmers, he said. During the Chauri Chaura Centenary celebrations on Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said the earlier governments used farmers only as a vote bank and made announcements of plans which never saw the light of day whereas now plans were being implemented, the UP minister added. The PM had also appealed to farmers to identify their true well-wishers and said it pained the Opposition to see positive changes taking place under the present government, Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-misleading-farmers-to-regain-lost-ground-up-minister-948415.html
06-02-2021||National||Farmers Protests: Business as usual at Singhu border as action shifts to other highways||It was business as usual at the Singhu border as national and state highways across the country barring Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand observed a three-hour 'chakka jam' on Saturday. The protest site on the Delhi-Haryana highway, the epicentre of the ongoing farmers' agitation, saw routine everyday activities like preparation and distribution of langar food, farmers making motivational speeches from stages, and tractors blaring rustic songs as the action shifted to the other national highways, albeit for a brief period in the day. "We are happy to share the spotlight with other highways. We have been holding the fort for over two months and will continue to do so. It is good that today farmers from across the country are demanding the repeal of three farm laws," said Manmeet Bajwa (34), who has been camping at Singhu for the past 20 days. The Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the farmer unions protesting the three farm laws, on Friday called for roads and national highways to be blocked between 12 noon and 3 pm throughout the nation except in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Singhu border, which looked more crowded than before as more tractors and farmers made their way to the protest site, witnessed a heightened vigil by the security forces on the occasion. Drone cameras, multilayered barricades, nail-studded roads and barbed wires -- now put atop the many heavy-metal barricades as well -- were used as precautionary measures by the police to ensure that the kind of violence witnessed on Republic Day tractor parade is not repeated. The strength of security personnel, including the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and Rapid Action Force (RAF), deployed at the site was also increased. "I don't know why they have to beef up the security to this level when we have said we won't be observing the chakka-jam here. It only tells about the lack of trust between the administration and the farmers," said Navjot Heer from Punjab's Patiala district. "And in case they are doing this to simply scare us down, then they can try as hard as they can but they just won't succeed," said the 25-year-old. The 'chakka jam' was observed to protest the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. Internet remains suspended at the three major protest sites of Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri borders and surrounding areas. The MHA ordered the first suspension of internet connection amid the ongoing farmers' protest on January 26, when farmers' tractor march led to a violent stand-off between protesters and the Delhi Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protests-business-as-usual-at-singhu-border-as-action-shifts-to-other-highways-948420.html
06-02-2021||National||Bengal reports only one fresh Covid-19 fatality, lowest since April last year||West Bengal on Saturday registered only one fresh Covid-19 fatality, the lowest since April last year, a health bulletin said. The fresh fatality, reported in South 24 Parganas district, pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 10,202, it said. The state's caseload rose to 5,71,178 as 197 more people tested positive for the infection, it said. As many as 293 more people were cured of the disease, taking the recovery rate among the coronavirus patients in the state to 97.36 per cent, the bulletin said. The state now has 4,895 active cases. North 24 Parganas reported the highest number of new cases at 55, it said. The state has tested over 81.28 lakh samples for Covid-19, including 24,011 in the last 24 hours, it said. At least 9,773 frontline workers were administered the Covishield vaccine on the 17th day of the inoculation drive being conducted at 272 sites in the state, a health official said. "Not a single AEFI case was reported during the day. A total of 3,53,876 people have been vaccinated till Saturday," he said. The official said that Covaxin was administered to 54 people at the Kolkata Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-reports-only-one-fresh-covid-19-fatality-lowest-since-april-last-year-948423.html
06-02-2021||National Politics||Modi's internet crackdown fuels anger ahead of farmers' 'chakka jam'||By Archana Chaudhary  Thousands of Indian farmers called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government to lift its blackout on phone and internet services ahead of a push to block roads across the country on Saturday to escalate protests now in their fourth month. The farmers, backed by a growing international campaign of celebrities and activists such as Rihanna and Greta Thunberg, issued a statement Friday calling for an “immediate reinstatement” of telecommunications services that were disrupted at protest sites outside of the capital, New Delhi border. “The government’s efforts to suppress the voice of disagreement continue,” the farmer unions said in a statement. India restricted internet use more than any nation in 2020 and suffered the highest economic cost as a result, according to a report by Top10VPN.com, a company that reviews virtual private networks. Authorities have resorted to internet shutdowns to stem protests in recent years, including nationwide demonstrations over a discriminatory citizenship law and after it revoked the special autonomous status of Kashmir, the country’s only Muslim majority region. Fourth-generation mobile internet services are being restored in Kashmir, the region’s Information Secretary Rohit Kansal said late Friday on Twitter. “Time and again government authorities use times of political unrest to monopolize their control over information,” said Allie Funk, New York-based senior research analyst at Freedom House. “That the world’s largest democracy can carry out such sweeping abrogations with little or no push back from other countries has just allowed the curbs to be normalised.” Fortifying Borders India’s government has toughened its stance against the protesters after violent clashes broke out last month: Authorities fortified Delhi’s borders with concrete barricades, concertina wire and long metal spikes at key protest sites in addition to cutting water, phone and internet. On Wednesday, the government issued a legal notice to Twitter over its decision to restore the handles of users who tweeted the hashtag #ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide on Jan. 26, saying those tweets were “designed to inflame passions, hatred and factually incorrect.” The farmers camped outside the capital are demanding a repeal of laws passed last year that they claim favour big companies over small landholders. They have rejected an offer by Modi’s government to suspend the reforms for 18 months, as well as a mediation process established by the Supreme Court. Modi’s administration has defended the laws, saying they eliminated cartels that exploited farmers and would ultimately boost incomes by making the agricultural sector more competitive. The legislation passed easily in a parliament dominated by Modi’s allies, which won a landslide in a national election in 2019. The increased global attention on the farmer protests threatens to damage India’s reputation as it looks to attract more investment from companies looking to diversify supply chains away from China in the wake of the pandemic and burgeoning geopolitical tensions. The country is among the world’s worst-hit by Covid-19 and faces an unprecedented economic recession. US Criticism The Biden administration also weighed in on the protests, backing the farmers in their call for access to the internet. “We recognize that unhindered access to information, including the internet, is fundamental to the freedom of expression and a hallmark of a thriving democracy,” it said in a statement on Thursday. India’s crackdown on the internet could hurt the country’s relations with democratic partners such as the US, UK and Japan, according to Raman Cheema, Asia policy director and senior international counsel at Access Now, an internet freedom advocacy group. “It doesn’t help combat violence,” he said. “It only makes things worse.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modis-internet-crackdown-fuels-anger-ahead-of-farmers-chakka-jam-948150.html
06-02-2021||National Politics||Security upped at Delhi borders as farmers set to hold 'chakka jam'||The Delhi Police intensified security at all border points of the city as thousands of personnel including paramilitary forces have been deployed to deal with any situation emerging out of the nationwide 'chakka jam' being held on Saturday by the farmers protesting the Centre's new farm laws, officials said. However, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the farmer unions protesting the three farm laws, said on Friday the protesters will not block roads in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the 'chakka jam', even as it asserted that peasants in other parts of the country will block national and state highways for three hours but in a peaceful way. After the Republic Day violence, the Delhi Police has deployed additional measures, including tightening security and intensifying vigil across the city and its border points. Forces have also been deployed at important junctions across the national capital including Red Fort and ITO which witnessed violence on January 26 during the tractor parade by the protesting farmers in which over 500 police personnel were injured and a protester died. Police are also using drone cameras to keep a tight vigil at protest sites. Multilayered barricades, barbed wires and nail-studded roads at the protest sites are also part of the precautionary measures taken by the police force. The police will also be monitoring content on the social media to keep a watch on those spreading rumours against the force, officials said. After the violence on January 26, Delhi Police S N Shrivastava had accused the protesting farmer union leaders of betrayal and breaching the agreement as thousands of peasants deviated from their pre-decided routes for the tractor parade. Tens of thousands of farmers atop tractors had broken barriers, clashed with police and entered the city from various points to lay siege to the Red Fort on Republic Day. Farmer unions on Monday had announced countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways between 12 noon and 3 pm to protest the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. Elaborating on the security arrangements for the 'chakka jam', Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal on Friday said in view of the violence that took place on January 26, adequate security arrangements have been put in place by the Delhi Police at the borders so that miscreants are not able to enter the national capital. Police said they have taken additional measures to deal with any situation emerging out of the 'chakka jam'. "We are monitoring content on social media to make sure rumours are not spread against the police. The protesters are camping at the borders of Delhi. We are in touch with the police force of other states also," he added. A senior police officer said to prevent any kind of law and order situation and disruption of normal life during the 'chakka jam', adequate forces are deployed across the outer-north district of Delhi Police. "We have strengthened the security at the border and have deployed forces at all important points in the entire outer-north district of Delhi Police as a preventative measure to ensure that traffic and normal life is not affected, and also to ensure that there is no law and order situation or unauthorized 'chakka jam' being done by violating norms," he said. Another senior police officer from the east district of Delhi Police said as a precautionary measure, iron nails studded on the roads have also been repositioned behind the barricades at the Ghazipur border, another protest site. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Deepak Yadav said, "According to the protesting farmers, they will not enter the national capital, but still as a precautionary measure, we have made adequate security arrangements to maintain law and order. Adequate police presence is in place at all important points and junctions across the district." "There are additional deployment of pickets at all the border points. All vehicles are being checked thoroughly at the entry and exit points of pickets and borders. Additional buses have already been taken and extra barricades have been put up at the picket points across the city," Yadav said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/security-upped-at-delhi-borders-as-farmers-set-to-hold-chakka-jam-948165.html
06-02-2021||National Politics||Farmers have nothing to do with politics: Rakesh Tikait slams govt||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday slammed the government for alleging that the farmers' protests are muddled with an international conspiracy, demanding a complete repeal of the contentious farm laws. Commenting on the remark, Tikait said, "What international conspiracy? What defamation? If farmers are asking for the right price for their produce, is it defaming India? If there was a law on MSP, farmers would get the right price. The real conspiracy is the absence of MSP." "We are just protesting. Are we doing anything else? We have nothing to do with politics. We have never told anyone who they should vote for. Farmers have to pay the highest rate of interest, 350 per cent. Rs 10,000 per night for a loan of Rs 1 lakh. Who do we go to with these problems?" the farmer leader said. Tikait is leading the agitating farmers for a 'chakka jam' on February 6 between 12 pm and 3 pm across the country barring New Delhi and certain areas in Uttar Pradesh. While sharing details of the February 6 protest, Tikait had also taken a veiled jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the fortification of protest sites at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu. On the proposed 'chakka jam', he said, “There will be a three-hour blockade on roads. It won't happen in Delhi but other parts of the country. The vehicles which will come and stop will be given water and food. Items like 'chana' and peanuts will also be distributed to these people and we will apprise them of what the government is doing with us.” On further talks between the farmers and the government to break the impasse, Tikait said that decision will be taken by the committee of the farmers' unions. Delhi Police have upped security at border protest sites with around 50,000 personnel from the police, Paramilitary and Reserve Forces deployed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-have-nothing-to-do-with-politics-rakesh-tikait-slams-govt-948171.html
06-02-2021||National Politics||Peaceful 'satyagraha' of farmers in national interest: Rahul||Ahead of the nationwide 'chakka jam' called by the farmer unions protesting the Centre's new farm laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday said the peaceful 'satyagraha' of the 'annadatas' is in the national interest as the farm laws are "harmful" for the country. Farmer unions had on Monday announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 during which they would block national and state highways between 12 noon and 3 pm to protest the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities and other issues. "The peaceful satyagraha of annadatas is in national interest — these three laws are not just harmful for farmers-labourers, but also for the people and the country. Full support!" Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. अन्नदाता का शांतिपूर्ण सत्याग्रह देशहित में है- ये तीन क़ानून सिर्फ़ किसान-मज़दूर के लिए ही नहीं, जनता व देश के लिए भी घातक हैं। Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also slammed the government over the farmers' issue by posting on Twitter a picture of the multi-layered barricading at one of the farmer protest sites. "Why do you scare by the wall of fear?" she tweeted along with the picture. The Congress had on Friday extended support to the countrywide 'chakka jam' called by the farmer unions, saying party workers will stand shoulder to shoulder with farmers in their protest. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture. Earlier in the day, Gandhi attacked the government over a media report that post-budget there had been a rise in prices of petrol-diesel and LPG gas cylinder, saying that the Modi government has disrupted the budget of both the country and of homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/peaceful-satyagraha-of-farmers-in-national-interest-rahul-948203.html
06-02-2021||National Politics||Mahadayi: Karnataka, Goa's interest is collectively BJP's interest, says C T Ravi||Goa and Karnataka are like two eyes (in a body) and the interests of both states is the collective interest of the Bharatiya Janata Party, the party national general secretary C T Ravi said on Saturday while commenting on the Mahadayi river dispute issue. Ravi, who is Goa to attend a state executive meeting scheduled to be held in Panaji on Sunday, also said that the party would follow the Supreme Court's judgement as far as the inter-state river dispute is concerned. "BJP works for national interest. Goa and Karnataka are like two eyes. Goa is like Karnataka and Karnataka is like Goa. The interests of both states is the interest of our party," Ravi, a sitting legislator from Karnataka said, when asked to comment on the Mahadayi dispute. "As far as Mahadayi is concerned, we will follow a court judgement," he also said. The Opposition in Goa has demanded the resignation of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, accusing him of compromising Goa's interests in the river water dispute with Karnataka. Goa has already filed two petitions in the Supreme Court in connection with the water dispute. In a special leave petition the Goa government has challenged the award of the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal and in a contempt petition the state government has accused Karnataka of already illegally diverted water from the Mahadayi river.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mahadayi-karnataka-goas-interest-is-collectively-bjps-interest-says-c-t-ravi-948222.html
06-02-2021||National Politics||TMC has betrayed people of West Bengal: J P Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda Saturday launched the party's 'Parivartan Yatra' from Nabadwip in West Bengal's Nadia district, and asserted the people have decided to bid farewell to the Mamata Banerjee government in the assembly elections. He also accused the TMC government of politicising the administration and criminalising the police. Claiming that the TMC's slogan of "Maa, Mati, Manush" (mother, land and people) has been reduced to "dictatorship, tolabaji (extortion) and (Muslim) appeasement," Nadda said the TMC dispensation has betrayed the trust people had reposed in it. He alleged only the ruling TMC leaders have benefited under Mamata Banerjee and even funds meant for relief in the aftermath of cyclone Amphan were misappropriated by then. Nadda also raked up the issue of her anger over slogans of 'Jai Shri Ram', which he linked to the country's culture. "Why does she hate 'Jai Shri Ram' slogan so much? Is it wrong to connect with the culture of one's own country? They (the TMC) want to negate the country's culture for the sake of vote-bank politics," he said. Banerjee had declined to speak at the event to celebrate Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's birth anniversary where "Jai Shri Ram" slogans were raised in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Talking about the insider-outsider debate started by Banerjee in the run up to the assembly elections likely in April-May, the BJP chief said the state leadership of his party will protect the culture of West Bengal and steer it to progress. "The Mamata Banerjee government has politicised the administration, criminalised the police and institutionalised corruption," he alleged. He later flagged off an improvised 'Rath' as part of the BJP's 'Parivartan Yatra' to bring about a change in West Bengal from Nabadwip, the birthplace of 15th century saint Chaitanya Mahaprabhu. He said Union Home Minister Amit Shah will inaugurate two of the other four such 'Rath Yatra' slated later this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-has-betrayed-people-of-west-bengal-j-p-nadda-948261.html
06-02-2021||National Politics||Congress blames Bihar govt for poor condition of cultivators; says will launch farmers stir in days to come||The Congress in Bihar on Saturday blamed the NDA government in the state for deplorable condition of farmers due to low procurement of paddy and wheat besides denying them fair price for their produce. Bihar Congress in-charge and former union minister Bhakta Charan Das, who undertook padyatara in 14 districts and met party workers and common men, asserted that the party would launch a big farmers movement in the state in days to come to tell them about the ill impact of the new farm laws. The Nitish Kumar government, which had abolished the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act way back in 2006 and also ended the mandi system, has strongly backed the new agri legislations of the centre. "Farmers are neither getting fair price for their crops nor their produce are being procured adequately the state government could lift only one per cent of wheat in the state. "There are no takers of maize, the state governments own target is to procure only 30-40 per cent of paddy from the farmers, while the Chhattisgarh govt has procured 90 per cent and other state governments procurement target is 70-80 per cent, Das told reporters. He, however, did not cite any source in support of the data he was highlighting. Congress which is a part of the RJD-led Grand Alliance in Bihar, performed badly in the recently concluded state polls and the new party in-charge battling anger of sections of party workers over ticket distribution is trying to recharge the organisation by raking up farmers issue. Das said MSP of sugarcane has not been revised in Bihar for the past four years. "Farmers are getting Rs 310 per quintal for sugarcane as its support price has not been increased in the past four years by the state government. When the input cost is rising, why there MSP cant be hiked?" he asked. The sugar mills have been closed in the state and the government did not take any initiative to revive them, he added. Das was accompanied by Bihar Congress chief Madan Mohan Jha, Congress legislature party leader Ajeet Sharma, former Bihar Congress chief Anil Sharma, MLC Prem Chandra Mishra, senior party leaders Harkhu Jha, H K Verma, Rajesh Rathore and others at the press meet here. The former union minister said 5,000 food processing units could have come up had the state government taken proper steps. The Congress leader said that the central government should withdraw the three farm laws as doing so will not lower its dignity at all. Asked why farmers in Bihar have not come out on roads to protest against the three farm laws, Das said that cultivators in the state are not aware of their rights, and the party will create awareness among them. On violence in the Red Fort on Republic Day, Das mockingly said, If the government is so weak that it cannot protect the Red Fort, then what it is the meaning of claiming to have 56 inch chest."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-blames-bihar-govt-for-poor-condition-of-cultivators-says-will-launch-farmers-stir-in-days-to-come-948273.html
06-02-2021||National Politics||Protesting farmers will stay put till October 2: Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait Saturday said the protesters demanding the rollback of the contentious agri-marketing laws on Delhi's outskirts will stay put till October 2. “We will sit here till October 2,” said Tikait, the national spokesperson of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), who is camping with his supporters on a stretch of the Delhi-Meerut highway since November. Interacting with the press, he claimed a few inputs had been received regarding some “miscreants trying to disrupt peace” during the “chakka jam” that was announced for 12 noon to 3 pm on Saturday. “Because of these inputs, we had decided to call off the ‘chakka jam' in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand,” the 51-year-old Tikait, credited with reviving the farmers' stir, said. Amid stringent security set up installed around the Ghazipur protest site, the farmer leader, flanked by his supporters, also interacted with Delhi Police officials. “Nobody can touch the farmlands, the farmers will protect it. Both farmers and soldiers should come forward for it,” Tikait said. Interacting with security personnel who were on the other side of the barricading, he said, bowing his head and folded hands, “My pranaam (a respectful salutation) to you all. Now you all will protect my farms.” Besides Ghazipur, thousands of farmers are encamping at Tikri and Singhu border points of Delhi since November with a demand that the Centre repeal the three contentious agri-marketing laws, saying these would hurt their livelihoods. However, the Centre, which has held 11 rounds of formal talks with the protesting groups, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/protesting-farmers-will-stay-put-till-october-2-rakesh-tikait-948281.html
06-02-2021||National Politics||BJP won't need Shiv Sena's help in future: Narayan Rane||Former Maharashtra Chief Minister and senior BJP leader Narayan Rane on Saturday said that his party would not need Shiv Sena's help in future. "The BJP would not need Shiv Sena's help," Rane told reporters in his home district of Sindhudurg.  The statement of Rane, the Konkan strongman and BJP's Rajya Sabha member comes on the eve of visit of Union Home Minister Amit Shah to the state. Rane accused Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray of shedding Hindutva to ally with the Congress-NCP combine.  "He gave up Hindutva for personal ambition for Chief Minister's post," he said. According to him, Thackeray had not been able to handle the Covid-19 crisis. "He talks of washing hands and wearing masks," he said.  Commenting on the Congress, he said: ".... It will never be able to be No 1 party in the country and the state in near future." On the 2022 polls of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, Rane asserted that the next Mumbai Mayor would be from the BJP.  "The Gujarati community will stand by Narendra Modi and Amit Shah," he said referring to Shiv Sena's attempts to woo the Gujarati community. On any proposal of an alliance with the Raj Thackeray-led MNS, he said it is for them to take a call.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-wont-need-shiv-senas-help-in-future-narayan-rane-948292.html
06-02-2021||National Politics||Change is inevitable in West Bengal: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday said that change of government in West Bengal was bound to happen as the people have made up their mind. He also said that BJP’s ‘Parivartan Yatra’ might hasten the process. Speaking to reporters at the National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED) Vardhan said that the people of Bengal had lost their patience with the “nephew-brotherhood” in the state. He also said that people were fed up of appeasement politics and rampant corruption in the state. “I have received inputs from various sources which indicate that change in West Bengal is inevitable and BJP‘s Parivartan Yatra may hasten the process,” said Vardhan. “Corruption has become alarming in Bengal. There is blatant appeasement and nephew-brotherhood in Bengal. People who have nothing to do with the BJP are saying such things,” said Vardhan. However, he did not name anyone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/change-is-inevitable-in-west-bengal-harsh-vardhan-948322.html
06-02-2021||National Politics||Govt would endeavour to make provisions in budget to increase farmers' income: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said that his government would endeavour to make provisions in the upcoming budget that will increase farmers' income. Gehlot was interacting with farmers, livestock owners, functionaries of dairy associations and representatives of tribal areas via video conferencing.  The meeting was held in run-up to the budget session of the state assembly which will commence from February 10. Gehlot, who also holds the finance portfolio, said agriculture, animal husbandry and allied sectors have a significant contribution in the state's economy.  He said, "Despite the difficult geographical conditions and lack of water, the farmers have made a meaningful effort to keep the state at the forefront in the field of agriculture with their hard work. "It is our endeavour to make such provisions in the budget that will increase the income of farmers and livestock owners and make them happy." He said there are huge possibilities for development in the agriculture and dairy sectors in Rajasthan. These areas can be developed rapidly through technology and innovations, he said.  The chief minister said the welfare of farmers and livestock owners is one of the top priorities of his government. For this, the government has taken many important decisions in the last two years, which are bringing positive changes in the field of agriculture, he said. He said under the Prime Minister Crop Insurance Scheme, about 55 lakh farmers have been paid insurance claims worth about Rs 8,000 crore under the tenure of the present government.  A total of 1.08 crore farmers have been insured in the year 2020-21, which is 24 lakh more than the previous year, Gehlot said.  To create a conducive environment for the development of agricultural industries and to promote agricultural exports, the state government has implemented the 'Rajasthan Agro Processing, Agribusiness and Agri Export Promotion Policy-2019', he said, adding that this policy is a major step towards making the farmers prosperous. Agriculture Minister Lalchand Kataria said farmers have always enhanced the honour of the state with their tireless hardwork.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-would-endeavour-to-make-provisions-in-budget-to-increase-farmers-income-gehlot-948424.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||R-Day violence: Delhi Police seek details of 'toolkit' from Google, social media giants||The Delhi Police on Friday asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about email ids, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of a "toolkit” shared by teen climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers’ protest. The Cyber Cell unit of the Delhi Police had on Thursday lodged an FIR against "pro-Khalistan" creators of the "toolkit" for waging a "social, cultural and economic war against the Government of India". Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy said a letter has been written to Google and other entities seeking information from them about people who created these accounts and uploaded these documents including the toolkit on social media. Police said that they have sought details about the email ids, domain URLs and certain social media accounts mentioned in the "toolkit". This document was uploaded through Google doc and shared later on Twitter. As of now, we are waiting for details from the concerned entities and based on information provided by them, we will proceed with the investigation further, Roy said. A senior police officer said that the original document will help the investigators in identifying the creators of the "toolkit" and the person who has shared it. He said the document in question was created, edited and pushed by certain people and it is important to identify them since there is an “element of conspiracy”. The case against unnamed persons have been registered on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and various other sections of the Indian Penal Code, police said. According to a senior Delhi Police officer, an initial investigation has suggested the document's link with a pro-Khalistan group, named ''Poetic Justice Foundation''. He said considering the unfolding of events in the past few days, including the violence on January 26, it has revealed "copycat execution" of the action plan mentioned in the ''toolkit'' which was also aimed at waging "a social, cultural and economic war against the Government of India." According to police, the toolkit has a particular section which says --- digital strike-through hashtags on or before January 26, tweetstorms on January 23 onwards, physical action on January 26 and watch-out or join farmers march into Delhi and back to borders. The document ''toolkit'' was aimed to spread disaffection and ill-will against the government of India and creating disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/r-day-violence-delhi-police-seek-details-of-toolkit-from-google-social-media-giants-948048.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Several Delhi Metro stations' entry-exit gates closed in light of farmers' 'chakka jam'||Entry and exit facilities at several prominent Delhi metro stations were on Saturday temporarily closed in view of the 'chakka jam' protests by farmer unions agitating against the new agricultural laws. Farmer unions on Monday had announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 when they would block national and state highways between 12 pm and 3 pm to protest the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. However, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the farmer unions protesting the three farm laws, on Friday said the protesters will not block roads in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the 'chakka jam'. The DMRC in a series of tweets informed commuters that multiple stations have been closed. "Security Update Entry/exit gates of Mandi House, ITO and Delhi Gate are closed," it tweeted. It later also tweeted that entry and exit gates of Vishwavidyalaya station were also closed. "Entry/exit gates of Lal Quila, Jama Masjid, Janpath and Central Secretariat are closed. Interchange facility is available," the DMRC said. The entry/exit gates of Khan Market and Nehru Place are also closed. Security Update Entry/exit gates of Khan Market and Nehru Place are closed. Elaborating on the security arrangements for the 'chakka jam', Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal on Friday had said in view of the violence that took place on January 26, adequate security arrangements have been put in place by the Delhi Police at the borders so that miscreants are not able to enter the national capital. After the Republic Day violence, the Delhi Police has deployed additional measures, including tightening security and intensifying vigil at the city's border points, to deal with any situation emerging out of the 'chakka jam' on Saturday by farmers protesting the Centre's three new agricultural laws, officials had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/several-delhi-metro-stations-entry-exit-gates-closed-in-light-of-farmers-chakka-jam-948176.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||'Chakka jam': Farmers in Punjab, Haryana block roads||Farmers protesting against the Centre's new agricultural laws and other issues blocked roads at several places in Punjab and Haryana on Saturday on the call given by the farmers' unions for a nationwide 'chakka jam'. Farmers' unions had on Monday announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' from 12 noon to 3 pm on February 6 when they would block national and state highways in protest against the Internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. The police have stepped up security and made all arrangements for traffic diversion, said officials, adding adequate police personnel were deployed in Punjab and Haryana. Protesting farmers owing allegiance to different farmers' bodies blocked state and national highways at several places on Saturday, causing inconvenience to commuters. Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said they are holding road blockades at 33 places in 15 districts including Sangrur, Barnala and Bathinda in Punjab. In the morning, farmers started assembling at their earmarked protest sites for 'chakka jam' in both the states. "Elders and youth have gathered here to participate in chakka jam. It will be peaceful," said a protester at the Punjab-Haryana border in Shambhu near Ambala. "We want that the government should repeal these three laws as they are not in the interest of the farming community," said another protester. Protesting farmers said emergency vehicles including ambulances and school buses will be allowed during the 'chakka jam'. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chakka-jam-farmers-in-punjab-haryana-block-roads-948187.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Man gets life imprisonment for raping minor girl in UP||A court in Ballia district in Uttar Pradesh has sentenced a young man to life imprisonment for raping a three-and-a-half-year-old girl, police said on Saturday. Superintendent of Police of Ballia Vipin Tada said the man raped the girl in a village in the Chitbadagaav police station area on September 5, 2019. Based on a complaint filed by the girl's father, a case was registered against the man under relevant sections of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The police officer said, "Additional District Judge Shiv Kumar on Friday held the accused person guilty, and sentenced him to life imprisonment. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on him."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-gets-life-imprisonment-for-raping-minor-girl-in-up-948197.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: Naxal carrying Rs 1 lakh bounty killed in encounter||A Naxal was killed in an encounter with security forces in Chhattisgarh's Dantewada district on Saturday, a police official said. The gunfight took place around 10 am in a forest located between Surnaar and Tetam villages when a team of the District Reserve Guard (DRG) was out on an anti-Naxal operation, Dantewada Superintendent of Police Abhishek Pallava told PTI. "After the exchange of fire stopped, the body of a Naxal, identified as Muchaki Masa, was recovered from the spot along with a weapon," he added. Masa, who was active as a janmilitia commander, was involved in a number of Naxal incidents in the area and carried a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head, Pallava said. The search operation was still underway at the encounter site, located around 400 km away from capital Raipur, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-naxal-carrying-rs-1-lakh-bounty-killed-in-encounter-948204.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||50 detained in Delhi for staging protest in support of farmers||Around 50 people were detained near Shaheedi Park in central Delhi on Saturday for allegedly holding a protest in support of the 'chakka jam' call given by the farmers agitating against the Centre's new agri laws, police said. Farmer unions had on Monday announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' on February 6 during which they would block national and state highways between 12 noon and 3 pm to protest the Internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of the farmer unions protesting the three farm laws, said on Friday the protesters will not block roads in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the 'chakka jam', even as it asserted that peasants in other parts of the country will block national and state highways for three hours between 12 noon and 3 pm, but in a peaceful way. The Delhi Police has intensified security at all border points of the city as thousands of personnel including paramilitary forces have been deployed to deal with any situation emerging out of the 'chakka jam'. After the Republic Day violence, the Delhi Police has deployed additional measures, including tightening security and intensifying vigil across the city and its border points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/50-detained-in-delhi-for-staging-protest-in-support-of-farmers-948211.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||After brief respite, mercury dips again in Kashmir||Minimum temperatures across Kashmir dipped again on Saturday after a few days of respite from the intense cold wave conditions even as the mercury settled above freezing point in Srinagar, the Met office said. According to meteorological department's forecast, mainly dry weather would prevail in the valley over the next week. Night temperatures fell at all weather stations in the valley on Friday, officials said. However, the minimum temperature stayed above freezing point in Srinagar – the summer capital of Jammu and Kashmir – which recorded a low of 0.6 degrees Celsius last night – slightly down from the previous night's 1.0 degrees Celsius, they said. The minimum was still one degree above normal for this time of the season, the officials said. Qazigund – the gateway town to the valley – recorded a minimum of minus 3.2 degrees Celsius – down from the previous night's low of minus 0.8 degrees Celsius, the officials said. Pahalgam tourist resort, which also serves as a base camp for the annual Amarnath yatra in south Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 6.3 degrees Celsius – down from minus 3.6 degrees Celsius the previous night. The minimum temperature at the Gulmarg skiing resort, in north Kashmir's Baramulla district, settled at minus 10.4 degrees Celsius last night – a degree down from the previous night. Kupwara town, in north Kashmir, recorded a low of minus 1.8 degrees Celsius, while the minimum temperature in Kokernag, in the south, settled at minus 2.5 degrees Celsius. The Met office said that the weather is expected to stay mainly dry for the next one week, but the minimum temperature is likely to fall by two to three degrees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-brief-respite-mercury-dips-again-in-kashmir-948213.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Farmers' protest: MHA suspends internet at Delhi border areas till end of the day||The Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday once again suspended internet services at the farmers' protest sites in Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri at Delhi's borders and adjoining localities for 24 hours. This came against the backdrop of agitating farmers' unions calling for a 'chakka jam' (traffic block) for three hours on Saturday afternoon though it had kept Delhi and Uttarakhand out of the protest plans. The suspension of internet was done by invoking the relevant sections of the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules 2017. "...in the interest of maintaining public safety and everting public emergency, it is necessary and expedient to order, the temporary suspension of internet services in the areas of Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri and their adjoining areas in the National Capital Territory of Delhi from 00:00 hours on February 6 to 11:59 PM on February 6," the order signed by Ministry of Home Affairs Deputy Secretary Shailendra Vikram Singh said. The order was issued with the approval of Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla. Earlier on January 30, the MHA had suspended internet services at these localities till 11 pm on January 31. This was done four days after the tractor rally by farmers turned violent. It was later extended till February 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-mha-suspends-internet-at-delhi-border-areas-till-end-of-the-day-948226.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Farmers in Rajasthan block roads as part of 'chakka jam'||Farmers protesting against the Centre's new agri laws and other issues blocked roads at several places in Rajasthan on Saturday on the call given by the farmers' unions for a nationwide 'chakka jam'. Farmers' unions had on Monday announced a countrywide 'chakka jam' from 12 noon to 3 pm on February 6 when they would block national and state highways in protest against the Internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities, and other issues. Farmers at many places including Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Dholpur and Jhalawar in the state blocked the highways and main roads and held demonstrations, police said. However, there is no news of any untoward incident so far, they said. The Rajasthan Congress has also supported the call. In a tweet, Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasara said the party supports the protesting farmers. "The Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee supports the farmers’ unions call to block national and state highways from 12 noon to 3 pm today. All Congressmen are requested to take necessary steps to make this blockade successful and ensure it is peaceful," Dotasra said in the tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-in-rajasthan-block-roads-as-part-of-chakka-jam-948228.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||UP MLAs asked to buy iPads as Budget Session goes 'digital'||The Uttar Pradesh government has asked members of the state's legislative assembly and council to purchase tablets for a paperless budget session. According to Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma, each legislator will be reimbursed Rs 50,000 to buy Apple iPads. There are 403 MLAs and 100 MLCs in the state. "All MLAs and MLCs in the state will get iPads. Each iPad is expected to cost around Rs 50,000 and the cost will be reimbursed," Sharma, who also holds the portfolio of electronics, information technology told PTI. He said the state’s ministers have attended a training programme in this regard, and the MLAs and MLCs too will be trained before the budget session commences. On February 2, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had directed that the state cabinet should hold a virtual meeting in future for which ministers must be given training. Adityanath had said, "Modern technology is extremely helpful in performing various works quickly and in a transparent manner. Ministers should be imparted training for e-cabinet meetings at their official residence and office. Information regarding the security features for the e-cabinet meeting should be given to them." He said the initiative will help the state cabinet go paperless. "Efforts should also be made to make the state budget paperless on the lines of the Union Budget," he said. On February 1, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had read out the Union Budget speech in the Lok Sabha from a tablet instead of a conventional paper document. Adityanath said before the commencement of the session of the state legislature on February 18, all members should be given tablets and training sessions be held for them to ensure effective use of the device.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-mlas-asked-to-buy-ipads-as-budget-session-goes-digital-948229.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Man kills children, injures wife before shooting self||A 35-year-old businessman allegedly shot dead his two children in the early hours of Saturday and injured his wife before shooting himself at his home in Punjab's Faridkot district, police said. The businessman, Karan Kataria, succumbed to injuries at a hospital in Ludhiana, they said. According to police, Kataria allegedly fired at his wife and their two children at around 4 am at his home in Narain Nagar in Faridkot district. He shot himself later, they said. Kataria's seven-year-old son and three-year-old daughter died while his wife, 30, suffered bullet injuries and was admitted to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College and Hospital. A police official said the reason behind Kataria taking the extreme step was yet to be ascertained. A few days ago, a financier in Amritsar had shot dead his wife and a five-year-old son before killing himself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-kills-children-injures-wife-before-shooting-self-948230.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: Four women students get 5-year jail in ragging suicide case||Probably in a first such verdict in Madhya Pradesh, a court in Bhopal has handed five-year imprisonment to four women students of a private pharmacy college for abetting suicide of another student in a 2013 ragging case. In his order on Friday, Additional Sessions court judge Amit Ranjan also imposed a fine of Rs 8,000 on each of the convicts - Devanshi Sharma, Kirti Gaur, Deepti Solanki and Nidhi Magre, the prosecution said. "With promising dreams, talented and competent children go to universities, colleges and schools. But end their lives due to the torture of ragging. In such circumstances, the dreams of students along with their parents get shattered," the judge observed. The court absolved a teacher of the college from charges for want of proof. The prosecution said the convicts mentally and physically tortured Anita Sharma, following which she hanged herself at her home near PNT crossing here on August 6, 2013. The victim had mentioned names of the four students in her suicide note, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-four-women-students-get-5-year-jail-in-ragging-suicide-case-948274.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Suspected terrorist held in Jammu and Kashmir||A suspected terrorist was arrested on Saturday after police intercepted a car on the outskirts of Jammu city, officials said. The suspect is a resident of south Kashmir's Shopian district, they said. The private vehicle was intercepted by police at Kunjwani bypass on a specific information, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspected-terrorist-held-in-jammu-and-kashmir-948279.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police warns strict action against travellers found with cartridges in their baggage at IGI airport||A day after 11 cartridges were found in the baggage of a passenger at the Indira Gandhi International airport here, the Delhi Police on Saturday urged travellers to re-check their belongings and warned of legal action against those found with ammunition. A total of 13 cases, where ammunition has been found in the baggage of passengers during the security check, have already been registered this year at the IGI Airport police station under sections of Arms Act, officials said. The advisory comes a day after a passenger at IGI's Terminal-3, who was travelling from Delhi to the Maldives by a private airline, was found carrying 11 cartridges of .32 bore in his check-in baggage, police said. During questioning, the passenger had told the police that the recovered cartridges belonged to his licensed weapon and had also produced his valid arms license issued in his name with area validity for Haryana, a senior police officer said. In another instance, a woman travelling from Terminal-3 was also found in possession of one live ammunition during the screening of her baggage and she could not produce valid documents for it, he said. In both instances, cases were registered under sections of the Arms Act at IGI Airport police station. Deputy Commissioner of Police (IGI Airport) Rajeev Ranjan said as per legal provisions, an FIR is registered against such passenger for the possession of ammunition illegally without a valid license issued for Delhi or all India and the passenger has to face criminal proceedings before the court of law. "Such lapses affect the journey of the passenger badly as they cannot embark on their journey and their co-passengers and family members also face an awkward situation," he said. Last year, 66 such cases were registered under the Arms Act at IGI Airport and an appeal -- "Carrying Ammunition at Airport is a Non-Bailable Offence" -- was also circulated in the public domain through various social media platforms of Delhi Police. Despite issuing such appeals to public, cases, where cartridges are found in the baggage of the passengers, are still being reported, which is a matter of concern, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-warns-strict-action-against-travellers-found-with-cartridges-in-their-baggage-at-igi-airport-948280.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Militants attack security forces, CRPF personnel injured Jammu and Kashmir||Militants attacked a security forces team in Chanapora area of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, injuring a CRPF personnel, an official of the paramilitary force said. Militants opened fire at the road opening party (ROP) of the CRPF's 29th battalion at Chanapora locality here, CRPF PRO O P Tiwari said. He said constable Manoj Kumar Yadav received an injury in his foot during the attack. The injured constable has been taken to a hospital. The area has been cordoned off and a search has been launched to nab the attackers, he said. Further details are being ascertained, Tiwari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-attack-security-forces-crpf-personnel-injured-jammu-and-kashmir-948289.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Focussed on providing jobs to 80% J&K youth within 5 years: Manoj Sinha||Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Saturday said his focus is on providing job opportunities to 80 percent of the young population within the next five years. Delivering the keynote address at the Harvard US-India Initiative (HUII) annual conference virtually, Sinha said development has replaced terrorism which was being exported relentlessly by the neighbouring country. “My goal is to reach out and engage about 80 percent of the young population of Jammu and Kashmir within the next five years and make it possible for them to be an engine of growth for the overall socio-economic transformation of the UT,” he said. “I would like to see each child of J&K prosper into a mature, successful and good human being. The potential of the youth is harnessed in a way that everyone contributes towards the prosperity of the UT. Together we will achieve the desired goal”, he added. HUII aims to engage students around the world in a dialogue about India's most pressing political, social, economic, and environmental challenges, providing the youth an opportunity to hear from inspiring leaders and be a part of the discussion with them. Speaking on the new dawn of developmental change that Jammu and Kashmir is witnessing, the Lt Governor observed that the narrative has changed now. “From the very first day in office, I have adopted a targeted approach to address the issues pertaining to poverty, health, nutrition, gender equality, quality education, skill development of youth and have ensured that benefits of government schemes reach the last mile," he said. "For equitable development, I gave the mantra of 'Jan Bhagidari' (people's participation),” he added. Outlining various interventions made by the government towards holistic development of Jammu and Kashmir and empowering the people of the UT, the Lt Governor said District Development Council (DDC) elections were conducted successfully and peacefully. “This has strengthened the grass-root democracy, finally establishing the three-tier panchayati raj system, which was implemented in other states almost 28 years ago,” he said. Last month, he said a new Industrial Scheme 2021 was unveiled that offers Rs 28,400 crores subsidy for attracting investment. “J&K's service sector is growing at a historic pace and much ahead of states like Maharashtra, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu. We are taking industries to the block level to remove the disparities. The scheme is expected to create 4.5 lakh jobs,” he said. With a view to help small and medium IT ventures in Jammu and Kashmir, he said his administration is strengthening infrastructure and setting up new projects. “Similarly, power projects worth more than Rs 54,000 crore will take off in due course of time to make the union territory self-reliant in the energy sector. Making J&K power sufficient, we aspire to generate 3500 megawatt in only four years to make Jammu Kashmir power surplus,” he said. It shows that no attempts were made during the last 73 years to generate opportunities for youth, he said. Laying special emphasis on public participation in the developmental process, the Lt Governor said that no growth is possible without people's participation. “For effective governance and delivery of public services, jan bhagidari is crucial and various policies, programmes and schemes can transform the villages if the government plays the role of a facilitator and people take up the job of planner and executor,” he said. He highlighted that universal health coverage scheme -- 'Ayushman Bharat -SEHAT' -- was launched recently to provide free of cost insurance cover of up to Rs 5 lakh per household per year in Jammu and Kashmir without any socio-economic discrimination which is the first of its kind anywhere in the country. Multi-pronged strategies involving all necessary systemic interventions have been adopted, he said. “With schemes like 'Mission Youth' and 'Mumkin', dedicated focus was given on livelihood generation, education, skill development, career counselling and financial assistance providing necessary hand-holding to the youth,” he maintained. He said, India is ready to be the fulcrum of a new world order that is more just, humane, industrious, mutually beneficial and empowering. “I sincerely believe that India, with a huge young and talented population, friendly ecosystem and the trust we have managed to build that we can deliver on promises, has allowed the nation to emerge as a popular destination for global entrepreneurs and corporates”, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/focussed-on-providing-jobs-to-80-jk-youth-within-5-years-manoj-sinha-948297.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Temperature in Himachal Pradesh’s Manali, Kufri, Keylong, Kalpa dip to sub-zero level||Himachal Pradesh's tourist hotspots Manali, Kufri, Keylong and Kalpa shivered at sub-zero temperature on Saturday after recent snowfall in the state, the Meteorological Department said. The minimum temperature in the state decreased by one to two degrees Celsius in the last 24 hours, Shimla Met Centre Director Manmohan Singh said. The tribal Lahaul and Spiti's administrative centre Keylong continued to be the coldest place in the state at minus 13.7 degrees Celsius, he said. Kalpa recorded a low of minus 6 degrees Celsius, he added. The minimum temperatures in Manali and Kufri settled at minus 2.4 and minus 0.7 degrees Celsius respectively. Shimla and Dalhousie registered a low of one and 1.1 degrees Celsius, Singh added. The highest temperature was recorded in Una at 25.2 degrees Celsius, he said, adding that the weather will remain dry from February 7 to 12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/temperature-in-himachal-pradesh-s-manali-kufri-keylong-kalpa-dip-to-sub-zero-level-948299.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir residents elated over restoration of 4G internet services||Having faced several hardships for over 18 months due to the suspension of high-speed internet, people of Jammu and Kashmir especially students, professionals and those belonging to the business community were elated on Saturday following the restoration of 4G mobile internet services across the union territory. However, the development once again brought into focus the demand for restoration of statehood to the Union Territory. The high-speed mobile internet was restored in Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, exactly one and a half years after it was snapped in August 2019 when the Centre had abrogated the special status of the erstwhile state. Internet was completely shut on August 5, 2019 when the government announced abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution and also its bifurcation into two union territories -- Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh. On January 25 last year, 2G services were restored while 4G services on mobile devices in Ganderbal in Kashmir division and Udhampur in Jammu region was restarted in August. People were seen congratulating each other and some politicians, mostly opposition leaders, used the occasion to advocate the restoration of statehood and early assembly polls. Students were perhaps one of the worst-hit as they struggled to attend online classes during the Covid-19 lockdown. “We welcome the development but no thanks to the government which deprived us of the fundamental right over the last 18 months," Ankit Sharma, a college student told PTI. "Our education was hit after we were forced into homes due to the outbreak of the Coronavirus pandemic and faced a lot of problems due to non-availability of the high speed internet,” he said. Kanwaljeet Singh quipped “better late than never”. Singh, a civil services aspirant, however, said the student community was the worst hit by the ban as the 2G service was not adequate for the online classes or preparing for an examination. Law student Thakur Sunny said the announcement came as a pleasant surprise as it came at a time when schools and colleges have opened for offline classes. “There would be no place in the world where 4G service remained suspended for over 550 days. What changed overnight? When the service was required the most it was kept suspended and now when the educational institutions reopened, the government restored it,” he said. “I actually see some going out of their way to thank government functionaries for 4G restoration. They're not offering us charity. We should be asking for compensation for our deprivation and losses,” Journalist and peace activist Anuradha Bhasin tweeted. The business community also welcomed the restoration of 4G and said they can now enjoy all services without frequent disruptions. Terming the 4G internet service restoration as a “positive step”, Jammu Chamber of Commerce and Industry (JCCI) president Arun Gupta said this would fulfil the aspirations of people, youth and business community in particular. “This will also solve the problems for trade and industry to a great extent regarding generation of e-way bills and e-filing of various documents including GST returns,” he said. Former minister and vice president of J&K Congress G M Saroori too welcomed the development and said restoration of statehood should be the next step of the central government followed by free and fair elections. “For a long time, the people of Jammu and Kashmir have been deprived of their legitimate rights. After a period of 18 months, the internet has been restored and during these tough 18 months, our children have suffered a lot in terms of education,” he said, He lauded the speech by his party colleague and leader of opposition in Lok Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad recently wherein he supporting restoration of other rights including statehood to Jammu and Kashmir. Additional spokesperson of National Conference Sarah Hayat Shah, in a tweet, said, "Well good to know 4G is being restored across the entire J&K. The Government of India must restore our rights (Article 370, 35(A), Statehood) as well.” National Panthers Party chairman and former minister Harsh Dev Singh asked how the can the Centre justify the 18-month ban. “They (Centre) made people face hardships for the last one and a half years and even charged money for 4G internet while providing 2G service. Is there any accountability or not?” he said. "What is the difference in the situation now and at the time of snapping of internet 18 months earlier,” he added. Advocating restoration of statehood and early assembly elections to end the “proxy rule” of BJP in Jammu and Kashmir, he said, “The actions over the last few years demonstrate the dictatorial and authoritarian approach of the government which is against the Constitution and democracy.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-residents-elated-over-restoration-of-4g-internet-services-948307.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Two held for running illicit liquor manufacturing unit in house||Two persons were arrested for allegedly running an illicit liquor manufacturing unit in the house of one of them in Srinagar police station area of the district, police said on Saturday. Srinagar police station’s SHO Sanjay Kumar Sharma said on a tip-off that Tindauli village resident Brijendra Rajput was making illicit liquor in his house, Excise Inspector Ramkrishna Chaturvedi raided the house with a police team and arrested Chaturvedi and his accomplice Mohammad Sahil. Two other persons, Mohammad Zakir and Mohammad Taqi, however, managed to escape, said the SHO, adding efforts are on to nab them. SHO Sharma said during the aid, three drums of a liquid mixture of urea and spirit, a large urea bag and a vehicle besides 20,000 empty bottles, 4,000 bottle caps and 22 fake holograms were found at the spot and seized.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-held-for-running-illicit-liquor-manufacturing-unit-in-house-948318.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Apni Party wins chairperson's post in 2 of three dist development councils, PAGD one||The Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) led by former finance minister Altaf Bukhari has won the elections to the post of chairperson of two of the three District Development Councils (DDCs) in polls held Saturday, officials said. The elections to the posts of chairmen and vice-chairmen were held in three districts of the valley -- Srinagar, Shopian and Kulgam -- in the first phase on Saturday. The JKAP would be heading the DDCs in Srinagar and Shopian, while the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) – the amalgam of six mainstream political parties – won Kulgam. In Srinagar, JKAP candidate Aftab Malik bagged 10 votes, while his rival bagged only three votes, the officials said. They said the JKAP’s Bilal Ahmad managed to win the vice-chairperson’s post by securing nine votes while his PDP rival Manzoor Ahmad Bhat bagged only four. The BJP’s lone DDC member from Srinagar, Ajaz Hussain, also supported JKAP candidates for both the posts, they said. In Shopian district of south Kashmir also, the Apni Party won both the chairman’s and vice-chairman’s posts. The officials said JKAP candidate Bilqees Akhtar polled eight votes, while her rival candidate from the PAGD secured six. They said the vice-chairman post was decided through a draw of lots as there was a tie and it was also won by the JKAP. JKAP chief Bukhari congratulated the winning candidates and exuded confidence they would work for the people. “We are a new party and our politics is based on honesty. I thank the people for showing faith in us,” he told reporters here. While the PAGD did not win in the two districts, it had a reason to cheer in Kulgam, also in south Kashmir, where the CPI(M) candidate M Afzal was elected the chairperson and National Conference's Shazia Jan as vice-chairperson. “Congratulations to Comrade M Afzal of our party CPIM for being elected as DDC chairman of district Kulgam and Shazia Jan of NC as vice chairman. We thank and appreciate the cooperation of all the elected DDC members of Kulgam for consensus and unanimity,” CPI(M) leader M Y Tarigami said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/apni-party-wins-chairpersons-post-in-2-of-three-dist-development-councils-pagd-one-948328.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh jail experiment: Eight convicts deployed at Indore fuel pump||Eight convicts with good conduct and approaching the end of their sentences have been deployed at the first petrol pump launched in Indore on Saturday by the Madhya Pradesh jail department, an official said. The Indian Oil Corporation filling station, near the Central Jail, was inaugurated by MP Prisons and Correctional Services Director General Arvind Kumar. "Eight convicts whose conduct has been good and who are going to complete their sentences in a year or two have been engaged to work at this fuel station. It has been opened on a trial basis and will be replicated in more cities if the experiment is successful," Kumar told reporters. "Giving jobs to convicts at the pump would come handy in rehabilitating them after release," said Indore Central Jail Superintendent Rakesh Kumar Bhangere. Among those working at the fuel pump is Pratap Singh (55), a native of Ratlam district, who has six months to go for his life sentence for murder to end. "I live with my family in an open jail. Employment in a petrol pump station will make my life easier," he said. The pump will be run by the Indore-based Central Jail Welfare Committee and revenue would be used for prisoners' welfare, officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-jail-experiment-eight-convicts-deployed-at-indore-fuel-pump-948332.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||AAP announces candidates for municipal corporation by-elections||The AAP has announced candidates for the upcoming municipal corporation by-elections to six seats which will be held on February 28. The names include Dhirendra (Bunty Gautam) from Kalyanpuri ward 8E, Vijay Kumar from Trilokpuri ward 2E, Mohammad Isharaq Khan from Chauhan Bangar 41E, Ramchandra from Rohini C32N and Sunita Mishra from Shalimar Bagh North 62N, the Aam Aadmi Party said in a statement on Saturday. All these leaders have done great work in their respective areas and the party selected them based on their performances, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-announces-candidates-for-municipal-corporation-by-elections-948338.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Militants attack CRPF team in J&K, constable injured||Militants on Saturday opened fire at a CRPF team in Jammu and Kashmir's Chanapora area, injuring a constable, an official of the paramilitary force said. Militants opened fire at the road opening party (ROP) of the CRPF's 29th battalion at Chanapora locality Srinagar, CRPF PRO O P Tiwari said. He said constable Manoj Kumar Yadav was injured in the foot during the attack. The injured constable has been taken to a hospital. The area has been cordoned off and a search has been launched to nab the attackers, he said. Further details are being ascertained, Tiwari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-attack-crpf-team-in-jk-constable-injured-948344.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||'Chakka Jam': Farmers block roads to demand repeal of farm laws||Thousands of farmers sat on roads, raised slogans and beat drums across northern India to step up pressure on the Modi government to roll back the agriculture reforms, the first nationwide protest after the violence-marred tractor rally on Republic Day. The ‘chakka jam’ call given by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) received overwhelming response in Punjab and Haryana and parts of Rajasthan where farmers turned up in huge numbers to block state and national highways from 12:00 noon to 3:00 pm. The agitating farmers exempted Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand from the ‘chakka jam’ call apprehending a repeat of the violent incidents of January 26, when a group of protesters had raided the Red Fort and hoisted Sikh flags from the ramparts of the monument. At the same time, the farmers declared that they were prepared for the long haul and would continue to be at the protest sites on Delhi’s borders till October. “We will sit here till October 2,” Rakesh Tikait, the spokesperson of the Bhartiya Kisan Union said at the Ghazipur protest site on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. Delhi was turned into a fortress with multi-layered barricades topped up with Concertina wires near protest sites at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders as well as ITO junction in Central Delhi which witnessed vandalism by a section of farmers. “The 'chakka jam' was completely peaceful,” said Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan. Farmers parked their tractor-trailers or squatted in the middle of roads in Punjab and Haryana, blocking several highways, including the Chandigarh-Zirakpur, Amritsar-Pathankot, Tarn Taran-Kapurthala, Ferozepur-Fazilka, Muktsar-Kotkapura, Bathinda-Chandigarh, Ludhiana-Jalandhar, Panchkula-Pinjore and Ambala – Chandigarh highway Rustic farmer songs blared from speakers and people perched atop truck-tractors hoisted the tricolour on the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway that encircles Delhi. In Rajasthan, farmers at many places including Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Dholpur and Jhalawar stalled traffic on the highways and main roads and held demonstrations. Activists of the Congress and the Left parties who had announced their support to the farmers’ ‘chakka jam’ participated in huge numbers across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chakka-jam-farmers-block-roads-to-demand-repeal-of-farm-laws-948346.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Two arrested for assaulting doctors at Jammu hospital||Two persons were arrested for allegedly misbehaving and assaulting doctors at Government Medical College (GMC) hospital here, police said on Saturday. A complaint was lodged with the police by the principal of GMC on Friday that attendants of a patient, Junaid Ali of Gassi village in Reasi district, misbehaved and assaulted the doctors, a police spokesperson said. He said a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Police Station Bakshi Nagar in this connection. “Police arrested both the accused to maintain peace in the hospital. The doctors were assured of their safety and proper investigation in the case,” the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-arrested-for-assaulting-doctors-at-jammu-hospital-948352.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee announces candidates for municipal corporation by-elections||The Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee on Saturday announced its candidates in five wards for the upcoming municipal corporation by-elections scheduled to take place on February 28.  Anil Kumar, president of Delhi Congress released the list of candidates which include Bal Kisan from Trilokpuri East, Kalyanpuri, Dharampal Maurya, Chauhan Bangar, Chaudhary Zubair Ahamad, Rohini-C and Memwati Barwala, and Mamta from Shalimar Bagh (North), a party statement said. Two wards in North Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) -- Shalimar Bagh and Rohini-C-- and three under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) -- Trilokpuri, Kalyanpuri and Chauhan Bangar -- will go for the bypolls. Both Congress and the AAP have declared their candidates for the by-elections, while the list of BJP candidates is yet to be announced. Four of the five wards fell vacant after sitting councillors contested assembly polls on AAP ticket in 2020 and became MLAs. The Shalimar Bagh ward fell vacant after the death of Renu Jaju who had won the seat on a BJP ticket in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-pradesh-congress-committee-announces-candidates-for-municipal-corporation-by-elections-948363.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||R-Day violence: Notice served on gurdwara functionary in UP's Pilibhit||On the lookout for those responsible for the violence at the Red Fort during a farmers’ tractor parade on the Republic Day in the national capital, a team of the Delhi Police on Saturday served a notice on a functionary of a gurdwara in Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit district. The police team arrived at Puranpur adjoining Shahjahanpur and served notice on granthi Gurtej Singh, asking him to come to Delhi for recording his statement, area SHO Suresh Kumar Singh said over the phone. The police team served notice on the granthi of a gurdwara in the Ghunghchai chowki area, saying that a tractor from the gurdwara had gone to Delhi, the SHO said. The team later left for Shahjahanpur, he said. According to locals, the team also visited the house of a farmer, Arshpreet, in Chamrabhoji village under the Khutar area and on failing to find him, pasted a notice there. According to police, people responsible for the Republic Day violence are being traced with the help of video footage||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/r-day-violence-notice-served-on-gurdwara-functionary-in-ups-pilibhit-948381.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Three more held in connection with Red Fort violence on Republic Day||The Delhi Police has arrested three more people in connection with the Red Fort incident on Republic Day, taking the total number of those in its custody for the violence that took place across the national capital during the farmers' tractor parade to 126, officials said on Saturday. The three have been identified as Harpreet Singh (32), Harjeet Singh (48) and Dharmender Singh (55), all residents of Delhi, they said. They were nabbed by the special investigating team (SIT) of north district on Wednesday. The crime branch, which is also investigating the cases, formally arrested them on Friday, police said. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new agri laws had clashed with the police during the tractor parade on January 26. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and a flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled on Independence Day. Police said they have released pictures of over 70 people who were involved in the violence on January 26. Now their identification is underway, they said. So far, a total of 126 people have been arrested in connection with the Republic Day violence across the national capital, police said. "We are constantly examining the videos and footage which we have received to get clear picture of the people involved in the violence. The process of identification is underway," Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said. The objectionable videos on farmers' issue being uploaded from locations out of India are also being examined. The Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police is investigating the matter, he added. The Cyber Prevention Awareness and Detection (CyPAD) unit of Delhi Police has served around seven to eight notices. "We have sent notices to around seven to eight people. However, only two of them have responded. They have asked for some time to join the investigation," a senior police officer said. The Delhi Police on Wednesday arrested a man named Dharmendra Singh in connection with the violence at Red Fort during the farmers' tractor parade on Republic Day. Earlier, the police had announced cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information that can lead to the arrest of actor Deep Sidhu, Jugraj Singh, Gurjot Singh and Gurjant Singh who hoisted flags at the Red Fort or were involved in the act. A cash reward of Rs 50,000 each was also announced for Buta Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Jajbir Singh and Iqbal Singh for allegedly instigating protesters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-more-held-in-connection-with-red-fort-violence-on-republic-day-948384.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||LeM chief arrested in Jammu; major terror strike foiled: Police||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Saturday said that it has foiled a major terror strike here with the timely arrest of a most wanted terrorist and self-styled commander of Lashkar-e-Mustafa, believed to be a frontal organization of the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM).        The arrest of Hidayatullah Malik alias Hasnain, an 'A' category terrorist from Shopian district, when he was in a private car was made by a joint team of Anantnag and Jammu police from Kunjwani area in the outskirts of Jammu city, a police spokesperson said.        He said that Malik was one of the 10 accused in a case related to the detection of a powerful car bomb which was later destroyed on the spot to avert any major mishap in Pulwama district in May last year. His seven other associates were earlier arrested from different parts of south Kashmir over the past month.         “In order to dismantle the structure of Lashkar-e-Mustafa, the efforts of Anantnag Police led to the arrest of its self-styled chief. The first arrest in this chain was Ayaz Bhat of Anantnag from whom one pistol was recovered on January 18,” the spokesperson said.       On the disclosure of Bhat, two more terror associates  -- Rayees Mir of Pampore and Shakir Itoo of Shopian -- were arrested and two grenades were recovered from their possession, the spokesperson said, adding four more terror associates hailing from Anantnag were arrested and two pistols, AK-47 rounds and hand grenades were recovered.       During the further course of the investigation, he said the arrested terrorist associates revealed that Malik was putting up in Bathindi area of Jammu and planning a major attack in Jammu.  “Accordingly, a special team of Anantnag Police was constituted and deputed to Jammu to launch the operation. At about 3:30 pm, an operation was launched with the assistance of Jammu police at Kunjwani Jammu,” the spokesperson said. During the joint operation, he said the terrorist attacked the joint party and tried to escape from the spot but the team apprehended him tactfully from the crowded place. Incriminating materials, arms and ammunition including two pistols and grenades have been recovered from his possession, the spokesperson said.   Earlier, Senior Superintendent of Police, Jammu, Shridhar Patil said a private vehicle was intercepted by police at Kunjwani bypass on specific information leading to the arrest of the wanted terrorist.         He said the terrorist attacked the police officer leading the party in an attempt to escape but was overpowered.         “He is being questioned,” the officer said, adding more details would be shared as the investigation progresses.          Officials said another person from Shopian, believed to be an associate of the arrested terrorist who reportedly travelled with him from Kashmir to Jammu, was arrested from Bathindi Saturday evening.          Both of them were living at a rented accommodation in the area, the officials said, adding further details were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lem-chief-arrested-in-jammu-major-terror-strike-foiled-police-948410.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: DRI seizes over one lakh cigarettes of foreign brands worth Rs 20 lakh||Over one lakh smuggled cigarettes of foreign brands, worth Rs 20 lakh, have been seized by officials of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) here in Madhya Pradesh, an official release said on Saturday. DRI sleuths on Thursday searched various premises on a tip off that a large quantity of the smuggled cigarettes have been kept in some godowns in Bhopal and found more than 1 lakh cigarettes of various brands, it said. The value of the seizure is Rs 20 lakh, the release said. These cigarettes were illegally smuggled into India and the packets do not carry the Cancer awareness images and pictorial warnings as mandated by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, officials said. The goods were seized under Customs Act 1962 read with Cigarettes and other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003, as amended, and Cigarettes and other Tobacco Products (Packaging and Labelling) Amendment Rules, 2020. It was found during investigation that these cigarettes were transported to Bhopal via Delhi, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-dri-seizes-over-one-lakh-cigarettes-of-foreign-brands-worth-rs-20-lakh-948419.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Repeal farm laws without further delay: Badal to Centre||Slamming the new farm laws, Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday asked the Centre to accept the farmers' demand of repealing the legislation without further delay. Badal also asked Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to name one political party which is representative of farmers and has welcomed the three laws, instead of trying to “mislead” people in Parliament by giving the impression that the laws were acceptable to all. Tomar on Friday had asserted that the government's offer to amend the new farm laws to assuage farmers' sentiments did not mean they had any flaws. “The central government should not stand on prestige. Instead, it should listen to the voice of farmers and repeal the laws without any further delay,” said Badal in Amritsar. Badal also hit out at Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, accusing him of acting “like a proxy” of the BJP by running away from his duty to locate Punjabi youth, who had been “missing” since the January 26. The SAD president, in a statement here, said it was the CM's duty to forcefully take up this issue with the BJP-led central government. “Amarinder Singh has failed to do this, making it clear that he is playing a fixed match with the central government and cannot be trusted to protect the rights of Punjabis,” alleged Badal. He said that the SAD along with the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Managing Committee (DSGMC) is not only committed to tracing all "missing" youth but will also ensure discrimination is not done against the youth who have been "unfairly arrested and jailed after being slapped with false cases". On the February 14 municipal polls, Badal said the entire process has become a "farce". "It would have been better if the Congress government had nominated its persons to the corporations and councils instead of resorting to the pretence of holding elections," alleged Badal. He accused the Congress of "running away" from holding free and fair polls, alleging that the ruling party is "misusing" the official machinery to reject the nomination papers of the opposition, besides "intimidating them with violent acts". Badal said it is unfortunate that a large number of civil and police officials are "dancing" to the tunes of the Congress legislators and are "becoming a party to the murder of democracy". "The officers indulging in these malpractices will be held to account and action will be taken against them once the SAD forms the government in the state," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/repeal-farm-laws-without-further-delay-badal-to-centre-948422.html
06-02-2021||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi to visit Rajasthan next week to raise voice for protesting farmers||Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi will be on a two-day visit to Rajasthan next week to raise his voice for farmers protesting the new agriculture laws, party general secretary Ajay Maken said on Saturday. "To fight for farmers' interests, to raise the voice of farmers in the struggle for the repeal of the three back laws, Rahul Gandhi Ji will be in Rajasthan on February 12-13," the AICC in-charge of Rajasthan said in a tweet in Hindi. A 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' was held in Rajasthan's Dausa on Friday in solidarity with the farmers camping on the borders of Delhi. The resolution passed at the meet reiterated the farmers' demand for the repeal of the three new farm laws. Speaking at the meeting, senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot said that the Union government had not discussed the bills with state governments and farmers' organisations before bringing them in Parliament. "We will not step back till these demands are met," the former Rajasthan Congress chief said. Thousands of farmers have been protesting demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-to-visit-rajasthan-next-week-to-raise-voice-for-protesting-farmers-948429.html
06-02-2021||Opinion||It’s time to trust China, Russia’s Covid-19 vaccines||By Achal Prabhala and Chee Yoke Ling, THEY, TOO, WORK, AND THEY CAN HELP FILL SHORTAGES EVERYWHERE. While the richest countries in the world are grappling with shortages of Covid-19 vaccines, some of the poorest worry about getting vaccines at all. Yet a solution to both problems may be hiding in plain sight: vaccines from China and Russia, and soon, perhaps, India. Chinese and Russian vaccines were initially dismissed in Western and other global media, partly because of a perception that they were inferior to the vaccines produced by Moderna, Pfizer-BioNtech or AstraZeneca. And that perception seemed to stem partly from the fact that China and Russia are authoritarian states. But evidence has been accumulating for a while that the vaccines from those countries work well, too. The leading medical journal The Lancet published this week interim results from late-stage trials showing that Sputnik V, the Russian vaccine, had an efficacy rate of 91.6 percent. Those confirmed findings released in mid-December by the vaccine’s developers, the Gamaleya Center and the Russian Direct Investment Fund. The United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Egypt, Jordan, Iraq, Serbia, Morocco, Hungary and Pakistan have approved the Sinopharm vaccine from China; as of mid-January, 1.8 million people in the U.A.E. had received it. Bolivia, Indonesia, Turkey, Brazil and Chile have approved and begun to roll another Chinese vaccine, from Sinovac. Sputnik V will be distributed in more than a dozen countries in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Latin America. When those countries vetted these vaccines, they made informed decisions, based on evidence about safety and efficacy released by the Chinese and Russian manufacturers — much of it also published in peer-reviewed scientific journals like The Lancet and JAMA — or after running independent trials of their own. To assume otherwise is to doubt the ability or integrity of these governments, some of which have health regulatory systems on par with those in the United States or Europe. In the face of major vaccine shortages and delivery delays, France, Spain and Germany are now beginning to talk about possibly placing orders for the Chinese and Russian vaccines. Semi-desperation, it seems, has finally prompted them to call out “prejudice” against non-Western vaccines. But the skepticism endures. There is suspicion of the Russian vaccine in Iran, of the Chinese vaccines in Pakistan, and of both in Kenya and South Africa. A recent YouGov poll asked 19,000 people in 17 countries if they thought “more positively or negatively” about vaccines developed in which of those countries: Russia, China and India ranked lowest (except for Iran). To some extent this is understandable. China’s and Russia’s self-serving propaganda campaigns touting their respective vaccines only increased wariness, especially abroad. China and Russia also started inoculating some of their citizens last year without efficacy results from late-stage, or Phase 3, clinical trials. (The Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines were approved in the United States after interim results from Phase 3 trials.) India has done the same recently with Covaxin, a vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, causing a national furor. All three governments have defended these actions as emergency measures necessary to accelerate the production and distribution of vaccines. That explanation may seem inadequate to some, but doing this is legal, and regulators in the West also cut corners for the same reason (though with more transparency). And now there are significant data about the reliability of the Chinese and Russian vaccines. (It’s still too early to tell for Covaxin.) Trial results in the U.A.E. in early December placed the efficacy of the Sinopharm vaccine at 86 per cent; others, in China, at 79 percent. A note, too, about what these efficacy numbers really measure and mean. Confusion over that has created doubts about vaccines — though about some vaccines more than others. Take Sinovac’s, and what appear to be conflicting results about its performance: 91 percent efficacy in trials in Turkey, 65 percent in trials in Indonesia and 50.4 percent in trials in Brazil. That last finding promptly made international headlines, even though researchers at the Butantan Institute, the state-run center in São Paulo that conducted those trials, pointed out at the same time that the vaccine had scored a 78 percent efficacy rate in preventing mild-to-severe cases of Covid-19. We talked to Ricardo Palacios, the clinical research medical director at the Butantan Institute, in late January, and he told us that the trials had deliberately been designed as a “stress test.” They were conducted exclusively among “health care workers directly taking care of Covid-19 patients,” he said. (The Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccine trials included some health care workers and other individuals at high risk, but not just.) And when you study a pool of subjects with much greater exposure to infection, a vaccine is likely to appear to perform less well. The Butantan Institute’s trials also defined what counted as a symptom of Covid-19 much more broadly than did other trials. The protocols for trials vary, in other words, even for the same vaccine. Considering that, now imagine the potential for differences among results from trials for various vaccines — differences that may reveal as much about the trials’s designs as the vaccines’ performance. No doubt, more information about the Chinese and Russian vaccines must be released to the public, but the same still goes to some extent for the leading Western vaccines. Not all the details or raw data for trials of the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines have been made available, not even to researchers. The fact is that no Covid-19 vaccine has been developed or released as transparently as it should have been. And while China and Russia may have botched their rollouts more than some Western companies, that doesn’t necessarily mean their vaccines are shoddy. The mounting evidence showing that the Chinese and Russian vaccines are reliable should be taken seriously, and fast, especially considering supply issues throughout the world. Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance has some Western vaccines reserved. But by our tally of its supply data, as of this week, it estimated being able to ship during the first quarter of this year only between 110 million and 122 million doses from AstraZeneca and a mere 1.2 million doses from Pfizer-BioNTech — for all 145 of the countries that have signed up with Gavi to obtain Covid-19 vaccines. What’s more, most big pharmaceutical companies in the West have resisted licensing their vaccines to non-Western manufacturers, and several wealthy countries are blocking a proposal by India and South Africa that the World Trade Organization temporarily suspend some intellectual property protections for Covid-19-related vaccines and treatments. On the other hand, according to our latest analysis of data provided by the analytics firm Airfinity, Sinovac has already signed deals to export this year more than 350 million doses of its vaccine to 12 countries; Sinopharm, around 194 million doses to 11 countries; Sputnik V, about 400 million doses to 17 countries. All three manufacturers have stated publicly that they will have the capacity to produce up to 1 billion doses each in 2021. And all three have licensed their vaccines to local manufacturers in several countries. So how can these vaccines be made desirable to more of the people who need them? One way would be to subject them to a formal assessment by an international organization with technical expertise. The problem currently is that the World Health Organization’s rules for certifying vaccines are themselves skewed in favor of rich, essentially Western, states. The WHO maintains a list of “stringent regulatory authorities” it trusts for quality control — all are European countries except for Australia, Canada, Japan and the United States. For the rest of the world, the WH. runs a service called prequalification. In theory, this is a way by which vaccines from, say, China or Russia could be placed on an equal footing with vaccines from the West. In reality, it’s an onerous and time-consuming process. When a vaccine is developed in and approved by a country on the WHO’s trusted list, the organization usually relies on that assessment to quickly sign off. But when a vaccine maker anywhere else applies for prequalification, the WHO conducts a full evaluation from scratch, including a physical inspection of the manufacturing facilities. In the course of reviewing the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, the WHO worked closely with the European Medicines Agency, and approved it about 10 days after the EMA had. There is no reason the WHO, while maintaining its standards, couldn’t also collaborate with health regulators in other countries to help local vaccine manufacturers get through the vetting process. It must urgently give all vaccine-producing countries the attention they deserve. Some doctors and activists have put forward proposals to increase the delivery worldwide of vaccines produced in the West. These calls are well-intentioned, but they, too, assume that vaccines from Western countries are the only ones worth having — and waiting for. There is a simpler solution, already at hand: It’s time to start trusting other countries’ vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/it-s-time-to-trust-china-russia-s-covid-19-vaccines-948146.html
06-02-2021||Opinion||A role and film that taught us to be good humans||Devastated with the news of Christopher Plummer, popularly known as Captain von Trapp’s passing, I felt the intense urge to write about the movie that impacted my life morally as well as musically. The Sound of Music was perhaps one of the first movies I saw with my mother as a child. A movie revolving around seven mischievous children, one determined governess and their father, the daunting Captain von Trapp. Robert Wise’s The Sound of Music has and will forever remain a classic. Originally a stage musical composed by the incredible Rodgers and Hammerstein II, the movie not only bagged five Academy Awards, but left an indelible impression on the minds and hearts of people all over the world. A tale of music, romance and the importance of family, The Sound of Music has been one of my greatest value education teachers. Just recently as I re-watched the movie with one of my closest friends for the umpteenth time, I realised how it has contributed to the person I am today. The title of the movie could not be more apt. The movie was my initiation to western music. Music in general has the extraordinary power to shape a human being. Scientifically speaking, music exerts a great influence on the cognitive and psychological make-up of a person. Multiple instances in the movie have reiterated this fact. All the main characters of the film can be seen serenading the audience with melodious songs, exuding joy and hope. Every song from the title track of the same name as the film to the Reverend Mother’s ‘Climb Every Mountain’ showcases the heart and emotion of benevolence and humanity. Various life lessons are interlaced throughout the movie. The movie greatly emphasises the power of love. As Khalil Gibran once said, “When love beckons to you, follow him…” The movie restates just that in the form of Maria’s love for music, the children and ultimately the Captain. It’s a perfect portrayal of love’s “hard and steep ways” and how it can produce wonders in the life of a human being. Love binds every character together and helps them rise above the brutal Nazi occupation of Austria. The songs, ‘I have Confidence’ and ‘My Favourite Things’ not only inspire but also reminds us to not be afraid of challenges. One song that is particularly emotionally stirring, ‘Climb Every Mountain’ teaches us to chase rainbows and follow our dreams. The unadorned optimism and encouragement of the song will resonate with almost anyone listening to it. Even Captain Von Trapp’s homage to his homeland, Austria, through the song ‘Edelweiss’ is simple yet radiates patriotism. What a home country can and should mean to one is wonderfully captured. Initially slated to marry the Baroness Elsa, when the Captain realised his true feelings for Maria, he confessed with clarity his feelings which the Baroness not only understood but accepted with inordinate grace. Her acceptance of rejection with forbearance and understanding should serve as paragons of how to be a good human being. Another line from the movie that resonates with me till date is, “When God closes a door, somewhere he opens a window.”  Eons ago Heraclitus rightly said, “Change is the only constant” and change brings with itself new opportunities. In the movie as Maria prepares herself to face the new challenge of governing seven children, she is bestowed with the opportunity of proving her capabilities on a new job. Coming to the real world, although the Covid-19 pandemic has wreaked havoc in the lives of many, it has brought about a monumental change in the way we look at things and perhaps presented many with newer opportunities and space to grow. The movie The Sound of Music, the character of Captain von Trapp, so well brought to life by Christopher Plummer, and many others is a sublime reminder of the rudimentary lessons that we should always try to incorporate in our lives. (Konina Mandal is an Assistant Lecturer at Jindal Global Law School, OP Jindal Global University) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-role-and-film-that-taught-us-to-be-good-humans-948276.html
06-02-2021||Right in the Middle||Scared of the virus||Those were the initial days of the lockdown, each and every street in our locality on the suburb of the metro wore a barren look. Streets remained brightly lit by brilliant sodium lamps and floodlights, but there was no trace of any pedestrian or vehicle, save a posse of policemen on duty, armed with canes. Scarcely one or two distantly located milk kiosks on the main road were open, selling milk sachets across counters that were half-open. Cops on duty cautioned buyers to stand on the social-distancing squares marked on the ground and the sellers to finish their transaction at a quick pace since they had permission to do their business only for a brief period in the mornings and evenings.  Setting out from home, a tad after the gloaming, I would walk along such deadly, deserted streets where the sight of stray dogs pulling out bags of waste food from roadside garbage bins, scoffing from them and leaving the remains strewn all around would draw my attention, obliging me to pause awhile. Walking further I would reach a bus stop and park myself on the seat, only after wiping off the thick layer of dust--a condition that may have been a consequence of disuse during the lockdown-- with the piece of cloth, a constant content of the hip pocket in all my pants.  Finding me sitting alone some peckish-looking stray dogs would haltingly draw near me. As I fondly flicked my fingers at them and stroked their head with my palm, they would fawn over me, placing their forelegs on my knees and nuzzling against my thighs, till I stood up trying to stop them from doing so.  Back at home, the hard work of slathering my purse and cell phone with the sanitising fluid followed by a thorough wash of my mask, hanky as also the piece of cloth ever up for grabs in my hip pocket left me more done in, than the long walk. Getting wind of the comments from a few in our neck of the wood about my brisk regular walk during the grim days of the lockdown, my missus feared they might be setting eyes on me and advised me to abridge the frequency of my constitutional. Abiding by her humble suggestion, I scaled down my health-walk to thrice and sometimes even twice a week. That there are some around us in most of the residential localities whose business is always to mind that of others I learnt only at the expense of diminishing the frequency of my regular walk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/scared-of-the-virus-948102.html
06-02-2021||Second Edit||China hand in Sri Lanka’s decision?||The Sri Lankan government’s cancellation of an agreement that provided for India’s participation in the East Container Terminal (ECT) project at Colombo port is a major setback to bilateral relations. Under a 2019 agreement reached during Maitripala Sirisena’s presidency, India, Japan and Sri Lanka were to jointly develop the terminal and Sri Lanka would be the majority stakeholder. However, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa suspended it in the run-up to general elections last year, citing protests by trade union workers. Colombo had said then that the deal would be revived after elections were completed. However, that did not happen. Although Rajapaksa’s Sri Lanka Podujana Party (SLPP) came to power with a massive mandate, strengthening the President’s hands, his government kept dragging its feet. Its unilateral decision to scrap the ECT agreement now is not only a blow to India’s economic and strategic interests in the island but also, it has undermined trust and goodwill between New Delhi and Colombo. Japan has also expressed shock over Colombo’s decision. Port workers, Sinhalese nationalists and Buddhist monks were strongly opposed to India’s involvement in the ECT project; they have been demanding that Colombo retain 100% control over it. However, a Chinese role in Colombo’s decision cannot be ruled out. Beijing could have directly pressured the Rajapaksa government to remove India and Japan from the ECT project or brought on indirect pressure by fuelling the port workers’ protests. It is evident that China’s influence in the island remains formidable. Protests over sovereignty concerns in strategic projects are common the world over. What is worrying in the Sri Lankan context is that such concerns are being raised only vis-à-vis India. There are dozens of projects that the Chinese are developing in Sri Lanka. Its takeover of Hambantota port laid bare its dubious role as an investor in Sri Lanka’s development, and while there were protests against the Chinese, too, Colombo did not unilaterally cancel Chinese projects. Indeed, it has treated China favourably. The Rajapaksa government is reported to have offered India development of the West Container Terminal at Colombo port. Although one might wonder if port workers’ unions won’t protest over that project, too, or whether the Sri Lankan government will remain reliable on the matter, India must not turn down the offer offhand. If India’s strategic and economic interests in Sri Lanka will be furthered by participation in the WCT, New Delhi must consider the deal seriously. Only this time, it must insist on iron-clad guarantees that secure its role in the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/china-hand-in-sri-lanka-s-decision-948101.html
06-02-2021||South||Union Minister Amit Shah to chair Southern Zonal Council meet in Tirupati||Union Minister Amit Shah will chair the 29th Southern Zonal Council meet scheduled to be held in the temple town of Tirupati on March 4. "Chief Ministers, Lieutenant Governors of 8 States/UTs in the Southern Zone will participate along with their respective Chief Secretaries, Advisers and other senior officers in keeping with important agenda items. On the whole, approximately 90 to 100 dignitaries and officers are expected to participate in this meeting," a communication for the Ministry of Home Affairs said on Friday. The Southern Zonal Council comprises Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Puducherry as members and Union Territories Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep as Special Invitees. As the host state, the AP government is requested to make requisite logistical arrangements for the meeting including reception, security, transport, boarding and lodging among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/union-minister-amit-shah-to-chair-southern-zonal-council-meet-in-tirupati-948199.html
06-02-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh election commissioner asks police to restrain senior YSRCP minister||The Andhra Pradesh state election commission on Saturday directed the state DGP to confine senior YSRCP minster Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy to his residence till completion of the Panchayat polls in the state. It also directed the police to prohibit the Panchayati Raj and Rural Development minister from speaking to the media. The local polls are scheduled to be held in four phases, from February 9 to 21. The exceptional orders were issued by Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, who in the letter to DGP Gautam Sawang referred to the minister's statements at a press conference in Tirupati on Friday reportedly warning "the Collectors and Returning Officers not to obey the instructions of the madcap Election Commissioner.” “If the officials follow the Commission's instructions (preventing forced unanimous elections), action will be taken against them; they will be blacklisted. This Commissioner will be there till March, 2021 end but our Government will continue beyond and we will take you to task. The Returning Officers are to disregard the Commissioner's directions and declare all unanimous elections. The Commissioner functioning in a way is to gain MP/MLC seat from the Telugu Desam Party. The people of the State are behind us. Unanimous elections shall continue,” Kumar quoted Peddireddy as having said in Tirupati and attached the related news paper clippings. The opposition parties mainly the TDP are alleging that the ruling YSRCP is forcing “unanimous elections” in several areas. Pointing to the minister's remarks “as an attempt to encourage violation of rule of law,” the SEC said that “unless corrective steps are taken … the election process and the holding of free and fair elections will be in peril and in danger of being vitiated.” The minister from Chittoor district has been making controversial statements on the functioning of the SEC, with which the Jaganmohan Reddy government is at loggerheads. “The minister will not have access to media to prevent making possible inciteful utterances that will have an adverse impact on the ongoing elections as well as on general law and order situation in Chittoor and elsewhere,” the SEC letter stated. The AP Panchayat poll process was resumed after the Supreme Court has, last month, struck down the objections of the YSRCP government. Last week, Peddireddy and another senior minister Botcha Satyanarayana complained to the AP assembly speaker T Sitaram, saying that the SEC's “unsubstantiated” remarks on them were libelous, “and amounted to breach of privilege.” Earlier, in a letter to the state governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan, SEC Nimmagadda remarked that the ministers have crossed the election model code's “Laxman-rekha.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-election-commissioner-asks-police-to-restrain-senior-ysrcp-minister-948250.html
06-02-2021||South||AIADMK MLA donates Rs 3.16 crore to TTD for temple in TN||TTD (Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams) Board member and AIADMK MLA R Kumaraguru has made an offering of Rs 3.16 crore to the shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala, near here, on Saturday. He has requested the TTD that governs the temple to utilise the fund for the construction of a Lord Venkateswara Swamy temple in his Ulundurpettai constituency in Tamil Nadu, TTD Board Chairman YV Subba Reddy said. Also, the MLA handed over the documents of four acres of land for the temple, he said. The foundation for the shrine would be laid after an auspicious date is fixed, he said adding that the MLA had, on December 25 last, too, made a donation of Rs 1 crore for the planned temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-mla-donates-rs-316-crore-to-ttd-for-temple-in-tn-948267.html
06-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu farmers stage protests, support 'chakka jam'||Farmers staged protests here and in other parts of Tamil Nadu on Saturday demanding repeal of the farm laws in solidarity with the ryots' nationwide 'chakka jam.' Leading an agitation here by raising slogans against the Centre and farm laws, president, coordination committee of Tamil Nadu All Farmers' Association, P R Pandian said the protest was for seeking justice. The protests in Tamil Nadu was part of the pan India stir and "this is for seeking justice for farmers, this is not for political purposes or to inconvenience the general public," Pandian told reporters. Urging scrapping of farm laws, he alleged Prime Minister Narendra Modi worked for the interests of corporates and his government barred farmers from entering Delhi. "If PM Modi does not permit ryots to enter Delhi, farmers would not allow him to visit Tamil Nadu," he said. Reportedly, PM Modi would visit the state later this month to inaugurate several projects and he is also likely to address a poll rally. Pandian said the farmers protest including today's 'chakka jam' is for "fair reasons while the Centre only favoured corporates and not farmers." In the national capital, the Centre 'disconnected' water and electricity supply to ryots and 'confined' them behind barbed wires, he alleged. Demanding complete removal of barricades, he wanted the government to provide amenities to farmers and not "harass farmers who voted for Modi." The Centre was using police against them and it is condemnable, he added. In Tiruchirappalli, president of the National South Indian Rivers Inter-Linking Farmers Association, P Ayyakannu led a 'plough' rally seeking immediate withdrawal of farm laws. Farmers organisations staged protests in other regions including the Cauvery delta towns of Thanjavur, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-farmers-stage-protests-support-chakka-jam-948302.html
06-02-2021||South||Sunny Leone's statement recorded in cheating complaint||The Crime Branch unit of Kerala Police recorded the statement of Bollywood actress Sunny Leone in a petition filed by a Kerala based event management company alleging that Leone cheated him by cancelling Valentine's Day function after collecting advance remuneration of around Rs 29 lakh According to sources, Leone maintained that the organisers changed the programmes schedule at least five times over the last two years. It was learnt that she also said she was still willing to participate in the event. But the complainant alleged that Leone changed the schedule and he suffered huge losses. Crime Branch would be taking further actions after verifying the statements, said sources. "A case of cheating under Section 420 of IPC has been registered against the actor based on a complaint and we are yet to verify facts," police sources told PTI. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sunny-leones-statement-recorded-in-cheating-complaint-948306.html
06-02-2021||South||Congress brings out draft law for Sabarimala||Countering the criticisms of trying to mislead the people hurled by the Left Front and the BJP, the Congress on Saturday made public a draft law to protect the faiths and traditions over the shrine. The draft law titled Sabarimala Devotees (protection of religious customs and practices) empowers the chief priest of the temple with the authority to impose regulations in the temple in consultation with Travancore Devaswom Board that manages the temple. A prison term of up to two years was also warranted to those violating the regulations. In the run-up to the upcoming Assembly elections, the Congress has been raising the Sabarimala women entry issue by assuring a law to protect faith in Sabarimala if the party comes to power. They also demanded the ruling CPM and BJP to make their positions on the issue clear. The CPM and the BJP accused the party of making false promises ahead of polls. To counter this, Congress went a step ahead by bringing out the draft law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-brings-out-draft-law-for-sabarimala-948356.html
06-02-2021||South||16-year-old Class X student dies by suicide||A 16-year-old student of class X died by suicide in his house in neighbouring Vikarabad district of Telangana allegedly after his school teacher asked him not to come to school, police said on Saturday. The incident happened at Kulkacherla mandal of the district and the boy's parents found him hanging in his room on Friday, the police said. In a note purportedly written by him, the boy said he took the extreme step as his teacher threatened him if he came to school, they said. When he went to the school two days ago, the boy was told by the teacher to bring a letter signed by his parents for attending classes and the boy reportedly felt offended, the police said. Based on a complaint by the boy's father, a case under IPC section 306 (abetment to suicide) against the teacher was registered and investigation began, they said. After 10 months of suspension due to the Covid-19 pandemic, classes nine and above in schools resumed so did colleges across the state from February 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/16-year-old-class-x-student-dies-by-suicide-948369.html
06-02-2021||South||Puducherry CM Narayanasamy flays fuel price hikes, takes out bullock cart rally||Senior Congress leader and Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Saturday condemned the hike in fuel prices, including LPG cooking gas, by taking part in a procession of bullock-carts and cycle-rickshaws here. Territorial Welfare Minister M Kandasamy and PCC president A V Subramanian were among those who participated in the procession. Slogans were raised by the participants against the alleged anti-people policies of the NDA government at the Centre. Members of the youth wing and other units of the Congress party took part in the demonstration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-cm-narayanasamy-flays-fuel-price-hikes-takes-out-bullock-cart-rally-948385.html
06-02-2021||South||'Chakka Jam': Farmers in Kerala stage protests against farm laws||Farmers in Kerala on Saturday protested across the state demanding repeal of the farm laws in solidarity with the ryots' nationwide 'chakka jam'. S Ramachandran Pillai, CPI(M) politburo member and vice president of All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), inaugurated the protest here and said the entire peasantry has been mobilised because their existence is being questioned by the three new farm laws. Protest gatherings were organised at panchayat centres and there were demonstrations in front of all central government offices at all panchayats. Pillai said the peasantry was united and fighting against the Centre's policies throughout the country. "It's not only a peasant struggle but it's the struggle of the people of India. All sections of people are joining, because these laws question the very existence of peasantry in this country," Pillai told reporters. He claimed the central government plans to hand over everything to the corporates and the struggle was against the corporatisation of Indian agriculture. "Present government is taking such steps not only in agriculture but in almost all other sectors of the economy. Most of our public sector undertakings in the country have been privatised, handed over to the corporates," Pillai alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chakka-jam-farmers-in-kerala-stage-protests-against-farm-laws-948386.html
06-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu farmers thank CM for waiving crop loans||Two Farmers' associations in Tamil Nadu thanked Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Saturday for announcing waiver of Rs 12,110 crore worth crop loans availed by 16.43 lakh farmers through cooperative banks in the state. This is the first time such a magnanimous gesture was extended to the farmers of Tamil Nadu, claimed 'Kaveri' Ranganathan, general secretary of Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association, who led a delegation to the chief minister's Greenways Road residence here on Saturday, and personally thanked him. "Such a thing has not happened in the past.This is the first time the government has waived farmers crop loans extended by the cooperative banks. Normally, the government extends relief to the farmers," he told reporters after meeting Palaniswami. Most invariably the ryots are provided relief, whenever they suffer losses, he added. The delegation utilised the occasion to highlight their problems, including minimising their losses to a maximum extent possible, Ranganathan said. P R Pandian, president, coordination committee of Tamil Nadu All Farmers Association, said the announcement has come as a relief to farmers who have been under extreme duress owing to drought for four years and also severally affected by the recent cyclones. "We expressed our heartfelt gratitude to the chief minister who despite the state's financial crisis, announced the waiver of crop loans," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-farmers-thank-cm-for-waiving-crop-loans-948389.html
06-02-2021||South||AIADMK goes to police again against Sasikala, alleges conspiracy to unleash violence in Tamil Nadu||Ahead of expelled leader V K Sasikala's return on February 8, the ruling AIADMK on Saturday said that it has lodged a complaint with police against the camp of the close aide of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa alleging a 'conspiracy' to unleash 'violence' and sought action to protect Tamil Nadu and ensure peace. Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam chief and Sasikala's nephew Dhinakaran rubbished the conspiracy allegation as defamatory and lies. The allegation by the AIADMK comes ahead of Sasikala's return to Tamil Nadu on Monday from Karnataka after her recovery from Covid-19 and following completion of her jail term in a corruption case. A high-level AIADMK meet, chaired by Chief Minister K Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam was meanwhile held here. Sources said that the matters deliberated covered Assembly elections likely in April or May and the party organisation work. Party leaders, however, declined to comment if the 'Sasikala factor' was discussed. Law Minister C Ve Shanmugam said that a complaint has been submitted with police seeking to "thwart a conspiracy to unleash violence and protect the lives of Tamil Nadu people and properties from Sasikala and Dhinakaran and ensure peace." Flanked by his Cabinet colleagues and party veteran E Madhusudhanan, Shanmugam alleged the conspiracy has been hatched to create 'violence' by using AIADMK's name and flag and then blame the ruling party for it. 'Intimidatory' remarks, tantamount to creating violence in the state have been made by Dhinakaran and his supporters, he alleged. Speaking to reporters after submitting the complaint at the office of the Director-General of Police, the Minister said Dhinakaran had claimed that they could not be prevented from using the AIADMK's flag even if they went to the state police chief or the armed forces. Dhinakaran and Sasikala's supporters have also warned of turning into 'human bombs,' which put at risk Tamil Nadu, its people and peace, he alleged. Dhinakaran dismissed the allegation as 'distortion,' lies and defamatory. In a statement, the AMMK leader claimed that the police department has accorded sanction to the party's plan to accord reception to Sasikala at several places in Tamil Nadu on Monday. The AMMK has already announced a grand reception for Sasikala right from the start of Tamil Nadu border near Hosur. On the previous complaint against Sasikala, Shanmugam said it was connected to her use of party flag and AIADMK's strong objection to it and the present one pertained to conspiracy to stoke violence. In a signal against Sasikala, the AIADMK had days ago lodged a complaint with the DGP office against the use of its flag by her and sought action. Shanmugam said the true AIADMK was the one steered by praesidium chairman E Madhusudhanan and top leaders O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami. This was made amply clear in a Supreme Court verdict in a matter related to the AIADMK's two leaves symbol in which Sasikala-Dhinakaran were also parties, he said. Following the verdict, the party fought by-elections and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections as well with the two-leaves symbol, he recalled. Days ago, a war of words broke out between the AIADMK and AMMK after the ruling party's flag was spotted on a car used by Sasikala in Bengaluru. While AIADMK maintained that she was not even a party member and had no right to use the flag and went to the police, AMMK claimed that she was 'AIADMK general secretary.' It said that it would continue its fight to 'retrieve' the AIADMK legally and democratically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-goes-to-police-again-against-sasikala-alleges-conspiracy-to-unleash-violence-in-tamil-nadu-948402.html
06-02-2021||State||It’s curtains for 13th edition of air show; 128 pacts signed||The 13th and first hybrid edition of Aero India came to a close on Friday without any of the serious mishaps which had dogged the event in 2019. However, the event lacked the lustre of previous editions. The air show, which was marked by extensive regulations intended to mitigate the spread of Covid-19, resulted in an often underwhelming presence. Many of the five halls set up to host over 500 companies showed limited interactions. Products were primarily models or mockups. Advanced military electronics were on show but occupants of several stalls told DH that business interest was slight. Setups of several international firms were similarly underwhelming. The response to the centerpiece of the expo, the India Pavilion, where indigenous rotary platforms were on display was also less than expected, with the expo hall showing significantly less than the 1,000-person capacity set for it at any given time. A DH visit on all three days of the expo showed crowd numbers were less than half of the capacity limit on average. Rajnath gives air show a high five  In his valedictorian address, the Minister of Defence, Rajnath Singh, said that the three-day event had seen the attendance of 4.5 lakh people - most of whom had logged in virtually. “The event saw the physical attendance of 16,000 people,” he added. Despite the low number of business visitors, Rajnath said that the expo had nevertheless seen the signing of 128 Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs), 19 transfers of technology, four hand-overs, the launching of 18 products and with 45 MSMEs bagging 203 crore worth of orders and 32 major announcements, totalling 201 feats. “This is a major achievement,” Rajnath said. During a special MoU signing event on Friday afternoon, Defence Minister also suggested that the air show would encourage the increased manufacture of defence-related items in the country, which would help the country bring down its defence imports by at least $2 billion by 2022. He added that the aerospace sector has an important role to play if India is to reach its domestic defence production of $25 billion and exports of $5 billion by 2025. Among the highlights of the show were a special Defence Minister’s Conclave for members of the Indian Ocean Rim (IOR) association to discuss enhancing peace, security and cooperation in the Indian Ocean. The Conclave was participated by 28 IOR countries. In addition, the Chiefs of Air Staff Conclave saw the participation of 26 countries and 16 virtually. The aircraft lineup was also limited, largely comprising aircraft from the Indian Air Force, while international operators most stayed away, barring flyovers by a United States Air Force B-1 Lancer stealth bomber and the appearance of a Ukrainian transport aircraft.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/it-s-curtains-for-13th-edition-of-air-show-128-pacts-signed-948066.html
06-02-2021||State||When desi helicopter drones hovered with pride at the India Pavilion||Designed, developed and delivered to the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) by an individual drone operator, Chakra, two helicopter Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) sat at the India Pavilion showing off their prowess to withstand heavy weather, one engine-powered and another battery-operated. So did a contra-rotating drone developed by a startup AEthrone Aerospace, to generate more lift and boost stability, with a high-altitude range of 5-6 km. Symbolising deepening industry-academia collaboration, another helicopter drone jointly developed by the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur with a startup, was displayed too with a promise of extended flight time. These exhibits were just three of a long line of displays at the India Pavilion that attracted attention at the Aero India 2021 for its ‘Rotary Wing’ theme this time. Showcased were the products of a growing list of startups and MSMEs that have partnered with Indian aerospace companies in helicopter and rotary drone manufacturing with a firm thrust on self-reliance. Chakra AD, Bengaluru-based drone operator Adarsh N’s UAV was driven by electric power and belonged to the 12-kg weight category. The fully autonomous drone had a maximum endurance of 30 minutes to one hour, depending on the payload. “Made for silent and stealth operation, this UAV is capable of vertical takeoff and landing in constrained spaces. Payloads can be configured for day/night surveillance or for combat/ammunition,” Adarsh told DH. The Chakra PR is powered by a 26 cc petrol engine. Working closely with DRDO to design, develop and build more such products, Adarsh said a few of these UAVs have already been supplied for both surveillance and combat roles. “Adhering to the Atmanirbar condition, a lot of UAV technologies, control algorithms and hardware are now being developed in India. For this UAV, the whole airframe was developed here.” The next stage is the local manufacture of engines. This, he felt, could be highly challenging. But for now, the strides made by the startups in the growing UAV field was impressive. One of them had showcased the Switch UAV, a drone customised for the Indian Army’s high altitude operations, ready to increase its linearcoverage by 46 times. It claimed guaranteed tactical dominance during Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/when-desi-helicopter-drones-hovered-with-pride-at-the-india-pavilion-948072.html
06-02-2021||State||DV Sadananda Gowda slams farmers protesting against new agri laws||Union Minister for Chemical and Fertilizers DV Sadananda Gowda on Saturday defended amendment to three farm laws and criticised the farmers protesting to withdraw it. The Minister was speaking to reporters, here. He said, until now the farmers were puppets in the hands of the middlemen and thus the amendment was made. But, a section of farmers are opposing it due to political benefits. The amendment were approved in Lok Sabha after discussion. What does it mean if the policies made by the elected representatives are being opposed, he asked. Sadananda Gowda also slammed singer Rihanna for her comments against the government in connection with the farmers' issue. What does she know about farming and farmers? Does she know the farmers problem and how they market produce? I don't want to comment on her," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dv-sadananda-gowda-slams-farmers-protesting-against-new-agri-laws-948248.html
06-02-2021||State||108-feet Nadaprabhu Kempegowda statue to be ready by 2022: Karnataka Dy CM||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Saturday said the 108-feet-tall bronze statue of Nadaprabhu Kempegowda, to be installed in front of Bengaluru international airport, is being made at Noida at an expense of about Rs 85 crore and will be ready by next year. Renowned sculptor and Padma Bhushan awardee Ram Vanji Sutar is designing the statue at his Noida studio. Sutar had built the 'Statue of Unity' in Gujarat and the statue of 'Gandhiji' in Bengaluru. "Due to Covid-19, the work got delayed. The statue will be ready by next year. The expenses will be Rs 85 crore," the Deputy CM told reporters after reviewing the progress of the statue here. He said the foundation stone of the project was laid last year. The statue will be installed in a 23-acres heritage park that will come up at the Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru, he said. Swami Nirmalanadanatha of Adichuchanagiri Mutt had also accompanied the minister. Talking about the progress of the project, Sutar said, "Right now, we have finished the neck level of the statue, which is approximately about 80 feet high, using high density thermocol and CNC programme." After the thermocol statue is ready, the design molds will be taken using clay and plaster of Paris, he said, adding that two different models, including sand casting, will be followed while making the statue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/108-feet-nadaprabhu-kempegowda-statue-to-be-ready-by-2022-karnataka-dy-cm-948278.html
06-02-2021||State||President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurates General Thimayya Memorial Museum||President Ram Nath Kovind inaugurated the General Thimayya Memorial Museum set up at the residence of General K S Thimayya on Saturday. The Sunny Side residence of General K S Thimayya has been converted into a museum, which highlights the achievement of General Thimmayya. President went through several rare photographs of General Thimmayya from his childhood as well as those while serving in the army. Mini rocket launcher, war tank, MiG-21, a supersonic jet fighter, arms and weapons used by the soldiers of the Indian Army are part of the museum. President was accompanied by his wife Savitha Kovind, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat, District-in-Charge Minister V Somanna, Kannada and Culture Minister Aravind Limbavali, MLAs M P Appachu Ranjan, K G Bopaiah, MLCs Sunil Subramani, Veena Acchaiah, Air Marsha (retd) K C Cariappa, DC Charulatha Somal, SP Kshama Mishra and ZP CEO Bhanwar Singh Meena. President, while leaving after inaugurating the museum, got down from the car near District Hospital in Madikeri and waved at the people gathered near the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/president-ram-nath-kovind-inaugurates-general-thimayya-memorial-museum-948290.html
06-02-2021||State||BJP leader Jagadish Adhikari tenders apology over 'anti-hindu' statement||BJP district vice-president Jagadish Adhikari has tendered an apology following the furore over his remarks against Koti-Chennaiah, Billava community and former union minister B Janardhan Poojary. Soon after Adhikari's remarks went viral on social media, people cutting across political parties raised objections and sought an apology.  "It was a slip of the tongue when I spoke about Koti-Chennaiah and Billavas during a Nemotsava programme at Valpady. It was not intentional. I seek an apology for hurting the sentiments," he said and appealed to end the episode in a press meet in Moodbidri. "I have great respect for the Billava community and also former union minister Janardhan Poojary. I have been worshipping Koti-Chennaiah," said Adhikari. "As a repentance for the statement, I will offer 'Tappu Kanike' to the Moolasthana of Koti-Chennaiah and will also offer puja on the day of Sankramana. My statements have gone viral on social media and it has taken a different shape. I suspect the hand of the Congress in it," he added.  Flaying the statement of Adhikari, DCC president Harish Kumar said Adhikari's statement aimed at creating a rift among the communities in the district. Billavas constitute one-third of the population and the community has been living peacefully in the district. Koti-Chennaiah, the twin folk heroes of the district who stood for truth, justice and loyalty. "It is an unpardonable mistake on part of Adhikari to issue such statement which upheld his arrogant attitude. Before speaking anything on Billavas, he should understand that all the MLAs and MP won votes exercised by the Billava community members as well." Coming down heavily on BJP district vice-president Jagadish Adhikari for his derogatory statement against Billava community, VHP divisional secretary Sharan Pumpwell demanded an unconditional apology from Adhikari. The statement has insulted the Hindu society, he said. 'Take action' Akhila Bharatha Hindu Mahasabha Karnataka unit president L K Suvarna has urged the BJP to remove Adhikari for speaking ill of Billava community and Koti-Chennaiah. The derogatory remarks against Billava community and Koti-Chennaiah have hurt the sentiments of the community. Billavas have contributed to the Hindutva, Suvarna said. Members of various Billava organisations have condemned the statement of Adhikari and have demanded legal action against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-leader-jagadish-adhikari-tenders-apology-over-anti-hindu-statement-948399.html
06-02-2021||State||Karnataka man assaulted for not speaking Marathi in Satara, 4 held||The Bhong police from Satara district in Maharashtra arrested four persons who are suspected to have assaulted a truck driver from Karnataka near a toll plaza on Friday night.  The truck driver, identified as Govindaraju from Sira in Tumakuru district, was assaulted as he was unable to speak in Marathi. They made him half-naked and beat him up.  Govindaraju called up Ashok Chandargi, president of the Belagavi District Kannada Organisations Action Committee, and informed him about his plight. Chandargi brought the matter to the notice of Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi. Nimbargi directed Athani Deputy Superintendent of Police Girish to investigate the matter and to speak to his Satara counterpart, He then got a case registered. Govindaraju reached Sankeshwar on Saturday afternoon. He was sent to the Bhong police station accompanied by a PSI and he then filed a complaint. Based on the complaint, the four suspects have been arrested. Police said the suspects were not associated with any organisation as per primary information. Chandargi said that it was the first instance wherein the Maharashtra police arrested suspects responsible for attacking someone over a language issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-man-assaulted-for-not-speaking-marathi-in-satara-4-held-948405.html
06-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Belagavi ASHA worker dies days after taking Covid-19 vaccine||A 33-year-old ASHA worker from Belagavi died on Wednesday (February 3) who had taken Covishield vaccination on January 22. This is the third death in Karnataka of a vaccinated person after one died in Ballari and another in Shivamogga. The state health department officials said that the post-mortem has been done and that the AEFI committee has concluded that the death was not due to Covid vaccination. She developed headache and vomiting on January 30 and was treated for gastritis at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences (IMS). Thereafter she was shifted to KLE Hospital. The cause of death is said to be cerebral thrombosis. It is a condition in which a vein in the brain has blood clots. More details awaited||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/belagavi-asha-worker-dies-days-after-taking-covid-19-vaccine-948060.html
06-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HAL, Rolls-Royce expand engine partnership||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) and Rolls-Royce have agreed to expand their partnership in India for collaboration in two significant areas – expanding the supply chain for both civil and defence aerospace and establishing an authorized maintenance centre for Adour Mk871 engines to support Rolls-Royce’s global customers. The two companies signed an MoU to establish an Authorised Maintenance Centre for Adour Mk871 at HAL to support international military customers and operators. HAL already has the capabilities to support a larger customer base, with over 30 years’ experience in MRO of the Adour engines in India, under license from Rolls-Royce. The two companies have also signed a ‘Letter of Intent’ (LoI) to work towards making Adour Mk871 engine parts in India for several international customers. In addition, HAL has recently been awarded new business with Rolls-Royce to supply forgings including shrouds, cases and seals for Rolls-Royce’s Trent family of engines and for the Pearl 15 engines. These parts would be manufactured at HAL’s Foundry and Forge Division at its state-of-the-art facility in Bengaluru.  MoU signed for anti-torpedo defence system The Israeli firm, Rafael Advanced Defense Systems and Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for joint induction of an anti-torpedo defence system called SHADE for the Indian Navy on Friday, reports DHNS from Aero India 2021. SHADE will be the first system in the world to employ a combination of soft kill and hard kill decoys, thereby providing a robust and effective defence against modern torpedoes.  This MoU will be a precursor for cooperation on futuristic systems for the Indian Armed Forces, entailing advanced ToT, and a very high indigenous content, leading to self-sufficiency in the field of cutting-edge technology in defence. HAL hands over ALHs to Navy, Coast Guard HAL on Friday handed over three Advanced Light Helicopter (ALH Mk III) to Indian Navy and two ALHs to Indian Coast Guard as part of its 16 ALHs contract at the ongoing Aero India 2021. “The remaining helicopters from the contract are under various stages of production and flight tests. We plan to deliver all the helicopters within the contract delivery schedules despite production slowdown due to Covid restrictions,” said HAL CMD, R Madhavan. Paras Aerospace develops multi-spectral camera for UAVs Paras Aerospace, a subsidiary of Paras Defence and Space Technologies Limited, has announced that it will shortly unveil an indigenously developed affordable multi-spectral camera for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) for applications in agriculture, urban development and forest survey. The company, which participated in Aero India 2021, wants to reduce the cost of this critical component in drones to less than Rs 3 lakh per unit. Currently, UAVs with high-end multi-spectral cameras of international make are priced at Rs 15 lakh and above.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hal-rolls-royce-expand-engine-partnership-948061.html
06-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Rajnath Singh links startups with India's strategic military advantage||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said India’s strategic advantage is irrevocably linked to self-reliance in military arms production.  Speaking at the Startup Manthan 2021 at Aero India, Singh highlighted the importance of startups and MSMEs in maintaining the country’s critical advantage. “Our government is conscious that startups being the latest in trends in the defence manufacturing sector require that extra push,” he said.  He said that the government had taken steps to foster and encourage partnerships with private industry, such as opening up labs and facilities at the DRDO to private industry and setting up young scientists in niche technology areas programmes such as the Innovation for Defence Excellence (iDEX), a start-up ecosystem, with this in view.  Singh said that the dividends of this investment of support had yielded results. The iDex ecosystem has more than 41,000 startups enabling 4.7 lakh jobs today, he added. The minister said that some Rs 4,500 crore of investment has been made in 384 startups through the funding scheme. “It will not be an exaggeration to say that our economy is soon going to be driven by the startup trends.”  Singh added that these 300-plus startups had developed products worth Rs 300 crore, displayed in Aero India. Among them was a high-altitude, solar power stratospheric high altitude pseudo satellite unmanned platform created by the Bengaluru and new Delhi-based startup NewSpace Research and Technologies, he said.  In addition, “Forty-fiveMSMEs which have participated in Aero India, have already got work worth Rs 203 crore,” he said.  One of the key trend changes in recent years, which have brought startups to the fore, according to Raj Kumar, secretary, Defence Production, are how military personnel are increasingly developing technological solutions to bridge gaps or deficits they have observed in the military.  “The participants were previously from the other side of the fence. Now, the ideas are being drawn from the ground,” Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rajnath-singh-links-startups-with-indias-strategic-military-advantage-948062.html
06-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sarang-Surya Kiran jugalbandi wins hearts at air show||The commanders of the Surya Kiran and Sarang air display teams said that weeks of planning had gone into the combined air maneuvers which were executed to acclaim at Aero India this week. The 13th edition of the show, which ended on Friday, saw the two display teams not only carry out a series of challenging combined maneuvers twice a day for three days but also execute difficult aerobatics such as having one Hawk aircraft carry out a corkscrew maneuver around two other Hawks traveling in a straight line at speeds of over 200 km per hour.  Wing Commander “Naga” Nagendra, a Tumakuru native and a technical officer in the Surya Kiran unit, said that maneuvers required extensive drilling in the unit’s home base in Bidar.   Wing Commander Girish Komar, Commander of the Sarang display team, said that careful attention had been paid to speed rates and distance when formulating the maneuvers. “We had to be careful about our closing speeds and distance separating the two teams because these aircraft are two different types of aircraft with different performance envelopes,” he said. When asked if the two teams would conduct closer maneuvers in the future, Group Captain Anoop Singh, the Commander of the Surya Kirans, said that was still being considered. At the same time, members of both units said they were not yet certain if the combined display would be repeated in subsequent iterations of Aero India.  “We were asked by a senior officer to practice for and carry out the combined aerobatics this time. Orders on further such maneuvers are yet to come,” Group Captain Singh said.  The two units which once had a sizable contingent of Karnataka pilots and staff is now down to two individuals from the state: Wing Commander Nagendra in the Surya Kiran and Wing Commander Komar in the Sarang who hails from Bagalkot. Group Captain Singh said, “We see a high rotation of pilots into and out of the unit. On average, we get about four new pilots every year.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sarang-surya-kiran-jugalbandi-wins-hearts-at-air-show-948063.html
06-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Paras Aerospace develops multi-spectral camera for UAVs||Paras Aerospace, a subsidiary of Paras Defence and Space Technologies Limited, has announced that it will shortly unveil an indigenously developed affordable multi-spectral camera for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) for applications in agriculture, urban development and forest survey. The company, which participated in Aero India 2021, wants to reduce the cost of this critical component in drones to less than Rs 3 lakh per unit. Currently, UAVs with high-end multi-spectral cameras of international make are priced at Rs 15 lakh and above.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/paras-aerospace-develops-multi-spectral-camera-for-uavs-948069.html
06-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HAL gets provisional certificate from CEMILAC||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) on Friday received the Provisional Certificate of Engine and Flight Display Unit, (EFDU) for indigenously developed Jaguar DARIN III fighter aircraft platform. The certificate was handed over at the Bandhan programme held as part of Aero India 2021. The EFDU developed by Mission and Combat Systems R & D Centre (MCSRD&C), HAL is a flight-critical system displaying engine fuel and flight parameters required for flying the aircraft. In case of failure of the primary flight display unit, EFDU provides necessary engine, fuel, hydraulics and navigation data required for get-you-home functionality on a single 4” X5” AMl LCD display.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hal-gets-provisional-certificate-from-cemilac-948071.html
06-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BDA land worth Rs 3K cr encroached upon: CM||The state government is taking steps to reclaim more than 300 acres of BDA land encroached upon across Bengaluru, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Friday, pegging its revenue potential at over Rs 3,000 crore.  Speaking in the legislative assembly, Yediyurappa, who is also the Bengaluru city development minister, said scams worth Rs 400 crore had been detected in the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) and action was being taken. The government has suspended 22 BDA officials since 2019, and departmental inquiry is underway against 12 of them. Show-cause notices have been issued to 19 officials and their responses are being verified, he said.  Yediyurappa said that auctioning corner sites owned by the BDA had helped the government mop up Rs 1,422 crore in the current fiscal year. A total of 1,572 sites have been auctioned, and the revenue generated has exceeded the base price of the sites by 55.76%, he said.  This apart, the government is also trying to resolve issues related to Arkavathi Layout at the earliest. The government will distribute 2,000 sites to farmers who lost their land as well as other site applicants, he said. He also promised to “change the face of Bengaluru” in a year’s time.  Official transfers The chief minister said existing laws did not permit the transfer of officials and staff from the BDA, which is one of the reasons for corruption in the agency. The government will amend Section 50 of the BDA Act, 1976, to effect the transfer of officials from the BDA to other developmental agencies, he said.  Yediyurappa also said under the Smart Cities Mission, works worth Rs 930 crore were underway in Bengaluru, and four had been completed. Works under 27 projects are being carried out while tenders for the remaining four projects are being processed, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bda-land-worth-rs-3k-cr-encroached-upon-cm-948074.html
06-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Interview | Boeing sees 'huge market potential' for civilian aircraft in India||Looking ahead beyond the current pandemic-triggered slump, the Indian civil aviation market is poised to welcome over 2,000 new airplanes over the next two decades. This is an incredibly strong market for us, says Boeing India president Salil Gupte in an exclusive interview with DH on the sidelines of the Aero India 2021. Many Indian airlines are looking at entering the long-haul international routes. What are the challenges, and how can Boeing chip in with the right aircraft customized for this sector? The long-haul, point-to-point sector is really an attractive and fascinating one for Indian airlines. From a contextual standpoint, geographically, India in the international market has always been under pressure for many years now because it lies between a set of powerful hubs like the Middle-East with Dubai, Abu Dhabi, and Doha, the South East Asian hubs. Many airlines based in those hubs get a lot of their demand from the Indian market. They connect the traffic through those hubs and send them onwards to elsewhere in Asia or Europe or the US. Indian airlines are challenged in that competition by those hub airlines. But now, as the market recovers from Covid-19, there is increased demand for long-haul, point-to-point traffic. So, where does Boeing fit into this new unfolding sector for Indian airlines? To execute those long-haul services appropriately, you need a fuel-efficient, aircraft of the right size. There is always going to be demand for Delhi to London or Mumbai to JFK. But what about Bengaluru to Seattle? What about Chicago to Hyderabad? On these types of routes, aircraft such as the 787, fuel-efficient with the right size and range is what will allow airline customers to be increasingly profitable. To recover losses, many airlines carried belly cargo along with passengers. Do you think future aircraft would be more amenable for these reconfigurations? Boeing has significant experience in freighter conversions. We are seeing a big demand for 737 freighter conversions in India and around the world as airlines such as SpiceJet seek to cater to the burgeoning e-commerce market. Our products such as the 777 have unmatched belly cargo capabilities. We have also been working with our airline partners during the pandemic to reconfigure their aircraft to carry the cargo in the seats and cabin holds as well. That is a key area of support we have been offering all our customers. What is the status of the Boeing 737 Max, grounded over safety issues? The 737 Max is a safe airplane that we are confidently returning to the skies around the world. It has already been returned to service in the United States by several airlines after the FAA ungrounded it. In India, we are engaged with the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to return that aircraft to service on their timeline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/interview-boeing-sees-huge-market-potential-for-civilian-aircraft-in-india-948076.html
06-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 531 new Covid-19 cases, three deaths||Karnataka reported 531 fresh Covid-19 cases and three related deaths, taking the infection count to cases 9,42,031 on Saturday, the health department said. The day also saw 434 patients being discharged after recovery, leaving 5,968 active cases. Cumulatively, 9,42,031 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,233 deaths and 9,23,811 discharges, the health department said in a bulletin. Of the active cases, as many as 144 patients are in Intensive Care Units of various hospitals, it said. Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural and Chamarajanagar accounted for one death each. Bengaluru Urban district accounted for 318 of the fresh cases reported on Saturday. It was followed by Dakshina Kannada 28, Mysuru 25, Tumakuru 22, Hassan 16, Dharwad 15, Kalaburagi 14, Uttara Kannada 12 and 10 in Chitradurga. 28 of the 31 districts reported nil fatalities. A total of 1.74 crore samples have been tested so far, out of which 74,591 were done on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-531-new-covid-19-cases-three-deaths-948362.html
06-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmers' 'chakka jam' protest paralyses traffic in Karnataka||The nationwide 'Chakka Jam' protest called by Samyukta Kisan Morcha against the proposed farm laws on Saturday evoked a good response in the state. The protest was largelypeaceful Members of the various farmer organisations blocked highways across the state for two to three hours in the afternoon to register their protest against what they call the draconian farm laws. Tens of farmers, under the banner of Kalasa Banduri Horata Samiti, blocked NH 4 at Kiresur village in Hubbali taluk for one hour. The protest resulted in a traffic pile-up on either side of the busy road. The police detained the agitators and cleared the traffic. Traffic on NH 4 near Hirebagewadi Toll went haywire after the farmers, led by Siddagouda Modagi of Bharatiya Krishik Samaj, sat on a dharna on the road. The agitating farmers shouted slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union and the state governments. Babagouda Patil leads protest At Chikkabagewadi in Bailhongal taluk former Union minister and farmer leader Babagouda Patil led a protest, blocking the state highway.  In Vijayapura district, farmers blocked the Hubballi-Kalaburagi NH 218, throwing traffic out of gear at Sindagi bypass. Similar protests were witnessed in Ballari district, where hundreds of farmers, joined by members of the various people’s organisations, blocked NH 13 at Kudligi and Mariyammanahalli, state highway-25 near Hosapete and Ballari-Sindhanur highway. Farmers of other Kalyana Karnataka districts also registered their protest against the three farm laws by staging highway blockades  The nationwide protest drew a good response in Central Karnataka and Malnad regions with several farmer organisations blocking national and state highways. DySP turns Good Samaritan DySP Narasimha Thamradwaja turned a Good Samaritan arranged a vehicle to rush a woman and her ailing child, stranded at H Kalapanahalli, to a hospital in Davangere. Vehicular movement on Mysuru-Bengaluru, Mysuru-Ooty, Hunsur Road, Mangaluru-Bengaluru highway and other highways were hit following the agitation by the farmers of old Mysore region. Police took nearly 150 activists into custody in Mysuru City and released them later. The Police forcefully evicted Badagalpura Nagendra, president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS), M Umadevi and others as they refused to move from Mysuru-Bengaluru highway at Columbia Asia Hospital junction. The protest call, however, drew a lukewarm response in coastal districts. Tens of farmers under the banner of KRRS, staged a symbolic protest by blocking NH at Uppinangady for a few minutes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farmers-chakka-jam-protest-paralyses-traffic-in-karnataka-948406.html
06-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Yediyurappa tries damage control on Panchamasali quota demand||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s camp has been in damage control mode since Friday night after he appeared to rile the influential Panchamasali Lingayats by saying he will not decide on their demand for Category 2A reservation. On Friday afternoon, Yediyurappa declared on the floor of the Legislative Assembly that he had no authority to act upon this issue, asking the agitators to approach New Delhi directly. This angered not only legislators but also pontiffs who are rallying for the Category 2A demand.  Hours later, Yediyurappa ordered the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes to prepare a report on including the Panchamasali sub-sect under Category 2A. Then, Small Scale Industries Minister C C Patil and Mines & Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani, both Panchamasalis, issued a joint statement in support of Yediyurappa, thanking him for taking the necessary steps.  The Panchamasali leaders are taking out a padayatra to press for their demand.  At present, the Veerashaiva-Lingayats currently get 5% reservation under Category 3B. If the numerically-strong Panchamasalis are moved from Category 3B to Category 2A, political equations will be altered. Under Category 2A, there are 102 castes and their sub-sects sharing 15% reservation and they are likely to go up in arms if the Panchamasalis are put in the same basket with them.  Lingayats are seen as the BJP’s core support base. Upsetting the sub-sects may cause a split in the community, which could be disadvantegous to the BJP. Law and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai also defended Yediyurappa on Saturday. “It was Yediyurappa who identified Panchamasali Lingayats as an OBC group by putting them in Category 3B during his first tenure as the CM,” he said.  “Legally, we have seen many times in other states such as Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh that such proposals get stayed in courts. To ensure such troubles don’t occur, Yediyurappa has sent this Category 2A proposal to the backward classes commission. Once the report comes, CM will decide,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/yediyurappa-tries-damage-control-on-panchamasali-quota-demand-948408.html
06-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt keen on PPP projects, but data deceives intentions||Since 2007, buoyed by the success of the Bengaluru International Airport, Karnataka approved 71 big-ticket infrastructure projects on public-private partnership (PPP). But, only six of them have taken off, signifying fundamental flaws in the government’s approach.  Authorities are now looking to address the gaps while PPP remains a go-to model for projects.  The recent legislature session saw several ministers promoting PPP. For instance, Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said the government wants to develop medical colleges and hospitals on PPP basis, while Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi is looking to onboard electric buses that would be operated on these lines.  Karnataka even has a comprehensive PPP Policy for Infrastructure Projects in place, launched in 2018 during H D Kumaraswamy’s regime.  “Post-pandemic, PPP is the way forward. When you talk about Atma Nirbhar, too, there is an emphasis on PPP,” additional chief secretary (infrastructure development) Kapil Mohan says. “Until now, we were largely relying on state-sponsored schemes. Even though there is apprehension regarding PPP, the basic idea is to ensure services. It doesn’t matter who is providing it.” The Bengaluru Suburban Rail project is one to look forward to on the PPP front, Mohan adds. According to data made public by the Infrastructure Development Department, only six of the 71 PPP projects approved by the State Level Single Window Agency and the State High-Level Clearance Committee have seen completion to date. The non-starters include PPP development of the Brundavan Gardens at KRS in Mandya district; Sports, Leisure & Recreational Centre on the outskirts of Bengaluru; inter-modal transit hubs among others.  What’s holding back these projects despite the government’s eagerness? According to urban evangelist V Ravichandar, PPP projects don’t do well owing to “poor planning” on the government’s part in most cases. “Often, it is left to the private party to run around and get clearances,” he says. “In principle, PPP is good, but in practice, it becomes difficult if it’s not well thought out.” Land, for example, Ravichandar says is a problem area. “The government says land is available and later it turns out that there are legal issues,” he says, adding that any PPP needs “a lot of preparatory time”.  The government is making efforts in ensuring progress, Mohan says. The government has set up a PPP Cell in all the departments with a nodal person. The Karnataka State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (KSIIDC) has been beefed up to handhold contracts.   The success formula What makes a successful PPP project then? Former additional chief secretary K Jairaj who was instrumental in materialising Bengaluru International Airport, India’s first greenfield airport on PPP model, said any PPP project should have the political will, a clear project design with transparency in the procedure and must meet the public requirement. He recalled that the BIAL project could succeed as it met all these criteria. “There was strong political commitment. The project got momentum during former chief minister S M Krishna’s regime. His successor Dharam Singh also continued the project. There was a clear project design which did not fluctuate. The government land was available and they stuck to the decision of setting it up in that space. The partnership selection was done through international bidding,” he recalled, highlighting some of the factors that worked in the project’s favour. According to the official, PPP is a good way for infrastructure development as it marries the requirement with the availability (which comes from the private sector. Government officials agree there’s a lot of work to be done in making PPPs viable. According to one senior official, there is a lack of awareness among officials themselves. While they are often used to working with agencies and contractors, they find it difficult to work in a “partnership,” which is what PPP is all about. “It requires skills to understand the legal framework when it comes to executing these contracts and an attitude change when it comes to working with companies,” the official explained.  “There are vested interests and lobbies ensuring the status quo, as they are unable to envision their role in a new system.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-keen-on-ppp-projects-but-data-deceives-intentions-948409.html
06-02-2021||West||Why Amit Shah’s visit to Maharashtra's Konkan is significant||The twin districts of Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg in the coastal South Konkan belt of Maharashtra, known as a “money-order economy”, is very important for the Shiv Sena. However, the Opposition BJP in Maharashtra – is challenging this Shiv Sena supremacy. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, the right-hand man of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, would be visiting Konkan on Sunday. In Kudal, he would be inaugurating the medical college run by Sindhudurg Shikshan Prasarak Mandal, spearheaded by BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane, a former chief minister during the erstwhile Shiv Sena-BJP rule in 1999. Rane, who was expelled by Shiv Sena and later joined Congress and now with BJP, is considered the bête noire of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. In 2017, the then Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar were present when the Lifetime Hospital was inaugurated. Now the SSPM Medical College would be inaugurated by Shah in Kudal. Rane’s younger son Nitesh Rane is an MLA from Kankavli in Sindhudurg. Shiv Sena’s Vinayak Raut is MP from Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg – and he had defeated Rane’s elder son Nilesh Rane twice in 2014 and 2019. When in Congress, Nilesh Rane had been an MP from this seat. The Konkan region of Maharashtra is known for its picturesque beaches, hill forts, sea forts, lush green environs, food, and quiet locations - but when it comes to political supremacy,  the battle could be fierce. The three districts of Konkan - Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, with the Arabian Sea on one side and the Sahyadri mountain ranges on the other, is often known as the money-order economy. The region is also referred to as Shiv Sena’s ‘karmabhoomi’. A large number of people stay and work in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and support parents and families in the Konkan belt – and hence referred to as “money-order economy”. The twin districts of Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg in South Konkan is a complete Shiv Sena vs BJP scenario – and the visit of Shah, the BJP’s trouble-shooter is being considered significant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-amit-shah-s-visit-to-maharashtras-konkan-is-significant-948193.html
06-02-2021||West||Farm stir: 'Rasta rokos' in Maharashtra cities; farmers detained||'Rasta rokos' were staged in Karad and Kolhapur cities in Maharashtra on Saturday as part of the 'chakka jam' protest called by farmer bodies agitating at borders of New Delhi against the three new farm laws. At least 40 protesters, including senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan's wife Satvasheela Chavan and farmers, were detained by the police for holding the protest on a busy road at Kolhapur Naka in Karad in western Maharashtra this afternoon, a police official said. They were detained under sections 68 and 69 of the Mumbai Police Act and released, he said. As per farmer unions, the 'chakka jam' includes blocking national and state highways between 12 noon and 3 pm o protest the internet ban in areas near their agitation sites, harassment allegedly meted out to them by authorities and other issues. In Kolhapur city, also in western Maharashtra, Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatna leader Raju Shetti led a protest against the farm laws. Shetti and some farmers were detained for staging a rasta roko at Dabholkar Chowk in the afternoon. They were released later, a local police official said. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the laws will ensure better opportunities for farmers and bring in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/farm-stir-rasta-rokos-in-maharashtra-cities-farmers-detained-948288.html
06-02-2021||West||Gujarat man gets wife killed in road 'accident' to claim insurance||A chartered accountant from Gujarat's Banaskantha district has been arrested for allegedly killing his wife and making it look like a road accident in order to claim Rs 60 lakh as insurance, police said on Saturday. Bhildi police station had, on December 26 last year, registered a accidental death case after a woman, identified as Dakshben Tank, died after being hit by a vehicle, an official said. "After the woman's kin raised some suspicions, we started a deeper probe and found, through surveillance and call data analysis, that she was murdered. Her husband Lalit Tank had paid one Kirit Mali Rs 2 lakh to make the murder look like an accident. Tank wanted to claim Rs 60 lakh as insurance from a policy taken just three months before," he said. "On the morning of December 26, Lalit, while taking his wife to a temple, shared his location with an accused driver. Lalit ensured he was maintaining a considerable distance while walking. The vehicle hit Dakshaben at high speed, killing her on the spot," he said. The official said Lalit was arrested on Friday while hunt for others was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-man-gets-wife-killed-in-road-accident-to-claim-insurance-948351.html
06-02-2021||West||Indian Navy seaman burnt alive in Palghar||In a shocking incident, an Indian Navy seaman was kidnapped from Chennai and burnt alive in the Palghar district.  The deceased was identified as Suraj Kumar Dube, a 37-year-old, who originally hails from Ranchi in Jharkhand. According to police, he was kept in the jungles of Vaiji-Veljipada in Gholwad.  He was kidnapped by three unidentified men who demanded a ransom of Rs 10 lakh for his release. However, the victim refused to do so and was burnt.   When locals found him, he was alive with burn injuries and in a semi-nude state and was taken to a local hospital in Dahanu. He was rushed to the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital and Sion, where he passed away after giving a dying declaration.  According to Assistant Police Inspector Sarjerao Kumbhar, a case has been registered under sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 364 (kidnapping and ransom). Further investigations are underway.  Police were trying to secure CCTV footage and CDR.  His body has been sent for post-mortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-navy-seaman-burnt-alive-in-palghar-948364.html
06-02-2021||West||Delhi's deputy CM launches AAP's poll campaign in Gujarat||Deputy Chief Minister of Delhi and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Manish Sisodia on Saturday kickstarted the party's poll campaign by holding a day-long roadshow in Ahmedabad city seeking votes in the local body polls in the state. His party colleague and MP Sanjay Singh also launched the campaign in Surat. In the roadshow, Sisodia was accompanied by several hundreds of supporters that included auto-rickshaw drivers, students and activists holding brooms, party's election symbol, and face mask of party leader and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. The roadshow passed through areas mostly in cities dominated by Dalits, Muslims that included Hatkeshwar, Behrampura, Jamalpur, Saraspur, Rakhial, Juhapura, Surdhara, Gulab tower, Ankur crossroads, Chandlodia among others. Sisodia was riding atop a bus while he was followed by supporters on motorcycles, cars and buses. AAP, which has failed to open an account in the past elections in the state, is contesting all six municipal corporations and 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats, polls for which will be on February 21 and February 28 respectively. AAP is sending most of its popular leaders from Delhi to campaign in the state except Kejriwal saying that "he is busy in tackling farmers' protest." It is believed that AAP's chances of winning a few seats in cities like Ahmedabad are likely to be spoiled by Asaduddin Owaisi's All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM). Before hitting the road, Sisodia addressed a press conference where he criticised Congress for not "fighting" BJP. He said. "Congress has lost its credibility in the state. The party has not organised any agitation against the BJP in 25 years. People are fed up with the BJP and vote for Congress leaders who switch over to BJP. The winning councilors instead of working for people to start their own business." He cited examples of Kejriwal government's "achievement" in setting up mohalla clinics and improving the quality of government-run schools to say that the "Delhi model" can be implemented in Gujarat also but the "BJP hasn't done anything in all these years." Meanwhile, Owaisi also landed in Surat late on Saturday evening to launch a campaign in Bharuch and Ahmedabad where his party is contesting in alliance with Bharatiya Tribal Party. After landing at the airport when reporters asked him that his entry would only benefit BJP, he said, "As I have said earlier, I am a Laila of Indian politics...people have the right to say anything. But, Congress has been losing for so many years. I am contesting for the first time."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/delhis-deputy-cm-launches-aaps-poll-campaign-in-gujarat-948390.html
06-02-2021||West||Over 37K covered in Maharashtra Covid vaccination drive on Feb 6||Over 37,000 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 across Maharashtra on Saturday, taking the total number of people who have got the doses since the drive started on January 16 to over 4.72 lakh, a health official said. He said of the 37,862 people inoculated on Saturday, 12,153 were frontline health workers. "With this, the total number of people who have been vaccinated against Covid-19 in the state has reached 4,72,805," the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-37k-covered-in-maharashtra-covid-vaccination-drive-on-feb-6-948393.html
06-02-2021||West||Sachin Tendulkar should be careful about speaking on farmers: Sharad Pawar||NCP president Sharad Pawar on Saturday said cricket icon Sachin Tendulkar should be more careful while speaking on farmers' issues. Many celebrities including Tendulkar and legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar rallied around the government on social media using hashtags #IndiaTogether and #IndiaAgainstPropaganda following tweets by pop singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg backing farmers. When asked about celebrities like Tendulkar and Mangeshkar reacting to the ongoing agitation by farmers against the three new farm laws at the borders of Delhi, the NCP chief said that people had responded strongly. "I would suggest to Sachin (Tendulkar) that he should be careful while speaking on the issues related to other fields," Pawar told reporters. He alleged the Union government was defaming the ongoing agitation of farmers by calling them "Khalistanis" or terrorists. "These agitators are farmers who feed our country. Therefore, it is not right to call them Khalistanis or terrorists," the former Union agriculture minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sachin-tendulkar-should-be-careful-about-speaking-on-farmers-sharad-pawar-948421.html
