07-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru Junction–Panambur doubling work to be completed by May||Mangaluru Junction–Panambur doubling work, which received Rs 40 crore, is set to be completed by May 2021, said John Thomas, General Manager, Southern Railway. Besides this, the GM said that under Vision 2024 an additional platform line, and provision of new 24 coach pit line in lieu of existing 18 coach pit line at the Mangaluru Central, under traffic facility works are in progress and is targeted for completion by March 2022. Rs 5 crore has been earmarked for doubling of Netravathi–Mangalore Central, covering 1.5 km. He said the main highlight of this year’s budget is that Indian Railways has been allocated an amount of Rs 1,07,300 crore under the Gross Budgetary Support (GBS). Of which, Southern Railway has been allocated a substantial amount of Rs 3,855 crore, including Stores and Manufacture. He said allocation under capital/GBS is very key as the land acquisition for doubling and new lines have to be done under capital. This will give a fillip to the infrastructure in Southern Railway, he said. Southern Railway will complete electrification of all the broad gauge route in its jurisdiction by December 2023. He pointed out that an allocation of Rs 146 crore will give a big push for Signal and Telecom Infrastructure. Major works involves setting up of Modern Centralised Train Control System in Chennai-Gudur and Chenni–Renigunta route, Train Collision and Avoidance System (TCAS), LTE and Train Management System. He also said that vistadome coaches will be introduced in the scenic sections which are to be identified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-junction-panambur-doubling-work-to-be-completed-by-may-948508.html
07-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Allow farm laws to be experimented for at least two years: Shettar||Heavy Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar urged farmers and protestors to allow the implementation of the three farms laws, that have been passed in parliament, for at least two years. Speaking to media persons after laying the foundation stone for the construction of a compound wall at Bengeri Government Higher Primary School in Hubballi on Sunday, he said if the farm laws fail to bring the desired results, the government is more than willing to withdraw it. “At least, allow the laws to be experimented,” he said and added that BJP is completely confident that these three farm laws will benefit farmers. Terming the protest against the bill as ‘politically backed’, he said the opposition party leaders are stocking the farm protest as they do not have any other issue to target Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/allow-farm-laws-to-be-experimented-for-at-least-two-years-shettar-948668.html
07-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Everything not good in BJP: Cong leader Dhruvanarayana||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee Working President R Dhruvanarayana on Sunday said that everything was not fine in the BJP and the party leaders themselves have been speaking about a change in the leadership. Addressing  a press conference here, Dhruvanarayan said that the BJP has two factions -- Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's and the party's National General Secretary BL Santhosh's.  Dhruvanarayan said that BJP MLA  Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has been speaking against Yediyurappa and the state government. 'Yatnal also had spoke about a CD, which contains obscene video. Why BJP failed to act against him?" the Congress leader asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/everything-not-good-in-bjp-cong-leader-dhruvanarayana-948566.html
07-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Council Chair poll: Horatti, Naseer to file nominations||JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti and Congress MLC Naseer Ahmed are expected to file nominations for the Legislative Council Chairman post, on Monday. The election for the Chairman post is scheduled for Tuesday. Horatti, who is backed by the ruling BJP is projected to be the next Chairman of the Council, following the resignation of Pratapchandra Shetty, a Congress MLC. Shetty resigned after BJP - which is currently the single largest party in the Council - moved a no-confidence motion against him. The BJP-JD(S) combine has 43 members in 75-member Council. On January 29, BJP’s M K Pranesh, backed by the JD(S), was elected deputy chairman of the Council. Pranesh defeated Congress nominee K C Kondaiah. The election to the post was necessitated due to the untimely demise of JDS’ S L Dharmegowda, who was found dead on railway tracks near Kadur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/council-chair-poll-horatti-naseer-to-file-nominations-948751.html
07-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Did not enter politics with any expectations: Angara||It took six consecutive election victories for Sullia BJP MLA S Angara to make it to the state Cabinet, even as some leaders become ministers after just one or two election wins.  Among the most senior legislators of the state, he was recently appointed as Fisheries, Ports and Inland Transport Minister after much clamour from his supporters ahead of Cabinet expansion. He spoke to DH’s Akram Mohammed. Excerpts You are now minister for the first time. Did you have any expectations this time around, as you weren’t inducted in the past? I did not enter politics with any expectations. I am working as a representative under the principles of BJP. Considering my work, the party fielded me and people have ensured my victory six times. Due to their support, the party has identified me today and given me the position. Your supporters were hurt that you weren’t made a minister when BJP secured power in the state, first in 2008 and again in 2019. Were you unhappy? I was not hurt over not being minister even once. Why I am not disgruntled is because I understand the situation of the organisation, why it could not make me minister and under what constraints it assumed power in Karnataka. So, I should think like the party and not as an individual. Such thinking makes it immaterial whether I was inducted now or in the past. People of the constituency, of course, will want to see their representative as a minister. But I should think differently and as a party worker. There is disgruntlement in the BJP, especially after the Congress-JD(S) rebels became ministers. Will it not affect the administration? The style of working of MLAs who came from the Cong-JD(S) coalition and our style of working could be different. But we are all part of the BJP government and we have to go hand in hand by burying any differences. Do you have any specific plans for the Fisheries, Ports and Inland Transport Departments you will now be heading? During my recent visit to Udupi on Republic Day, many fishermen met me and aired their grievances. In order to understand their problems, I will be conducting spot visits in the second week of February in the coastal belt. First, I will practically learn about the problems, then offer short-term and long-term solutions. Any specific demands from fishermen? Movement of boats towards ports has become a challenge, due to which fishermen from Udupi have requested us to undertake to dredge and help them. In your constituency Sullia, which is in the eco-sensitive Western Ghats region, landslides have become a major issue.  Along with landslides, the condition of rural roads has become terrible due to water seepage in the soil. We have sought 16 rural roads to be updated as PWD roads, which addresses many problems. Currently, my focus is for a project to highlight the rich history of Sullia and to build a heritage village. Another major plan is a 110-kV line, which has to pass through the forest between Sullia and Puttur taluks, for which permission from the Central government is required.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/did-not-enter-politics-with-any-expectations-angara-948753.html
07-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||After Youth Congress election farce, DK Shivakumar tries to pacify Nalapad||In a bid to end a controversy over the recently concluded Youth Congress elections, KPCC president D K Shivakumar said that he would take both the winners and losers of the election together in the coming days. “There is no confusion over the results of the election. Due to cases (against Mohammed Nalapad), some decisions were taken,” he said, adding that he too was fighting cases filed by BJP workers. Nalapad had secured the most votes in a prolonged election process but ultimately lost out to Raksha Ramaiah, as he was disqualified. Attempting to pacify the losing camp, Shivakumar said that he had tasted defeat early in his political career, but had won subsequently. “Winning and losing is not important. Spirit of competition displayed by the candidates is important,” he said. Speaking to reporters, Nalapad, son of Congress MLA N A Haris, said that he realised he was disqualified only after elections were held. “I have appealed (the disqualification) with my leadership. 64,000 people have voted for me and I owe an answer to them,” he said, adding that he has expressed these concerns with the party. “I am saddened about the developments, as I was disqualified after I fought and won elections,” he said, expressing confidence in the party leadership to sort the issue. Noting that he had not received any official communication from the party about his disqualification, Nalapad added that there was a clause in the nomination form which resulted in the disqualification. Results of the app-based elections, held from January 10-12, were declared last week and Raksha Ramaiah, son of former minister M R Seetharam emerged as the winner. The last-minute disqualification of Nalapad, who secured around 7,000 votes more than Ramaiah, had triggered a controversy in the state Congress unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/after-youth-congress-election-farce-dk-shivakumar-tries-to-pacify-nalapad-948761.html
07-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Council to discuss Cow Slaughter Bill today||The controversial amendments to the Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act will be tabled in the Legislative Council on Monday. According to the Council agenda for February 8, the Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020, will be taken up following a discussion on the motion of thanks to the Governor’s address. The Council proceedings, which were extended by two days to facilitate the election to the post of Chairman, are expected to be a heated affair during the debate on the Bill, opposed by both Congress and JD(S). However, the Bill will likely be passed by the House, as the JD(S) has decided to abstain when the Bill comes up for voting at the end of the discussion. Apart from a blanket ban on slaughter of all cattle, save buffaloes above 13 years of age, it offers protection for “persons acting in good faith” while detecting cases of cow slaughter. The legislation is being widely seen as an attempt to push the BJP’s Hindutva agenda in the state. It is similar to the one enacted in Uttar Pradesh and other states ruled by the saffron party. Opposition parties had blocked its passage in the winter session held in December, demanding that the BJP bring in common law for the country. Though the Bill was cleared by the Assembly, it was not passed in the Council - which witnessed dramatic scenes as the ruling BJP pushed for its passage. Since the attempt was unsuccessful, the government had promulgated an ordinance for the purpose in January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-council-to-discuss-cow-slaughter-bill-today-948763.html
07-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Somashekar warns of fine, jail sentence for garbage dumping on ring road||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar warned of stern action against those dumping debris and garbage on the ring road in Mysuru.  The minister, along with the officials, visited the ring road on Sunday and was a witness to the construction debris, salon waste, poultry, meat waste and garbage strewn on the sides of the ring road, is not only an eyesore but also unhygienic. ‘Punishment inevitable’ Speaking to reporters, the minister warned: “It will be inevitable to punish those dumping waste and garbage on the ring road, on the lines of Bengaluru. If this continues, people will start dumping garbage on the road. Those dumping garbage will be identified and fined,” he said. The police commissioner has been informed in this regard. In Bengaluru, vehicles dumping garbage are seized and fine is imposed. The owners are even sentenced to jail. This would be implemented in Mysuru also, he warned. Departments given responsibility Now, various departments like Mysuru Urban Development Authority, Mysuru City Corporation, Water Board and others have been given the responsibility of clearing the construction debris on the ring road. The ring road will turn garbage-free soon, the minister said. He also visited the solid waste management unit at Kumbarakoppal. MLAs G T Devegowda, Tanveer Sait, MUDA chairman H V Rajeev, DCP Prakash Gowda, MCC commissioner Gurudatta Heggade and MUDA commissioner Natesh were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/somashekar-warns-of-fine-jail-sentence-for-garbage-dumping-on-ring-road-948764.html
07-02-2021||National||Economic policy: A hard lurch to the right||In an interview on February 1, former Finance Minister P Chidambaram slammed the Narendra Modi government’s Budget for 2021-22 saying, “There is a Budget to be made in the boom years, there is a Budget to be made in crisis years. This is a crisis year. Is this the Budget to be made?” His argument was that in a Budget coming after two years of economic slowdown and one year of recession during which millions of small businesses had shut down and hundreds of millions of the poor were in dire straits, those who were suffering the most should “have the first charge on the budgetary resources, but they have been completely left out.” His own approach would have been to do a direct cash transfer to the bottom 25% of the people for at least six months, devise a rescue plan for the MSME sector so that jobs come back, and cut and unify GST rates so that private consumption rises, alongside spending on infrastructure, he said. Sanjeev Sanyal, the principal economic adviser to the finance ministry, responded with an equally strong argument for not taking exactly that approach. “We have decided to go for growth; and growth using a particular path, which is to spend on infrastructure…We have done this business of consumption-led economy, (that) we must always rely on the dole approach. We have done this for 70 years, we are done with it. We want to have an investment-driven growth model…This may not go with some people’s ideology, but I’m afraid this is the model.” So, does Budget 2021-22 signal a hard lurch to the right economically? Is this the right time to turn to trickle-down economics rather than to handhold those in dire straits? Economist Ila Patnaik, a professor at the NIPFP, New Delhi, said the “Budget speech” was “pro-market, pro-growth. Its emphasis was on privatisation, infrastructure-building, not on welfare (spending)…There was a marked difference. There wasn’t a series of new welfare schemes. The messaging was clear.” This is a sea change in the government’s approach to the economy from what we have witnessed over the last six years. It is perhaps a return to the “Modinomics” that was expected to take hold when Modi first took power in 2014. Modi projected himself as “pro-business” and his record as Gujarat Chief Minister had borne him out. He won the election on a campaign that ridiculed the UPA’s “rights-based” approach to jobs, food security, education, etc. He would teach the poor how to fish rather than feeding them fish, he would help them stand on their own legs financially rather than stretch their hands out for dole, was the promise. All that came crashing down within months. In April 2015, Rahul Gandhi, then Congress vice president, made a single telling comment, calling the Modi government “suit-boot ki sarkar.” He was referring both to the attempt made by Modi to amend by executive order the 2013 land acquisition law to make it business-friendly and to the monogrammed suit that Modi had worn during the visit of former US President Barack Obama. That comment was enough to send Modi on a path opposite to the one he had intended. In August that year, he withdrew the land acquisition ordinance, saying that the “voice of the farmer” mattered most to him. The Rahul jibe and the experience of having had to withdraw the ordinance sent Modi off on an almost six-year quest to build up and secure his position among the poor with several welfare schemes. Some of them were doles, alright; and some of them were driven by the UN Sustainable Development Goals. But all were cleverly branded and made to look like Modi’s own thinking: Swachh Bharat, Ujjwala, Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao, Jan Dhan (Aadhaar-DBT), and so on. In a December 2020 article in the Indian Express, former Chief Economic Adviser Arvind Subramanian and others called it “the new welfarism”. They noted: “The New Welfarism…has entailed the subsidised public provision of essential goods and services, normally provided by the private sector, such as bank accounts, cooking gas, toilets, electricity, housing, and more recently water and also plain cash... New Welfarism’s calculation is that there is a rich electoral opportunity in providing tangible goods and services.” All this helped Modi sweep the 2019 elections and also become, in Vice President Venkaiah Naidu’s 2015 phrase, “the messiah of the poor”. Yet, even as Modi’s stature rose among the poor and electoral success became almost a given, the economy was sinking. It had been slowing down since demonetisation and had fallen from 7-8% growth rates to just over 4% in a matter of two years. Matters came to a head with the pandemic and Modi’s four-hour-notice lockdown — the economy went into contraction. And the revenues needed to run “New Welfarism” dried up further. Something has had to give: the country’s economic direction. And Modi is seeking to use his strong position among the poor as he branches off to his original pro-business path. “There is a shift to the right…Modi took to the welfare-oriented approach to gain the ‘vishwas of the voter’,” Yamini Aiyar, President, Centre for Policy Research, New Delhi, says. “The pandemic provided an opening and Modi is now seeking to follow his own economic imagination, which is more aligned to big business and formalisation of the economy.” That the government feels confident to bank on Modi’s confidence that he has the ‘Vishwas of the voter’ shows in how it has handled the farm laws and the ensuing protest. But it was also clear through the pandemic when it moved to change labour laws, grant controversial environmental clearances, etc. The reliance on capital expenditure on infrastructure, privatisation and trickle-down economics is only the final signal of the lurch to the right. “The government could have taken on more debt for a fiscal response in the pandemic year given the Current Account position and high household savings. But it chose to infuse liquidity and tell the people, ‘Look, we have created the monetary environment, now you are on your own.’ That was Thatcherite. And now, the government is moving even further in that direction.” Aiyar said. “The formal economy is not doing so badly, it is the informal economy that is suffering greatly, but the government seems to be comfortable with that.” The government could have relied on the NREGS programme, but it has cut down allocation to it by over Rs 34,000 crore. “NREGS was able to expand quickly last year during the crisis. Infrastructure spending does not scale up quickly. There are issues of land acquisition, clearances, a history of delayed payments, project completion, etc., that will impact on job creation,” Aiyar added. Will it work? But even the premise that the government is spending heavily on capital expenditure doesn’t hold, says economist Vivek Kaul, arguing that it is just a narrative that the government wanted to put out. “Capex is going up only by 4.5%. The government doesn’t have money. They relied heavily on disinvestment to raise money, but that collapsed. I suspect that’s also why they cut spending on NREGA, which worked well during a bad year. They may be trying to tilt to the economic right, but it is not working.” Kaul warns that there is a big danger in relying heavily on privatisation and asset (land) sales to raise revenues. “The danger in government selling land is crony capitalism and corruption taking hold. It is important that they do it right,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/economic-policy-a-hard-lurch-to-the-right-948465.html
07-02-2021||National||Jat, set, go: The rise of Rakesh Tikait||On the evening of January 28, the mood at the Ghazipur protest site, near the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border, was quite sombre. The Uttar Pradesh government was moving in riot control forces to vacate the protest site, while the Ghaziabad district administration withdrew water and sanitation facilities following violence during the tractor rally on Republic Day. The crowd of agitators was beginning to thin. It seemed the tide had turned in the government’s favour. Just then, images of a tearful Rakesh Tikait, the farmer leader who was leading the protest at Ghazipur, were splashed on national television. The ripples of Rakesh’s breakdown were felt 80 kilometres away in Muzaffarnagar, where the video melted the hearts of thousands of Jats who gathered in support and decided to head to Ghazipur to uphold the honour of the son of legendary farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait. Thus the farmers’ agitation that appeared to lose steam in the aftermath of the Republic Day violence moved forward with fresh zeal. Subsequently, massive Kisan mahapanchayats were held in Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Shamli, Mathura — the sugarcane belt in western Uttar Pradesh — extended support to the younger Tikait, catapulting him as an unlikely leader of the farmers’ agitation, which till now was being dominated by the farmers’ unions from Punjab. It was just a matter of three days before Tikait, perceived as a villain in the pack, to become the face of the farmers’ agitation. He could never attain the clout wielded by his father, but this was his moment. “Work on the formula of one tractor and 15 people for 10 days from every village,” Tikait told his supporters, as he warned the Centre of a prolonged agitation stretching up to October and beyond. The growing support to Rakesh from the hinterland drew hoards of political leaders. Ghazipur protest site was back in action. The Tikaits wield considerable influence among the Jat community in western Uttar Pradesh, mostly due to the role played by senior Tikait, who was fondly known as ‘Chaudhary Baba’, in the 1980s during the sugarcane growers’ fight for a remunerative price for their crop. He emerged as a farmers’ leader after the death of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh. The senior Tikait, who founded the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Arajnaitik), never harboured political ambitions. His blunt nature and rustic charm won him respect as the leader of Jats beyond his own Baliyan khap. After he died in 2011, the mantle of the president of the BKU(A) passed on to his eldest son Naresh Tikait, while the younger son Rakesh went on to test the political waters. He contested the 2007 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections as a candidate of the Bhartiya Kisan Dal from Khatauli, much against the wishes of his father and lost his deposit. In 2014, Rakesh entered the fray as a Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) candidate for the Amroha Lok Sabha seat, but was unsuccessful. The support of the Tikaits to RLD supremo Ajit Singh, the son of former prime minister Chaudhary Charan Singh, failed to ensure his win, largely due to the polarisation on religious lines in the aftermath of the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. Jats backed the BJP indicating the diminishing clout of the Tikaits in the region. Rakesh had flirted with the Congress, the BJP and the RLD in his electoral outings, prompting the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, steering the farmers’ agitation, to view him with suspicion. Before becoming a farmers’ leader, Rakesh was a sub-inspector in the Delhi Police, a job he quit to support his father. He accompanied the senior Tikait to protest sites and meetings with government officials and politicians. However, he could not resist the lure of politics. With the newfound spotlight, the Tikaits are now moving in unison with Naresh seeking to repair the Jat-Muslim divide by publicly accepting the “mistake” of supporting the BJP. As a result, a number of Muslims supporting Rakesh at the Ghazipur border as the agitation grew after the Republic Day violence. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekar Azad, who also hails from western Uttar Pradesh, has also visited Rakesh and has been sending supporters regularly. Which way this fresh wave of support for Rakesh lead? Will there be a political realignment in the caste-based politics of Uttar Pradesh ahead of the Assembly elections next year? Only time will tell.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jat-set-go-the-rise-of-rakesh-tikait-948471.html
07-02-2021||National||DH Toon | Farmers' stir goes international as hashtags trend||Popular artist Rihanna tweeted on Feb. 2 about the farmers' protests in New Delhi, asking "why aren't we talking about this?" A day later, young climate activist Greta Thunberg took to Twitter to extend her support to farmers in India. A raging battle erupted on social media following these tweets and the hashtags #IndiaAgainstPropaganda and #IndiaTogether began to trend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-farmers-stir-goes-international-as-hashtags-trend-948474.html
07-02-2021||National||India reports less than 80 single-day Covid-19 deaths after 8 months; 12,059 new cases detected||India reported 12,059 Covid-19 new cases, taking the nationwide tally to 1,08,26,363. With 78 new fatalities in the last 24 hours, the death toll stands at 1,54,996, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has surged to 1,05,22,601 with 11,805 recoveries in the last 24 hours. The national recovery rate has climbed to 97.19 per cent. The Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total Covid-19 active cases dropped below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,48,766 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.37 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-less-than-80-single-day-covid-19-deaths-after-8-months-12059-new-cases-detected-948496.html
07-02-2021||National||Power demand remains higher in 1st week, crosses record peak of February 2020||India's peak power demand met or the highest supply in a day has remained higher in the first week of February till Friday and surpassed the record high supply of 176.38 GW for February last year, indicating robust growth in electricity consumption in the country. According to the power ministry data, peak power demand met was recorded at 187.71GW on February 1, 188.15 GW on February 2; 188.11 GW on February 3; 183.81GW on February 4 and 184.34GW on February 5. The peak power demand met in this month so far is higher than the monthly record power demand met of 176.38GW for February 2020. Experts opined that the data clearly indicates all likelihood of high electricity consumption growth in the month of February this year. They are of the view that if power supply is higher in the first five days of February than the monthly record peak a year ago, then electricity consumption would not only register high growth but would remain at much higher level than that in 2020. Peak power demand had touched an all-time high of 189.64 GW on January 30, 2021, breaching the previous record high of 188.45 GW recorded on 28th January. Last month, Power Minister R K Singh had exuded confidence that power demand will cross the 200 GW mark soon. "The power demand and supply surged to a new high of 1,88,452 MW at 9:42 am on 28th January 2021. The rate at which we are going, we shall cross 2,00,000 MW very soon," he had said. On January 20, power demand had touched a high of 187.3 GW. All-India power demand had also touched a high of 182.89 GW on December 30 last year. The rising power demand shows revival in economic activities leading to higher commercial and industrial demand, which was affected due to the pandemic. The government had imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 25, 2020, to contain the spread of Covid-19. Power demand started declining from April as economic activities were disrupted due to Covid-19. The pandemic affected power demand for five months in a row from April to August 2020. The demand recovered from September onwards. Peak power demand met grew at 1.7 per cent in September, 3.4 per cent in October, 3.5 per cent in November, 7.3 per cent in December and nearly 11 per cent in January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/power-demand-remains-higher-in-1st-week-crosses-record-peak-of-february-2020-948513.html
07-02-2021||National||Benefits on buying new vehicles on scrapping of old ones; taxes, other levies for polluting cars: Union Minister Nitin Gadkari||Buyers of new vehicles after opting for scrapping of their old and polluting vehicles will be offered benefits under the new policy to phase out old and polluting vehicles, Union minister Nitin Gadkari has said. Terming the policy a boon, the road transport minister said it would lead to a 30 per cent boost to the Indian automobile industry turnover to Rs 10 lakh crore in the years to come. The voluntary vehicle scrapping policy announced in the Union Budget for 2021-22 is touted as a major step to boost the Indian automobile sector, reeling under the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. Under the voluntary vehicle scrapping policy, personal vehicles would undergo fitness test after 20 years while commercial vehicles would require it after completion of 15 years. "Those going for scrapping of their vehicles will get some benefits from the manufacturers. In fact, scrapping policy will prove to be a boon... not only it will boost economy, benefit automobile sector but also check vehicular pollution," Gadkari, who also holds MSME portfolio, told PTI. The minister said very soon the finer details of the policy will be unveiled by him and exuded confidence that the automobile industry will turn into one such sector that will offer maximum number of employments in the days to come. Asked about disincentives for old and polluting vehicles not opting for scrapping since it will be a voluntary, the minister said there are provisions of green taxes, other levies and such vehicles will have to undergo strict fitness tests in automated facilities. Secretary, Road Transport and Highways, Giridhar Aramane said incentives are worked out under the policy with discussions with stakeholders. Asserting that scrapping has huge advantages, he said research has pointed out that an old four-seater Sedan will result in losses of Rs 1.8 lakh in five years while for a heavy vehicle it comes to Rs 8 lakh for a period of three years. "We want to give some incentives," he said and added that the policy is mandatory, all vehicles will be required for automated fitness tests done without any human intervention, corruption or fudging of data. He said automated fitness tests will be set up under PPP mode while for scrapping centres also private partners and state governments will be assisted. "Structure and framework of scrapping policy is under work and green tax has already been notified. Many states have notified in ineffective way ....We want to advise the state governments through notification under Motor Vehicles Act to consider imposing green tax on older vehicles which cause more pollution," Aramane said. Driving such vehicles that fail to pass automated tests will attract huge penalties and also be impounded. Talking about the policy, Gadkari said: "This policy will boost buying of new vehicles besides generating huge employment. Automobile industry turnover which is 4.5 lakh crore at present is likely to swell to Rs 10 lakh crore in years to come with India becoming an automobile hub," the minister said. The export component of this which at present is 1.45 lakh crore will go up to Rs 3 lakh crore, he said and added that once the policy comes to practice availability of scrapped material like steel, plastic, rubber, aluminium etc will be used in manufacturing of automobile parts which in turn will reduce their cost by 30 to 40 per cent. He said the policy will give a boost to new technologies with better mileage of vehicles besides promoting green fuel and electricity and cut on India's huge Rs 10 lakh crore crude import bills. "One crore vehicles will go for scrap," he said. Presenting the Budget for 2021-22 in Parliament, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1 had said that details of the scheme will be separately shared by the ministry. Gadkari had said the policy will lead to new investments of around Rs 10,000 crore and create as many as 50,000 jobs. "The policy would cover an estimated 51 lakh Light Motor Vehicles (LMVs) that are above 20 years of age, while another 34 lakh LMVs are above 15 years. It would also cover 17 lakh medium and heavy motor vehicles, which are above 15 years, and currently without valid fitness certificates," Gadkari said. These vehicles are estimated to cause 10-12 times more pollution than the latest vehicles, he said. Last month, the government had said it plans to impose green tax on old polluting vehicles soon in a bid to protect environment and curb pollution while vehicles like strong hybrids, electric vehicles and those running on alternate fuels like CNG, ethanol and LPG will be exempted. The revenue collected through the green tax will be utilised for tackling pollution. Under the scheme, transport vehicles older than eight years could be charged green tax at the time of renewal of fitness certificate at the rate of 10 to 25 per cent of road tax, as per green tax proposal sent to states for consultations after cleared by the ministry. Industry experts said the policy will provide a fillip to the Indian government's efforts to position India as a global automobile manufacturing hub, as well as benefit global automakers with manufacturing industries in India, including Japanese giants Suzuki, Toyota, Nissan, amongst others. On July 26, 2019, the government proposed amendments to motor vehicle norms to allow scrapping of vehicles older than 15 years in a bid to spur adoption of electrical vehicles. In May 2016, the government had floated a draft Voluntary Vehicle Fleet Modernisation Programme (V-VMP) that proposed to take 28 million decade-old vehicles off the road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/benefits-on-buying-new-vehicles-on-scrapping-of-old-ones-taxes-other-levies-for-polluting-cars-union-minister-nitin-gadkari-948514.html
07-02-2021||National||Chhota Rajan cleared of all charges in attempt to murder case of journalist||A special CBI court here has accepted the closure report filed by the probe agency against jailed gangster Chhota Rajan in a case of attempt to murder of a noted journalist in 1997. In his order issued on Saturday, special judge A T Wankhede cleared Rajan of all the charges due to lack of sufficient material to proceed against him in the case. On June 12, 1997, Mumbai-based crime reporter Baljeet Shersingh Parmar was severely injured after some motorcycle-borne shooters of Rajan allegedly attacked him outside a building in Antop Hill area here. Initially, the city police registered a case under charges for attempt to murder. Later, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) took over the case. The CBI recently filed its closure report on the ground that during further probe into the case, no additional evidence emerged against the accused. The judge in his order said, "On perusal of the available material, there is only reference in the FIR against him (Rajan) that previously one Dalbeer Singh received threats from Rajan. Except this, there is no material to connect the accused in this crime." The court further noted that CBI's investigating officer did not find any link to connect the accused (Rajan) with guilt and was unable to collect vital evidence pertaining to the case. The court said it made an attempt to call the informant - Baljeet Shersingh Parmar, but he was not traceable on the given address. Accordingly, the CBI submitted the unserved report, the court said. "Even otherwise, there is no sufficient material to proceed against the accused," the court noted while accepting the closure report. Rajan, facing multiple criminal cases, is currently lodged at the Tihar Jail in New Delhi after his deportation from Indonesia in October 2015. He is an accused in around 70 cases in Maharashtra, including the case of murder of journalist J Dey in 2011.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhota-rajan-cleared-of-all-charges-in-attempt-to-murder-case-of-journalist-948524.html
07-02-2021||National||RINL privatisation: CM Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy writes to PM Modi to reconsider decision||Amid growing outcry against the Centres move to privatise Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL) which has a steel plant in Visakhapatnam, Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reconsider the decision. He said the state government is ready to work with the Steel Ministry to protect the Public Sector Enterprise, which provides employment to 20,000 people directly and many others indirectly. "The Government of Andhra Pradesh is ready to work with the Ministry of steel to protect the jewel of Andhra Pradesh. Therefore, I request you to kindly reconsider the disinvestment plans of RINL Visakhapatnam and explore other opportunities to put the plant back on track," he said in the letter, written on Saturday. RINL the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) a Navratna Company under the Ministry of Steel, currently has a capacity of 7.3 million tonnes per annum and took up plant modernisation and capacity expansion borrowing loans from banks. Recently the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has given in-principle approval for 100 per cent strategic disinvestment of the Centres shareholding in RINL, along with management control by way of privatisation. The Chief Minister said the Cabinets clearance for the privatisation has become a point of discussion among people of the state and a cause of concern. Owing to the unfavourable steel cycle globally, the company was making losses since 2014-15 and was finding it difficult to service the debt, he said, "One of the major structural issues that also leads to high cost of production is the absence of a captive mine, thereby affecting the profitability." Reddy suggested that the PSEs short-term loans, along with long-term loans, be converted into equity, taking off repayment pressures and interest burden. He also suggested that RINL be allotted captive Iron Ore Minister in order to reduce the input cost. Employees of the steel plant and civil society, supported by various political parties, have taken out rallies, demanding that the Centre roll back its decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rinl-privatisation-cm-y-s-jagan-mohan-reddy-writes-to-pm-modi-to-reconsider-decision-948526.html
07-02-2021||National||Healthcare delivery poised to undergo change at all stages: President Kovind||The health sector's evolution calls for active involvement and participation of all stakeholders and use of innovation to bridge intent and execution, President Ram Nath Kovind said on Sunday as he noted that healthcare delivery in India is poised to undergo a change at all stages. He also hoped that the world has learnt the right lessons from the Covid-19 pandemic. "Healthcare delivery in India is poised to undergo a change at all stages prevention, diagnosis and treatment. No single entity in the healthcare sector can deliver results and achieve outcomes," Kovind said. Addressing the 23rd annual convocation of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, he said the evolution of the sector calls for active involvement and participation of all stakeholders and use of innovation to bridge intent and execution. "Though Covid-19 seems to be one-of-a-kind health-crisis that happens rarely, a section of scientists has warned us to be prepared for similar challenges ahead. The world has, let us hope, learnt the right lessons," he said, adding that the pandemic has taught the world that one cannot be safe if others are at risk and it is a lesson in universal brotherhood. Noting that Covid-19 has inflicted agony and misery of unprecedented levels around the globe, the President said the nation is proud of its doctors and paramedics who rose to the challenge, even if it meant a great risk to their own lives. The President said he was glad to learn that the University had trained over two lakh health care professionals, from doctors and nurses to administrators and hospital facility providers, to better respond to the outbreak. "Responding to the call of AatmaNirbhar Bharat, a self-reliant India, our nation has not only manufactured the vaccine, but has also reached out to other nations to provide the same," Kovind said, adding that the largest vaccination drive in history was now under way in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/healthcare-delivery-poised-to-undergo-change-at-all-stages-president-kovind-948528.html
07-02-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi lays foundation stone of two medical colleges in Assam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday laid the foundation stone of two medical colleges in Assam, one at Biswanath in North Assam and the other one at Charaideo in eastern Assam following which he addressed a large gathering. "Northeast and Assam have left behind the troubling days of conflict and underdevelopment and marching towards the path of progress," said PM Modi while addressing the gathering in the state. Talking about the medical colleges, Modi said, "I have a new dream: to start one medical college, one technical college in each state which will teach in mother tongue. In Assam too, once the new govt comes to power after the elections, one medical college and a technical college will be set up to teach in mother tongue," said PM Modi. The prime minister also launched the 'Asom Mala', a project to improve the state highways and roads. Modi reached Dhekiajuli in North Assam's Sonitpur district earlier today ahead of the Assembly polls in the state slated for April this year. This would be PM Modi's second visit to Assam before the polls, the first one being on January 23. The crowd that Modi was addressing was majorly comprised of tea garden workers, key deciders in at least 40 Assembly seats. Sonitpur and Biswanath districts have a large number of tea gardens. The PM lauded the quality of tea in Sonitpur. "Who knows it better than me the taste of lal cha (black tea) of Sonitpur?" asked Modi.  He said that some foreign forces were trying to defame Indian tea at the international level, a conspiracy revealed by some documents. "They (foreign forces) are trying to attack Indian tea in the international markets but the nation will not allow such forces to defame Indian tea," PM Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-lays-foundation-stone-of-two-medical-colleges-in-assam-948532.html
07-02-2021||National||Rihanna's brand accused of 'employing child labour': Report||International celebrities including Rihanna and environment campaigner Greta Thunberg recently announced their support for the farmers triggering a sharply polarised international debate. NGO Legal Rights Observatory (LRO) in its complaint alleged that Rihanna's brand 'Fenty Beauty' uses mica from mines in Jharkhand where "child labourers work in dire conditions", the report stated. Vinay Joshi of the Legal Rights Observatory demanded an investigation and claimed that the pop star's brand does not have the certification to prove that the mica used in products is "child-labour free". "Action taken against India's interests will be reciprocated with equal measures," Joshi was quoted a saying by the publication. Rihanna, the fourth most followed celebrity on Twitter with over 100 million followers, took to the microblogging site to share a news article headlined, "India cuts internet around New Delhi as protesting farmers clash with police." "Why aren't we talking about this? #FarmersProtest," she wrote. Post her tweet, Swedish teen climate activist Greta Thunberg, Meena Harris, an American lawyer and niece of US Vice President Kamala Harris, actors Amanda Cerni, singers Jay Sean, Dr Zeus and former adult star Mia Khalifa voiced their support to the protesting farmers. India has reacted sharply to these tweets with several Bollywood and cricket stars and top ministers rallying around the government in its pushback. The "temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments” is neither accurate nor responsible, the Ministry of External Affairs said. Rihanna's wealth has accumulated over the past decade as she branded out into various business endeavours including the cosmetic brand 'Fenty Beauty' which generated an estimated $570 million in revenue in its first 15 months. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rihannas-brand-accused-of-employing-child-labour-report-948537.html
07-02-2021||National||Shut since 2012, MA Chidambaram Stadium to finally open its three stands to spectators||The MA Chidambaram Stadium's three stands -- I, J and K -- will be thrown open for spectators for an international match for the first time since 2012 when it hosts the second India-England Test from February 13. The three stands were sealed after the 2011 World Cup owing to various issues, depriving the city the opportunity to host matches at various events, including the World T20 in 2016 and the IPL final in 2019. An exception was made when the stands were opened for an ODI between India and Pakistan in 2012. Tickets for the second Test, to be played here from February 13 to 17, will go on sale from February 9, a top official of Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) said on Sunday. Around 15,000 tickets will be sold and they will be available online only, TNCA secretary R S Ramaswamy said. Meanwhile, the TNCA staff are involved in cleaning work in the stands, he said, adding they will be ready before the second Test. The ongoing first Test at the stadium here is being played behind closed doors. The media, which was barred entry for the series-opening Test, would be allowed to cover the second, Ramaswamy said. The three stands have a maximum capacity of 12,000 and each of the three stands has a capacity of 4,000 seats apiece.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shut-since-2012-ma-chidambaram-stadium-to-finally-open-its-three-stands-to-spectators-948540.html
07-02-2021||National||Centre to issue fresh guidelines for TRP and OTT, says Javadekar: Report||As television and the online streaming viewers increased in the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Centre is mulling to soon release a fresh set of rules and guidelines to manage the process. Lok Sabha MPs posed a series of queries on TRP manipulation and regulation of OTT content and the Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar responded to them by saying that the government is taking affirmative action and will notify new guidelines in each case, according to reports. The government recently brought OTT platforms, such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Video and Disney+ Hotstar, besides other online news and current affairs content, under the ambit of the I&B ministry, giving it powers to regulate policies and rules for the digital space. Earlier, in November 2020, the minister had said that just like TV, there is no regulatory body for over-the-top (OTT) platforms and the government is receiving suggestions on how to regulate its content. “Neither there is any PCI nor any other body for OTT platforms which have very good content as well as very bad content. So, something needs to be done about it,” he said. “Discussions are going on and we are getting suggestions from a lot of people on what should be done to regulate the content on OTT platforms,” he said. Regarding the fake TRP scam, where the ratings were manipulated by several news agencies, Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) Disciplinary Council said it took action to maintain panel sanctity and filed 11 FIRs against those who manipulated sample, the report quoted the minister. For TRP ratings, the I&B ministry had on November 4, 2020, constituted a committee headed by the Prasar Bharati CEO, which has submitted its report on January 12, 2021. "The report will be studied by the ministry and the future course of action will be decided," Javadekar said.   (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-issue-fresh-guidelines-for-trp-and-ott-says-javadekar-report-948541.html
07-02-2021||National||Judge had to call for comedian Munawar Faruqui's release even after SC order||A day after a Supreme Court bail order, it took a late-night phone call from a Chief Judicial Magistrate (CJM) that prodded Indore jail authorities to swiftly make arrangements for the release of stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui, who is accused hurting religious sentiments. In the call on Saturday night, Indore's Chief Judicial Magistrate asked the Central Prison authorities here in Madhya Pradesh to check the SC's website for the bail order, following which Faruqui was set free, a senior official from the jail administration said on Sunday. Arrested on January 1 for allegedly hurting religious sentiments, Faruqui was in the jail for 35 days. On Friday, the SC granted him interim bail after the Madhya Pradesh High Court rejected his bail plea on January 28. The apex court also stayed the production warrant issued against Faruqui by a court in Prayagraj in connection with an FIR lodged there. Indore Central Jail's superintendent Rakesh Kumar Bhangre told PTI that, "A CJM rang us up on Saturday night. He said if we have not got the SC's official order regarding Faruqui, it can be checked on the apex court's website." The jail official said they then checked the order which mentioned that all warrants against Faruqui have been stayed. "On this basis, he was set free," the official said. Asked why they did not check the SC's website before the CJM's call, the superintendent said since the matter is "sensitive", they were waiting for the order (hard copy) to reach them through an official source. "This caused such a situation," he said. Earlier, even after Faruqui's lawyers completed legal formalities in the district court, the jail authorities did not set him free on Saturday evening, contending that a production warrant of a Prayagraj court was pending against him. Hours before his release, Faruqui's lawyers had submitted a copy of the SC's order in a local court, which then directed that he be released on a bond of Rs 50,000 and a security of the same amount. But, he was not released at that time. Another official of the Indore Central Jail on Saturday said a court in Prayagraj had ordered Faruqui's production in a similar case on February 18. Citing the jail manual, he had said an order from the Prayagraj court or a competent government officer was needed to release him. A couple of hours before Faruqui was released, his cousin Zaid Pathan said they were disappointed by the jail administration's stand. "Our belief in the judiciary was strengthened after the Supreme Court order," he had remarked. Media persons had gathered outside the jail after getting the news of his release, but according to eyewitnesses, Faruqui walked out of the jail quietly after being set free late Saturday night. Faruqui and four others were arrested following a complaint by a BJP MLA's son that objectionable remarks about Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were passed during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore on New Year's Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/judge-had-to-call-for-comedian-munawar-faruquis-release-even-after-sc-order-948542.html
07-02-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi had sleepless nights over concern for farmers, says Anil Agarwal||Amid talks and reactions over Centre's handling of the ongoing farmers' protests across the country, Vedanta Resources Executive Chairman Anil Agarwal recalled an anecdote to emphasise Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s concern for the issue. In a series of tweets, he said, "Our PM Shri @narendramodi has the greatest priority for the farmers and is always thinking about how he can help them. I remember an incident during the locust attack last year." "He had sleepless nights & called all over the world to find a solution. He insisted on airlifting the machines so that the deliveries of the machines from UK could be fast-tracked. He did not rest till a solution was found," he added in the microblogging social platform Twitter. He had sleepless nights & called all over the world to find a solution. He insisted on airlifting the machines so that the deliveries of the machines from UK could be fast-tracked. He did not rest till a solution was found. Vedanta Resources is the vehicle through which Agarwal owns a 55.11 per cent stake in mining group Vedanta Limited. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November 2020 at Delhi's borders, demanding a repeal of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-had-sleepless-nights-over-concern-for-farmers-says-anil-agarwal-948544.html
07-02-2021||National||SC seeks explanation from NCB for delay in filing plea against HC verdict||The Supreme Court has termed as “atrocious” the manner in which a “sensitive matter” of narcotics has been sought to be prosecuted, and directed the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) to give an explanation over the delay in filing a plea against the Rajasthan High Court verdict in the case. The apex court, which observed that a petition challenging the high court’s December 2018 verdict acquitting the accused persons in a narcotics case has been filed before it after a delay of 652 days, noted the “glaring gaps” and said the NCB headquarters had sat on the file for one year. “We find that in a sensitive matter relating to narcotics the manner in which the present proceedings are sought to be prosecuted is atrocious. The special leave petitions have been filed after a delay of 652 days,” a bench comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said in its February 1 order. The case pertains to the alleged recovery of over 5 kg contraband heroin from a car in 2013. While referring to the explanation given by the NCB, the bench noted that the “glaring gaps which are apparent” are -- the opinion of the special public prosecutor was given after six months to the department on May 16, 2019, and the draft special leave petition (SLP) is stated to have been received by NCB headquarters on August 22, 2019, and was forwarded to department concerned for corrections on August 22, 2020 after one year. “Thus, the NCB headquarters sat on the file for one year,” the bench said, adding, “We call for an explanation from the NCB headquarters as to how the aforesaid has transpired and what responsibility has been fixed on which officer for such negligence.” “We would also like to know what steps are being taken to streamline the process. The affidavit will be filed under the signatures of the Director-General, NCB. The affidavit be filed within four weeks,” the top court said and posted the matter for hearing after four weeks. The apex court was hearing a plea filed by the Centre, through the NCB, against the high court’s December 6, 2018 verdict. The high court had acquitted some accused in a case lodged under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, saying that prosecution was not able to prove the offence beyond a reasonable doubt. The high court had delivered the judgement while dealing with appeals filed by some of the accused who had challenged the trial court orders convicting and sentencing them in the case. The high court had also dismissed the separate plea challenging the trial court order acquitting two other accused in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-explanation-from-ncb-for-delay-in-filing-plea-against-hc-verdict-948546.html
07-02-2021||National||High alert in UP as glacier breaks off in neighbouring Uttarakhand||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday asked authorities in all districts of the state on the banks of the Ganga river to be on a high alert and continuously monitor the water level after a glacier broke off in Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district. The disaster caused a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river in Uttarakhand and endangering the lives of people living along its banks. More than 150 labourers working at the Rishi Ganga power project may have been directly affected, said State Disaster Response Force DIG Ridhim Aggarwal. In a disaster alert issued here on Sunday to all the district magistrates in UP, the Relief Commissioner said in a statement, "Report of breaking of a part of Nandadevi Glacier in Uttarakhand has been received. The districts on the Ganga river (banks) need to be on a high alert and the monitoring of water level needs to be done 24×7. If required, the people need to be evacuated." The NDRF, SDRF and PAC Flood Company are been given instructions to be on the highest alert, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-alert-in-up-as-glacier-breaks-off-in-neighbouring-uttarakhand-948549.html
07-02-2021||National||ITBP, NDRF teams rushed to Uttarakhand||Teams of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police and the National Disaster Response Force were rushed to flood-hit areas in Uttarakhand, where a glacier broke off at Joshimath and caused massive flooding in the Dhauli Ganga river on Sunday, officials said. An ITBP officer said two teams of the force, comprising about 200 personnel, had moved to the affected areas from Joshimath. The border guarding force has units based in Joshimath as part of its mandate to guard the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China.  As news of the disaster came in, two teams were rushed from Dehradun to Joshimath, NDRF Director General S N Pradhan added. “We are working to airlift three-four more teams from the Hindon IAF base near Delhi,” he said. The extent of damage can only be ascertained after some more time, he said. More than 150 labourers working at the Rishi Ganga power project may have been directly affected, said State Disaster Response Force DIG Ridhim Aggarwal. “Representatives of the power project have told me that they are not being able to contact around 150 of their workmen at the project site," she said.            Though details are awaited, several districts, including Pauri, Tehri, Rudraprayag, Haridwar and Dehradun, are likely to be affected and have been put on high alert.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/itbp-ndrf-teams-rushed-to-uttarakhand-948551.html
07-02-2021||National||'Kral Koor' attempts to revive age-old pottery in Kashmir with Bengaluru touch||Saima Shafi is a civil engineer in the Public Works Department of Jammu and Kashmir but she is better known as 'Kral Koor', Kashmiri for 'potter girl' in the Valley and online. She is doing the task of bringing a centuries-old tradition back to modern Kashmiri kitchens -- use of earthen utensils -- thanks to a school in Bengaluru. The 32-year-old's journey into pottery was a means to escape depression. She cited a quote by Chinese philosopher Lao Tzu, 'We shape clay into a pot but it is the emptiness inside that holds whatever we want.' "That's where I decided to store my depression," she said. Shafi's fascination with clay goes back to her childhood. "I actually wanted to do something different and since my childhood, I had been fascinated with toys made of clay, so I decided to become a potter," Shafi, who is at present posted to a village in South Kashmir, said. When she embarked on this journey, she faced several hurdles. "I realised that one needs to be financially sound to get the modern equipment required for pottery." This includes an electrical potter wheel and a gas kiln which is used for baking, neither of which is available in the Valley. She was completely reliant on e-commerce platforms for sourcing the equipment. "I had to transport it to Kashmir and sometimes you have to bear the loss due to transportation. I had to resurrect the entire inner wall of my kiln after getting refractory bricks and shelves of ceramic tiles from Chennai," she said. And all the efforts were made at a time when Kashmir valley was getting Internet at 2G speed. And then there was another issue -- utensils made from terracotta clay, which is the only kind of clay available in Kashmir, should not be used in the microwave. "However, Haryana has a stoneware clay which is moulded on the potter wheel and the utensils made from it can even be used in microwave ovens," she said. As pottery teachers are not common in the Valley, Shafi's search for one led her to Bengaluru. There she took a crash course in the art of moulding clay into various shapes, including traditional Kashmiri utensils used in the kitchen. "The people at the institute were quite thrilled to know that a girl from far away Kashmir and that too a civil engineer is interested in pottery. The experience was amazing as I saw girls as young as six to a 70-year-old woman learning the art. "These students were planning to open their studio which meant that these women were not learning pottery as a hobby but also to earn their livelihood and become entrepreneurs in various parts of the country," she said. She rues the fact that there is no proper institution or training school to keep the art form alive in the Valley. She hopes to one day set up her own institute where she would guide the potter community of Kashmir and recalls late President A P J Abdul Kalam's words "dream is not that which you see while sleeping, it is something that does not let you sleep". "The art is dying because of lack of financial viability. The new generation of potters refuse to take to the wheels because they are unaware of changed and advanced techniques of this art," she said while sitting in her studio located in the interiors of uptown Batmaloo. After work and on weekends, Shafi frequents places within the Valley that were known for pottery a few decades ago. She visits the sparsely distributed local potters to preserve their traditional techniques for posterity. Her dual identity of an engineer and a potter draws surprised responses from these artisans. "All these years, they have been looked down upon. Finding an educated woman engaged in pottery makes them hopeful about their skill slowly getting the respect it deserves," she said. Shafi says that while it is the wickerwork that makes the Kashmiri Kangri a bright and cheerful sight, at its core, it is an earthen pot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kral-koor-attempts-to-revive-age-old-pottery-in-kashmir-with-bengaluru-touch-948555.html
07-02-2021||National||Alarm raised after nearly 100 Kashmiri youths travelling to Pakistan on visa infiltrate with terrorists||Nearly 100 Kashmiri youths, who travelled to Pakistan on valid visas for short durations, have either not come back or have disappeared after their return in last three years, raising an alarm within security agencies which fear that they could be possible sleeper cells of terror groups operating from across the border. Alarm bells rang in April last year when a group of five terrorists were killed in jungles of the border area of Handwara in North Kashmir. One of them was a local who went to Pakistan in 2018 and had not returned since, various officials from security agencies said. Between April one to six of last year, youths hailing from Shopian, Kulgam and Anantnag districts of South Kashmir were seen as part of the infiltrating groups of terrorists and all of them had travelled to Pakistan on valid documents and never returned thereafter, they said. Security agencies, along with the immigration officials at Wagah border as well as at the New Delhi airport, have been collecting data of Kashmiri youths who travelled on valid visa for durations ranging more than seven days over the last three years, the officials said. The figures were astonishing and in some of the cases it was found that the youths never returned and in others they disappeared after their return, raising speculation that they could have become "sleeper cells", waiting for instructions from the masters in Pakistan's snooping agency, ISI, or handlers in terror groups located across the border. Kashmiri youths, who travelled to Pakistan even two years back, were called for questioning and a proper analysis of their activities after their return was being carried out by the security agencies, the officials said, adding some inconvenience was caused but precaution was always better than cure. Those questioned by the security agencies were asked a valid reason for their travel to Pakistan, the officials said, adding that the background history of all these people was checked and verified at the minutest level. While the security agencies believe that there was a six weeks' training course for new terror recruits, intelligence inputs suggest that some of the youths were provided a quick module of fabrication of improvised explosive devices using easily available explosive material within a week's time, they said. The recruitment of youths for various terror organisations is also being carried out discreetly and it is quite possible these youths could also be doubling as "recruiters" for brain-washing of vulnerable men in the militancy affected union territory. The missing youth are mainly from an average middle class and have been described as the new faces of terrorism in Kashmir. They could be waiting for delivery of arms and ammunition for all of them which has been substantially been choked due to heightened surveillance at the Line of Control, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alarm-raised-after-nearly-100-kashmiri-youths-travelling-to-pakistan-on-visa-infiltrate-with-terrorists-948558.html
07-02-2021||National||PM Modi reviews flood situation in Uttarakhand, says nation prays for everyone's safety||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reviewed the situation in Uttarakhand following floods caused by a glacier burst at Joshimath in Chamoli district, and took stock of the rescue and relief work underway. "Am constantly monitoring the unfortunate situation in Uttarakhand. India stands with Uttarakhand and the nation prays for everyone's safety there. Have been continuously speaking to senior authorities and getting updates on NDRF deployment, rescue work and relief operations," Modi tweeted. Am constantly monitoring the unfortunate situation in Uttarakhand. India stands with Uttarakhand and the nation prays for everyone’s safety there. Have been continuously speaking to senior authorities and getting updates on NDRF deployment, rescue work and relief operations. The PMO said in another tweet that Modi, who is in Assam to launch several development projects, reviewed the situation in Uttarakhand and spoke to the state chief minister. "Authorities are working to provide all possible support to the affected," the PMO said. Modi is on a tour to Assam and West Bengal on Sunday. A glacier broke off in Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, causing a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and endangering the lives of people living along its banks. Massive destruction is feared. More than 150 labourers working at the Rishi Ganga power project may have been directly affected, said State Disaster Response Force DIG Ridhim Aggarwal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-reviews-flood-situation-in-uttarakhand-says-nation-prays-for-everyones-safety-948564.html
07-02-2021||National||India now 3rd topmost country to give highest doses of Covid-19 vaccine; US and UK lead||India has become the third topmost country in the world in terms of the number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. Only the United States and the United Kingdom remain ahead of India. The ministry said 12 states in India have vaccinated more than 2 lakh beneficiaries each. Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 6,73,542 of all vaccinated beneficiaries. Till February 7, 8 am, a total of 57.75 lakh beneficiaries have received the vaccine under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise. The cumulative vaccination coverage includes 53,04,546 healthcare workers and 4,70,776 frontline workers, the ministry said. In a span of 24 hours, 3,58,473 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 8,875 sessions. Also, a total 1,15,178 sessions have been conducted so far.  "There has been a sustained increase in the number of beneficiaries being vaccinated every day," the ministry said. "In another significant development, the country has reported less than 80 daily deaths in the last 24 hours, lowest in nine months," it said. The country's total Covid-19 active case is 1.48 lakh which consists of 1.37 per cent of India's total infections. India's cumulative recoveries surged to 1.05 crore. A total of 12,059 new daily cases have been recorded in a span of 24 hours whereas 11,805 patients have recovered and discharged during the same period. The ministry said 81.07 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 6  states and UTs. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 6,178 newly recovered cases. A total of 1,739 people recovered in Maharashtra in a span of 24 hours followed by 503 in Tamil Nadu. The ministry said 84.83 per cent of the daily new cases are from 6 States and UTs. Kerala reports the highest daily new cases at 5,942. It is followed by Maharashtra with 2,768, while Karnataka reported 531 new cases. A total of 78 fatalities have been recorded in a span of 24 hours. Five states and UTs account for 69.23 per cent of the daily deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (25). Kerala follows with 16 daily deaths and Punjab reported 5 casualties, the ministry said. Seventeen states and UTs have not reported any deaths in a span of 24 hours. These include Haryana, Goa, Jammu and Kashmir (UT), Jharkhand, Puducherry, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Lakshadweep, Assam, Manipur, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Ladakh (UT), Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-now-3rd-topmost-country-to-give-highest-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-us-and-uk-lead-948568.html
07-02-2021||National||Learning should be a continuous process, says President Kovind||Learning should be a continuous process and none should think that they have mastered everything, President Ram Nath Kovind said here on Sunday. Interacting with Yoga trainees and teachers of Satsang Foundation ashram of Sri M at Madanapalle, about 130 km from here, he said life is full of challenges and Yoga is useful to overcome them. "But one thing I always prefer to advise every human being. You take life as a school. If you keep on learning and everybody tries to learn... if anybody says I am absolutely confident and I have nothing to learn and I am a complete man, then that is awrong notion. If one carries on with this notion I think he is the most...I should not say," he said. Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, along with some of his cabinet colleagues, welcomed Kovind who landed in a chopper at around 11.55 AM at Madanapalle, a state government press release said. Kovind further said Yoga is helpful in countering personal and professional challenges in life. He interacted with trainees and inquired about their personal experiences of the Yoga classes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/learning-should-be-a-continuous-process-says-president-kovind-948569.html
07-02-2021||National||Have full faith in judiciary: Comedian Munawar Faruqui after release from jail||Stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui, who has been released from jail after 35 days in a case of allegedly hurting religious sentiments, has said he has full faith in the judiciary and hopes to get justice. Faruqui was released from the Indore Central Jail late Saturday night after prison authorities checked Friday's bail order of the Supreme Court on its website, a jail official earlier said. In a brief video message after he was set free, the 32-year-old comedian said, "I don't want to comment (on the case again him) now. But, I have full faith in the judiciary and I am hopeful of getting justice." Arrested for allegedly hurting religious sentiments, Faruqui was in jail since January 1. On Friday, the Supreme Court granted him interim bail after the Madhya Pradesh High Court rejected his bail plea on January 28. The apex court also stayed the production warrant issued against Faruqui by a court in Prayagraj in connection with an FIR lodged there. However, he was released late Saturday night only after a Chief Judicial Magistrate in Indore rang up the jail authorities and asked them to check the SC's website for the bail order. Media persons had gathered outside the jail after getting the news of his release, but according to some eyewitnesses, Faruqui walked out of the jail quietly, to avoid a backlash in the wake of accusations made against him. Faruqui and four others were arrested on January 1 following a complaint by a BJP MLA's son that objectionable remarks about Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah were passed during a comedy show at a cafe in Indore on New Year's Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-full-faith-in-judiciary-comedian-munawar-faruqui-after-release-from-jail-948572.html
07-02-2021||National||Obviously didn't know very much: S Jaishankar on international celebs' tweets supporting farmers' stir||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday said that that internatonal celebrities who had come out in support of the farmers' protests and tweeted in solidarity "obviously didn't know very much". "There was a reason why Foreign Ministry reacted to statements which some celebrities gave out on matters on which they obviously didn't know very much," Jaishankar told news agency ANI. Talking about the toolkit, the minister said, "It has revealed a lot. We've to wait & see what else comes out." Lending her support to the farmers' agitation, the teen activist had shared "a toolkit for those who want to help". "Here's a toolkit if you want to help," tweeted Thunberg, which takes the user to a document containing details on ways to support the protest. "The document 'toolkit' was aimed to spread disaffection and ill-will against the Government of India and creating disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups," a Delhi Police official had said. India had hit out at global celebrities such as singer Rihanna and Thunberg for their support of the farmers’ protests, the focus of a sharply polarised international debate that saw several Bollywood and cricket stars and top ministers rally around the government in its pushback.  "The temptation of sensationalist social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is neither accurate nor responsible," the Ministry of External Affairs had said in a curt statement. "We would like to emphasise that these protests must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity, and the efforts of the government and the concerned farmer groups to resolve the impasse," the statement said. Asserting that "before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken", the ministry said the "temptation of sensationalist" social media hashtags and comments, especially when resorted to by celebrities and others, is "neither accurate nor responsible". (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/obviously-didnt-know-very-much-s-jaishankar-on-international-celebs-tweets-supporting-farmers-stir-948574.html
07-02-2021||National||Himalayan glaciers melting twice as fast, 2019 study found||As a part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Sunday, leading to massive floods, a study published in 2019 had warned that Himalayan glaciers have been melting twice as fast since the start of this century due to climate change. The glacier collapse at Joshimath on Sunday led to a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and caused large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. The 2019 study, spanning 40 years of satellite observations across India, China, Nepal and Bhutan, indicates that climate change is eating the Himalayas' glaciers, the researchers said. The study, published in the journal Science Advances in June 2019, shows that glaciers have been losing the equivalent of more than a vertical foot and half of ice each year since 2000 -- double the amount of melting that took place from 1975 to 2000. "This is the clearest picture yet of how fast Himalayan glaciers are melting over this time interval, and why," said Joshua Maurer, a PhD candidate at Columbia University in the US. While not specifically calculated in the study, the glaciers may have lost as much as a quarter of their enormous mass over the last four decades, said Maurer, lead author of the study. The study synthesised data from across the region, stretching from early satellite observations to the present. The data indicates that the melting is consistent in time and space, and that rising temperatures are to blame, the researchers said. Temperatures vary from place to place, but from 2000 to 2016 they have averaged one degree Celsius higher than those from 1975 to 2000, they said. Researchers analysed repeat satellite images of some 650 glaciers spanning 2,000 kilometres from west to east. Many of the 20th-century observations came from declassified photographic images taken by the US spy satellites. They created an automated system to turn these into three dimensional (3D) models that could show the changing elevations of glaciers over time. The researchers then compared these images with post-2000 optical data from more sophisticated satellites, which more directly convey elevation changes. They found that from 1975 to 2000, glaciers across the region lost an average of about 0.25 metres of ice each year in the face of slight warming. Following a more pronounced warming trend starting in the 1990s, starting in 2000 the loss accelerated to about half a metre annually. Researchers noted that Asian nations are burning ever-greater loads of fossil fuels and biomass, sending soot into the sky, adding much of it eventually lands on snowy glacier surfaces, where it absorbs solar energy and hastens melting. They compiled temperature data during the study period from ground stations and then calculated the amount of melting that observed temperature increases would be expected to produce. The team then compared those figures with what actually happened. "It looks just like what we would expect if warming were the dominant driver of ice loss," Maurer said. The Himalayas are generally not melting as fast as the Alps, but the general progression is similar, the researchers said. The study did not include the huge adjoining ranges of high-mountain Asia such as the Pamir, Hindu Kush or Tian Shan, but other studies suggest similar melting is underway there as well. The researchers noted that some 800 million people depend in part on seasonal runoff from Himalayan glaciers for irrigation, hydropower and drinking water. The accelerated melting appears so far to be swelling runoff during warm seasons, but scientists project that this will taper off within decades as the glaciers lose mass. This, the researchers said, will eventually lead to water shortages. The study shows that "even glaciers in the highest mountains of the world are responding to global air temperature increases driven by the combustion of fossil fuels," said Joseph Shea, a glacial geographer at the University of Northern British Columbia in Canada, who was not involved in the study. "In the long term, this will lead to changes in the timing and magnitude of streamflow in a heavily populated region," said Shea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/himalayan-glaciers-melting-twice-as-fast-2019-study-found-948579.html
07-02-2021||National||This budget foundation stone for future India: Piyush Goyal||Union Minister Piyush Goyal Sunday termed this year's Budget the "foundation stone for the India of future" and hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for giving the country a "visionary budget". Speaking at the Delhi BJP office, the Minister of Commerce and Industry said the five Atmanirbhar Bharat packages announced over the course of several months last year and this budget can be compared with the finance minister "hitting a sixer" in cricketing terms. "This is a government that thinks of making India future-ready all the time. And this budget is the foundation stone for the India of future...If you look at the five Atmanirbhar Bharat packages and this budget, you can say the finance minister has hit a sixer in the form of this budget," said Goyal, who is also the Railway Minister. He said that the budget takes care of every section of the society without putting extra load on the taxpayer, and despite a resource-constraint and a possibility of reduced revenue till next year. "This budget was prepared with a foresight, a vision. And it takes care of every section of the society be it farmers, small businessmen, or the middle class. The finance minister has also managed to give impetus to the economy through this budget as well as prepared the country for the future," Goyal said. He added that India can become "atmanirbhar" (self-reliant) only when it moves forward with "atmavishwas" (self-confidence). "This is also a budget of self-confidence, a budget to make India self-reliant. With this budget, the nation is moving towards development through employment opportunities, encouraging entrepreneurship and startups. "he time is gone when the youth ran only after government jobs. With a new excitement in the young and startup companies, they are becoming job-creators and not job-seekers," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/this-budget-foundation-stone-for-future-india-piyush-goyal-948583.html
07-02-2021||National||PM Modi wants at least one technical institute and medical college in each state to teach in mother tongue||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday pitched for setting up at least one medical college and a technical institution in each state that will impart education in the native language. He was addressing a gathering after launching 'Assam Mala' scheme to upgrade state highways and laying the foundation for two medical colleges. "There is no dearth of talent in the villages and far-flung areas. I have a daring dream of each state having at least one medical college and a technical institution imparting education in the local language," he said, promising setting up such institutions in Assam after the assembly elections. He said this will improve medical services in remote areas as more and more doctors will be able to reach out to people in their mother tongue and understand their problems. The two medical college and hospitals will come up in Biswanath and Charaideo districts. In India, teaching and learning have largely been in a foreign language but that could change with the advent of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. "Taking inspiration from the National Education Policy, it will now be tried to teach all technical courses including medical, engineering in mother tongue," Modi had tweeted after the unveiling of the NEP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-wants-at-least-one-technical-institute-and-medical-college-in-each-state-to-teach-in-mother-tongue-948586.html
07-02-2021||National||Uddhav running a three-wheel autorickshaw in Maharashtra: Amit Shah||Describing the Maha Vikas Aghadi government as a “three-wheel autorickshaw”, Union Home Minister and BJP’s troubleshooter Amit Shah on Sunday said that no promise was made to Shiv Sena for the post of the chief minister. Shah accused Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray of compromising with the principles and ideals of his late father Balasaheb Thackeray. “In Maharashtra, a three-wheel autorickshaw government has come in place...one wheel runs towards the east, another west, another northwards while someone pulls it backwards,” Shah said referring to the tri-party alliance of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. “When the (Vidhan Sabha) elections were held...I was the BJP President and no promise of the post of Chief Minister was given to the Shiv Sena,” he said in presence to top BJP state leadership including Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis, his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar, state BJP President Chandrakant Patil and BJP Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane. “Now they (Shiv Sena) say that promise was made during a (closed door) meeting in a room.... I don’t do room politics...whatever I do, I do it openly,” Shah said. “There were posters of (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi....the elections were held under leadership of Modi ji and Devendra ji...there were rallies in which Uddhav ji was present when Modi ji was there or I was there....at no point of time they raised the issue (of chief ministership),” he said. Shah said that when Article 370 was abrogated from Jammu & Kashmir, the Shiv Sena welcomed it in whispers. “What was the fear,” he wanted to know. He also said that the grand temple of Lord Ram would be ready in just a couple of years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uddhav-running-a-three-wheel-autorickshaw-in-maharashtra-amit-shah-948590.html
07-02-2021||National||Nitish Kumar calls Uttarakhand CM to enquire about flood situation, offers support||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday called his Uttarakhand counterpart Trivendra Singh Rawat over phone and enquired about the flood situation in the northern state, an official release here said. He offered support to Rawat in this hour of crisis, the release said. A glacier broke off at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, leading to a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and causing large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. Earlier, Kumar prayed for the safety of people trapped in the northern state as well as those engaged in carrying out relief and rescue operations. "I pray for those who may be trapped, or are engaged in carrying out relief and rescue operations following the Uttarakhand disaster. The entire state of Bihar is with the people of Uttarakhand. Our officials are in touch with the Uttarakhand chief minister's office," Kumar tweeted in Hindi. Talking to reporters here, Kumar said, "I just got the information. I will seek more details about the incident. We need to remain alert here, too."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitish-kumar-calls-uttarakhand-cm-to-enquire-about-flood-situation-offers-support-948592.html
07-02-2021||National||Didi gets annoyed with ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ slogans: PM Modi in WB rally||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached Haldia in West Bengal on Sunday to address a BJP rally ahead of elections in the state. This is the Prime Minister's first rally in West Bengal. "In Bengal, if you ask didi (Mamata Banerjee) about your right then she gets frustrated. She even gets annoyed if slogans of 'Bharat Mata ki Jai' are raised," PM Modi said at the rally. PM Modi also accused the TMC govt in Bengal of blocking the Centre's schemes while questioning if the Mamata government had completed any developmental works.  "In the first year of Mamata Government, it became clear that what Bengal had got was not 'parivartan' but revival of left and that too with interest. Revival of left meant revival of corruption, crime, violence, and attacks on democracy," he said. PM Modi was earlier in poll-bound Assam where he addressed a gathering of mostly tea workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/didi-gets-annoyed-with-bharat-mata-ki-jai-slogans-pm-modi-in-wb-rally-948593.html
07-02-2021||National||Vaccine diplomacy: India seeks to rival China with broad shipments of shots||India has approved the shipment of Covid-19 vaccine to Cambodia and plans to supply Mongolia and Pacific Island states, officials said on Sunday, as supplies arrived in Afghanistan - all part of the country's widening vaccine diplomacy. Seeking to steal a march over rival Asian giant China, which has also promised to deliver shots, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has been giving nearby countries millions of doses of the locally made AstraZeneca PLC vaccine, even as its domestic immunisation programme has just begun. Modi is using India's strength as the world's biggest maker of vaccines for various diseases to improve regional ties and push back against China's political and economic dominance. New Delhi has approved 100,000 doses for Cambodia on an urgent basis following a request to Modi from Cambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen, India's envoy to Phnom Penh said. Cambodia is an important ally of China, which is expected to provide a million doses of Covid-19 vaccines, mainly developed by state firm Sinopharm. "The supply has been assured through the Serum Institute of India despite innumerable competing requests from partner countries and our commitment to our domestic population," said Ambassador Devyani Khobragade. India has given doses to Myanmar, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and the Maldives to help them get started with frontline workers as part of its Vaccine Friendship initiative. On Sunday it sent 500,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine to Afghanistan, the first to arrive in the war-ravaged country, which is still waiting for emergency approval from the World Health Organization to administer them. India has invested millions of dollars in Afghanistan over the years in an expansive effort seen as pushing back against arch rival Pakistan's influence in the country. "The vaccines are being provided on a grant basis," a government source said. So far, India had supplied 15.6 million doses of the vaccine to 17 countries either through donations or commercial contracts, said foreign ministry spokesman Anurag Srivastava. Consignments will be sent to Mongolia, Caribbean countries and Pacific Island states in the coming weeks, he said. "External supplies are an ongoing process, depending on availability and domestic requirement," he said. India, which has the world's second-highest caseload of coronavirus, plans to immunise 300 million people by August. It vaccinated about 3 million healthcare workers in the first two weeks of the campaign that began on Jan. 16 and will need to step up the pace to meet the summer target.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccine-diplomacy-india-seeks-to-rival-china-with-broad-shipments-of-shots-948614.html
07-02-2021||National||Under PM Modi, India effectively tackled Covid-19: Amit Shah||Under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership, India has tackled the COVID-19 pandemic effectively which the world considers as a "model", Union Home Minister Amit Shah said on Sunday. Everyone wondered how the country with a huge population and weak health infrastructure would tackle the pandemic, but "effective steps were taken at the right time", Shah said. He was speaking at the inauguration of a medical college at Kankavli in Maharashtra's Sindhudurgdistrict. Targeting the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA-comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) in Maharashtra, Shah claimed it is a"three-wheel autorickshaw government which has failed on all fronts". The Sena parted ways with long-term ally BJP after the Maharashtra Assembly polls in 2019 over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post in the state. Sena president Uddhav Thackeray had then claimed that the BJP went back on the promise of sharing the CM's post with his party for two-and-a-half years. Reacting to it, Shah, who was at that time president of the BJP, said, "I never give any assurances in closed rooms. Whatever I do, I do it openly."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/under-pm-modi-india-effectively-tackled-covid-19-amit-shah-948620.html
07-02-2021||National||Host farmers at your house like you treated Obama: Owaisi to PM Modi||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to invite protesting farmers to his residence like he had hosted then US president Barack Obama, and repeal the new farm laws. Addressing a rally for upcoming polls to local bodies in Gujarat, the Hyderabad MP also asked the prime minister to be "large-hearted" and "understand pains" of the farmers, who have been protesting at borders of Delhi over the last two months demanding scrapping of the agri marketing legislations. Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen is contesting maiden elections in Gujarat--in Ahmedabad and Bharuch-- in alliance with the Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP) "The way the farmers are being treated is not right. It is wrong. The Prime Minister should invite the farmers to his residence like he had offered tea to (then US President) Barack Obama with his own hand (in 2015), which is fine as he was our guest. We expect the PM to invite the farmers, offer them tea and biscuits and tell them the (agri marketing) laws are being repealed, and that they should be happy," Owaisi said. Owaisi said the PM should understand the plight of agriculturists who feed the country, if he claims to have risen from poverty. "When a poor person weeps out of helplessness, then nature tells us to help the poor, but those who have no sympathy for the poor, they remain unaffected by tears of the poor. We are with farmers, they are our'annadatas', they work hard to get us food," he said. Taking a dig, Owaisi said the massive protest by farmers has "disturbed sleep" of PM Modi. "They came out in thousands, shouted slogans, and took out a tractor rally in Delhi (on January 26). The BJP, with 300 MPs, is worried about how to tackle farmers," he said. With BTP leader Chhotu Vasava by his side, Owaisi made a strong pitch for the unity among tribals, Muslims, Dalits and OBCs in Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/host-farmers-at-your-house-like-you-treated-obama-owaisi-to-pm-modi-948621.html
07-02-2021||National||No provision in electoral law to punish officials not obeying EC directions: RTI||The Election Commission issues a number of directions to authorities during elections but it appears that its hands are tied when it comes to taking punitive action against those not complying with its instructions, as there are no specific provisions in electoral laws or its own instructions for dealing with such instances. The EC's response came in queries filed by DH through RTI in connection with the direction it gave to Delhi Police to issue a warning to Deputy Commissioner of Police Rajesh Deo, compliance report and the action taken by it in case the authorities did not comply with its instructions. Despite one year passing on, the EC said, it has not received a compliance report from Delhi Police though it had instructed it to submit it on February 6 last year. To the question on the provisions for punitive action for non-compliance of its direction by public authorities like police, it said in its response on February 5, "(there are) no such specific provisions in respect of public authorities are available in the electoral laws and Commission’s instructions." Deo landed in controversy after his comments during a press conference on February 4 last year, three days before the Assembly polls when he claimed that Kapil Baisala, who opened fire at the anti-CAA protest site in Shaheen Bagh , and his father had joined AAP in the early months of 2019. AAP had alleged the remarks were made at the behest of its rival BJP. Following this, the EC asked Delhi Police to issue a warning and communicate its displeasure on his conduct, not assign any poll related duty and sent a compliance report by February 6 last year. In its response to DH's RTI, the EC said it had not sent any reminder to the police on not receiving the compliance report in the stipulated date. It also appears that the EC has not closed the file as it said that "no such details are available in the record of the Commission", when asked for details if it has done so. On the letter written by Delhi Police seeking reconsideration of the EC's decision to issue a warning to Deo, the RTI response said, the matter is still under consideration. In its letter to Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of Delhi, which was forwarded to the EC, earlier accessed by Sharma through RTI, Special Commissioner (Intelligence) Praveer Ranjan claimed that Deo shared "only facts which had emerged during the investigation without any intention to affect or adversely impact any political party in the election". While Deo was in the Crime Branch when the incident took place, he was shifted out later. Last year, he also went on to win the Union Home Minister's Medal for Excellence in Investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-provision-in-electoral-law-to-punish-officials-not-obeying-ec-directions-rti-948627.html
07-02-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee never gets angry with conspirators against India: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday accused West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of being silent about those who are conspiring to defame India. He also said that even though the Chief Minister got annoyed with slogans of ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ but never with those who are conspiring against the country. “If you ask about your rights to Didi in Bengal, she gets annoyed and confused. She gets upset even if someone raises the slogan of Bharat Mata Ki Jai. But no matter how much venom is spewed by those speaking against the country, Didi does not get angry,” said Modi. Modi was speaking at a BJP rally at Haldia in East Medinipur district. “But have you heard Didi uttering a single sentence against such conspiracies against India? There are many whom the people gave opportunity to serve the country for decades. But even they are either silent or supporting these conspiracies,” the Prime Minister said. He further alleged that the conspirators were so eager that they were even thinking of attacking India’s reputation in tea and yoga. “I want to tell these conspirators that the country will give a befitting reply to these conspiracies with full force,” said Modi. Lashing out at the Trinamool Congress (TMC) the Prime Minister said that those who speak of “Maa, Mati, Manush” (Mother, Soil and the People) were now afraid to raise their voice for “Bharat Mata.” Accusing the TMC of committing many “fouls” against the people of Bengal with misrule, unleashing violence against opposition parties and looting the masses, Modi said that soon the people would show the party a “Ram card.” “The situation is changing in Bengal. You have disliked the ‘bua-bhatijabad’ (aunt-nephew rule) in the State. Even those in the TMC who hate the ‘bua-bhatijabad’ are now coming here (to the BJP),” said Modi. The Prime Minister alleged that the TMC, the Left and the Congress were in cahoots and were resorting to “political match fixing.” “Our fight is against the TMC. But be careful of their secret friends. Left, Congress and the TMC are secretly doing political match fixing. They hold secret closed door meetings in Delhi and chalk out their strategy...voting for Left and Congress in Bengal means falling for the conspiracy,” said Modi. He also said that the Left and the TMC “pretend to fight each other” in Bengal. He accused the TMC government of “stubbornly opposing” Central schemes such as the Ayushman Bharat and the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi to fill the pockets of TMC's own cadres. The Prime Minister said that the “double engine Government” was required in Bengal and “ashol poribartan” (real change) would be ushered in the State once the BJP comes to power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-never-gets-angry-with-conspirators-against-india-pm-modi-948641.html
07-02-2021||National||No 'ghar wapsi' till farmers' demands are met, says Tikait over protests against new agri laws||Asserting that the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws is a people’s movement that will not fail, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said there will be no "ghar wapsi" till protesting farmers' demands are met. Tikait lauded the role of "khap panchayats" (caste councils) and their leaders in supporting the farmers' stir. Addressing a "Kisan Mahapanchayat" near here, Tikait said the government should rollback the contentious farm laws, frame a new legislation to assure the continuation of the minimum support price (MSP) for crops and release the farmers arrested recently. "There will be no 'ghar wapsi' till farmers' demands are met," he said. "Yeh jan andolan hai, yeh fail nahi hoga (this is a people's movement, this will not fail)," he added. Tikait claimed the campaign against the agriculture laws is going strong. With many "khap" leaders present at the “mahapanchayat”, Tikait lauded their role in strengthening the stir. Independent MLA from Dadri and chief of the Sangwan Khap, Sombir Sangwan, who in December withdrew his support to the BJP-JJP government in Haryana, dubbing it “anti-farmer”, was present at the event. Earlier on February 3, Tikait had addressed his first “Kisan Mahapanchayat” in Haryana's Kandela in Jind. The BKU leader from Uttar Pradesh has been camping at Ghazipur on the Delhi-UP border as part of a campaign by farmer unions against the central laws enacted in September. Tikait said that “khaps” go back to the days of King Harshvardhana and have been playing their role in society ever since. The BKU leader said when the farmers' stir started, attempts were made to divide it by calling it the agitation of Punjab and Haryana. Seeking to project unity among farmer unions, Tikait said the "manch (stage) and panch (leaders leading the stir) will not change". The BKU leader, whose emotional appeal recently had revived the protest that was losing momentum after the January 26 violence in Delhi, said people from different section of society were leading and part of the stir. Cautioning the protesting farmers, Tikait said "Some people will try to divide you as Sikh, non-Sikh" but they should remain united. Tikait again praised BKU leader from Punjab, Balbir Singh Rajewal, who was present on the occasion, for providing a sound leadership to the stir. "Rajewal is our big leader, he is very wise. We will fight this battle strongly," he said. Tikait also made a mention of the tragedy caused by a glacier burst at Joshimath in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, leading to a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and causing large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. "A big tragedy has struck Uttarakhand. I appeal to the BKU family and other farmer organisations to lend a helping hand and assist the local administration," he said. He appealed to all to conserve water and plant trees to protect the environment. Meanwhile, taking a lesson from the Jind Mahapanchayat where the stage had collapsed, the organisers had brick-lined the stage this time. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November 2020 at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-ghar-wapsi-till-farmers-demands-are-met-says-tikait-over-protests-against-new-agri-laws-948646.html
07-02-2021||National||Uttarakhand flood: CM announces Rs 4L to kin of deceased||After major floods followed by a glacial burst devastated areas in Uttarakhand, CM T S Rawat announced a compensation of Rs 4 lakh each for the kin of the deceased. An avalanche following a glacial burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, on Sunday morning caused a massive flood and damaged two hydro-power projects on Rishiganga and Dhauliganga rivers trapping hundreds of workers at the projects and triggering alert in the districts along the Ganga river in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. According to the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, 10 bodies have been recovered and more than 100 are missing. The Indian Army, NDRF and state disaster forces were deployed for rescue operations. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-flood-cm-announces-rs-4l-to-kin-of-deceased-948647.html
07-02-2021||National||Deeply shocked: Mamata on Uttarakhand disaster||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said she was deeply shocked over the disaster that struck Uttarakhand after a glacier broke off, leading to a massive flood. Over 150 labourers working at a power project in the northern state are feared dead, officials said, adding, many villages were evacuated and people taken to safer areas. "Deeply shocked and very saddened at the loss of lives in the disaster that took place in Uttarakhand. My deepest condolences to the families of the deceased. Wishing a speedy and full recovery for those injured in the calamity," Banerjee said on Twitter. Several districts in Uttarakhand, including Pauri, Tehri, Rudraprayag, Haridwar and Dehradun havbe been put on high alert in the wake of the disaster.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deeply-shocked-mamata-on-uttarakhand-disaster-948654.html
07-02-2021||National||29 MPs move 200 amendments to President's address in Lok Sabha||Twenty-nine MPs from 11 parties, including Congress, Trinamool Congress and the Left, have submitted over 200 amendments in Lok Sabha to the President's Address with the farmers' issue and Covid-19 together accounting for around 30% of the amendments. Interestingly, 10 of the 29 MPs who submitted amendments were from Kerala. Altogether, 14 were from Congress. Around 30 of the 204 amendments submitted in Lok Sabha are related to "regretting" the omission of farmers' agitation, the violence at Red Fort during tractor rally on Republic Day, minimum support price and other issues in the President's Address. Another around 30 were related to Covid-19 management and migrant labourers' plight during the lockdown. There were also a number of amendments related to jobs, job-loss and unemployment as well as on MNREGA. The leakage of WhatsApp messages of journalist Arnab Goswami with former Broadcast Audience Research Council of India (BARC) CEO Partho Dasgupta also figured among the amendments. The manipulation of TRP ratings also found space in the list. From Congress, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Shashi Tharoor, Adoor Prakash, Hibi Eden and TN Prathapan were among the 14 MPs who submitted the amendments. Two each of CPI(M) MPs -- P R Natarajan and A M Ariff -- and CPI (K Subbarayan and M Selvaraj) and RSP's NK Premachandran also submitted amendments. MPs from Trinamool Congress (2 MPs), DMK (2), NCP (1), AAP (1), BSP (1) and Shiv Sena (1) also submitted amendments. One of the amendments submitted by Premachandran and Ariff said "regret that there is no mention in the Address about providing a solution to the issues of agitating farmers and the need to provide a special package for them and minimum support price on the agricultural products." Another by Congress' Adoor Prakash said, "but regret that there is no mention in the Address about countrywide agitation of farmers against the farm laws." Eden's amendment regretted that there is no mention of the widespread protests by farmers against the farm laws, alleged police atrocity on the farmers in Delhi and the "sad loss of life" of a protesting farmer. Besides those on farmers agitation and other issues, Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Chowdhury also submitted an amendment on the India-China border stand-off saying "but regret that there is no mention in the Address about the alleged occupation of more than 100 km of Indian territory land by China in the last two years". (||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/29-mps-move-200-amendments-to-presidents-address-in-lok-sabha-948655.html
07-02-2021||National||People expected 'mamta' from Mamata but got 'nirmamta': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Sunday slammed the Mamata Banerjee government for not implementing several central schemes in West Bengal, saying people expected her to show 'mamta' (affection) but got 'nirmamta' (cruelty). At his first public rally in the poll-bound state here, Modi tore into the TMC government, accusing it of "corruption and misgovernance", and said the ruling dispensation committed "several fouls" in the last 10 years because of which the people have decided to oust it from power. "Bengal expected 'mamta' (affection) from Mamata Banerjee but got 'nirmamta' (cruelty) in the last 10 years... The TMC government is just a rebirth of the misrule of the Left Front government in the state," he said. Mocking Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for getting angry over slogans of 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai', Modi wondered why she remained silent when conspiracies were hatched to malign the country. "She gets angry when she hears slogans hailing the motherland. She gets angry when you demand your rights. But she remains silent when conspiracies are hatched to malign the nation," he said. "There are some conspirators who're trying to destroy India's image associated with tea and yoga-- made famous by iconic Indians-- all across the world. Has Didi spoken anything about these conspirators? The country will respond to such conspiracies with all force at its command," he said. Accusing the TMC of criminalising politics, institutionalising corruption and politicising civil administration and police, he exuded confidence of forming the next government in West Bengal. "The people of Bengal have made up their mind to elect a BJP government in the next assembly polls. In the first cabinet meeting of the BJP government, a decision will be taken to implement all central schemes in the state," he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-expected-mamta-from-mamata-but-got-nirmamta-pm-modi-948656.html
07-02-2021||National||India cautious about US proposal for meeting of Quad leaders||India is cautiously studying a proposal from the new United States President Joe Biden’s administration for a virtual meeting of the leaders of the ‘Quad’ – a coalition the two nations have been building along with two other Indo-Pacific democracies, Japan and Australia, over the past few years to counter China. The Biden Administration has informally conveyed its proposal to New Delhi, Tokyo and Canberra. If the virtual meeting among Biden, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian and Japanese counterparts, Scott Morrison and Yoshihide Suga, happens, it will mark elevation of the hitherto informal coalition to the level of the leaders – a significant diplomatic move by the four democracies, which is sure to rile up China. The Modi government is likely to take a call after carefully studying the proposal – factoring in its implication on India’s relations with Russia as well as its negotiations with China to resolve the 10-month-long military stand-off along the disputed boundary between two nations in eastern Ladakh, a source in New Delhi told DH. The source also said that New Delhi would support or join any move to strengthen the ‘Quad’, only if it was consistent to its own vision of Indo-Pacific, which remained inclusive in nature, not targeted at any country, but supportive of freedom of navigation and overflight and peaceful settlement of territorial disputes, in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). India, US, Australia and Japan had first launched the 'quad' in 2007, but the initiative had fizzled out very soon. The four nations, however, re-launched the 'quad' in Manila in November 2017 – ostensibly to create a bulwark of democratic nations to counter expansionist moves of China in the Indo-Pacific region. The senior diplomats of the four nations had several meetings ever since the quad was re-launched. It was elevated to the level of Foreign Ministers when the then US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, hosted his counterparts from Japan, Australia and India on the side-line of the United Nations General Assembly in September 2019. Pompeo and the foreign ministers of the three other nations – S Jaishankar of India, Maris Payne of Australia and Toshimitsu Motegi of Japan – had another meeting in Tokyo on October 6 last year. The second ministerial meeting was held amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the growing belligerence of China, not only along its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India, but also in the disputed waters of South China Sea, East China Sea and the Taiwan Strait. But the Trump Administration’s move to formalize and expand the ‘Quad’ and turn it into a NATO-like bloc for the Indo-Pacific region did not succeed as not only India, but Australia and Japan too were not yet ready to go the whole hog and overtly gang up with the US against China. The source in New Delhi also told the DH that the Modi Government would like to have a clear understanding about the Biden Administration’s approach on the Indo-Pacific region, before responding to any US-led move to elevate the ‘Quad’. India over the past few years added a military heft to its partnerships with the members of the ‘Quad’, inking military logistics sharing pacts with the US, Australia and Japan. But it last year also broad-based its Indo-Pacific engagements with France and Germany, which remained outside the ‘Quad’. What also added to New Delhi’s dilemma over ‘Quad’ was Russia’s unease over India’s participation in the US-led move against China in Indo-Pacific.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-cautious-about-us-proposal-for-meeting-of-quad-leaders-948664.html
07-02-2021||National||Entire nation praying for Uttarakhand, relief work in full swing: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said relief work is in full progress in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, where a glacier burst, leading to a massive flood and causing large-scale devastation. Modi, while addressing a public rally here, said he is in constant touch with the chief minister of Uttarakhand, and is keeping track of the situation. "Today, we are at one end of Maa Ganga. But the state of Uttarakhand, which is the origin of Maa Ganga, is facing a disaster. I am in constant touch with the chief minister of Uttarakhand, the Union home minister and officials of the NDRF," he said. Rescue and relief efforts are underway and every attempt is being made to help the affected people, the prime minister said. Hailing the fighting spirit of the people of Uttarakhand, Modi said the entire nation is praying for them. A part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, resulting in a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river. Over 150 labourers working at a power project in the northern state are feared dead, officials said, adding, many villages were evacuated and people taken to safer areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/entire-nation-praying-for-uttarakhand-relief-work-in-full-swing-pm-modi-948669.html
07-02-2021||National||At Singhu border, Rakesh Tikait’s cutouts, posters and badges of farmers stir draw crowd||The demand for cutouts of Rakesh Tikait at Singhu border underlines the growing popularity of the farmer leader credited with reviving the farmers' movement against the Centre’s farm laws the following violence during a tractor rally on Republic Day. Roadside stalls selling badges, posters and other literature related to the farmers' stir are a common sight at the Singhu border. Wasim Ali, who has set up such a stall at the protest site, says hand-held cutouts of Tikait are a big hit among the crowd. "Each cutout of Tikait is priced at Rs 20. I have been selling the cutouts since the last few days as they are in high demand," he said. Around 700-800 such cutouts are sold every day, said Ali, a resident of Bawana in northwest Delhi. "I usually buy these cutouts from Sadar Bazar and sell them here. These are the most demanded items at my stall," he added. Tikait's image received a massive boost after he defiantly announced to continue the agitation, even as a large posse of Uttar Pradesh police personnel gathered at Ghazipur protest site after the Republic Day violence, with rumours rife that he might be arrested. A section of protesting farmers had entered Delhi and reached up to ITO and Red Fort in the heart of the national capital during their tractor rally on January 26. In clashes between police and farmers, scores were injured and property, including buses, were vandalised. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader was unwell when a large number of UP police personnel gathered at Ghazipur border where he had been camping for over two months in protest against the contentious farm laws. A cornered Tikait, however, addressed a huge crowd at the protest site, which has now become a focal point of the agitation, after his teary-eyed speech was beamed by news channels amid dwindled presence at Ghazipur border after the January 26 violent clashes. He had reaffirmed the resolve of the farmers, saying "they won't relent or retreat". Tikait's emotional appeal galvanised thousands of farmers from western UP as well as Punjab and Haryana, who took to road to join the agitation that had faced the threat of petering out in the wake of the January 26 episode.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-singhu-border-rakesh-tikait-s-cutouts-posters-and-badges-of-farmers-stir-draw-crowd-948691.html
07-02-2021||National||India set to fulfill 70% of world's Covid-19 vaccine needs, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said India is set to fulfil 70 per cent of the world's coronavirus vaccine needs and two vaccines are currently being exported to 14 countries. He said the Modi government has worked to upgrade the health infrastructure in the country in the last six-and-a-half years. Speaking at the inauguration of a private medical college, Shah also said that 55 lakh people in the country have been given Covid-19 vaccine in the last 21 days and the Centre is working to expedite vaccination process. "India is set to fulfill 70 per cent of the world's coronavirus vaccine needs. Two vaccines are being exported to 14 countries," he said. According to him, four more vaccines are in the pipeline. India's line of treatment during the pandemic is being followed by 170-odd countries in the world, he said. "The big difference in the fight against Covid-19 was that in India, the central government, the state governments, doctors, health workers and 130 crore people together handled the situation unlike other countries," Shah said. "Our (Covid-19) death rate is low and our recovery rate is the best," he said, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi prepared the country to handle the situation. "Through Janata Curfew, he prepared people for the lockdown," Shah said. During the pandemic, the health infrastructure was improved at a rocket-speed, the minister said. "World's largest vaccination programme was launched in India. Two vaccines have been rolled out and four more are in the pipeline," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-set-to-fulfill-70-of-worlds-covid-19-vaccine-needs-says-amit-shah-948696.html
07-02-2021||National||Tracing the Ganga's intricate waterweb||As the Ganga flows down from the Himalayas and snakes its way through the plains, its numerous tributaries intersect, flow into one another or meander away passing through several towns from five states. In Uttarakhand, the Ganga and its tributaries pass through important tourist places like Rishikesh, Hardiwar, Rudraprayag and Karnaprayag. On Sunday, as a portion of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off, that intricate lacing led to rippling flash floods in the Dhauli Ganga and the Rishi Ganga and also impacted the Alaknanda. This also brought spotlight on the 2013 flash floods in the hill states that wiped out settlements and killed over 5,000 people. Originating from Vasudhara Tal, perhaps the largest glacial lake in Uttarakhand, the Dhauli Ganga flows in a meandering course, which takes it through the Nanda Devi National Park. Dhauli Ganga is joined by Rishi Ganga river at Raini where the disaster at the power project dam took place. The river takes a V turn and continues to flow in the opposite direction, toward north, as Dhauli Ganga for another 30-odd kilometres, through Tapovan, until it is joined by Alaknanda river at Vishnuprayag near Joshimath. There it loses its identity and Alaknanda flows southwest -- through Chamoli, Maithana, Nandaprayag, Karnaprayag until it meets the Mandakini river, coming from the north at Rudraprayag. After subsuming Mandakini, the Alaknanda carries on past Srinagar, before joining the Ganges at Devprayag near Kedarnath. Alaknanda then disappears and the mighty Ganges carries on its pan-India journey, first flowing south then west through important pilgrimage centres such as Rishikesh and finally descending into the Indo-Gangetic plains at Haridwar. Still on a southern course, the Ganges goes past Bijnor when it loops back on an easterly course toward Kanpur. Yamuna, Ramganga and Ghaghara are other Himalayan rivers that join the Ganga. Dhauli Ganga is one of the important tributaries of Alaknanda, the other being the Nandakini, Pindar, Mandakini and Bhagirathi. The Himalayan rivers pass through environmentally fragile areas. However, like other Himalayan rivers, the Dhauli Ganga too has been dammed. Dhauli Ganga also has a power station of the National Hydropower Corporation Ltd of 280 MW at Pithoragarh in Uttarakhand. According to South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People, a think tank, under construction HEPs threaten about 50 per cent of the Dhauli Ganga's length.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tracing-the-gangas-intricate-waterweb-948709.html
07-02-2021||National||What can be bigger offer than suspending farm laws for 18 months?: Som Parkash||Union minister Som Parkash on Sunday said the government is ready for talks with the agitating farmers and asked whether there can be an offer bigger than suspending the contentious agriculture laws for 18 months. He said the government was making sincere efforts to resolve the issue. “The government is ready for talks,” Parkash said addressing a press conference here. “We offered to suspend the laws for one-and-half years and constitute a committee with farmers' representatives on these laws. What can be a bigger offer than this?” he added. His statement comes a day after protesting farmer unions said they were ready to resume talks with the government, but asked it to come up with a fresh proposal as the existing offer to put the three farm laws on hold for 12-18 months is not acceptable to them. Parkash, the Union minister of state for Commerce, was part of the three-member ministerial team which held several rounds of negotiations with the farmers’ leaders. Parkash, who is a Lok Sabha MP from Punjab's Hoshiarpur parliamentary constituency, said the farm legislations were passed by Parliament and a due process was followed. “The law is not framed by raising hands. There is a system in the country,” he added. The union minister said the government enacted the laws keeping in view the interest of the whole country. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. They have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. To a question on the upcoming municipal polls in Punjab, Parkash said the farmers' agitation should not be linked with the elections. The government had brought these laws in the interest of the farming community, he said. The minister slammed the ruling Congress in Punjab, accusing it of “orchestrating” the protest against the BJP leaders in the state. “The police is acting at the behest of the state government,” he alleged. A group of farmers in Hoshiarpur on Saturday had shouted slogans against the BJP outside a venue where party leaders, including Parkash, had come for a public meeting. Elections to the eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in the state will be held on February 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-can-be-bigger-offer-than-suspending-farm-laws-for-18-months-som-parkash-948711.html
07-02-2021||National||Almost recovered, will attend Parliament by March: Shripad Naik||Union AYUSH minister Shripad Naik on Sunday said he was "confident" he would attend the next session of Parliament starting in March as he had "almost recovered" from the injuries he received in a vehicle accident last month. In the accident, which took place in neighbouring Karnakata on January 12, Naik's wife and a close aide were killed. "I am confident I would be able to attend the next session of Parliament starting in March," Naik, Lok Sabha member from North Goa, told PTI from the hospital. "I have almost recovered. Only 25 per cent of recovery is left. I should be discharged within the next eight days. It was a miraculous recovery due to the blessings of God and efforts of the doctors at Goa Medical College and Hospital," Naik said. Naik said he was clearing work-related files from his hospital bed and sending reports required during the ongoing session of the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha. He added that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had reduced his workload post the accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/almost-recovered-will-attend-parliament-by-march-shripad-naik-948715.html
07-02-2021||National||Dhauli Ganga river's water level at Joshimath breached all records after glacial burst: CWC official||The water level of the Dhauli Ganga river at Joshimath flowed at a perilously high level, breaching all records, Central Water Commission officials said after a part of Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district leading to massive floods. The glacial burst triggered an avalanche and a deluge in the Alaknanda river system that washed away hydroelectric stations and trapped more than 100 labourers who are feared dead. The intensity of the river's flow in a short span of time was such that it engulfed whatever came in its way. This was a grim reminder of the Kedarnath deluge of 2013 which led to widespread devastation in the ecologically fragile Himalayan region. "At 11 am, the water level recorded at Joshimath was 1,388 metres," Saumitra Haldar, Chairman, Central Water Commission told PTI. During the 2013 Uttarakhand flash floods, the highest flood level (HFL) at Joshimath was 1,385.54 metres, he added. However, by 6 pm on Sunday, the water level of the river had reached the normal levels recorded a day before, said Rajesh Kumar, the superintendent engineer (Upper and Middle Ganga division) of the Central Water Commission (CWC). He said water levels have started receding. At Joshimath, which bore the fury of floods, the water level recorded at 1 PM on February 6 was 1,372.58 metres. At 6 PM on Sunday, hours after the disaster, the water level was 1,375 metres. In Nandprayag at the lower stretches of the river, the water level at 6 pm was 840.40 metres. A day before, it was 848.30 metres at 1 pm. Kumar said the situation was similar in Rudraprayag, Srinagar, Devprayag, Rishikesh and Devprayag. The water level at the Srinagar Hydroelectric Project was also at the Mean Draw Down Level which helped accommodate excess flow from the upper stretches. This will be released slowly, Halder added. The sudden flood in the middle of the day in the Dhauli Ganga, Rishi Ganga and Alaknanda rivers -- all intricately linked tributaries of the Ganga -- triggered widespread panic and large-scale devastation in the high mountain areas. Two power projects - NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project and the Rishi Ganga Hydel Project - were extensively damaged with scores of labourers trapped in tunnels as the waters came rushing in. Sixteen men were rescued safely from a tunnel in the Tapovan project but about 125 were still missing. As night fell in the ecologically fragile Himalayas and rescue work in the difficult to access areas became more difficult, there were fears they may be dead. Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said seven bodies were recovered and at least 125 were missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dhauli-ganga-rivers-water-level-at-joshimath-breached-all-records-after-glacial-burst-cwc-official-948717.html
07-02-2021||National||India managed to keep its Covid-19 losses to minimum: Javadekar||Despite its huge population, India has succeeded in keeping its "coronavirus-related losses to a minimum" compared to the US and other European countries, Union minister Prakash Javadekar said here on Sunday. Speaking after flagging off a vehicle campaign aimed at dispelling rumours about Covid-19 vaccines, the Information and Broadcasting Minister said more than 50 lakh healthcare and frontline workers have been inoculated since the vaccination drive began on January 16. This campaign will also spread awareness about the government's efforts towards achieving the aim of the "Aatmanirbhar Bharat". Apparently referring to Covid-19 fatalities in India, Javadekar said, "the whole world is a fighting coronavirus. However, even with its population of 130 crore, India has managed to keep its losses lesser than the USA, and other countries in Latin America and Europe". India's tally of Covid-19 cases rose to1,08,26,363 with 12,059 new infections being reported in a day, while the daily deaths fell below 100 for the third time this month, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The death toll increased to 1,54,996 with 78 daily new fatalities, the lowest recorded after nine months, the data updated at 8 am on Sunday showed. Javadekar said a "new phase of communication" has begun with the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination. "After inoculating healthcare and frontline workers, people above the age of 50 years will be vaccinated, and the entire population later," the Union minister said. Officials said this vehicle campaign intends to take the message of Covid-19 vaccination and the pandemic- appropriate behaviour to the last mile in Maharashtra. Artistes of the song and drama division of the I&B Ministry will spread the awareness through folk performances popular in respective regions of Maharashtra, they said. Under this campaign, 16 specially-fabricated vans will travel across 36 districts of the state. The drive has been designed and implemented by the Regional Outreach Bureau of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in collaboration with the World Health Organisation, UNICEF and the IEC Division of the Maharashtra health department. The vans will also display messages through LED screens. These vehicles will be live tracked through GPS, the officials said. Meanwhile, speaking with reporters on the Union Budget 2021-22, which was presented in parliament on February 1, Javadekar defended the proposed privatisation of public sector undertakings. "The privatisation will help to save tax-payers' money that is being spent on the loss-making companies. The Union government's stand is clear on divesting such entities," he said. The BJP leader said such a move on divestment was dubbed the "sale of an ornament" when the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government was in power, but that decision proved helpful ultimately. "Such PSU's are not ornaments," he added. When asked about Tesla's proposed entry in Karnataka and Maharashtra failing to attract the company, he said, "in a competition, one wins while another loses. "However, to attract such investment, states should have friendly relationships with foreign companies," he said. Javadekar said the Budget indicates the government's views on the Aatmanirbhar Bharat. "We have allocated funds for the infrastructure development, but did not levy any tax," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-managed-to-keep-its-covid-19-losses-to-minimum-javadekar-948718.html
07-02-2021||National||Over 58 lakh vaccinated against Covid-19 in India, health ministry says||The number of healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated against coronavirus crossed the 58 lakh-mark on the twenty-third day of the countrywide inoculation program, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. India is now the third topmost country with the highest doses of Covid-19 vaccine administered after the US and the UK, it said. The ministry said 12 states reported vaccination activity on Sunday--Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Manipur, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tripura and Uttarakhand. The cumulative number of healthcare workers and frontline workers vaccinated against Covid-19 is 58,03,617 till 6:40 pm on Sunday, as per the provisional report. A total of 1,16,478 sessions have been held so far, it said, adding that 1,295 sessions were held till 6:40 pm on Sunday. Out of the total cumulative coverage, 53,17,760 are healthcare workers and 4,85,857 frontline workers, the ministry said. "A total of 28,059 beneficiaries were vaccinated till 6:40 pm on Sunday. Of these, 12,978 were healthcare workers and 15,081 frontline workers,” it said, adding that final report will be completed by late in the night. No adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) have been reported till 6:40 pm on Sunday. The total 58,03,617 vaccinated beneficiaries include 3,79,042 from Bihar, 2,92,195 from Kerala, 3,88,476 from Karnataka, 3,42,016 from Madhya Pradesh, 4,73,480 from Maharashtra, 1,66,408 from Tamil Nadu, 1,09,589 from Delhi, 4,46,367 from Gujarat, 6,73,542 from Uttar Pradesh and 3,54,000 from West Bengal, according to the provisional report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-58-lakh-vaccinated-against-covid-19-in-india-health-ministry-says-948723.html
07-02-2021||National||Farm protests due to misunderstanding: Thawar Chand Gehlot||Union Minister Thawar Chand Gehlot on Sunday said the protests against the Centre's new farm laws were restricted to a "few places" and that too due to "misunderstanding". Several outfits have been protesting against the Centre's three agri marketing laws which they claim aims to give corporates a dominant position in the farm sector. "There are 36 states and Union territories in the country, but farmers are protesting in only a few places in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. These cultivators are protesting due to misunderstanding," the Union Social Justice and Empowerment minister told reporters here. Queried on former CM and senior party colleague Uma Bharti's decision to start an anti-liquor campaign on March 8, coinciding with International Women's Day, Gehlot said it was "praiseworthy" as the Centre and state government wanted people to shun alcohol. Asked about the recent furore over Indore Municipal Corporation staffers herding several homeless people into a truck to dump them in the city outskirts, Gehlot expressed satisfaction at the rehabilitation efforts taken by the MP government post the episode. Gehlot hailed the 2021-22 Union Budget and said his ministry had been allotted Rs 10,517.62 crore, a 28 per cent rise from last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-protests-due-to-misunderstanding-thawar-chand-gehlot-948728.html
07-02-2021||National||Sonia Gandhi urges all party workers, volunteers to help people of disaster-hit Uttarakhand||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday urged all party workers and volunteers to help the people hit by a massive glacier break-off in Uttarakhand's Joshimath in the relief and rescue efforts. In a statement, the Congress chief expressed concern over the news of glacier breaking off in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, triggering an avalanche and a deluge in the Alaknanda river system that washed away hydroelectric stations, leaving at least seven people dead and 125 missing who are feared dead. "I pray for the safety of all and request Congress workers and volunteers to help people and authorities in their relief and rescue efforts. The Indian National Congress stands with the people of Uttarakhand in this hour of tragedy and crisis," she said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi also said the flood disaster in Chamoli district due to the glacier bursting is very tragic and offered his condolences to the people of Uttarakhand. "The state government should provide immediate assistance to all the victims. Congress colleagues should also join hands in the relief work," he tweeted. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said she prays for all those who are stuck in the disaster. "I urge all Congress workers to help and provide all out support to the relief and rescue operations," she tweeted. A part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, leading to a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and causing large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. Two power projects - NTPC’s Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project and the Rishi Ganga Hydel Project - were extensively damaged with scores of labourers trapped in tunnels as the waters came rushing in. Sixteen men were rescued safely from a tunnel in the Tapovan project. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said seven bodies were recovered and at least 125 were missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sonia-gandhi-urges-all-party-workers-volunteers-to-help-people-of-disaster-hit-uttarakhand-948730.html
07-02-2021||National||Farmers' protest: Govt ready to resume talks, says Piyush Goyal||Union Minister Piyush Goyal on Sunday said the government is ready to resume talks with the farmers protesting the new farm laws but asserted that despite repeated proposals, the protesters have not come up with any "concrete suggestion" so far. Reiterating Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to farmer unions that the government was "just a phone away" to discuss any issues raised by them, Goyal said "but for that somebody at least has to make call so that we can move forward." "This government is sensitive towards farmers' issues. The PM and the government is ready to discuss it with them. The PM even said he was just a phone call away, but somebody at least has to call so that we can move forward," the minister said during a press conference here. He added that the farmers were being misled on a few issues and some people have been successful at confusing them. "We even proposed to make the laws stricter through change of wordings, we proposed to suspend the laws for 18 months. We keep reading in news 'tareekh par tareekh' (date after date) but it should be 'prastav par prastav' (proposal after proposal). But we are yet to hear a concrete suggestion from the farmers," said Goyal, who is also the minister of Railways and Commerce and Industry. The government has held 11 rounds of talks with farmer leaders, the last one being held on January 22 before the tractor parade on January 26 which ended in violent clashes between the police and the protestors. The minister also condemned the act of hoisting a religious flag at the Red Fort during the tractor parade on Republic Day, calling it "unfortunate", while insisting that the government was ready to move past that and find a solution through dialogue. He added that when the government brings a bill it is for the benefit of the people and if anyone has issues with it, they should bring it up instead of depriving others of it. "There are crores of farmers in India, these laws will benefit them, especially the small farmers. We have looked into how to improve their income. We understand these will only benefit the farmer, if you have issues we can discuss but why deprive the rest of them from its benefits," the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-govt-ready-to-resume-talks-says-piyush-goyal-948735.html
07-02-2021||National||More than 58 lakh healthcare, frontline workers vaccinated against COVID-19 across India: Govt||The number of healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated against coronavirus crossed the 58 lakh-mark on the twenty third day of the countrywide inoculation program, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. India is now the third topmost country with the highest doses of Covid-19 vaccine administered after the US and the UK, it said. The ministry said 12 states reported vaccination activity on Sunday--Assam, Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Manipur, Odisha, Rajasthan, Tripura and Uttarakhand. The cumulative number of healthcare workers and frontline workers vaccinated against Covid-19 is 58,03,617 till 6:40 pm on Sunday, as per the provisional report. A total of 1,16,478 sessions have been held so far, it said, adding that 1,295 sessions were held till 6:40 pm on Sunday. Out of the total cumulative coverage, 53,17,760 are healthcare workers and 4,85,857 frontline workers, the ministry said. "A total of 28,059 beneficiaries were vaccinated till 6:40 pm on Sunday. Of these, 12,978 were healthcare workers and 15,081 frontline workers,” it said, adding that final report will be completed by late in the night. No adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) have been reported till 6:40 pm on Sunday. The total 58,03,617 vaccinated beneficiaries include 3,79,042 from Bihar, 2,92,195 from Kerala, 3,88,476 from Karnataka, 3,42,016 from Madhya Pradesh, 4,73,480 from Maharashtra, 1,66,408 from Tamil Nadu, 1,09,589 from Delhi, 4,46,367 from Gujarat, 6,73,542 from Uttar Pradesh and 3,54,000 from West Bengal, according to the provisional report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-58-lakh-healthcare-frontline-workers-vaccinated-against-covid-19-across-india-govt-948738.html
07-02-2021||National||Rajya Sabha saw 82% productivity in first week of Budget Session||Lok Sabha may have been hit by disruptions over Opposition demand for a separate discussion on farmers' issues but the Rajya Sabha in the first week of Budget Session has clocked a productivity of 82.1%. Against a total scheduled sitting time of 20:34 hours, the Upper House lost 4:14 minutes to disruption by Opposition members on February 2 and brief adjournment the next day. However, MPs sat for an extra 33 minutes beyond the business hours, especially on February 5 to conclude the debate on the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address in which 50 MPs from 25 parties had participated in the debate in Rajya Sabha. The government is scheduled to reply on Monday 10:30 am after the House takes up Zero Hour and Question Hour, which has been suspended between February 3 and 5 to enable 15-hour discussion on the Motion of Thanks. Last week, eight Zero Hour and seven Special Mentions were made. Discussion on the General Budget for 2021-21 will be taken up next week for which 10 hours have been allotted. On Monday, the government has also listed the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, seeking to replace an Ordinance aimed at merging JK cadre with AGMUT cadre, for passage after the reply to the motion of thanks. It is to be seen whether the Opposition would press for voting on any of the 118 amendments it has submitted. Between February 2 and 5, the Lok Sabha has functioned for 158 minutes only as Congress-led Opposition staged protests demanding a separate discussion on farmers' agitation and related issues. On February 1 when the Budget was presented by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Lok Sabha met for 113 minutes. The Opposition in Lok Sabha did not want to club the discussion on farmers with the debate on Motion of Thanks and it resulted in a stalemate. BJP MP Locket Chatterjee moved the motion of thanks in the Lower House but could not start her speech. However, the Opposition in Rajya Sabha took a divergent view and allowed the debate on motion of thanks after the government agreed to increase the debate time from 10 hours to 15 hours. Even Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and Chief Whip Kodikkunnil Suresh agreed to the debate on motion of thanks after the government proposed increasing the discussion time but Congress MPs were up in arms against. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi was also said to be not in agreement with going ahead with the motion of thanks without a separate discussion on farmers issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-saw-82-productivity-in-first-week-of-budget-session-948742.html
07-02-2021||National||Afghanistan thanks India for sending 5 lakh coronavirus vaccine doses||Afghanistan on Sunday thanked India for providing 5,00,000 doses of the coronavirus vaccine to the war-ravaged nation and described the assistance as a clear sign of "generosity and commitment" towards the strong partnership between the two countries. India sent the vaccine doses to the people of Afghanistan as a gift, officials said. In a tweet, Afghan Foreign Minister Mohammed Haneef Atmar expressed his "profound gratitude" to the government and people of India as well as his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar for sending the consignment and helping Afghanistan in checking the spread of the pandemic. Atmar described India's assistance as a "clear sign of generosity, commitment and strong partnership". The consignment of the vaccine doses was received by Afghanistan's acting Minister of Public Health Waheed Majroh from Charge d'Affaires of the Indian embassy in Kabul Raghuram S. The vaccines arrived in Kabul by an Air India flight. India is the first responder to deliver Covid-19 vaccines to Afghanistan, according to the Indian embassy in Kabul. India had earlier gifted more than 20 metric tonnes of medicines to Afghanistan as part of assistance to help the country deal with the pandemic. Last week, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said India had sent 56 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccines under grants assistance to a number of countries while 100 lakh doses were sent under commercial supplies. In a major announcement, India had on January 19 said it will send Covid-19 vaccines under grant assistance to several countries including Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar, Seychelles, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Mauritius. India is one of the world's biggest drugmakers, and an increasing number of countries have already approached it for procuring coronavirus vaccines||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghanistan-thanks-india-for-sending-5-lakh-coronavirus-vaccine-doses-948745.html
07-02-2021||National||No grand welcome for Sasikala till she reaches Tamil Nadu border||V K Sasikala, a close aide of former Tamil Nadu chief minister the late Jayalalithaa, will leave for Chennai from a private resort near Devanahalli here in the early hours of Monday. Hundreds of supporters of Sasikala have descended on Kodagurki village in Devanahalli taluk of Bengaluru Rural district to welcome their leader back to Tamil Nadu. While the supporters of Sasikala from Tamil Nadu are rejoicing over the arrival of Sasikala, the Bengaluru police have prohibited elaborate receptions till she reaches the inter-state border, citing Covid rules and law and order issues. The Bengaluru Rural and Bengaluru city police have refused to permit any rally by the supporters. “We have been informed that Sasikala will leave at around 7.30 am on Monday. We have told the supporters that they should not stop the vehicle in which she will be travelling anywhere till the border with Tamil Nadu. No permission has been given to conduct any rally or procession,” said a senior police officer from Bengaluru Rural. Vehicles without numbers With every vehicle bearing Tamil Nadu registration being monitored at the Karnataka border, several supporters of Sasikala arrived at Kodagurki in vehicles with no registration numbers, as they may not be allowed near the resort. Sources in Bengaluru Rural police said about 300 supporters have reached the resort and are waiting outside in groups. A few priests had also turned up there in the morning, carrying prasadam, following special poojas at temples in Srirangapatna, Trichy and Srivilliputhur.  Row over Tamil posters Sasikala’s supporters from Tamil Nadu had put up posters and banners wishing her in Tamil, outside the resort. However, the Tamil banners angered the pro-Kannada organisations, which removed them, triggering tension in the area. The local police intervened and prevented the groups from clashing with each other. The posters had pictures of Sasikala, Jayalalithaa and MGR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-grand-welcome-for-sasikala-till-she-reaches-tamil-nadu-border-948757.html
07-02-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi only leader who can take on mantle of Congress presidentship: Bhupesh Baghel||Rahul Gandhi is the only leader who can take on the mantle of the Congress presidentship as he is the one who has been taking a strong stand on important issues without bowing to government's pressure, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has said, amid a growing chorus within the party seeking Gandhi's return to the helm. Within a span of one week, two state units of the Congress have passed resolutions backing Gandhi's return as party chief. While Delhi Congress had passed a resolution requesting Gandhi to take over as chief last Sunday, the Chhattisgarh Pradesh Congress Committee (CPCC) on Saturday unanimously passed a resolution moved by Baghel to re-appoint the Wayanad MP as the party president. "All Congress persons are standing resolutely with Rahul Gandhi and believe that under his leadership, the Congress organisation will be constantly strengthened. Under Rahul Gandhi's leadership, a confidence has been kindled among Congress workers that under his leadership and guidance, they will strengthen the party's foundation," the resolution passed by the CPCC said. In an interview with PTI, Baghel said Gandhi enjoys the confidence of one and all in the party and holds the party together. Asked if Rahul Gandhi was best suited to take on party presidentship, he said, "Who else is there. Apart from Rahul Gandhi, is there any leader who is touring the country, who is recognized by the Congress workers across the country?" Gandhi is speaking out on all issues, be it demonetisation, GST, or COVID-19, he made his stand clear, the Chhattisgarh chief minister said. "He also took a clear cut stand in favour of farmers. So, he is the only leader who is taking a clear cut stand (on important issues), is putting forth his views forcefully, not bowing before the government's pressure," Baghel said. Asked if Gandhi should become president through elections or should he be appointed chief without the electoral process as a unanimous choice, he said whatever the All India Congress Committee (AICC) and the Congress Working Committee (CWC) decide would be followed. Everything should be done according to the Constitution of the party, he added. "Definitely, Rahul Gandhi is the only leader who can take on the mantle of national presidentship of the party," Baghel asserted. On whether elections to the CWC should also be held along with the polls of party president, Baghel said the matter had been discussed and there was no controversy as whatever is in the Constitution of the party will be followed. "The party traditions will be followed. We have a constitution and traditions are also there which will be followed," he said. The Congress last month announced that the party will have an elected president by June 2021 "at any cost". After a three-and-a-half-hour meeting, which was stormy at times, the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party's highest policy making body, had authorised incumbent chief Sonia Gandhi to schedule the internal elections after the conclusion of assembly polls in five states due to be held in April-May. Congress leaders K C Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala had said that the CWC elections will also be held but it remains to be seen whether they can be scheduled before or after the election to the post of Congress president. Sonia Gandhi took over as interim Congress president after Rahul Gandhi resigned in the wake of the party's Lok Sabha debacle in May 2019. Baghel, who was recently made a senior observer for the upcoming Assam assembly polls by the party for overseeing the election campaign management and coordination, slammed the BJP for targeting the Congress' alliance with All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in the state. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had kickstarted BJP's campaign for the state election in Assam last month, alleging that the Congress-AIUDF combine will open "all gates" to welcome infiltrators if it comes to power in Assam. Hitting out at the BJP, Baghel said, "It is unfortunate that the BJP indulges in politics of fear. They never talk about their achievements. There is an alliance of six parties, but they are talking about one party (AIUDF)." "If you (BJP) are talking about Assam. You were in power for five years, how many promises you fulfilled. What happened about the major promises," he asked. The BJP always spreads fear, sometimes of Pakistan, sometimes of China and at other times of Hindu-Muslim, Baghel alleged. "They (BJP) scare people and threaten them. They are getting people to crossover to their party by scaring and threatening them. After going into the party, what is the state of the leaders, be it (Jyotiraditya) Scindia or Himanta Biswa Sarma," Baghel said. Asserting that the Congress' electoral prospects in Assam are very good, Baghel said the main issues in the polls would be the BJP government's failure in Assam and the achievements of the Congress government which was in power for 15 years in the state. He said the Congress alliance will soon come up with a common minimum programme and a coordination committee will be set up, he said. The election to the 126-member Assam Assembly is likely in March-April. The Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) has announced that it will contest the forthcoming state polls in alliance with five parties -- AIUDF, the CPI, CPI(M), CPI(ML) and the Anchalik Gana Morcha -- to oust the ruling BJP from power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-only-leader-who-can-take-on-mantle-of-congress-presidentship-bhupesh-baghel-948557.html
07-02-2021||National Politics||Congress workers show black flags to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Mumbai visit||Congress workers showed black flags to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman here on Sunday to protest against the 2021-22 Union Budget and the increasing fuel prices. However, the police stopped the protesters from reaching near the venue of her visit here, a police official said. As the Union minister reached Yogi Sabha Grah in Dadar area for an interaction in the backdrop of the Union Budget presented by her last week, around 400 to 500 Congress workers started shouting slogans against her, the official said. They also raised slogans in praise of their party leader Rahul Gandhi. The protesters had started assembling outside the Dadar railway station since early morning, the official said. They shouted slogans against the Union Budget and the increasing prises of essential commodities like petrol, diesel, cooking gas cylinders as well as railway fares. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone 4) Vijay Patil said, "The protest took place peacefully. No untoward incident was reported. No one has been detained and no FIR has been registered." Mumbai Mahila Congress general secretary (administration) Sana Qureshi claimed that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the general public and the poor people are facing job losses. "Now, the increasing prices of essential commodities will break the back of the common man. The budget has not offered any relief to the common man," she said. Hence, the Congress workers staged a protest against the increasing prices of petrol, diesel and LPG, she added. Another party functionary said they are not happy with the Union Budget, hence they showed black flags to the Union finance minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-workers-show-black-flags-to-finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-on-mumbai-visit-948559.html
07-02-2021||National Politics||Sugarcane, flowers and potatoes: With love, from farmers!||Land plots filled with wild grasses near Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu protest sites have been converted into well-curated nurseries with a variety of flowers like marigold and rose. The protesting farmers have also sowed seeds for potatoes and sugarcanes in the nurseries surrounded by concertina wires that came up as part of stringent security installation at the agitation sites to hinder the protestors' movement to Delhi. “Our motivation is simple. The government had fixed iron nails. But we are planting flowers, fruits and crops. We are farmers, this is what we do,” Ramraji, who hails from Jind in Haryana, said at UP Gate (Ghazipur). The 54-year-old farmer is among the several who are now curating the nurseries for which seeds and saplings are being sourced from nearby nurseries in Ghaziabad. Another protestor volunteering for the work said the nursery has flowers like rose and marigold besides varieties of plants like palm, pine and others set in planters. “We had also planted flowers next to the iron nails fixed near the barricading by police. We give flowers and crops in exchange for nails,” he said. Farmers from Dhurana village in Sonipat planted flowers at Singhu border protest site. Satyanaryan, 74, said his group even brought soil from their village to plant the flower saplings. "It is our message to the government that we will spread love even if it uses force to suppress us," he said. A farmer leader from Haryana, Suresh Koth, said, "Sarkar kaante bo rahi hai, ham phool laga rahe hain." Meanwhile, a commotion ensued at the protest site after a small snake was spotted in the freshly dug-up soil brought for preparing plant bed. One of the farmers killed the snake with a spade as it tried to wriggle out to safety from the crowd. Some of the farmers tried to stop the man from hitting the snake, but it was too late. Thousands of farmers have dug their heels in at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu at Delhi's outskirts since November last with a demand that the Centre repeal the three new contentious agri-marketing laws and ensure legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) of crops. The Centre, which has held 11 rounds of formal talks with the protesting farmer unions, has maintained the laws are pro-farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sugarcane-flowers-and-potatoes-with-love-from-farmers-948650.html
07-02-2021||National Politics||Tigress gives birth to five cubs in Madhya Pradesh's Pench reserve||A 10-year-old tigress has given birth to five cubs in Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR) of Madhya Pradesh, an official said on Sunday. With this, tigress 'T-4', known as Paddev, has so far given birth to 15 cubs in four litters, he said. "The tigress was spotted with five cubs in the PTR on Sunday morning. These new-born cubs are about two-month-old and one of them looks weak," its field director Vikram Singh Parihar said. On Saturday, tourists had spotted the tigress with a cub crossing a road in Baghin Nullah area near Turia Gate in the reserve, he said. Parihar said that the forest department personnel are constantly monitoring the newborn cubs and their mother. "The 10-year-old tigress has so far has given birth to 15 cubs in the four litters," he said. Tigress T-4 was born to 'Collarwali', a highly fertile big cat in PTR, who earned the tag of supermom for giving birth to 29 cubs. Collarwali is now 15 years old. The PTR was jointly adjudged as the best-managed national park along with the Periyar Reserve of Kerala in the All India Tiger Estimation Report 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tigress-gives-birth-to-five-cubs-in-madhya-pradeshs-pench-reserve-948661.html
07-02-2021||National Politics||PM, Rajnath Singh, Nitin Gadkari should hold talks with farmer, says NCP chief Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and senior Union ministers like Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari should hold talks with farmers' unions to resolve the deadlock over the ongoing protest against the three new agriculture laws. He said differences regarding the implementation of agriculture reforms can be resolved through deliberations. Pawar was speaking to reporters in Baramati, his hometown in Pune district. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi and senior ministers like Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari should hold talks with farmers' organisations," he said. "Piyush Goyal is from Mumbai and I don't know how much he knows about agriculture," he said. Goyal and a few other union ministers have been holding talks with the farmer representatives to break the impasse. Pawar said agriculture was a state subject and laws should be enacted after consultations with the state governments. "There can be differences over implementation of agriculture reforms, which can be resolved through deliberations," the former Union agriculture minister said. According to him, laws for agriculture reforms were being discussed since 2003 when Vajpayee was the prime minister. "In my time, discussions used to take place with the state governments since agriculture is a state subject. A committee of agriculture ministers of nine states was formed to study and prepare a draft law, which was headed by the then Maharashtra minister Harshvardhan Patil. "The draft was prepared and states were asked to discuss it. But the present government has prepared its own law and got it passed in the Parliament amid chaos and without discussion," he said. "There was no consultation and the states were not taken into confidence. Agriculture reforms have to be done when required. Differences if any can be resolved through talks," he said. When asked about BJP leader Narayan Rane's remark that Union Home Minister Amit Shah's visit to Sindhudurg on Sunday would be a good omen to pave the way for fall of the MVA government in the state, Pawar said, "Rane is an old colleague and I didn't know that he cracks such jokes. His remarks should be seen as a political joke and nothing more than that."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-rajnath-singh-nitin-gadkari-should-hold-talks-with-farmer-says-ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-948705.html
07-02-2021||National Politics||I was against projects on Ganga, its tributaries as minister, says Uma Bharti||BJP leader Uma Bharti Sunday said the Uttarakhand flood tragedy triggered by a glacier burst is a matter of concern as well as a warning, and added that as a minister she had spoken against having any power project on the Ganga and its major tributaries. Bharti was the minister of water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation during the first term of the Modi government. In a series of tweets in Hindi, she said the glacier breaking off had damaged a power project, triggering the massive crisis. This tragedy that has happened in Rishi Ganga in the Himalayas is a matter of concerns as well as a warning, she said. "When I was a minister, my ministry in its affidavit about the dams in Uttarakhand in the Himalayas had requested that it is a very sensitive region, and, therefore, power projects should not be built on the Ganges and its main tributaries," she said. She said the electricity shortfall caused by that decision could have been met by national greed. Bharti said she was in Uttarkashi on Saturday and is now in Haridwar. A part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, leading to a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and causing large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. Over 150 labourers working at a power project in Tapovan-Reni are feared dead, an Indo Tibetan Border Police spokesperson said while quoting the project-in charge. Three bodies were recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/i-was-against-projects-on-ganga-its-tributaries-as-minister-says-uma-bharti-948714.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Ghaziabad, Noida incident-free during chakka jam: Cops||Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddh Nagar, the two Uttar Pradesh districts adjoining Delhi and Haryana, remained incident-free during the chakka jam that was called by farmers amid the ongoing stir against new agri laws, officials said Saturday. Farmer unions had called for the chakka jam (road blockade as a form of a protest) from 12 pm till 3 pm in the entire country except for Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. Although Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddh Nagar fall in UP, security deployment in both the districts was high and the police on alert in the wake of the January 26 violence in Delhi which had led to injuries to hundreds of people, including security personnel, and death of one farmer. Superintendent of Police Ghaziabad (Rural) Iraj Raja said there was no incident related to the chakka jam in the rural parts of the district. “The situation was normal and peaceful in the city as well,” SP (City 1) Nipun Agarwal told PTI. Noida Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Ranvijay Singh said the police was alert and security deployment beefed up in view of the chakka jam call but the situation was normal in Noida. Greater Noida Additional DCP Vishal Pandey said not a single protest-related incident was reported in Greater Noida, which shares a border with Haryana. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Kisan Union's Ghaziabad unit submitted a memorandum of their demands addressed to the prime minister to the Additional District Magistrate of Ghaziabad. BKU's district unit chief Brijendra Singh said the memorandum states the farmers' demands including diesel prices be reduced, power bills be waived and sugarcane dues be cleared without delay. BKU's Bhanu unit met administration officials at the Dasna flyover and submitted a memorandum of demands including life insurance cover to farmers. The group also tried to blockade the road at Dasna but their attempt was thwarted by the police, according to officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ghaziabad-noida-incident-free-during-chakka-jam-cops-948443.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Rakesh Tikait calls on farmers for 'tractor revolution'||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait on Saturday called on peasants across the country to join the “tractor revolution” as part of the ongoing protests at Delhi's borders against the new agri laws introduced by the Centre. During a speech to supporters at the Ghazipur protest site, Tikait reached out to the farming community, many of whom especially in the Delhi-NCR region have been upset over the National Green Tribunal's ban on diesel vehicles, including tractors, that are over 10 years old. “The tractors which run in the farms will now run at the NGT's office in Delhi also. Until recently, they had not asked which vehicles are 10 years old. What is their plan? Phase-out tractors older than 10 years and help the corporates? But the tractors older than 10 years will also run and the movement (for the repeal of the new farm laws) will also be strengthened,” Tikait, 51, told the crowd amid cheers. He said that more and more farmers across the country will participate in the ongoing farmers' stir for a rollback of the contentious laws. Recently, 20,000 tractors were in Delhi and the next target is taking that number to 40 lakh, Tikait said. He also called on tractor owners to attach their vehicles with the 'tractor kraanti' (tractor revolution). “Write 'Tractor Kranti 2021, 26 January' on your tractors. Wherever you will go, you will be respected. We have a target of 40 lakh tractors,” he said. The Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader, whose emotional appeal recently had revived the protest that was losing momentum post the January 26 violence in Delhi, also called on villagers to bring a fistful of soil from their farmlands to the agitation sites and take back a similar amount of 'mitti' of the revolution from the protest sites. “Go and spread this revolutionary soil in your farmlands and never will traders look at your farmlands (to usurp it),” Tikait said. Exhorting supporters to keep the momentum going, he asked them to be prepared to reach protest sites as the agitation at Ghazipur, Tikri and Singhu border points of Delhi could go on till October. “Be prepared at villages, whenever a call is made, reach the protest the way the youth (from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh) has done (after the January 26 episode),” he said. Ghazipur has earlier witnessed the influence of Tikait over the farmers' community in north India when hundreds of people, including women and children, from villages in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand reached here with water and home-made food on the BKU leader's call. Tikait had made a call for water and food from villages following disruptions in the water supply at the protest site by local authorities in the wake of the January 26 violence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rakesh-tikait-calls-on-farmers-for-tractor-revolution-948444.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||After Supreme Court's intervention, stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui released from Indore central jail||Stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui walked out of Indore central jail late on Saturday night, a day after the Supreme Court granted him bail in a case for allegedly hurting religious sentiments. Faruqui was released from the jail after the prison authorities received the order of the Supreme Court, an official of the jail said. Arrested for allegedly hurting religious sentiments, Faruqui was in Indore jail since January 1. On Friday, the Supreme Court granted him interim bail after the Madhya Pradesh High Court had rejected his bail plea on January 28.  The Apex court also stayed the production warrant issued against Faruqui by a court in Prayagraj in connection with an FIR lodged there. Eyewitnesses said that the comedian walked out of the jail silently and quietly possibly to avoid a backlash in the wake of accusations made against him. Mediapersons also flocked outside the jail after getting the news of his release. Sometime before his release, an official of the Indore central jail, had said that a court in Prayagraj had ordered Faruqui's production in a similar case on February 18. Citing the jail manual, he said that an order from the Prayagraj court or a competent government officer, was needed to release him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-supreme-courts-intervention-stand-up-comedian-munawar-faruqui-released-from-indore-central-jail-948470.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Over 20 shanties gutted in fire in Delhi's Okhla Phase II||More than 20 shanties were gutted after a fire broke out near Harikesh Nagar Metro Station in southeast Delhi's Okhla Phase II in the early hours of Sunday, police said. No injuries were reported, they said, adding the cause of the fire is being ascertained. The blaze broke out in a katran (waste cloth cutting) and later spread to the shanties following which approximately 20-22 shanties were gutted. A truck present at the spot also caught fire, a senior police officer said. According to Delhi Fire Service, a call about the fire was received at 2:23 am following which seven fire tenders were initially rushed to the spot.   In total, 26 fire tenders were deployed and the blaze was brought under control, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-20-shanties-gutted-in-fire-in-delhis-okhla-phase-ii-948491.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Free coaching classes for competitive exams in Uttar Pradesh from February 16||Extending assistance to the youth appearing in competitive exams, the Uttar Pradesh government will set up coaching centres that will offer free classes to aspiring students in the state from February 16, an official spokesman said here. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has decided to set up 'Abhyudaya' coaching centres for aspiring candidates preparing to qualify the NEET, JEE (Mains and Advanced), CDS, NDA, UPSC and all other competitive exams. The free coaching facility will provide great support to the poor and deprived students whose guidance will be taken care of by the state government, the spokesman said on Saturday. The coaching institutes will start functioning from Basant Panchami on February 16 and registration for classes will commence on February 10, he added. The 'Abhyudaya' coaching centres will be set up at the divisional level in the first phase and to be followed up at the district level in the next phase. The coaching will also involve the provision of direct counselling by senior IAS, IPS and PCS officers for the aspirants. In case of examinations like the NDA and CDS, thorough training will be given by principals of Sainik Schools in UP. Along with this, there will be separate classes for NEET and JEE exams. All the lectures and complete study material covering the entire syllabus of various examinations will also be made available online. There will be doubt solving sessions to help the candidates to choose the best field for them and it will be accompanied by discussions with experts as guest lecturers. The guest lecturers will help them with quick preparation and techniques to write crisp answers in the exam, the spokesman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/free-coaching-classes-for-competitive-exams-in-uttar-pradesh-from-february-16-948497.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Two brothers with rare disease move Delhi High Court for direction to Centre, AIIMS to give free treatment||Two minor brothers suffering from a rare disease have approached the Delhi High Court seeking direction to the Centre and AIIMS to provide them uninterrupted treatment free of cost. The two children, who are two and three years old respectively, are suffering from Mucopolysaccharidosis II or MPS II (Hunter Syndrome, Attenuated Type) which is a rare disease that is passed on in families. It mainly affects boys and their bodies cannot break down a kind of sugar that builds bones, skin, tendons and other tissues. Justice Prathiba M Singh, before whom the matter came up for hearing, directed the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to obtain instructions on how the two children will be provided with the treatment. The court listed the matter for further hearing on February 19 along with various other pleas filed on behalf of several children suffering from other rare diseases. The plea, filed through advocate Rahul Malhotra, sought direction to the Centre and AIIMS to “provide continuous and uninterrupted treatment free of cost to the petitioner for the rare disorder MPS II.” The two brothers, in their separate petitions filed through their father Ravi Jhawar, said they started facing difficulties and certain changes in their bodies in September and December 2019, respectively, including delayed speech and language problems. The children were examined by doctors at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital and AIIMS and after examination and tests, they were diagnosed with MPS II, the plea said, adding that a second opinion also confirmed that the two children are suffering from the ailment. The treatment of the rare disease is available and administered at the AIIMS. The petition said both the hospitals informed the father that there is no medicine manufactured in India for their disease and only two companies in the USA and Korea manufacture it. It said the annual cost of treatment for one patient would be between 80 lakh to one crore and the income of their father is nominal and it would be impossible for him to bear the cost of treatment. “Without the financial support of the respondent no. 1 (Centre), the petitioner cannot be medically treated in view of paucity of funds. The petitioner is only concerned with medicine and not with any direct financial help,” the petition said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-brothers-with-rare-disease-move-delhi-high-court-for-direction-to-centre-aiims-to-give-free-treatment-948521.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Glacier breaks in Uttarakhand's Chamoli||An avalanche following a glacial burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, about 650 kilometres from here, on Sunday morning caused a massive flood and damaged two hydro power projects on Rishiganga and Dhauliganga rivers trapping hundreds of workers at the projects, and triggering alert in the districts along the Ganga river in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. According to reports, around 100 to 150 workers, who were at work at the two projects, were 'missing'.  Officials in Uttarakhand's capital Dehradun said that the under construction 24 MW hydro power project at Reni village in Chamoli district was damaged after the avalanche triggered after the Nandadevi Galicer broke causing a massive flow of water in Rishiganga river. The huge water, which was mixed with the debris, then damaged another under construction hydro power project at Dhauliganga river near Tapovan, about ten kilometres away.  As the flow of water in the tributaries of the two rivers increased suddenly, an alert was sounded in the areas near the rivers downstream from Tapovan to Haridwar and the people had been asked to move to the upper regions.  Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) along with the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) were deployed in the affected areas to undertake relief and rescue operations, officials said. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who has rushed to the affected areas, said that all possible help was being provided to the affected people and asked the public not to spread rumours and share old videos of similar tragedies. He also said that the flow of water from Tehri Dam has been stopped to prevent any sudden increase in the water levels in Rishiganga and Alaknanda rivers. Choppers were also deployed in the rescue operations by the Indian Air Force. Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash said that there was no cause for panic. The state government has released emergency helpline numbers to enable the people to seek help. They are 91-1352410197, 91-18001804375, 91-9456596190.  Officials said that rafting had been put on hold in Ganga river in Rishikesh and the local administration was informing the people to stay alert through loudspeakers. Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and assured him of all possible support to deal with the situation. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Shah also said teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed for rescue and relief operations of the affected people while additional troops of the force are being airlifted from Delhi.  "I have spoken to Chief Minister @tsrawatbjp ji, DG ITBP and DG NDRF regarding the natural disaster in Uttarakhand. All the concerned officers are working on a war footing to secure the people. NDRF teams have left for rescue operations. Every possible help will be provided to 'Devbhoomi'," he said. Shah said the central government is constantly monitoring the situation in Uttarakhand. "Some more teams of NDRF are being airlifted from Delhi and sent to Uttarakhand. We are constantly monitoring the situation there," he said. An alert was also sounded in the districts situated on the bank of the Ganga in Uttar Pradesh and boating was banned in the river until the situation improved, the officials said in Lucknow. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/glacier-breaks-in-uttarakhands-chamoli-948534.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand floods: HM Amit Shah speaks to state CM; assures all help||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday spoke to Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and assured him of all possible support to deal with the situation arising in the wake of a glacier breaking off and causing flood in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district. In a series of tweets in Hindi, Shah said teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed for rescue and relief operations while additional troops of the force were being airlifted from Delhi. "I have spoken to Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat ji, DG of ITBP and DG of NDRF regarding the natural disaster in Uttarakhand. All the officers concerned are working on a war footing to secure the people. "NDRF teams have left for rescue operations. Every possible help will be provided to 'Devbhoomi'," he said. Shah said the Centre is constantly monitoring the situation in Uttarakhand. "Some more teams of NDRF are being airlifted from Delhi and sent to Uttarakhand. We are constantly monitoring the situation there," he said. The home minister said besides the NDRF and the State Disaster Response Force, teams of Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) have reached the affected areas. The chief minister is on his way to the affected areas and the Indian Air Force has been alerted, he said. "I want to assure the people of Uttarakhand that the (Narendra) Modi government is fully behind them in this hour of crisis and will provide all possible help so that people can get out of this crisis as early as possible," the Union home minister said. Shah, who is in Maharashtra, said Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai is stationed at the control room of the ministry in New Delhi and is personally monitoring the situation. "I will also reach Delhi in the evening," he said. Shah said the prime minister, who was in Assam, has spoken to the Uttarakhand chief minister to take stock of the situation. A home ministry spokesman said four NDRF teams (about 200 personnel) are being airlifted to Dehradun and they will reach Joshimath. A glacier broke off at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, leading to a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and causing large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. More than 150 labourers working in a power project are missing, officials said. Homes along the way were swept away as the waters rushed down the mountainsides in a raging torrent. There were fears of damage in human settlements downstream. Many villages were evacuated and people taken to safer areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-floods-hm-amit-shah-speaks-to-state-cm-assures-all-help-948571.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Over 125 feared dead in Uttarakhand glacier outburst||Nearly 125 people were feared dead in Uttarakhand after a massive flash flood triggered by a glacial outburst devastated part of the state on Sunday, with raging floodwaters even washing away two hydropower stations. The unusual winter deluge, caused when a big chunk of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off, left a huge trail of death and devastation along Rishiganga, Dhauli Ganga and Alaknanda rivers, all tributaries of the Ganga. The state administration evacuated hundreds of people along the rivers following the incident. By evening, Indo-Tibetan Border Police personnel rescued 16 labourers from one site, but about 125 people are still missing. Five graziers, their livestock and two policemen were also swept away by the flash flood. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said that bodies of seven persons have been recovered. The water level of the Dhauli Ganga river at Joshimath flowed was perilously high, breaching all records, Central Water Commission officials said. “At 11 am, the water level recorded at Joshimath was 1,388 metres,” said Saumitra Haldar, chairman, Central Water Commission. During the 2013 Uttarakhand flash floods, the highest water level recorded at Joshimath was 1,385.54 metres. This was a grim reminder of the Kedarnath deluge of 2013, which led to widespread devastation in the ecologically fragile Himalayan region. The rising flood water washed away the 13.2 MW Rishiganga small hydro project, commissioned in 2020, and NTPC’s Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project, located five km downstream and under construction. There were nearly 176 people at the Tapovan site, of which 15-16 were in one tunnel and another 35-36 were in a second tunnel. While one group of workers has been rescued, searching for people stuck in the 250-metres-long second tunnel has turned out to be a big challenge as the tunnel is full of debris. Till evening, the rescuers managed to go up to 150 feet inside but could not contact anyone. “Nearly 125 people are still missing, but I can’t give an exact number because everything at the site office including the records have been washed away,” Rawat said.  “Five local graziers, two policemen and nearly 180 livestock were also washed away. On the right side of Rishiganga, there are 17 villages that are now cut off,” he said. More than 100 labourers at the barrage and 50-plus in the tunnel probably lost their life, ITBP sources said, quoting the site in-charge of Tapovan. Four bridges, including three at Reni village near Joshimath, the ground zero of the calamity, have been washed off. While Union Home Minister Amit Shah reviewed the relief operations, the National Crisis Management Committee under the chairmanship of Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba also reviewed the situation. Multiple teams from the NDRF, ITBP, Army and IAF have been deployed for the search and rescue operations. Army and IAF helicopters have also been pressed into theservice. Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted to say he had spoken to Rawat. “Am constantly monitoring the unfortunate situation... India stands with Uttarakhand and the nation prays for everyone’s safety there,” the PM tweeted. Pauri, Tehri, Rudraprayag, Haridwar and Dehradun districts have been put on high alert. Medical teams have been rushed to the affected site. A 30-bed hospital has been kept ready at Joshimath for dealing with this emergency. Hospitals in Srinagar, Rishikesh, Jollygrant and Dehradun are on standby.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-125-feared-dead-in-uttarakhand-glacier-outburst-948573.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||50-100 people working at power project missing; 2 bodies recovered: Uttarakhand DGP||An estimated 50-100 personnel working at a power project in Tapovan-Reni area of Uttarakhand are missing following which search and rescue operations have been launched, Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said on Sunday after a glacier broke leading to a flash flood in Chamoli district. Kumar told PTI that at least two bodies have been recovered, while some injured have been rescued after state disaster response forces reached the affected areas. He said the power project at Tapovan-Reni has been swept away completely. "The situation is under control now. There is a dam at Srinagar and it has contained the flow. The power project has taken the damage." "Our preliminary estimate is that 50-100 people who were working in and around the power project are missing," the state police chief said. The teams had reached the spot very quickly from Joshimath (about 20 minutes distance) and they rescued some injured while two bodies were also found, he said. "We will be able to give you a clear picture by the evening," Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/50-100-people-working-at-power-project-missing-2-bodies-recovered-uttarakhand-dgp-948585.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Ready to extend all help to Uttarakhand, says Kejriwal amid Chamoli floods||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government is ready to extend every possible help to people of Uttarakhand where a glacier broke off at Joshimath in Chamoli district on Sunday, leading to a massive flood. "The news about the disaster in Chamoli is really worrisome. I pray for everybody's safety. The Delhi government is ready to send every possible help to people of Uttarakhand in this difficult time," he tweeted in Hindi. A glacier broke off at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, leading to a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and causing large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. According to officials, more than 150 labourers working in a power project are missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ready-to-extend-all-help-to-uttarakhand-says-kejriwal-amid-chamoli-floods-948597.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Haryana farmer's body found hanging from tree near Tikri border protest site||A farmer from Jind in Haryana who was supporting the agitation against the Centre's farm laws allegedly hanged himself from a tree merely two kilometres from the Tikri border protest site on Sunday, police said. The 52-year-old farmer left a suicide note, which is being verified, they said. "The farmer, Karamveer Singh, hailed from a village in Jind. He was found hanging from a tree in a park, which is around two kilometres away from the Tikri border," Bahadurgarh City police station SHO Vijay Kumar said. His body was found in the morning, he said. According to the police, the hand-written suicide note purportedly left behind by the deceased said, "Dear farmer brethren, Modi government is giving date after date... No one knows when these black farm laws will be rolled back." Over a fortnight ago, another farmer from Haryana had allegedly consumed a poisonous substance at the Tikri border. He died during treatment at a Delhi hospital later. In December, a lawyer from Punjab had allegedly killed himself by consuming poison a few kilometres away from the protest site at the Tikri border. Earlier, a Sikh preacher, Sant Ram Singh, had also allegedly ended his life near the Singhu border protest site, claiming that he was "unable to bear the pain of the farmers". Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November 2020 at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-farmers-body-found-hanging-from-tree-near-tikri-border-protest-site-948602.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||High alert in UP as glacier breaks off in neighbouring Uttarakhand||An alert was sounded in all the 27 districts situated on the bank of the Ganga river in Uttar Pradesh after an avalanche following a glacial burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, about 650 kilometres from here, on Sunday morning caused massive flooding and damaged two hydropower projects on Rishiganga and Dhauliganga rivers.  According to the official sources here, all the district magistrates have been asked to monitor the situation round-the-clock and take immediate precautionary measures. UP minister for water resources, Mahendra Singh said here that the irrigation department engineers had been directed to open the gates of all the dams to allow smooth flow of water in the event of a sudden rise in the water levels in the Ganga. ''We are maintaining a close vigil and monitoring the situation....the administration is also on the alert in Prayagraj, Farrukhabad and Garh Mukteshwar, where pilgrims have gathered on the occasion of Maagh Mela (an annual religious event),'' said a senior official of the irrigation department here. The officials said that the people residing near the river bank were being alerted. ''We have also asked the boatmen, fishermen and others to avoid going into the river,'' he added. The Ganga river, which originates at Gangotri in Uttarakhand, enters UP at Bijnore district, which was close to Haridwar. ''We are in regular touch with the Uttarakhand officials,'' he said. The glacial burst damaged two hydropower projects on Rishiganga and Dhauliganga rivers and caused massive flooding in the rivers downstream. About 150 workers at the two projects were reported to be missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/high-alert-in-up-as-glacier-breaks-off-in-neighbouring-uttarakhand-948611.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Avalanche damages Tapovan hydro project: NTPC||State-run power giant NTPC on Sunday said that an avalanche near Tapovan in Uttarakhand has damaged its under-construction hydropower project. Earlier in the day, a glacier broke off in Joshimath in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district which caused a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and endangered lives of people living along its banks. It is reported that massive destruction is feared. Later in the day, NTPC tweeted, "An avalanche near Tapovan in Uttarakhand has damaged a part of our under-construction hydropower project in the region. "While rescue operation is on, situation is being monitored continuously with the help of district administration and police." The Tapovan Vishnugad power plant is a 520MW run-of-river project which is being constructed on Dhauliganga River in Chamoli District of Uttarakhand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/avalanche-damages-tapovan-hydro-project-ntpc-948622.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Cold weather conditions prevail in most parts of Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions on Sunday persisted in most parts of Punjab and Haryana, with minimum temperatures hovering below normal limits. In Punjab, Adampur was the coldest place recording a low of 3.9 degrees Celsius. Amritsar, Bathinda and Faridkot also reeled under biting chill recording respective minimums of 5.6 degrees Celsius, 5.6 degrees Celsius and 5.4 degrees Celsius. However, the minimum temperatures in Ludhiana settled at 10.3 degrees Celsius and in Patiala at 9.5 degrees Celsius. In Haryana, Narnaul reeled under intense cold recording a low of 5 degrees Celsius. Ambala (7.5 degrees Celsius), Hisar (7.2 degrees Celsius), Karnal (6.5 degrees Celsius), Bhiwani (6.5 degrees Celsius) and Sirsa (7.1 degrees Celsius) also experienced a cold night. The minimum temperature in Rohtak at 9.2 degrees Celsius, however, settled within the normal limits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cold-weather-conditions-prevail-in-most-parts-of-punjab-haryana-948648.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Glacier burst: IMD says no adverse weather over affected areas on Feb 7, 8||The MeT department Sunday said no adverse weather events are expected over Chamoli, Tapovan and Joshimath in Uttarakhand on February 7 and 8, in a relief for the area hit by a major glacier burst. India Meteorological Department (IMD) Additional Director General Anand Sharma said Chamoli, Tapovan and Joshimath are likely to witness dry weather during the two days. "No snowfall/rainfall is likely on February 7-8," the IMD said in its special weather advisory for the state. However, light rainfall/snowfall is likely in the northern parts of the Chamoli district on February 9-10, the advisory added. Over 150 labourers working at a power project in Tapovan-Reni are feared dead, an Indo-Tibetan Border Police spokesperson said after a part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off at Joshimath in Chamoli Sunday. The glacier burst led to a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and caused large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. Officials said three bodies have been recovered so far and a massive relief and rescue operation is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/glacier-burst-imd-says-no-adverse-weather-over-affected-areas-on-feb-7-8-948651.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||16 labourers rescued from tunnel in Uttarakhand||A small hydro project of 13.2 megawatt on the Rishiganga river was washed away on Sunday after water level rose following the glacial burst even as at least 16 labourers trapped inside tunnels were rescued while scores were feared dead. The Centre was continuously reviewing the situation and its latest assessment said there was no danger of floods in downstream areas as the water levels have been contained. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was in Assam earlier in the day, was constantly being briefed about the situation. "“I am constantly monitoring the unfortunate situation in Uttarakhand. India stands with Uttarakhand, prays for everyone's safety,” Modi said. Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and assured him of all possible support to deal with the situation arising from the glacier burst and the resulting floods. Officials said at least 16 labourers trapped inside tunnels were rescued as hundreds of rescue workers of Army, ITBP and NDRF along with local police were deployed. The glacier fall also led to issues for the ITBP. Connectivity with some of its border posts was "totally restricted" due to a bridge collapsing near Reni village, an ITBP spokesperson said. The National Crisis Management Committee chaired by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba met during the day to take stock of the situation while the Uttarakhand Chief Secretary gave a briefing on the ground situation. "The glacial burst led to the rising of water levels in the river Rishiganga, which washed away the Rishiganga small hydro project of 13.2 MW. The flash flood also affected the downstream hydro project of NTPC at Tapovan on the river Dhauliganga, which is a tributary of the river Alaknanda," a statement said. However, as per the Central Water Commission (CWC), there is "no danger of downstream flooding" and the rise in water level has been contained.   Though there is no threat to neighbouring villages, the NCMC directed central and state agencies to keep a strict vigil on the situation. A team from DRDO, who monitor avalanches, is being flown in for surveillance and reconnaissance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/16-labourers-rescued-from-tunnel-in-uttarakhand-948652.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||From the Newsroom: Flash floods in Uttarakhand kill 10 and over 100 go missing||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, at least 100 labourers feared dead or missing in flash floods in Uttarakhand; Prime Minister Narendra Modi begin election blitzkrieg; a farmer hangs himself from a tree near Delhi’s Tikri border.  Hi, you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here is the top news of February 7, 2021: Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached Haldia in West Bengal on Sunday to address a BJP rally ahead of elections in the state. This is the Prime Minister's first rally in West Bengal. "In Bengal, if you ask didi (Mamata Banerjee) about your right then she gets frustrated. She even gets annoyed if slogans of 'Bharat Mata ki Jai' are raised," PM Modi said at the rally. PM Modi was earlier in poll-bound Assam where he addressed a gathering of mostly tea workers. He had claimed an international conspiracy has been hatched to "defame" Indian tea. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- At least 100 labourers working at the Tapovan power project are feared dead or missing even as 10 bodies have been recovered, ITBP Director General SS Prasad told ANI after a glacier burst in Uttarakhand on Sunday triggering flash flood disaster. He added that the ITBP team deployed at the site is undertaking rescue operations. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- A farmer from Jind in Haryana who was supporting the agitation against the Centre's farm laws allegedly hanged himself from a tree merely two kilometres from the Tikri border protest site on Sunday, police said. The 52-year-old farmer left a suicide note, which is being verified, they said. Over a fortnight ago, another farmer from Haryana had allegedly consumed a poisonous substance at the Tikri border. He died during treatment at a Delhi hospital later. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead.  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Source: DHNS / PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/from-the-newsroom-flash-floods-in-uttarakhand-kill-10-and-over-100-go-missing-948658.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Glacial burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district grim reminder of 2013 Kedarnath deluge||The massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river triggered by a glacial burst in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday came as a grim reminder of the Kedarnath deluge of 2013 which led to widespread devastation in the ecologically fragile Himalayan region. A devastating natural disaster in the form of torrential rains of unseen magnitude had struck Kedarnath on 16-17 June in 2013. The banks of the Chorabari lake in Kedarnath collapsed due to a cloudburst that had resulted in a major flash flood causing widespread destruction in Uttarakhand and led to heavy losses to infrastructure, agriculture lands, human and animal lives. However, unlike the Kedarnath tragedy which struck after a downpour, the flash flood on Sunday occurred on a bright and sunny morning which helped in relief and rescue operations by police, State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) personnel in the affected areas. Contrary to the bad weather that delayed launch of relief and rescue operations after the Kedarnath deluge whose magnitude could not be immediately realised, the clear weather on Sunday allowed helicopters to reach the affected areas quickly. Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said all efforts at the moment are focused on tracing those who went missing after the flood. Over 150 labourers working at a power project in Tapovan-Reni are feared dead, an Indo-Tibetan Border Police spokesperson said while quoting the project-in charge. Three bodies have been recovered so far. According to the Uttarakhand police chief, the power project has been swept away completely. Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat also lost no time in rushing to the affected areas of Tapovan and Raini to take stock of the situation on the ground. He said relief and rescue operations are being carried out on a war footing in the affected areas. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah are constantly in touch with the chief minister assuring of all possible help. Homes along the way of the deluge were swept away as the waters rushed down the mountainsides in a raging torrent. There were fears of damage in human settlements downstream, including in heavily populated areas. Many villages were evacuated and people taken to safer areas. Connectivity with some border posts was "totally restricted" due to a bridge collapsing near Reni village, an ITBP spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/glacial-burst-in-uttarakhands-chamoli-district-grim-reminder-of-2013-kedarnath-deluge-948674.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Bihar assembly building completes 100 yrs; Nitish tells ruling members they are 'sevaks' and not 'maalik'||Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday highlighted the glorious past of the Bihar Legislative Assembly on completion of 100 years of its building and told those sitting in the government not to confuse themselves as the "masters" as in the democracy people are the "maalik" and we are their "sevaks" (servants). Inaugurating the year-long centenary celebrations of the sprawling assembly building, Kumar stressed on healthy debate and discussions in the house to serve the masses together in a more better manner. Kumar said he was in favour of holding longer session of the state legislature to give ample time to every member to ask questions and raise issues of their areas. It was on this day when the first session of the Bihar and Odisha provincial legislative council was formally inaugurated by Lord Satyendra Prassana Sinha, Governor of the erstwhile province. Though the building was ready by the end of 1920, the inaugural session was held on February 7, 1921. Besides Kumar, Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha, Legislative Council Acting Chairman Awadhesh Narayan Singh, Deputy Chief Ministers-Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi - former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, Parliamentary Affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary and a host of ministers, legislators and other dignitaries attended the inaugural function. "We should not confuse ourselves as masters as in democracy janata (people) are the maalik while legislators are their representatives and people sitting in the government are their 'sevaks' (servants)," Kumar said in his speech. "We normally have longer Budget session which runs for a month. But, other sessions (monsoon and winter) run for 7,8 or 10 days. "If you wish, we will extend it further so that members, who are also considered part of the government, get a fair amount of time to express their views and opinion on various matters besides raising issues of their areas as it is their duty to do so," Kumar said. Kumar said this while responding to several previous speakers who expressed their grievance on the session being short one which denied them opportunity to put their views or raise issues. He, however, said that so far as duration of the session is concerned, it has to be collectively decided by the Assembly Speaker and the Council Chairman. The CM assured the members that the government would certainly accept their suggestions/views if they were "genuine" and "correct". Stating that he was quite hopeful of getting over with the COVID pandemic in the next few months, Kumar said that the number of coronavirus cases has been quite low in Bihar and the government has done a plenty of work including carrying out inoculation drive. The manner in which coronavirus spread and continued for quite longer period of time affecting huge number of people, it seems that it did not come in a "natural way" rather it appears to be some kind of "mischief" or may have come from different parts of the world especially in China where different types of "artificial work" take place, the CM said. "There are chances that such things could recur again in future. In these circumstances, we need to remain alert and cautious," Kumar said. Kumar thanked Assembly Speaker for organising centenary year function and asked him to organise such programmes in future too on different topics/subjects and their experts as participants besides the members of the legislature. Speaking on the occasion, the Speaker said the faith of democracy lies in legislature. "We should create an atmosphere that would deepen people's faith in state legislature....Opposition's cooperation is needed for smooth functioning of the assembly," the Speaker said. Other leaders who spoke on the occasion included RJD's Awadh Bihari Choudhary, Congress' Vijay Shankar Dubey and Ajit Sharma, CPI(ML)'s Mahboob Alam, AIMIM's Akhtarul Iman, CPI's Ram Ratan Singh and CPI(M)'s Ajay Kumar. The function saw an unpleasant moment when Alam raised objection to display of BJP flags at the roundabout near the entrance of the legislative premises inviting jeer from the saffron party legislators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-assembly-building-completes-100-yrs-nitish-tells-ruling-members-they-are-sevaks-and-not-maalik-948677.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand flood: Army deploys four columns, medical teams||The Army on Sunday deployed four columns and two medical teams in the rescue of people affected by a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river after a part of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off at Joshimath in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand, officials said. They said one engineering task force of the Army was also deployed in Ringi village in Joshimath. Over 150 labourers working at a power project in Tapovan-Reni are feared dead, an Indo Tibetan Border Police spokesperson said while quoting the project-in charge. Three bodies have been recovered. "The loss of precious lives due to the glacier burst in Chamoli is deeply painful. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. Two helicopters from the Armed Forces have been moved from Bareilly to Joshimath for rescue and relief operations," Defence Minister Rajnath Singh tweeted. "I have been watching the visuals from Chamoli district about the damage caused by the glacier burst. In this difficult time, we stand shoulder to shoulder with the people affected by the tragedy. Praying for the well-being of the people of Uttarakhand," he said. The Army has also pressed into service a number of its helicopters to assist the civil administration in rescuing people from flood affected areas, the officials said. "Four Army columns and two medical teams were deployed so far," said a military official. A column comprises 30-40 personnel. Officials said the Indian Air Force has operated C-130 and AN32 transport aircraft to airlift personnel from National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to the affected areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-flood-army-deploys-four-columns-medical-teams-948679.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||First week of Delhi govt's campaign to promote electric two-wheelers begins||Delhi Transport Minister Kailash Gahlot on Sunday kickstarted the first week of the city government's Switch Delhi campaign with the aim of sensitising people to the benefits of electric two-wheelers and encouraging them to adopt environment-friendly vehicles. According to a statement, the first week will focus on outreach regarding the two-wheeler segment, including electric bikes and e-scooters, to accelerate its adoption. A study by The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) showed that vehicle pollution causes 28 per cent of PM2.5 emissions in Delhi and two-wheelers constitute seven per cent of this pollution, the statement said. Considering Delhi's context, the policy lays special focus on the two-wheeler segment. Two-thirds of the vehicles in Delhi are two-wheelers and hence, this segment needs to be the one pushing for early adoption for the success of the Switch Delhi campaign, according to the statement. "Delhi's EV Policy especially focuses on incentivising the purchase of two-wheelers, which comprise a two-third of all vehicles in Delhi and cause maximum pollution", said Gahlot. The policy offers various financial and non-financial incentives on the purchase of two-wheelers. A purchase incentive of Rs 5,000 per kWh of battery capacity shall be provided per vehicle to the registered owner and subject to a maximum of Rs 30,000 per vehicle. Vehicles that are eligible for purchase incentives shall also receive a scrapping incentive of up to Rs 5,000 for scrapping and de-registering old ICE two-wheelers registered in Delhi, the statement stated. Road tax and registration fees will also be waived for all electric two-wheelers during the period of the policy, it said. "The total cost of ownership of an electric two-wheeler over a period of 10 years is approximately 50 per cent of that of a petrol scooter in Delhi and approximately 54 per cent of that of a petrol bike in Delhi, as per analysis by RMI India. "Electric two-wheelers are up to Rs 2.05 cheaper to drive per kilometer as compared to petrol scooters and up to Rs 1.82 cheaper as compared to petrol bikes. Electric two-wheelers would achieve cost parity with the petrol scooters and bike in a maximum of six months," the Delhi Transport minister said. By switching to an electric two-wheeler, an individual can have monthly savings of approximately Rs 1,850 and Rs 1,650 compared to a petrol scooter and bike respectively, or an annual saving of around Rs 22,000, the statement said. Under Delhi's EV policy, 23 two-wheeler models are available and eligible for purchase and scrapping incentives across seven manufacturers, it said. Switch Delhi is an eight-week mass awareness campaign by the city government to sensitize each and every Delhiite about the benefits of switching to EVs to the environment as well as to make them aware of the incentives and infrastructure being developed under Delhi's EV policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-week-of-delhi-govts-campaign-to-promote-electric-two-wheelers-begins-948686.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||'A new lease of life': ITBP rescues workers stuck in flash-flood hit tunnel||Covered in mud, several men were safely pulled out one after the other from a slush-covered tunnel by ITBP personnel in the Tapovan power project area that was swept away by a flash flood triggered by a glacier break in the Chamoli district of Uttarakhand on Sunday. In a video of the operation shared by the border force, the rescuers can be seen raising slogans of 'dum lagakey haisha' while retrieving a couple of men through the vertical and narrow snout of the tunnel with the help of a rope line. Those present at the spot motivated the men in action with 'bahut badhiya' and 'shabaash', jo 'bole so nihaal' and 'jai ho' slogans. One of the workers rescued from the tunnel was seen taking a euphoric leap as the ITBP personnel patted his back in recognition of the grit and endurance displayed by him despite being hit by a disaster and being swamped with mud. "Apna bhai aa gaya (our brother is back)," said a local who works in the project area as another official summed up the mood in the disaster zone by saying "nayi zindagi mili (those rescued got a new life)". Multiple teams of the force, with personnel wearing protective gear and helmets, were rushed to the Tapovan power project site from their 1st battalion base in Joshimath and the ITBP mountaineering and skiing institute located nearby in Auli to launch search and rescue works. Armed with mountain rescue gear, ropes, pulleys and carabiniers, the ITBP men were seen taking out the workers and putting them on stretchers that they brought along with them. ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said in Delhi that his personnel stationed at the Joshimath base heard a "large bang and screams of people" shortly after 10:45 AM when the tragedy is stated to have struck the two dam sites near the Raini village in Chamoli. A flash flood in the Dhauli Ganga river caused large-scale devastation in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas.  "A total of 12 workers have been rescued from the tunnel site till now. There is a second tunnel too where the rescuers are working," Pandey said. Chamoli, about 270 kms from state capital Dehradun, is a border district along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China and it is well known for the Badrinath shrine that is located very close to the last Indian village in Mana.  The ITBP has a large deployment here as part of its mandate to guard the LAC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-new-lease-of-life-itbp-rescues-workers-stuck-in-flash-flood-hit-tunnel-948707.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand floods down to increased 'human intervention' in Himalayan region, green experts say||Even though it may take time to find out the exact cause behind the disaster, the massive flood possibly caused by the glacial outburst in Uttarakhand once again puts the spotlight on the ecological fragility of the hill state, which faces multiple climate change threats on one hand while battling the consequences of large scale development work on the other. The flood may have happened due to the breaching of a glacial lake, which generally does not happen in the winters. The Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Dehradun has dispatched a team of scientists to investigate. "This appears to be a glacial lake outburst which got triggered from Rishiganga glacier catchment area, causing damage to the property and people working in dam/tunnel sites," Akhilesh Gupta, a senior scientist at the Department of Science and Technology, who looks after the Indian national mission on climate change in the Himalayas told DH. It is possible that a big chunk of the ice from the glacier may have been broken off and fell into the glacial lake, causing the waterbody to overflow. But the answer would come from an on-site investigation that may take time. The environmentalists, however, observed that the central and state governments should have been more cautious in constructing hydropower plants in the hill state and expanding the roads considering the vulnerability of the states. “In 2014, the Ministry of Environment and Forest submitted an affidavit saying that the 2013 Kedarnath disaster was escalated directly and indirectly due to the under-construction and existing hydro projects in the areas. Even then no policy on cancellation of dams in Uttarakhand has been taken to date,” said green activist Mallika Bhanot A 2014 report by the Uttarakhand government also recognises such threats. “Uttarakhand is the most vulnerable due to climate-mediated risks. Mountainous regions are vulnerable to climate change and have shown above-average warming in the 20th century. Studies have shown an increase in annual temperature in the Himalayan region and a net increase in rainfall by 2030s in comparison to 1970,” said the government action plan on climate change. “Impacts are expected to range from the reduced genetic diversity of species to erratic rainfall leading to flash floods to glacial melt in the Himalayas leading to increased flooding that will affect water resources within the next few decades.” Despite the threat recognition, the development work continues often bypassing the green norms. The most famous example is the Narendra Modi government’s favoured Char Dham highway project in which 889 km of roads was broken into 53 smaller projects, each less than 100 km, to bypass the environmental regulations. In addition, there is a push by the Prime Minister’s Office as well by the Uttarakhand government on new hydroelectric projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-floods-down-to-increased-human-intervention-in-himalayan-region-green-experts-say-948712.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||AAP's Raghav Chadha holds roadshows ahead of Punjab civic polls||AAP leader Raghav Chadha on Sunday held roadshows in Punjab’s Dera Bassi and Rupnagar in favour of his party candidates for the February 14 municipal polls. Chadha urged people to vote for the Aam Aadmi Party. Addressing people, Chadha said they had given chances to the SAD-BJP and the Congress for the development of the state. “But these parties backstabbed people,” he alleged, adding that people have lost faith in both parties. According to a party statement, Chadha alleged that the law and order situation in the state is completely “ruined”. Elections to eight municipal corporations, 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in the state will be held on February 14. The counting of votes will take place on February 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aaps-raghav-chadha-holds-roadshows-ahead-of-punjab-civic-polls-948720.html
07-02-2021||North and Central||100-foot-high national flag to be installed in Gulmarg, says army official||The Indian Army in collaboration with the Solar Industry India is gearing up to install a 100-foot national fag in north Kashmir's ski-resort Gulmarg.  A defence spokesperson said that at an altitude of approx 9000 feet, the iconic flag would be at the highest spot where the Indian national flag would flutter in the Kashmir Valley, "A replica of the flag was presented by Ramit Arora of Solar Industry India to GoC 19 Infantry Division to mark the occasion," he said. The Solar Industry India is making ammunition for the Armed Forces, under the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme.  "Production of one million pieces of multimode hand grenades is likely to commence this month," the spokesperson said. He clarified that no MoU for the production of multimode grenades was signed between the Army's Dagger Division and  thye Solar Industry India as was reported in some sections of the media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/100-foot-high-national-flag-to-be-installed-in-gulmarg-says-army-official-948729.html
07-02-2021||Opinion||Reading a text in context||Nobody reads the Mahabharata for the first time; you will have heard the story first. Indeed, this epic has been told and retold in the oral tradition for hundreds of years, and never ceases to fascinate generation after generation; perhaps, more for the imaginative storytelling, and less for its didacticism. There is something magical about reading the Mahabharata as itihasa. It inspires us as readers to construct meaning and compels us to reflect on the text in context, to discover a little more about ourselves and our society. Reading the Mahabharata in the 21st century requires us to imagine the lives and worldview of people that lived thousands of years ago. The cultural, theological, and linguistic differences between our world and theirs present challenges to relating the stories those people told to our lives. In interpreting the Mahabharata, two contexts -- the ancient and the modern -- come together, as if in the symbiotic union, leaving us little choice. If we ignore the ancient context of the great epic, we disconnect it from the world that gives it meaning and end up with a Mahabharata that is after our own image. If we focus only on the ancient context and not at all on our own, we end up with an oppressive Mahabharata that imposes its ancient realities and values on our very different lives today. That is why in reading the Mahabharata, there is no more important scholar who redacts the epic as brilliantly in its myriad nuanced contexts than Irawati Karve, the first woman anthropologist in India. Her quite remarkable little book Yuganta: The End of an Epoch explores the literary setting, the mythological-historical context, and the sociology and politics of the time as the backdrop; and brings alive the central question of the human condition -- the meaning of life and its moral concerns. She helps us dive into the deep waters of continuity and change, in their context and our own, and brings a wealth of scholarship to help us with that exploration. There scarcely is a child or adult who has listened to or read this labyrinth of magical tales and has not been deeply moved by the tragedy of Karna, the futility of Bhishma, the misfortune of Abhimanyu, the travails of Draupadi, or the stubbornness of Duryodhana. Whether by circumstance or by folly -- one’s own or that of another -- each of them hurtling down the slippery slope. Irawati Karve humanises the characters of the Mahabharata, strips them of their divine origins and, in poignant fashion, brings alive human frailty as an immutable, universal condition. One that blinds all of us in equal measure by greed, hatred, and ignorance. In a delicious irony, the third generation of the Kauravas is portrayed as born of human parents, while the Pandavas are fathered by the gods, and the metaphoric battle is joined. The greater irony is that the Pandavas, with Krishna -- the supposed good guys -- vanquish most Kaurava warriors by deceit. Through the predilections, dilemmas, actions, inaction and the ethical choices of the central characters -- Bhishma, Karna, Gandhari, Kunti, Draupadi, Dhritarashtra, Krishna Vasudeva -- Irawati Karve takes us on a journey to experience the vanity by which we can sink to immeasurable depths and the dizzy heights of compassion to which we may rise; and brings us home to conclude the only abiding truth: that in the end, time devours the universe. Irawati Karve was a stalwart of Indian sociology and it is important to place her in an academic context, especially one that was dominated by men. She pioneered the use of Indology for the study of Indian society and attempted to use the indigenous epistemological tools available to her. In the backdrop of India’s colonisation, this represented an important departure from the anglicised research being conducted in India at the time, and that is what sets her apart. Yuganta presents a historical rendering of the Mahabharata. The characters are not treated as fictional, their circumstances and actions explained instead by situating them within the social and political context of that time, as might have been. Yuganta was awarded the Sahitya Akademi Award for Marathi in 1968, deservedly, for it presents, to paraphrase Prof W Norman Brown, ‘deep insights into complex humanity and holds up a mirror to all the faces that we ourselves wear’. Irawati Karve explicates through a secular, literary rendering of a genuine folk epic that the Mahabharata does not teach Dharma or righteousness; it demonstrates Dharma-Sukshmata: the subtlety of Dharma -- the calculus of the consequences of our thoughts, words and deeds; the situational ethics that we often practice; and why each of us must take responsibility for our actions. That is why it resonates even today. What’s more, it is one of the finest set of stories you will likely read; and in Yuganta, the most unlikely literary characters you will ever meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/reading-a-text-in-context-948447.html
07-02-2021||Opinion||The pointless debate on Uniform Civil Code||Once every year or so, some ‘public interest litigant’ or the other takes the issue of a ‘Uniform Civil Code’ (UCC) to the Supreme Court. Sometimes, in a totally unrelated case, the court bemoans the absence of a UCC. In 2018, the Law Commission set itself the quixotic task of trying to build consensus around a UCC before concluding that it was “neither necessary nor desirable at this stage.” It is 2021, and this futile exercise has been attempted again by the BJP’s serial PIL-er Ashwini Upadhyay, who wants the SC to tell the government to make a “uniform law” for adoption and guardianship. The Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 (and its previous avatar since 2007) is, in fact, a uniform law for adoption and guardianship. But the court has still issued a notice in this case. The misguided exercise to impose a UCC arises from a misunderstanding of Article 44 of the Constitution. It says, “The State shall endeavour to secure for the citizens a uniform civil code throughout the territory of India”. What it does not say is, what a uniform civil code is. One reading of this, favoured by the Hindutva right-wing, is that irrespective of religion, region, custom, etc, everyone in India must be governed by the same “personal law” -- that is, the law relating to marriage, divorce, adoption, guardianship, maintenance and succession. When pressed on the details of this law, the Hindutvavadi’s idea of a UCC is: “Why should Muslim men be allowed to have four wives?” Census data suggests that there’s little difference between rates of polygamy among Hindus and Muslims, but the Hindutva proponents persist in this idea of UCC nonetheless, more out of prejudice than anything else. If they truly wanted a UCC, they’d be calling for the abolition of the concept of “Hindu joint family” as no other religion follows this. But what did the Constitution-makers have in mind with Article 44? The debates about the UCC were contentious, to say the least. There was almost a neat division along religious lines. While Muslim members (such as Pocker Sahib Bahadur and Hussain Imam) worried whether it amounted to the abolition of religious practices in personal law, there was support for it on various grounds such as the rights of women (as Hansa Mehta argued) and the need to unify Hindu law, which was itself heavily fragmented at that time (as argued by KR Munshi). Members favouring the UCC addressed the larger principles about why a uniform law was a good idea in theory; those opposed to it wondered what it might mean for their own religious practices, customs and rituals. The Hindu members of the Assembly perhaps had the Hindu Code in mind when debating a UCC; Muslim members worried whether the Hindu Code would be imposed on them with a stroke of the pen. Muslim members perhaps also wondered what the need for a uniform law was since Muslim law had been made uniform for all Muslims through the Shariat Act, 1937. Ambedkar eventually clarified what Article 44 intends. First, he pointed out, it was only a Directive Principle and not mandatory on the part of the State to introduce. Second, religion was not the sole source of personal law since even the proposed Hindu Code intended to introduce progressive aspects to Hindu personal law borrowed from other jurisdictions. Third, and crucially, a UCC need not be mandatory for all in the first place. Pointing to similar provisions in the Shariat Act, Ambedkar suggested that a UCC could be entirely voluntary. The Constituent Assembly therefore never really intended to make a UCC compulsory for everyone irrespective of religion. A voluntary UCC, as suggested by Ambedkar, is perhaps already in force. The Special Marriage Act, 1954, is available to anyone who chooses to get married under it (even if they both belong to the same religion). Their properties are then inherited in accordance with the Indian Succession Act, 1872, and they could, potentially, adopt a child through the procedure under the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015. A voluntary, progressive UCC fits completely within the ethos of the Constitution, rather than one imposed on any section of people. For this reason, much of the “debate” over UCC is pointless and counterproductive. The real task remains as to how India’s personal laws can be made more progressive -- by better recognising the rights of women to maintenance, the rights of same-sex couples to marry and adopt, and such goals. That may seem utopian at a time when renewed efforts are being made to reduce women’s choices regarding partners, but that is exactly what the Constitution intended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-pointless-debate-on-uniform-civil-code-948448.html
07-02-2021||Opinion||The “misquoted” disease||I was misquoted by the media.” This is one of the constant refrains of politicians. But are they really constantly misquoted? Though it does happen in some cases, often, the “misquoted” bogey is part of a well-oiled political strategy. It is common for a politician to heap abuses on his rival and then deny having made any of those remarks. This is a deliberate ploy. One the one hand, he succeeds in publicly discrediting his opponent, while on the other, he plays safe by blaming the media for misquoting him. This attitude is well captured by the Kannada saying, “Haavu sayabeku, kolu muribaardhu” (The snake should die, but the stick should not break). At times, politicians make controversial statements only to gauge public opinion and take shelter under “I was misquoted” if the reaction is adverse. They use the media as a sounding board. I had one such experience years ago, when in the course of a breakfast-interview, senior Janata parivar leader Jeevaraj Alva broke the news that his boss Ramakrishna Hegde would soon join the ministry of the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Given the prevailing political situation, this was bound to have national ramifications. In journalistic parlance, this was a “big scoop” and the story naturally made it to the front pages of the newspaper, becoming a talking point in political circles across the country. However, it turned out that Hegde was very unhappy with this ‘leak’ and directed Alva to issue a rejoinder. Imagine my embarrassment when Alva called for a press conference and with a straight face completely denied that he had said any such thing. I would have cut a sorry figure, but for the fact that I had taped the entire conversation, that too, with his permission. Alva later told me he had to retract his statement due to political compulsions and I retorted, “The next time you invite me for breakfast, I will take all that you say with a pinch of salt.” In contrast, Hegde was a journalist’s delight. Interviews with him would usually be conducted in the wood-panelled library on the first floor of his house, Kritika. He never adopted a condescending attitude even towards a rookie journalist and was known for his unhurried disposition and clarity of thought. The interviews would be undisturbed—no hangers-on or phone calls. The only interruptions would be when Hegde, a chain-smoker, took repeated cigarette breaks in between, each time politely excusing himself. Interviews with him had to be only on weekdays as he observed a vow of silence on Sundays. During my journalistic career, not once did I come across Hegde complaining that he was misquoted. He not only believed in his words but also stood by what he said. Another politician known for his measured communication with the media was L K Advani, whose press conferences would invariably begin with, “Ladies and gentlemen, I am here to discuss two points with you.” And he would stick to those two points, often referring to the notes he had made on a small piece of paper. Though he interacted with the media often, each time he would have the disposition of a student appearing for his first examination. When journalists persisted with ‘out-of-syllabus’ questions, Advani, a former journalist himself, would say, “I have already given you a good copy.” Weighing the consequences of each word that he spoke, he never ventured into unchartered territory, and definitely not beyond the “two points” that he had prepared for. While many present-day politicians seem to suffer from a foot-in-the-mouth syndrome, yesteryear leaders like Hegde and Advani were a class apart, at least when it came to interacting with the media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-misquoted-disease-948449.html
07-02-2021||Opinion||Stain nature, and Stein will come after you||More than a century ago, in 1895, the intrepid British-Hungarian explorer and archaeologist Sir Aurel Stein came across a secluded mountain meadow near Srinagar that was so idyllic, he deemed it to be “out of this world”. The meadow, named Mohand Marg, became his retreat whenever he was in Kashmir. There, he camped during summers while writing up reports of his expeditions into Central Asia. Stein is best known for his documentation of the history of the Silk Road and the bygone Buddhist civilization along the route. Most notably, he retrieved an extensive collection of ancient manuscripts from the Thousand Buddha Caves in Dunhuang, for which he was knighted. However, Stein was also a brilliant Sanskrit scholar with an interest in Sanskrit manuscripts. From his postings at Oriental College and Punjab University in Lahore, he travelled to Kashmir, intent on acquiring the lost 12th century manuscript of the Rajatarangini, an epic Sanskrit poem chronicling the rulers of the Kashmir Valley. He managed to piece it together and translate it over more than a decade, mostly while living in his tent on Mohand Marg, with the help of native Kashmiri scholars. The document is regarded as the oldest and most complete record of Kashmiri history, making it particularly invaluable. Although Stein could’ve stayed anywhere, he chose the remote Mohand Marg for its restorative natural beauty. A picture-perfect location, it’s ringed by snowy peaks and carpeted with alpine flowers. The crisp pine-scented air, Stein referred to as an “avalanche of perfume”. Stein valued the pristine environment of the meadow so much that he imposed a substantial fine for any damage to it. Up until recently, Mohand Marg remained largely forgotten about and overlooked by visitors in favour of other meadows such as Yusmarg and Sonamarg. I certainly didn’t hear of it when I visited Srinagar several years ago. That’s changing though, with a multi-focused initiative to revive Stein’s Kashmir legacy and promote sustainable heritage tourism in the area -- a joint effort between Yasin Zargar of Indus Discoveries, the Kashmir Chapter of INTACH, and the Jammu and Kashmir Tourism Department. As part of the initiative, a hand-carved commemorative memorial stone was installed, in late 2017, at the spot on Mohand Marg where Stein used to pitch his tent. Obtained from the Pir Panjal Range and weighing 350 kilograms, it took locals six weeks to transport the stone on sledges and shoulders to Mohand Marg from the closest village. The appeal of Mohand Marg is that it isn’t accessible by road and is completely undeveloped. Visitors can sit and have tea in a village home before hiking to the meadow and spending the day there. Indus Discoveries also offers camping nearby. A museum is being built, too. Surely, Stein would approve of the preservation of the area, while his contributions to Kashmir are honoured and the local community gets to benefit from tourist inflow. The importance given to sustainable tourism is undoubtedly growing in India. According to a Future of Travel survey conducted by Booking.com and published last month, 70% of Indians want to travel more sustainably and 78% expect the travel industry to offer more sustainable options to meet this goal. In addition, 76% intend to stay away from crowded tourist attractions, and 55% will consider reducing waste and recycling plastic when travelling. It’s encouraging, but many overburdened tourist destinations are already troubled by environmental issues and ecological destruction -- the Himalayan region, especially. Sadly, not everyone appreciates nature as Stein did. While there were heartening tales of flora rejuvenating and flourishing during the lockdown, it didn’t take long for disappointing reports of littering in forests and other places to reappear after the lockdown lifted. It’s doubtful that raising awareness about the environment is enough. More likely, hard action needs to be taken to reign in the degradation. In this regard, Stein’s idea of a large fine as a deterrent has greater merit than ever a century later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/stain-nature-and-stein-will-come-after-you-948450.html
07-02-2021||Opinion||Budgeting for dreams, living with realities||We have become used to the Budget as an annual thing. Each year, in the final days of January, we get a document from the government that tells us what the state of the economy is, and a day or two later, another document is shared, accompanied by a reading of it in Parliament, that tells us how much money the government will spend in the coming year, and on what. The assumption is that the challenges identified in the Economic Survey are the ones being tackled in the Budget. When something happens repeatedly, people start looking for signs of distinction. Almost as if to ask, what is special this year? Is this going to be the year of big ideas and transformative change? Or, to put this in the familiar language of each February, will this one be a ‘dream’ Budget? But dream Budgets are just that -- dreams. We’re better off sticking to reality. The stark truth is that the environment for private investment is weak. But that isn’t new. It was the reality last year also, and the year before that, and so on back to 2011. There are plenty of reasons for this, which are often stated in the business press in a particular language that is not spoken anywhere else. Ajay Shah, who has thought about these things more than anyone else I know, has pointed out to excessive central planning, the stressed balance sheets of lenders, the loss of confidence in India as a market economy, and iffy rule of law. Those stretch back to 1947. We can’t dream our way out of this, or Budget the way forward either. There is a fundamental problem at the heart of our economy, and our society. It was there at the birth of the nation, because it was there in the British Raj, and among the kings and emperors who preceded it. That problem is the assumption -- indeed, presumption -- that the State is more important than the market and society. It is the hallmark of all ‘ruled’ places. And it tends to produce ruled outcomes. Post-Independence, the government told us this was necessary, because the market was so weak, and the society couldn’t quite be trusted to overcome its divisions. But rather than set a course to strengthen the market and to flatten social divisions, successive political leaders presented themselves as saviours who would cover for these weaknesses through their own actions in government. It hasn’t worked. Why? On the economic front, the answer is simple. The economy grows mostly thought investment by citizens in private companies and businesses. If that’s made second-class and State investments enjoy higher status, the economy grows slowly. About 50 countries tried this in the second half of the 20th century, and nearly all still languish in the bottom half of the world’s nations in development. Could this be fixed by merely tilting that scale alone? Would our development accelerate if the private sector invested more, and the public sector’s role in the economy was smaller? Yes, but that’s not likely, because the confidence of private investors depends on things that have a large social component. It’s hard to create a free market without freer people. And a State that isn’t willing to embrace greater freedoms for the people isn’t likely to enable, or even permit, greater freedom for markets and businesses. Investors know that. And the stronger we try to make the State, the more this trend will harden. What’s the answer? We have to fix the imbalance and put in place a more equal partnership between the three spheres. The vast and varied energies of the people cannot be substituted for by the actions of governments. Instead, we have to believe -- in thought and action -- that the path to development runs equally outside the government, and is critically dependent on the personal and economic liberties of the people. Governments do try to signal something like this, in every Budget. But it’s usually small, and often slows to a crawl not long after the first announcement. That won’t do. What we need is something much more robust, and which is manifest in public expenditure. There are two big tests -- first, collect less money. And second, let the most local level of government spend more, while higher levels of government spend less. There’s a thumb rule to this which is worth bearing in mind. The central government collects a lot of taxes and spends it slowly. The states collect a little less than the Centre but still much more than local bodies. They also spend faster than the Centre, but not as fast the local councils. And the councils spend the fastest of them all, but have the least money. And the people -- they spend even faster, but they’re the ones giving the money to the rest! With this measure, it’s evident that what we’re doing each February is the very opposite of what is needed. We’re looking for new economic momentum from the slowest spenders in government. We’re also not factoring in what expenditure by the public -- both individuals and businesses -- can achieve if they had more money and confidence in the system. It’s almost as if, even as we speak of and breathlessly await the magic formula for development, we routinely disregard the potions in that magic. That’s why our story of development has remained weak, and as a result, hundreds of millions of people live in avoidable suffering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/budgeting-for-dreams-living-with-realities-948451.html
07-02-2021||South||Mother hacks own son to death as ‘sacrifice to God’ in Kerala||Close on the heels of a couple murdering their two daughters suspected to be over blind belief in tantric rituals and reincarnation in Andhra Pradesh, a six-year-old boy was hacked to death by his own mother as a ‘sacrifice to God’ in Kerala on Sunday. The shocking incident occurred at Poolakkad in Palakkad district in Kerala. Aamil, who was the youngest of the three sons of Sulaiman - Shahida couple, was found dead in their house. Shahida herself reported the matter to the police by around 4 am. She reportedly told the police that she offered her son as a sacrifice to God. Police said that the prima facie information was that Shahida herself committed the crime and reported to the police. Further probe to know the provocation was on. The body was found in a toilet in the house with deep injury on the neck and legs tied together. Sulaiman and the two other children were said to be unaware of the killing until the police reached the spot. Local people told the police that they did not notice any problems with Shahida and she used to take good care of her sons. Shahida, who is now learnt to be carrying, used to work as a teacher earlier. Sulaiman, who earlier worked aboard, is now working as a driver in Palakkad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mother-hacks-own-son-to-death-as-sacrifice-to-god-in-kerala-948565.html
07-02-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh HC lifts 'confinement' curbs by SEC on Minister Ramachandra Reddy||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Sunday lifted the February 6 'confinement' restrictions imposed by the State Election Commission on Minister P Ramachandra Reddy for his alleged remarks against it. Justice D V S S Somayajulu, while hearing a 'House Motion' filed by Reddy against the SECs order, however directed him not to address the media. Panchayat polls in the state are scheduled to begin from February 9 and will go on till February 21 in four phases. SEC Ramesh Kumar, in his order on Saturday said the Commission had carefully looked at various alternatives and avenues of remedial action and was invoking its plenary powers under Article 243K of the Constitution and directing the DGP to "confine" the Minister for Panchayat Raj and Rural Development to his residential premises till completion of elections. The SEC also ordered that the Ministershould not talk to the media. Reddys counsel contended that his client was not served with any notice by the Commission before issuing the Confinement Orders. According to the SEC Order, the Minister, in a press conference last week, warned Collectors and Returning Officers not to obey the instructions of the "madcap Election Commissioner" and if they do so (preventing forced unanimous elections), action would be taken against those officials and they would be blacklisted after the polls are over. Reddy also allegedly attributed political motives to the SEC, saying Ramesh Kumar was favouring the opposition Telugu Desam Party with a view to get its MP or MLC seat in future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-hc-lifts-confinement-curbs-by-sec-on-minister-ramachandra-reddy-948582.html
07-02-2021||South||30,000 powerlooms to fall silent for 11 days||Thirty-thousand powerlooms here are to stop working for 11 days from February 11, said coordinator of Powerloom Cloth Manufacturers Association Kadavel on Sunday. The powerlooms are to fall silent to protest against rise in price of rayon cloth, he said. At present, the rayon yarn sells at Rs 250 per kg, which is a 25 per cent increase in price when compared to the price that prevailed in December last, he said. Because of the rise, the weave could not sell the yarn at the increased price and the cloth has piled up with the manufacturers, Kadavel said. The cost of production for a metre of rayon cloth is Rs 38 but the buyers pay only Rs 32 a metre, he said. The weaver had protested in December by closing the factories, but the government was not willing to take steps to cut the rayon yarn price, he said. So, again the weavers decided to stage a protest for 11 days from February 11. During the strike, the weavers would stage demonstrations against the Union and state governments to take effective steps to reduce the rayon cloth price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/30000-powerlooms-to-fall-silent-for-11-days-948609.html
07-02-2021||South||Congress and Opposition leader Chennithala challenges Kerala CM, CPI(M) to come clean on Sabarimala||Ahead of the upcoming assembly polls, Opposition Congress-led UDF on Sunday challenged Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the CPI(M) to come clean on the Sabarimala women's entry issue. "What is the stand of the CPI(M) and Chief Minister on Sabarimala? Are they with the devotees? Do they have the guts to say they are with the devotees? Will the CM shed his fake persona of a renaissance leader?" Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala asked. The LDF government had erected a 620 km "renaissance" wall on January 1, 2019, in which lakhs of women from the northern end of Kasaragod to the southern tip here, had participated as part of a state-sponsored initiative to uphold gender equality. The 'Women's wall' was conceived in the backdrop of frenzied protests witnessed in the hill shrine of Lord Ayyappa at Sabarimala after the LDF government decided to implement the Supreme Court verdict, allowing all women to pray at the Ayyappa shrine. Two women in their forties had trekked the hill shrine a day after the human wall was erected and offered prayers, breaking the age-old custom of not allowing those in the menstrual age to pray at the Ayyappa temple. Chennithala also wanted Vijayan to clarify if there was a change in the stand of the party and left front on the issue. "Is he prepared to state that they would stand with devotees? Do not hurt their sentiments further," he told reporters at Malappuram. The draft Sabarimala bill, brought out by the Congress on Saturday would be discussed by the UDF to give final touches. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said in Kottayam that the UDF had never thought of making Sabarimala apolitical agenda during the polls. Asked about the Marxist party's stand, CPI(M) leader M Govindan Master, said: "let the decision of the larger bench come. And then we will hold discussions with all sections on how it can be implemented." Attacking the two fronts, BJP Kerala unit President K Surendran, said both have shifted from their traditional stand with an eye on the coming polls and are 'cheating' people. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had announced the party stand which was against the devotees, he said. Now the UDF has said they will bring in a legislation to protect the rights of Sabarimala devotees and they have also prepared a draft bill, he added. Surendran alleged that during the height of the Sabarimala protests, no Congress worker was arrested by the Vijayan government while over 52,000 cases were registered against activists of the BJP and right-wing outfits. Is the Pinarayi Vijayan government prepared to withdraw all the cases registered then and apologise to the Ayyappa devotees ? he asked. Surendra also said if the BJP comes to power, all the Devaswom boards in the state would be dissolved, politicians removed from its administrations and believers appointed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-and-opposition-leader-chennithala-challenges-kerala-cm-cpim-to-come-clean-on-sabarimala-948615.html
07-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM to decide on reopening schools for classes 1-8, says education minister||Classes for IX and XI standard students in Tamil Nadu would resume from Monday while resumption of classes from I and VIII would be decided upon by Chief Minister of the state E Palaniswami, said Education Minister K A Sengottaiyan on Sunday. Students should attend the classes by wearing the masks in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and bring an acceptance from parents that they are willing to send their wards to school, he told reporters here. Already, classrooms have been sprayed with disinfectants, the toilets and other places in the schools been cleaned, he said. Referring to a few complaints against some private schools demanding full fees from the students prior to the annual examination or they would not be allowed to write it, the Minister said the state government would take action against such schools. Earlier, he distributed 'Thalikku Thangam' to 484 women and benefits of many welfare schemes in the presence of Erode district Collector C Kathiravan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-to-decide-on-reopening-schools-for-classes-1-8-says-education-minister-948639.html
07-02-2021||South||Nepotism allegations continue to haunt Left government in Kerala right from initial days||The CPM-led Left Democratic Front government in Kerala that faced nepotism allegations right from its initial months of governance is now on the defensive as the Congress-led United Democratic Front is unleashing a campaign listing out a series of appointment of close relatives of CPM leaders to various government institutions. The latest being the appointment of the wife of a former CPM MP as assistant professor, allegedly sabotaging the selection committee recommendations. The Congress alleges that at least 2.5 lakh backdoor appointments took place over almost five years of CPM governance and the beneficiaries were either relatives of party leaders or party sympathisers. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has now come out with a list of around 15 instances of nepotism. He alleged that left leniency had become the criteria for appointments in the Kerala government now.  The government is trying to put up a defense with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan citing that 1.55 lakh recruitments were done through the Public Service Commission during this government's term compared to 1.5 lakh during the term of the previous Congress government and over 2,500 start-ups were formed in the state. The Congress, which is making the backdoor appointments and nepotism a key topic for the upcoming assembly election campaign, announced that once it comes to power in the state, all the backdoor appointments by the current government would be reviewed. The first major embarrassment faced by the Pinarayi Vijayan government was a nepotism row as even Industries Minister and senior CPM leaders E P Jayarajan had to even quit from the Cabinet following controversy over the appointment of his nephew P. K. Sudheer, who is also the son of the CPM MP P K Sreemathi, as managing director of Kerala State Industrial Enterprises.  Jayarajan’s brother’s daughter-in-law Deepthi Nishad’s appointed as  general manager at Kerala Clays and Ceramics Products Limited, former Chief Minister E. K. Nayanar's grandson Sooraj Raveendra as MD of Kinfra Film and Video Park, CPM leader Anathalavattom Anandan's son Jeeva Anand as MD of Kinfra Apparel Park and CPM leader Koliakode Krishnan Nair's son Unnikrishnan as general manager of Kinfra also kicked off a controversy during the initial months of the Pinarayi Vijayan government itself. The ongoing row is over appointment of the CPM leader M B Rajesh’s wife Ninitha Kanicheri as an assistant professor at the Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit in Kerala. While University authorities maintained that the appointment was done as per norms, a member of the selection panel, Umer Tharamel, openly commented that the selection list turned upside down. Though reporters sought the Chief Minister’s response to the allegations, he evaded a direct reply citing that the university authorities itself clarified it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nepotism-allegations-continue-to-haunt-left-government-in-kerala-right-from-initial-days-948672.html
07-02-2021||South||Kerala urges Centre to review Wayanad eco-sensitive notification||Citing the concerns of the people, Kerala government has urged the centre to review the recent notification making 118.59 square kilometre area around Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary as eco-sensitive zone. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday urging that the notification may be amended by avoiding thickly populated areas considering the concerns of the people. The Chief Minister pointed out that the Forest and Environment Ministry issued the notification without considering the state government’s recommendation that only 88.2 square kilometre area should be notified as eco-sensitive.   Tholpetty, Kattikulam, Panavalli, Kurukanmoola, Chaligadda, Kappistore, Cheeyambam, Moodakolli and Cheeral areas should be avoided as these regions were thickly populated and the people of these areas were already struggling for livelihood. Already mainstream political parties and religious bodies in Wayanad are up in arms against the notification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-urges-centre-to-review-wayanad-eco-sensitive-notification-948698.html
07-02-2021||South||Properties of Sasikala's kin confiscated by TN govt||Properties owned by V N Sudhakaran and J Ilavarasi, close relatives of expelled AIADMK leader V K Sasikala and co-convicts in the case of an asset, in the city have been confiscated in compliance with a 2017 Supreme Court order, the Tamil Nadu government said on Sunday. The action, announced a day ahead of Sasikala's proposed return to the state after serving the four-year term in the case, applies to nearly 6,000 sq ft land and buildings with a constructed area of 4,300 sq ft plus in downtown Chennai. Besides Sasikala, Sudhakaran and Ilavarasi were also sentenced to undergo four-year imprisonment by the apex court in February 2017. While Sasikala, a close aide of late chief minister Jayalalithaa, was released on January 27 after she completed her prison term, the other two are in jail and likely to complete their sentences soon. Sasikala is scheduled to return by road on Monday from Karnataka, after taking rest following recovery from COVID-19. With the confiscation, necessary changes have been effected in the records and the properties are vested in the government now, Chennai District Collectorate said in an official release. The income from the properties including rent and pending rent would accrue to the government, the release said. The properties confiscated are undivided share in land and 'additional buildings' on upscale Wallace Garden Street and ground plus one house on posh TTK Road. These are owned by Lex Property Development Private Limited's partners Sudhakaran and Ilavarasi. The disproportionate assets case originally filed against Jayalalithaa and the three others for amassment of Rs 66.65 crore assets disproportionate to their known sources of income between 1991 and 1996. The case was later transferred to Bengaluru. While the trial court in Bengaluru convicted all the four, the Karnataka High Court later acquitted them. The Supreme Court, allowing appeals challenging their acquittals, confirmed and restored the trial court order convicting Sasikala, Illavarasi and Sudhakaran, while abating appeals related to Jayalalithaa in view of her death in December 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/properties-of-sasikalas-kin-confiscated-by-tn-govt-948768.html
07-02-2021||State||First transgender woman appointed Youth Congress Mangaluru South Secretary||Sanjana Chalavadi, a transgender and a beautician, has been elected as the Youth Congress Mangaluru South unit general secretary. She is the first transgender to attain the post.  The Youth Congress elections were held online from January 10 to 12. "I am happy to be elected as the general secretary of Youth Congress Mangaluru South unit," said Sanjana, who had won the Parivarthan Trans Queen beauty pageant contest held in Bengaluru in 2018. Shiva has been elected as the president of Youth Congress Mangaluru South unit. Sohan and Deekshith Poojary have been elected as the vice-presidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/first-transgender-woman-appointed-youth-congress-mangaluru-south-secretary-948511.html
07-02-2021||State||Fine on feeding wild animals on Agumbe Ghat||Acting tough against people feeding wild animals while driving the Agumbe Ghat, the Forest Department has launched a special drive to create awareness on the issue as well as impose a fine on those indulging in the act. Around 40 personnel from the wildlife division of Hebri, Karkala, Amasebaily, and Siddapura deployed on a 10-km stretch from Someshwara to Agumbe created awareness among the motorists to not throw food packets to wild animals. They also fined the drivers of Rs 50 to 200 for violating rules. Awareness boards were also mounted on various locations along the ghat road. Siddapura ACF Bhagawas Dasa Kudthalkar, Hebri RFO Anil Kumar, Amasebailu RFO Sandesh Kumar were present. "The feeding of animals with junk food will have an impact on their health. In addition, there is the possibility of animals being used to the food. When failed to get such food, they might attack human beings, said Hebri wildlife division RFO Anil Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fine-on-feeding-wild-animals-on-agumbe-ghat-948530.html
07-02-2021||State||Mahadayi issue: No injustice to Goa, Karnataka, says CT Ravi||BJP national secretary CT Ravi on Sunday once again reiterated that his party would not commit any injustice on Goa as well as Karnataka in the ongoing dispute between the two states related to the waters of the Mahadayi river. "The case is in court and what decision the court may give we will follow. Party will not commit injustice on Goa as well as Karnataka," Ravi told a press conference in Panaji. Both Karnataka and Goa have challenged the award of the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal in the apex court. Ravi, a BJP MLA from Chikmagalur assembly constituency, was in Goa to attend a meeting of the party's state executive committee meeting, which was held in Panaji earlier today. Ravi also said that the Bharatiya Janata Party was a nationalist party and therefore it treated all states on par and made no distinction between two state entities."BJP is a nationalistic party. Goa and Karnataka for the BJP are one and the same," Ravi said. Commenting on the prospects of the BJP in the 2022 Goa assembly elections, Ravi said that the party was confident of victory. "Winning might be easy, not difficult," Ravi said. The senior BJP leader also said that the elections would be contested under the dual leadership of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and state Bharatiya Janata Party president Sadanand Shet Tanavade. "Dr. Pramod Sawant is the CM. He is leading the government. Our president Sadanand Tanavade is there (too). We will go into the elections led by these two leaders," Ravi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mahadayi-issue-no-injustice-to-goa-karnataka-says-ct-ravi-948644.html
07-02-2021||State||Man trampled to death by wild elephant||A man was trampled to death by a wild elephant near Heggudilu village, in Saragur taluk, Mysuru district, on Sunday. Jois (45), of Kerala, is the deceased. According to sources, he had taken land on lease in the village and was cultivating ginger. He was working on the fields on Sunday, when a wild jumbo attacked and threw him into a ditch with its trunk, killing him on the spot. He is survived by his wife and two daughters, according to villagers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/man-trampled-to-death-by-wild-elephant-948716.html
07-02-2021||State||BEL signs MoU with Beretta Italy||Defence PSU Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Italian firearms maker Beretta for the indigenous manufacture of close quarter weapons. BEL said the agreement was in line with the Centre's vision for an "Aatmanirbhar Bharat." The MoU will see the manufacture of carbines and other small arms, required by Defence and other Non-Defence customers. Anandi Ramalingam, Director (Marketing), BEL, and Carlo Ferlito, General Manager, Fabbrica d’Armi Pietro Beretta and VP Beretta Defense Technologies, signed the MoU documents on behalf of BEL and Beretta Italy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bel-signs-mou-with-beretta-italy-948750.html
07-02-2021||State||Mahadayi: BJP committed to protect interests of Goa, Karnataka, says C T Ravi||BJP national secretary C T Ravi on Sunday once again reiterated that his party would not commit any injustice to Goa as well as Karnataka in the ongoing dispute between the states on sharing Mahadayi water. “The case is in the Supreme Court and we will abide by the court’s decision. Party will not commit any injustice to Goa or Karnataka,” Ravi told a press conference in Panaji. Both Karnataka and Goa have challenged the award of the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal in the apex court. Ravi, a BJP MLA from Chikmagalur Assembly constituency, was in Goa to attend the party’s state executive committee meeting held in Panaji earliertoday. Ravi also said that the BJP was a national party and therefore it treated all states on par and made no distinction between two state entities. “BJP is a nationalistic party. Goa and Karnataka for the party are one and the same,” Ravi said. Commenting on the prospects of the BJP in the 2022 assembly elections in Goa, Ravi said that the party was confident of victory. “We will have it easy. The party will retain power without much difficulty,” Ravi said. The senior BJP leader also said that the elections would be contested under the dual leadership of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and state BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade. “We will go to the elections under the leadership of CM Sawant and party state president Sadanand Tanavade,” Ravi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mahadayi-bjp-committed-to-protect-interests-of-goa-karnataka-says-c-t-ravi-948755.html
07-02-2021||State||Survey on Kuruba community to be submitted in 12 months||The ongoing study on the inclusion of Kuruba community into the Scheduled Tribes (ST) list will take another 12 months for completion. Twenty teams of the State Tribal Research Institute in Mysuru is conducting a survey across the State and collecting all the details. The survey was launched in October 2019 at Haveri district. It will be conducted in 26 districts in the State, except Bidar, Yadgir, Kalaburagi and Kodagu districts. The teams have already completed the survey in 23 districts and are yet to be completed in the remaining three districts. The works had to be stalled from March to September 2020, in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. The first phase of works is nearing completion. The coding of the survey will be taken up in the second phase. A report on the social, financial, educational and political status of the Kuruba community will be prepared in the third phase. The draft will have to be submitted to an expert committee. The team requires time to submit the report, said Institute directorProf T B Basavanagowda.  Periyapatna, Nanjagud, T Narasipur, Saragur taluks have been selected for study in Mysuru district. The teams have conducted a survey of 12,043 families so far, by staying with the families, studying their daily activities, lifestyle, beliefs, customs, culture, marriage and others. Besides, the study is also being conducted on the criteria suggested by B N Lokur Committee, he explained. The Social Welfare Department had directed the Institute to conduct a study on Kuruba community in May 2019 and sanctioned Rs 40 lakh for the purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/survey-on-kuruba-community-to-be-submitted-in-12-months-948766.html
07-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SC stays HC's Suo Motu order for reconstruction of migrant labourers' huts at Bengaluru||The Supreme Court has stayed Karnataka High Court's suo motu directions to the state government to reconstruct hutments of migrant labourers, some of which were burnt down during the Covid-19 lockdown in March 2020, at Bengaluru north's Kacharakaranahalli village. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy on February 4 suspended the operations of the December 4 orders, including one related to the reconstruction of structures at the same place, on a special leave petition filed by the state government. The court also issued notice to private persons whose temporary structures were removed. The state government led by advocate Shubhranshu Padhi, maintained that the land in question undisputedly belonged to the government and notifications were already issued for clearance of the slums and rehabilitation of the residents at an alternate parcel of four acres of land. It contended that the HC had wrongly held that the state violated the right to residence guaranteed to slums dwellers under Article 21 of the Constitution, as the slum stood on government tank bed unsuitable for inhabitation. "The right under Article 21 cannot be stretched so far as to include the right to claim rehabilitation and shelter in a specific parcel of land owned by the government," it said. With regard to the burning down of some of the hutments, the state government said an FIR and charge sheet had already been filed against the accused miscreants. It also pointed out the state government had already paid compensation of Rs 14,100 to each of the affected families whose huts were destroyed. However, "the direction to rehabilitate the residents of the slums on the government land would set a dangerous precedent as it virtually amounts to regularising an admitted encroachment," it said. If the state government was to implement the HC's order for reconstruction, it would incur Rs 68 lakh which is a significant amount for temporary structures, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-stays-hcs-suo-motu-order-for-reconstruction-of-migrant-labourers-huts-at-bengaluru-948697.html
07-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Christian community in Karnataka donates over Rs 1 crore to construction of Ram Temple, says Dep||Members of the Christian community here on Sunday contributed more than Rs one crore for the construction of Lord Ram temple in Ayodhya, the office of Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said on Sunday. At a meeting with a group of community members convened by Narayan, they made the contribution to the ongoing "Nidhi Samarpana Abhiyan" (fundraising drive), it said in a release. Entrepreneurs, businessmen, educationists, NRIs, CEOs, marketing experts, social service activists and leaders of the Christian community participated in the meeting. "BJP believes in pro-people actions and Sab ka Saath, Sab ka Vikas' as stated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This is an inclusive party comprising all the minorities and this philosophy of governance is being followed both at the Centre and the state," Narayan was quoted as saying in the release. Ronald Colaso, a businessman who spoke on behalf of the representatives, said the community had been always responding to the cause of the nation and social harmony. He expressed happiness over the establishment of the Christian Development Corporation in the state and grant of Rs 200 crore for it. The leaders of the community also expressed their gratitude to Narayan for his efforts as a higher education minister to present and get approval in the state assembly a bill proposing the establishment of Saint Joseph University, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/christian-community-in-karnataka-donates-over-rs-1-crore-to-construction-of-ram-temple-says-dep-948719.html
07-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 487 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths||In the last seven days, the state found 3,131 new Covid-19 cases, including 487 fresh infections reported on Sunday. The seven-day figures are 6.14% less than 3,336 new cases found the week before. Sunday’s new numbers bring the state’s total positive caseload to 9,42,518 out of which 5,959 cases are active. The active case numbers remained largely steady since the start of February when the daily case numbers fell from the 6,000 number range to the 5,000 range. At the same time, the state’s testing regime, which had dropped to historically low numbers last week, increased by 15,798 to 4,83,015 tests, this week. As much as 51% per cent of Sunday’s cases (or 250 cases) were in Bengaluru Urban. The next highest numbers were 38 cases found in Mysuru district, 30 in Dakshina Kannada, 23 in Tumkuru district and 20 in Kalaburagi district. The state also discharged 493 people, including 288 in Bengaluru Urban. The government also disclosed three new deaths, including the one fatality that happened on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-487-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-948732.html
07-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Seer urges Centre, Karnataka govt not to alter Category 2A||A protest has been planned, on February 22, demanding the Centre and the state government not to alter backward classes 2A Category, said Brahmananda Saraswati Swami of Ujire Sriram Kshetra. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of an event organised by the Backward Classes 2A Forum here, the seer said, “If Panchamasali Lingayat sub-sect is included under 2A Category, the quantum of reservation for the category has to be increased. The Union government should keep this in mind, he said. On the Panchamasali quota struggle led by two seers of the community, the Ujire mutt seer said, “Sanyasis should not spearhead any people’s struggle. Instead, they should work towards uplifting the downtrodden.” “Including the dominant communities/castes under some backward classes categories to serve the vested interests is not just. The dominant castes within the category will enjoy all benefits at the cost of smaller communities. All political parties should stop indulging in appeasement politics,” the seer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/seer-urges-centre-karnataka-govt-not-to-alter-category-2a-948749.html
07-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, armed forces can 'see through' enemy designs, literally||A city-based startup has set out to give tank crew a vital edge over their hostile counterparts: the ability to see right through their armour, at the world around them. The development was partly made by a former Indian Navy submariner whose career in the fighting blind ‘silent service’ gave him an acute appreciation for sight. The system uses a series of special cameras fitted to a 360-degree mount and fixed to the top of the turret. The camera feeds video round the clock to heads-up displays worn by crew members.  Lt Commander (retired) D Rajendrakumar, director of programmes at Tonbo, a Koramangala-based startup, said the system gives tank crews the instant ability to see what is happening in the world around them without sticking their heads up through hatches or looking through portholes which afford a narrow field ofvision.  Rajendrakumar said that the invention, dubbed the ‘Wolfpack,’ has its origins in his experiences as a submariner in the Indian Navy till 2013 and by the Kargil war, during which Indian forces suffered casualties because of poor visibility.  “One of the biggest problems facing the tank crew is their limited visibility. A delay in seeing an enemy usually comes with negative consequences,” Rajendrakumar said, adding that the camera system had been in development for nearly a decade and uses a head-up display, similar to google glass. The setup was mounted on a BMP II Sarath armoured-personnel carrier at Aero India 2021 and was examined by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Secretary of Defence Production Ajay Kumar described the system as a success story ensuing from incubation in the government’s Innovation for Defence Excellence (iDex) ecosystem in 2019. “It gives a tremendous feeling of pride to see that the development took about 8 to 10 months,” he said, adding that the home-grown innovation had been achieved within the standard IDex funding package of Rs 1.5 crore. Rajendrakumar said that the system is currently under trial by the Israeli defence forces and that data from its performance is expected soon. Thermal imaging info He added that the system, which can also provide thermal imaging information directly into the headsets of tank crew, can identify armoured vehicles at a range of up to 2,000 metres and individual troops at a range of up to 500 metres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-armed-forces-can-see-through-enemy-designs-literally-948752.html
07-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kempegowda statue for Bengaluru airport taking shape at Noida||Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan has said that the 108-foot-tall bronze statue of Nadaprabhu Kempegowda, to be installed in front of the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) in Bengaluru, was being readied at Noida near here at a cost of Rs 85 crore and will be ready by next year. “Due to Covid, the work got delayed. The statue will be ready by next year,” he told reporters after reviewing the progress of the work on the statue at Noida recently. Renowned sculptor and Padma Bhushan awardee Ram Vanji Sutar is designing the statue at his Nodia studio. Sutar had built the ‘Statue of Unity’ in Gujarat and the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in Bengaluru. Ashwath Narayan said that the foundation stone for the project was laid last year. The statue will be installed on a 23-acre heritage park that will come up at KIA, he said. Swami Nirmalanandanatha of Adichuchanagiri Mutt had accompanied the minister. Sutar said, “Right now, we have finished work till the neck level of the statue, which is approximately about 80-foot high, using high-density thermocol and CNC programme.” After the thermocol statue is ready, the design moulds will be taken using clay and plaster of Paris, he said, adding that two different models, including sand casting, will be followed while making the statue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kempegowda-statue-for-bengaluru-airport-taking-shape-at-noida-948754.html
07-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Drone cameras to check wildfires at MM Hills||The Forest department will use drone cameras at Male Mahadeshwara Hills Wildlife Sanctuary in Hanur taluk, Chamarajanagar district, to keep a watch on miscreants and prevent poaching. The drone cameras will be used at Kollegal, PG Palya, Hanur, Ramapura, Male Mahadeshwara Hills and Palar ranges, according to sources. The Forest department is gearing up before the summer and has created fire lines to prevent wildfires from spreading. Besides, it had appointed fire watchers to keep vigil. Forest fires were reported at Jageri and Hanur ranges under Kollegal limits last year. Two years ago, fires had reduced Bolibetta under MM Hill range near Ponnachi to ashes. A probe revealed that the fires were the handiwork of a few miscreants. This year, the authorities have created fire lines of 450 to 500 km. The department has appointed around 400 fire watchers on permanent and contract basis, said V Yedukondalu, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Male Mahadeshwara Hills Wildlife Sanctuary. He said two drone cameras, including one from the department, will be used thrice every day. The cameras can capture the exact area of the fire and detect miscreants in four to five km range, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/drone-cameras-to-check-wildfires-at-mm-hills-948756.html
07-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jalappa suffers stroke, hospitalised||Former minister R L Jalappa (96) was on Sunday hospitalised after he suffered a stroke. He was at his Toobagere residence in Chikkaballapur district when the incident occurred. He was immediately shifted to R L Jalappa Hospital & Research Centre. “He is undergoing treatment at the Intensive Care Unit. His condition is stable,” Jalappa’s relative Nagaraj told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jalappa-suffers-stroke-hospitalised-948760.html
07-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Traffic police to act tough against minors driving vehicles||The Traffic Police has come up with several initiatives to put an end to rising cases of minors riding and driving vehicles in the city, including stern action against vehicle owners who allow them to use vehicles. The City Traffic Police have launched a drive and booked more than 50 cases in connection with minors driving vehicles in the last three days. Besides, the police are also making efforts to educate the minors as well as parents not to allow their children to ride or drive vehicles without a valid driving licence. In a recent move, the police have sought the support of the petrol bunk staff and the owners to inform the police if they found any unauthorised drivers or riders visiting their fuel station. The police are making efforts to ensure the safety of road users. It has to be noted that three of a family was killed as a car, which was driven by a minor boy rammed into their two-wheeler, near Dandi Maramma Temple on Mysuru-Bengaluru Road, recently. Likewise, several other cases were reported in the city. Assistant Commissioner of Police (Traffic) S N Sandesh Kumar told DH, “We have requested the petrol bunk authorities to join hands to put an end to minors driving. They just need to alert us if any unauthorised drivers or riders visit their station. We can collect the vehicle registration number through CCTV camera footages.” “We have launched a drive in the city and more than 50 cases of minors driving vehicles were reported in three days,” he said. According to police, unauthorised riders can avoid police and camera installed by the department but not the fuel station. Thus, the police sought their support, he said. The ACP said the parents and the owners of the vehicles need to be very careful before allowing minor driving. As per the law, vehicle owners shall be punished with imprisonment that may extend to three months or with fine, or with both, according to Section 180 of Indian Motor Vehicle (IMV) Act. The provision deals with allowing unauthorised persons to drive the vehicle,” he said. The ACP said while a few owners are not aware about the impact of violation, a section of parents are not bothered to stop their children from violating norms. However, the police will not tolerate minors driving or riding, he said. As education institutions have started functioning, the police will visit the institutions and encourage students not to violate traffic norms, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/traffic-police-to-act-tough-against-minors-driving-vehicles-948765.html
07-02-2021||West||Fire at MSEDCL office in Maharashtra, Thane; none hurt||A fire broke out at an electricity department's office in Maharashtra's Thane city, but there has been no report of any casualty, an official said on Sunday. The blaze erupted around 10 pm on Saturday in the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited's (MSEDCL) office in Wagle Estate locality, Thane civic body's regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam said.   Two fire engines, police and the disaster management cell staff rushed to the spot. The fire was brought under control within an hour, he said. "There was no casualty. The cause of the fire and the extent of damage is yet to be ascertained," the official said. On Friday, the Thane unit of the BJP agitated in front of the MSEDCL's office in Wagle Estate against alleged exorbitant power bills sent to consumers. The agitation was part of the BJP's statewide "halla bol" protest on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-msedcl-office-in-maharashtra-thane-none-hurt-948506.html
07-02-2021||West||Pune institute signs MoU with NIM on mountaineering||Pune-based Guardian Giripremi Institute of Mountaineering (GGIM) on Sunday signed an MoU with Nehru Institute of Mountaineering (NIM) for conducting Himalayan High-Altitude Training for students enrolling for a Diploma in Mountaineering and Allied Sports jointly conducted by GGIM and the Savitribai Phule Pune University. The GGIM in association with Savitribai Phule Pune University had initiated the first-of-its-kind mountaineering course. “The course consists of rigorous mountaineering training in the Sahyadris and the Himalayas as well. The high-altitude training in Himalayas will now be conducted by the Nehru Institute of Mountaineering, Uttarkashi, one of the premium mountaineering institutes in India. The MoU will help the students to get top-notch training in mountaineering in the Himalayas by highly skilled trainers,” said Umesh Zirpe, Founder-Director, GGIM, who is also an Everester. The NIM is located in Uttarkashi, a town located in proximity to the Gangotri region in Garhwal Himalaya, a paradise for mountaineering, and offers one of the toughest and finest mountaineering training in the world. Col. Amit Bisht, Principal, NIM, Lt. Col. Yogesh Dhumal, Vice Principal, NIM and Bhushan Harshe, Head Operations, GGIM, were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-institute-signs-mou-with-nim-on-mountaineering-948581.html
07-02-2021||West||Maharashtra BJP leader Keshav Upadhye slams Elgar Parishad organisers for backing Sharjeel Usmani||The Maharashtra BJP on Sunday demanded action against the organisers of the recent Elgar Parishad in Pune for "supporting" Sharjeel Usmani, one of the speakers at the conclave, for his "anti-Hindu comments". In a tweet, state BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said the Elgar Parishad was creating divisions in society. "By supporting Usmani's anti Hindu comments, Elgar Parishad proves what its real motives are," Upadhye tweeted. The BJP leader was responding to a statement released by Elgar Parishad organisers defending Usmani. Usmani, an alumni of the Aligarh Muslim University in Uttar Pradesh, is accused of making derogatory remarks about Hinduism during a Elgar Parishad event organised in Pune on January 30. Pune police on February 2 registered a case under section 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on the ground of religion etc) against Usmani on the complaint of a BJP youth wing leader, officials had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bjp-leader-keshav-upadhye-slams-elgar-parishad-organisers-for-backing-sharjeel-usmani-948589.html
07-02-2021||West||Notorious drug traffickers arrested in Mumbai||In a major operation, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested two notorious drug traffickers from Mumbai, who are suspected to be linked to big cartels. The accused, Ibrahim Mujawar alias Ibrahim Kaskar, who was arrested from Jogeshwari, used to deal in Mephedrone(MD). The NCB has seized a Mercedes Benz car and 100 gms of MD from him. “Ibrahim was using this high-end car to peddle and distribute drugs to their high profile customers,” NCB officials said. During the preliminary investigations, Ibrahim disclosed that the seized MD was sourced from Asif Rajkotwala of Dongri. Swiftly, the NCB Mumbai team apprehended Asif Rajkotwala and a small quantity of Charas has also been recovered.  Ibrahim and Asif have been working together for the last year, NCB officials said. Ibrahim is facing cases registered under 353 IPC for attacking police personnel and 307 IPC for attempt to murder. Currently, he is on bail in those cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/notorious-drug-traffickers-arrested-in-mumbai-948598.html
07-02-2021||West||Pejavar Seer meets Maharashtra Governor||Seer Vishwaprasanna Theertha Swami, Chief pontiff of the Shri Pejavar Mutt, Udupi, met Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at Raj Bhavan on Sunday. The Pejavar Seer who has been appointed as a trustee of the Shri Ayodhya Ram Mandir Teertha Kshetra Trust, was visiting Maharashtra to mobilise support for the construction of Shri Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, he told the governor. Former Governor of Nagaland Padmanabha Acharya, State Secretary of Vishwa Hindu Parishad Ramachandra Ramuka, Treasurer, VHP Maharashtra Ramswaroop Agarwal and Manager of Shri Pejavar Mutt Ramdas Upadhyaya were present, a Raj Bhavan spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pejavar-seer-meets-maharashtra-governor-948619.html
07-02-2021||West||Mumbai Police busts porn film racket||In a major swoop, the Mumbai Police arrested actor Gehana Vaishist and four others in relation to a racket involving production of porn films. Arrests were made following a raid at a bungalow in the Madh Island area of Mumbai’s western suburbs by the Property Cell of Crime Branch-CID. Besides the actor, a light-man and two other women working as photographer/videographer and graphic designer in the porn film production company have been arrested by police. According to Crime Branch officials, the group lured women to make adult videos of them under the pretext of giving them jobs in the film industry. They targeted needy and vulnerable women by promising them big breaks in Bollywood films. The accused also released trailers of such porn videos on popular social media platforms. Andana Tiwari alias Gehana Vasisth hails from Chhattisgarh has been part of some TV serials, films and web-series.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-busts-porn-film-racket-948626.html
07-02-2021||West||AIMIM chief Owaisi pitches Muslim-tribal unity ahead of Gujarat polls||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Sunday marked the maiden foray of his party on the political scene in Gujarat by making a strong pitch for the unity among tribals, Muslims and Dalits ahead of the upcoming polls to local bodies, and also sought to project his party as the sole alternative to the BJP and the Congress. Owaisi-led All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen is contesting maiden elections in Gujarat--in Ahmedabad and Bharuch cities--in alliance with the Bhartiya Tribal Party (BTP). Campaigning in Bharuch, Owaisi accused the BJP government of maintaining double standards on the issues concerning tribals, Muslims and OBCs. "On the one hand, the BJP government refused to implement the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution (dealing with administration and control of scheduled areas and STs) for tribals, but on the other hand the government imposed the Disturbed Areas Act that prevents Muslims to either sell or purchase land and houses without the permission of the district collector. "The Disturbed Areas Act is against the Constitution and rights to life and equality," he said. Citing a study by IIT-Roorkee, Owaisi said tribals are the "most displaced community in the country, but despite that, the government is not providing them protection under the fifth schedule of the Constitution". "You (BJP government) constructed the Statue of Unity (in tribal-dominated Narmada district of Gujarat), but will you turn the unity of tribals into disunity? What kind of unity is this to snatch their land, deprive them of water and destroy their culture?" he asked. Owaisi said the BJP and the Congress are sort of "internally connected", which cannot be separated. "People of Gujarat want an alternative. We want to fill a political vacuum," he said. "The Congress took your (Muslim) votes, but their MLAs joined the BJP. They (the Congress) remained a mute spectator during the 2002 communal riots (in Gujarat). Where was secularism of those who talk about it when the BJP won all the (26) Lok Sabha seats (in Gujarat in 2019 polls)?" he asked. He said the alliance of the AIMIM and the BTP could offer a strong "alternative political platform" to the people who are "fed up with the BJP and the Congress" in Gujarat. Owaisi indicated that the BTP and the AIMIM will join hands in Rajasthan as well. "If you want liberty, freedom, equality, justice etc, then you will have to decide your own fate, which you can do by becoming a political power, and you can become a politicalforce by choosing your leaders, who will be your own people who will go to the Assembly without fearing PM Narendra Modi or the Congress," he said. He also invoked B R Ambedkar in his speech. BTP MLA Chhotu Vasava alleged the Central government was working for select corporates and not for the people. "The land is being soldoff in the country. Whatever promises made by the prime minister were a lie. What Modi Saheb is doing in the country is known to all. Lies are not going to work," he said. The local body elections are scheduled to be held in two phases on February 21 and 28. Elections to six municipal corporations will be held on February 21 and that for municipalities, district panchayats and taluka panchayats on February 28. Results will be declared on February 23 for the first phase and on March 2 for the second phase.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aimim-chief-owaisi-pitches-muslim-tribal-unity-ahead-of-gujarat-polls-948643.html
07-02-2021||West||Mystery of Indian Navy sailor’s killing deepens||The mystery over the brutal killing of Indian Navy sailor Suraj Singh Dubey in Palghar district near Mumbai seems to be deepening with multiple angles surfacing out including financial dealings, investments and debts. Dubey, a 27-year-old Leading Seaman, who was attached to INS Agrani in Coimbatore, was kidnapped at the Chennai Airport, taken into an SUV and was brought to the Palghar district, where he was killed after he failed to give the ransom of Rs 10 lakh to the three abductors. He was found in Vavji-Vajlipada jungle in Gholvad by locals from where he was shifted to a hospital at Dahanu and then to INHS Asvini, the naval command hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. However, before he passed away, he had given a dying declaration. Palghar district’s superintendent of police Dattatray Shinde is personally overseeing the investigation and has formed 10 teams of 100  officers and personnel to crack the case. “The real motive behind the murder is not clear. Our team has already reached Chennai to probe. We hope to solve the case as soon as possible,”  he said. Initial investigations by the Palghar Police have revealed that the victim invested in stock markets and had piled up huge debts of over Rs 20 lakh – which include nearly 8 lakh as personal loan, borrowing of over Rs 5 lakh from a colleague and loan of Rs 9 lakh from his future in-laws. The Palghar police, however, is still unclear of the route that the abductors took from Chennai to Dahanu in Palghar, nearly 1,500 kms. The police are also investigating the mystery behind 13 calls he got from a particular number repeatedly before his Raipur-Hyderabad-Chennai flight on 30-31 January. After Dube failed to resume at his station, his father Mithilesh Dube contacted the INS Agrani Commander Ashok Rai to enquire. Dube had switched off two personal phones on 31 January night. The family thereafter lodged a complaint with Chainpur police station in Jharkhand. Despite the huge loans he had picked up, his two accounts in different branches with State Bank of India showed a measly sum of Rs 392. Police have already contacted the cellphone operators and the companies of his share trading accounts – to gather more details. Police teams are also analysing his bank accounts in details as well as ATM withdrawals.  BJP compares with Palghar lynching The opposition BJP targeted the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government equating the incident with last April’s mob-lynching of sadhus.   “In Palghar, neither our soldiers nor sadhus are safe. Now a soldier has been brutally killed. We are still demanding a CBI probe but it has fallen into deaf ears of the government,” BJP MLA and spokesperson Ram Kadam said.  Meanwhile, Maharashtra’s minister of state for home Shambhuraj Desai said that the Palghar police is investigating the matter. “A detailed probe is underway and it will go to the depth and find out details,” he said. Family demand’s action Suraj’s father Mithilesh Dubey demanded that his son has been killed brutally after the abduction and the family needs justice. “My son was reserved, soft-spoken,” he was quoted saying by TV channels.   "I want justice for my son. That's the message I want to get across through the help of the media. My son gave a dying declaration that he was kidnapped and imprisoned for 3 days and the accused were demanding ransom. He was then brought to Palghar and burnt to death,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mystery-of-indian-navy-sailor-s-killing-deepens-948706.html
07-02-2021||West||Rename Ahmedabad to Karnavati, Shiv Sena member tells BJP||A Shiv Sena functionary responsible for organising the party programmes to reach out to the Gujarati community ahead of the next year's Mumbai civic polls on Sunday demanded the BJP rename Ahmedabad as Karnavati. In a statement, Hemraj Shah, also said the Narendra Modi government also rename Aurangabad in Maharashtra as Sambhajinagar and Osmanabad as Dharashiv. "People of Ahmedabad know the city as Karnavati and that name has history. The Modi government had neither renamed Aurangabad and Osmanabad nor did it give Bharat Ratna to V D Savarkar. Apart from renaming these two cities, the BJP should also rename Ahmedabad as Karnavati," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rename-ahmedabad-to-karnavati-shiv-sena-member-tells-bjp-948726.html
