08-02-2021||First Edit||Bad idea, drop it||Two circulars recently issued by the police in Bihar and in Uttarakhand will have a serious impact on the rights to dissent and to protest, as they warn that people who exercise these rights may have to pay a personal price for their action. The Bihar police chief’s order says that those who participate in protest demonstrations or disrupt traffic and are named in a charge sheet may find that their police verification reports would contain details of such activities. It may lead to denial of a passport, government jobs, financial grants, bank loans and contracts. The government has also made prior verification of character compulsory before vendors are awarded any government contracts. The Uttarakhand police has said this more clearly and given the details. It will monitor the social media for ‘’anti-national’’ posts and keep a record of people who make such postings. Counselling will be done first, and those who do not improve their behaviour will have entries in their verification reports, with consequences.  There is no law which supports such conduct on the part of the police. The Passport Act has no provision which allows the authorities to deny it to a citizen on the grounds given by the police of these two states. Participation in protests is no ground for any vengeful or retaliatory action by the government against a citizen. The right to protest is a fundamental right flowing from the right to freedom of expression. It cannot be curbed on the grounds given by the police in these two states. Denial of rightful claims of citizens for participation in activities which are not to the liking of the government of the day happens only in authoritarian countries. The police should also not keep track of people who protest against government policies and actions and profile them. That amounts to surveillance that happens in police states.  There is no legal or administrative definition of the term "anti-national’’. The Uttarakhand police chief has said that whoever is against national unity and integrity is an "anti-national’’. That is not a helpful definition. The police will arbitrarily decide what it means and in effect, it will cover protests against the government. The Bihar police has said that the reference was to "criminal involvement’’ in protests and demonstrations. That also does not help. It had issued a gag order against online criticism last month. The right to protest should not be curbed or taken away under any pretext. It is surprising that this undemocratic idea against protests is put forward in a state under Nitish Kumar who emerged as a leader through protests during the JP movement and against the Emergency. Both states should drop this bad idea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/bad-idea-drop-it-948794.html
08-02-2021||In Perspective||Living with Silicon City leopards||'Leopard in Prestige campus yesterday early morning’, ‘It is still there and residents are under house arrest’ read a social media forward. ‘Leopard enters Bengaluru apartment, creates scare’, ‘Leopard’s cat-walk strikes fear in housing complex in Begur’ read headlines of two mainstream media reports. These social media forwards and news reports were in response to an incident of a leopard walking quietly in the middle of the night through an apartment complex on the southern parts of Bengaluru. Similar headlines were recently reported from Chamarajanagar, the southernmost district headquarters of Karnataka when a leopard was captured on CCTV entering housing quarters of a medical college. Leopards have been living in these areas for a long, long time. However, as urban areas are gobbling up wilderness areas, people have got closer to leopard habitats. But leopards continue to survive like shadows without being noticed. Nevertheless, in the recent days due to the extensive usage of CCTV, leopards are ‘seen’ more often. Once such incidents are captured on CCTV, the footage is widely circulated on social media creating panic and anxiety among people. As it is, with social media, along with news, also comes fake news creating more fear among people. This panic results in communities demanding that the leopard be captured by the forest department. The pressure ensues that the authorities place cages and at times even capture leopards and translocate them or take them to lifetime captivity. Unfortunately, this is not merely with leopards but also with sloth bears, elephants and some other conflict-prone wildlife species. These days, CCTV footages have become one of leopards’ biggest enemies. It’s not just in and around large cities that such incidents have occurred or have leopard habitats been converted to large building complexes. Residential schools (Kittur Rani Chennamma Residential School, Thimmarajipura adjoining BRT Tiger Reserve), research institutes (Indian Institute of Science, near Challakere) and many such projects have taken over leopard habitats. Authorities have to ensure that such large complexes are not built in or adjoining leopard habitats. Even if they are built, there should be acceptance of the presence of leopards and other wildlife, and suitable measures have to be taken to ensure that the original inhabitants of the area are allowed to exist in their habitats. But most times, the construction has led to ‘conflict’, the leopard has been made the villain and considered as a ‘problem’. Ideal solution Though the ideal solution is to avoid building in such areas, the demand for land, due to the burgeoning human population and economic development, is booming at unprecedented rates taking away sizeable leopard habitats. Leopards continue to survive in some of their former natural habitats by adapting to the new sub-optimal habitats and feeding on domestic prey such as livestock, poultry and pye-dogs. The critical mindset of acceptance can come through sustained education as most urban dwellers are not accustomed to living with large wildlife in their backyards. In Karnataka, leopards survive adjoining several of our cities and towns including Mysuru, Tumakuru, Chitradurga, Ramanagara, Udupi etc. Our studies show that about 40 leopards survive in Bannerghatta National Park on the southern edge of Bengaluru, and perhaps an equal number of leopards live in areas adjoining the tech city. Hence, it is important to understand what do we do if leopards are seen near human habitations. Communities need not panic merely because a leopard is seen in the vicinity. Leopards are shy and elusive animals; they avoid people. If they are sighted, no one should try to get closer to the animal to take photographs or videos. Mobbing the animal could lead to untoward incidents. Very importantly, do not spread or believe in fake news, or sensationalise any information. This will panic everyone in the area but will also put pressure on the authorities to capture the animal. Many a time, dog footprints are circulated and claimed as leopard pugmarks. In 2016, after Bengaluru’s VIBGYOR school incident, there were pictures of cheetahs (which is extinct in India) and images of dog footprints circulated claiming leopards were still around the school which created panic among people leading to closure of schools and other problems. Communities, apartment associations, and the general public can seek the help of people working on leopards so that they can learn how to deal with situations if they see leopards. In Bengaluru and many other places, we have carried out several outreach programmes and advised communities, gated communities, schools, research institutes and many others on managing such situations. This had a positive response and in many of these areas, people have accepted leopard presence in their vicinity. Capturing or translocating leopards, until there is a serious problem such as human death, will not solve any issues. We need to co-exist with leopards. Many rural communities do this; it is just that most urban people aren’t used to large wildlife being next to their doorsteps. But as urban areas expand bringing them closer to wildlife habitats, urban dwellers have to start educating others on living alongside leopards. (The writer holds a doctorate in leopard ecology and conservation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/living-with-silicon-city-leopards-948797.html
08-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kambala jockey covers 100 metres in 9.15 seconds||A Kambala jockey (who races along with a pair of buffaloes on a slushy track) has created a record by covering 100 metres in 9.15 seconds during Kantabare-Boodabare Kambala held at Aikala in Mulki on Saturday night. The jockey is Vishwanath from Baindoor. The buffaloes are owned by Sathish Shetty and are named Bolla and Doni. Sensors used Vishwanath had completed the 125-metre-long track in 11.44 seconds. On calculating the speed versus distance, Vishwanath had covered 100 metres in just 9.15 seconds. Sensors were used to get an accurate result in the Kambala. In the past, Akkeri Suresh Shetty had completed 100 metres in 9.37 second, Ashwathapura Srinivasa Gowda in 9.44 seconds and Irvathoor Anand in 9.57 seconds. Srinivas Gowda, who had created several records during last year’s Kambala season, had suffered injuries during the first Kambala held at Hokkadigoli in Bantwal on January 30 but returned to the track at Aikala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kambala-jockey-covers-100-metres-in-915-seconds-948785.html
08-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Soaring arecanut prices bring cheer to Karnataka farmers||Maintaining an upward trend since last few months, arecanut prices shot up continuously, bringing cheer to the growers. The price of double chol (harvested two years ago) arecanut is between Rs 430 to Rs 460. The chol (old stocks) is fetching between Rs 425 to Rs 455 and the fresh arrivals fetched between Rs 345 to Rs 395. As a competition to the Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative Ltd (Campco), the private traders are purchasing at higher price as well. The price of ‘chol’ arecanut was Rs 290 per kg in November 2019 while the price of ‘double chol’ arecanut had reached Rs 300 per kg and the fresh arrivals were procured at Rs 235 per kg. To protect the interest of the arecanut growers, the Campco had increased the procurement price of arecanut during the lockdown. Arecanut is a major commercial crop in the coastal districts and some parts of Malnad. While the price of ‘double chol’ last year during February was between Rs 225 to Rs 298, ‘chol’ fetched Rs 200 to Rs 298 and fresh arrivals fetched Rs 160 to Rs 250. Campco president Kishore Kumar Kodgi attributed the constant rise in the price to the decline in illegal import of arecanut to the country, following strict measures initiated in the border areas. Further, the drop in production too has reduced the yield by around 40 per cent. Drop in the production has been compensated with the steady increase in the cost for the farmers, he added. A few farmers, anticipating a further rise in prices, adopted ‘wait and watch’ policy by not selling the produce in the market. Even the red variety of arecanut is also fetching good price in the market in Shivamogga and Sirsi areas.  Owing to fruit rot disease affecting arecanut plantations for the last two years, the yield had reduced. Now, even with better price, a majority of the small and medium growers do not have stock of old arecanuts, said growers.  Farmer and Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha Hasiru Sene state secretary Manohar Shetty said: “Though the price of arecanut has increased steadily, the production cost has also increased. With this price, farmers can lead a life of content.” “For the first time, we are getting a good price for arecanut. All the farm produce, including arecanut, should get a good price for farmers to lead a contented life,” said another farmer||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/soaring-arecanut-prices-bring-cheer-to-karnataka-farmers-948789.html
08-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada DC receives first Covid-19 jab in phase 2 of vaccination drive||The second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive was rolled out in Dakshina Kannada on Monday with Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V receiving the first shot at Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru. City Police Commissioner N Shashi Kumar, IAS officer Mona Rawat, and DCPs Hariram Shankar and Vinay Gaonkar were also administered the Covid-19 vaccine. In the second phase, officials from the police, revenue, rural development and Panchayat Raj departments and ULBs are set to be covered. The vaccination drive is being held at 41 sites in Dakshina Kannada with a target of 6,054 beneficiaries. District Health Officer Dr Ramachandra Bayari said that the state government has issued guidelines to vaccinate all the beneficiaries from the four mentioned departments till Wednesday. If some beneficiaries from these departments are not covered till the said date, they will be vaccinated on February 11, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-dc-receives-first-covid-19-jab-in-phase-2-of-vaccination-drive-948908.html
08-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Chamarajanagar: 177 frontline workers including DC get inoculated||In all, 177 people got inoculated, including Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi, with the second phase of vaccination drive launched for the frontline workers, in Chamarajanagar, on Monday. The officials belonging to Revenue department, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, the police and local body members have been identified for the vaccination. Interestingly, there was no enthusiasm among the workers to get inoculated as only 50% was reported on Day One. The vaccination drive is being conducted at the district hospital, taluk hospitals in Kollegal, Gundlupet, Yalandur and primary health centres. In all, 3,802 people have been identified as frontline workers and only 177 got inoculated on the first day. The drive is conducted for two more days, said Health and Family Welfare officer M C Ravi. DC Ravi was back to work after getting vaccinated. He called upon the identified persons to shed fear and get vaccinated to keep the virus at bay. "I am fine and involved in day-to-day official activities after getting the dose. There is no need for any kind of anxiety," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chamarajanagar-177-frontline-workers-including-dc-get-inoculated-949107.html
08-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farm laws: APMC sees 50% decline in cess collection||The cess collection at Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) has significantly reduced due to the open market of agricultural produce, making it difficult to manage the APMCs. The issue was raised during the quarterly review meeting of Karnataka Development Programmes (KDP), chaired by District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, at Zilla Panchayat auditorium on Monday. An officer said that many farmers are selling their products at the open market following the amendment to the APMC Act. The APMC at Bandipalya in Mysuru had collected Rs 2.01 crore cess in November, December and January 2019-20. But, the collection was Rs 1.47 crore during the same period in 2020-21. According to the officer, there is a 50% decline in cess collection. It has become difficult to maintain APMCs due to shortage of funds. However, the minister said that the government will take care of it and the amendment to the Act will help farmers. Congress MLA H P Manjunath suggested conducting a survey to find whether the amendment will help the farmers or not. The godown lying vacant at the APMC will get income if they are rented. The government invested crores of rupees for the construction of godowns, he said. In 2019-20, the APMC in Mysuru had targeted to collect Rs 21.69 crore cess and collected Rs 21.16 crore. In 2020-21, it has set a target to collect a cess of Rs 24.35 crore. Somashekar charged Excise department authorities for not following Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s directions to shift wine stores near schools. “Don’t you have value for CM’s direction? I need a detailed report on Tuesday,” the minister said. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri recommended cancelling the license of the wine store rather than shifting it. It has to be recalled that the CM, during his recent visit, had directed the authorities to shift the liquor shops following request from a few school managements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farm-laws-apmc-sees-50-decline-in-cess-collection-949108.html
08-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Speaker favours installation of Wadiyar’s portrait at Vidhana Soudha’||Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri responded positively to install the portraits of Chamarajendra Wadiyar X and Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar in the Legislative Assembly, said District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar. Speaking to reporters here, Somashekar said that he informed the Speaker about the plan to instal the portraits and he responded positively. He said, “The government is committed to the development of Mysuru tourism. Senior leaders have given a list of 15 to 20 points for the purpose. I will urge the CM to implement them for the welfare and growth of Mysuru. The list includes Mysuru Dasara Authority, water supply among others.” Somashekar, also Cooperation Minister said, The government had targeted to distribute Rs 15,300 crore loan to 24.50 lakh farmers through the cooperative sector. Now, we have distributed Rs 12,975.34 loan among 19,99,508 farmers.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/speaker-favours-installation-of-wadiyar-s-portrait-at-vidhana-soudha-949113.html
08-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Reservation for mayor, deputy to be announced tommorow: minister||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that reservation for mayor and deputy mayor, for Mysuru, would be announced on Wednesday. Speaking to reporters here, on Monday, Somashekar said, "The reservation for the posts will be announced soon. The matter is with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Reservation of all municipalities would be announced on Wednesday." When asked about the alliance with the JD(S) to elect the mayor, Somashekar said, "The party will decide about it shortly. I have observed Opposition Leader Siddaramaiah’s statement that the Congress will not join hands with the JD(S). A decision about joining hands with the JD(S) will be taken on Wednesday." Somashekar slammed Siddaramaiah for describing the state government as 'Dakota express' and said that the Opposition party itself is ‘Dakota’. "Will the Congress ever appreciate the ruling party? The duty of the Opposition leaders is to visit every district to inspect the works. But, no Opposition leader is doing their duty, despite facilities provided by the government. They will understand the works, only if they visit the districts,” he said. "The Opposition leaders are just attending the Assembly session. The Chief Minister has given a fitting reply to them. We are with the CM and we keep quite when our leader speaks in the session. We give an answer whenever necessary,” he said. "The state government never stopped or cancelled any development work. Development had slowed down during Covid-19. Now, works have begun. The CM has given a clarification in this regard in the session," he said. Somashekar took severe exception to BJP MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal for criticising the BJP government. "The party leaders will take suitable action against him at the right time. The state BJP has sent a report on him and the Union leaders will take action," he said. Yatnal is speaking only to gain popularity. He is criticising BJP leaders from four months. But, nothing has happened as he said. Thus, his statements need not be taken seriously, Somashekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/reservation-for-mayor-deputy-to-be-announced-tommorow-minister-949114.html
08-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rare birds spotted during three-day bird census||The three-day bird census ended on Sunday, with 80 people participating. More than 350 people had registered for the census, but 80 of them participated. As per the plan by the Forest department, the volunteers were taken to bird's spot near lakes and ponds and, also inside the forest. Bandipur Tiger Project Director S R Natesh said that the information collected during the census would be compared with the previous details, to identify any new bird. Rare birds and those on the verge of extinction have also been spotted during the three-day census. It will take some time to document all findings and confirm the spotting of the new species, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rare-birds-spotted-during-three-day-bird-census-949115.html
08-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Mysuru Mayor, Deputy Mayor reservation will announce in a day or two: Somashekar||Mysuru district in-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that reservation for Mayor and Deputy Mayor position for Mysuru will be announced in a day or two. Speaking reporters, on Monday, Somashekar said, the reservation announcement was delayed as the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa was busy with the Budget and other work. Reservation will be announced soon, he said. When asked about the alliance with JD(S) to form the Council, Somashekar said, Congress party leader Siddaramaiah has said, Congress will not join hands with JD(S). Discussion between JD(S) and BJP is going on, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mysuru-mayor-deputy-mayor-reservation-will-announce-in-a-day-or-two-somashekar-948961.html
08-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Mangaluru Congress leader Prathibha Kulai kicks up row over Rs 1 lakh bounty||Congress leader and former corporator Prathibha Kulai stirred a controversy by announcing a bounty of Rs 1 lakh, who succeeds in blackening the face of BJP district vice president Jagadish Adhikari for allegedly making derogatory statements against Billava community, legendary heroes Koti Channaya and senior Congress leader B Janardhana Poojary. She made the announcement by uploading a video on Facebook. She said, "Adhikari should arrive at Garadi and tender an apology by offering 'tappu kanike' within three days. Or else, anyone from the Billava community can smear ink to his face. I will give Rs 1 lakh reward to the person." She also insisted that Adhikari should tender an apology by falling at the feet of Poojary. Prathibha said youths from Billava community were being misused by the politicians for their personal gain. "Many youths are in jail for the sake of BJP and its leaders. Our youths do not have the power to question such an attitude in BJP," she lamented. “Many call me as anti-Hindu. I have not issued any anti-Hindu statements. I have just said if you want to die, then join organisations. The organisations should be in favour of the religion and not against the religion," she stressed. Prathibha also urged BJP leaders to remove Adhikari from the party. "Or else, Billavas,who constitute 60 % of the population in the district will give a befitting reply in the next election," she warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mangaluru-congress-leader-prathibha-kulai-kicks-up-row-over-rs-1-lakh-bounty-949039.html
08-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Why are ministers taking part in protests? asks BJP MLC Ayanur Manjunath||BJP MLC Ayanur Manjunath on Monday said there was an increasing trend where ministers, instead of taking representation on behalf of the government, were themselves protesting against the government.  Manjunath was hinting at the ongoing protests for ST reservation for the Kuruba community. Rural Development Minister K S Eshwarappa is among those spearheading the protest. “Everyone has a right to protest. I am not questioning the legitimacy of the reservation demand. But of late, we are seeing ministers taking part in protests. They can go take representation and give assurance to resolve it. However, it is against the constitution to go protest themselves,” he said.  The senior MLC was speaking in the Legislative Council during the motion of thanks to the Governor’s speech. Manjunath also raised concern that the country was slipping in upholding constitutional values. There is an undue interference of legislators in transfers at the grassroots level officers, he observed. He also criticised present political trends. “Irrespective of the political party, I sometimes feel like we have lost freedom of expression in the name of party whips,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/why-are-ministers-taking-part-in-protests-asks-bjp-mlc-ayanur-manjunath-949117.html
08-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Horatti, Naseer in fray for Karnataka Legislative Council's chair post||Senior JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti and Congress MLC Naseer Ahmed filed their nominations for the Karnataka Legislative Council chairperson’s post on Monday. The elections will be held on Tuesday. It was necessitated after chairperson  Prathapchandra Shetty stepped down from the post, following a no-confidence motion moved against him by BJP, which was backed by the JD(S) leaders in the Upper House. At present, the BJP has a strength of 33 MLCs, JD(S) has 13 and Congress 28.  As the combined strength of BJP and JD(S) amounts to a majority in the 75-member House, Horatti is likely to be elected as the next chairperson. After filing his nomination, Horatti said, “I have filed my nomination with the support of BJP,” adding that the “Congress was free to nominate its candidate.” Since Shetty resigned owing to the no-confidence motion against him and a lack of majority, the Congress nominating Naseer Ahmed came as a surprise. Ahmed told media persons after filing his nomination, “I have filed my nomination paper as per the decision of the party leaders. The JD(S) has, from the beginning, claimed to be a secular party. Now, the party has to decide whether they want to stand with a secular party or to support the communal BJP. None of the three parties has a clear majority. We will wait until the end.”  In a similar situation recently, the Congress party had fielded its MLC K C Kondaiah for the deputy chairperson’s post. With the BJP-JD(S) alliance in the Council, BJP’s M K Pranesh was elected as the deputy chairperson.  Previously in 2018, Shetty was elected as the chairperson with the support of JD(S), during the Congress-JD(S) coalition regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/horatti-naseer-in-fray-for-karnataka-legislative-councils-chair-post-949119.html
08-02-2021||Mysuru||Acres of forest land gutted in Chamarajanagar fire||Acres of forest land was gutted in a fire at Yedabetta, near Chamarajanagar, on Sunday. The fire was first seen on a small hillock behind the Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences. Fire and Emergency Services personnel rushed to the spot and doused the flames. BRT Tiger Reserve director G Santosh Kumar said that there are big trees and bushes in the hillock, and every year there are fire incidents reported during the summer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/acres-of-forest-land-gutted-in-chamarajanagar-fire-948965.html
08-02-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Thought we'll never lose the game of optics but...'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said some forces from foreign soil were trying to defame Indian tea at the international level. "Some documents have revealed that some foreign forces are trying to attack Indian tea, which has a unique identity in the entire world. Will you accept such a conspiracy? Will you remain silent against such conspirators? The nation will never tolerate such a conspiracy..." said Modi while addressing a massive gathering at Dhekiajuli, a town in North Assam's Sonitpur district, one of the major tea growing areas in Assam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-thought-well-never-lose-the-game-of-optics-but-948807.html
08-02-2021||National||Centre asks Twitter to remove 1,178 Pakistani-Khalistani accounts over spreading 'misinformation' on farm stir||The Centre has issued a fresh notice to Twitter directing it to block 1,178 accounts linked to farmers protest saying these accounts are operated by Khalistan sympathisers and backed by Pakistan. The Centre also alleged that the accounts posted objectionable content. These accounts were flagged by security agencies. In the notice to Twitter, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (Meity) said some of the accounts were used to propagate misinformation on the farmers' protest. Despite repeated warning to Twitter to remove some of accounts, the US-based company failed to comply, said a Meity official. The government also not happy with Twitter founder Jack Dorsey's decision to 'like' some of the tweets made in support of the farmers' protests. The government is of the view that such act by Dorsey raises questions over the neutrality of the micro-blogging platform. Dorsey had liked a few tweets which supported international singer Rihanna's stand on the ongoing farmers' protest against the new farm laws. Reacting to the government notice, micro-blogging platform said, “Twitter is guided by principles of transparency and empowering the public conversation. If we receive a valid legal request about potentially illegal content on Twitter, we review it under the Twitter Rules and local law. If the content violates Twitter’s Rules, the content will be removed from the service." The government and Twitter are at loggerheads after the government asked Twitter to remove over 1,000 accounts for spreading misinformation and provocative content on the farmers' agitation for the past 10 days. Though initially Twitter blocked around 250 accounts, these accounts were restored soon after. However objecting to the unilateral restoration, the Ministry Electronics and Information Technology issued a notice to Twitter and warned to take penal action if it failed to block "provocative” Twitter hashtags such as "#ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide" and dozens of other accounts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-twitter-to-remove-1178-pakistani-khalistani-accounts-over-spreading-misinformation-on-farm-stir-948826.html
08-02-2021||National||India sees 11,831 new Covid-19 cases, 84 deaths||India's Covid-19 tally on Monday of cases rose to 1,08,38,194 with 11,831 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries surged to 1,05,34,505, according to the Union Health Ministry data.  The death toll increased to 1,55,080 with 84 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 10 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate now stands at 1.43 per cent.   With 11,904 recoveries in the last 24 hours, the national Covid-19 recovery rate rose to 97.19 per cent. The total Covid-19 active cases continued to remain below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,48,609 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.37 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 20,19,00,614 samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to February 7, with 5,32,236 of them being tested on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-11831-new-covid-19-cases-84-deaths-948831.html
08-02-2021||National||26 bodies recovered, 171 missing after Uttarakhand glacier disaster||More than 170 people are still missing in the flood-ravaged Chamoli district in Uttarakhand, with rescue agencies pulling out 26 bodies till Monday evening, a day after a devastating flash flood swept through three river valleys leaving a trail of destruction. The Indian Army, ITBP and national as well as state disaster response forces worked overnight with generators to clear the 250-metre-long tunnel, where around 35 men are feared trapped. A majority are from a construction company that was carrying out the work for NTPC. Subsequently, the rescue team entered the tunnel but did not receive any response from the men trapped inside. “The team has reached the 130-metre mark in Tapovan tunnel. It may take 2-3 hours to reach the T-point. Efforts are underway to safely rescue those who are stuck in the tunnel,” said Uttarakhand Chief Minister T S Rawat, who would be staying at Joshimath overseeing the rescue operations. Uttarakhand Director General of Police Ashok Kumar said that efforts were focused on rescuing workers trapped in the tunnel at Tapovan. The work was complicated as the tunnel is slightly curved, making it difficult to clear the debris and silt blocking it. "Our teams worked overnight to rescue about 30 workers who are trapped in the tunnel. Specialised equipment for such operations has been deployed. We are hopeful we will be able to rescue everyone," said ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey. According to the Uttarakhand Disaster Management Centre, as many as 197 people are missing while the Indo-Tibetan Border Police put the total at 202. Two controversial power projects — NTPC’s 480 MW Tapovan-Vishnugad project and the 13.2 MW Rishi Ganga Hydel Project — were extensively damaged. Union Power Minister R K Singh also visited the spot for an on the spot assessment. While both projects were opposed by environmentalists, a group of people from Raini village in Chamoli — one of the villages that bore the brunt of nature's fury on Sunday — had filed a PIL in the Uttarakhand High Court in 2019 against the Rishi Ganga hydel project. Covered with mud, the entire landscape now looks sandy grey in colour as many structures were either swept away or buried under mounds of silt. In Delhi, Prime Minister Narendra Modi met a delegation of Uttarakhand MPs and assured them of his government’s support to the hill state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/26-bodies-recovered-171-missing-after-uttarakhand-glacier-disaster-948834.html
08-02-2021||National||India is the mother of democracy: PM Modi in Rajya Sabha||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said that India is the mother of democracy and the citizens should be proud as the nation is leading the world's largest Covid-19 vaccination drive. In reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, PM Modi said, "Our democracy is not a western institution. It's a human institution. India's history is filled with examples of democratic institutions. We find mention of 81 democracies in ancient India. Today it's essential to warn citizens about the attacks on India's nationalism". He added, "The eyes of the world are on India. There are expectations from India and there is confidence that India will contribute to the betterment of our planet." "India has seen days when there was a large threat of polio, smallpox. Nobody knew whether India will get a vaccine or how many people will get it. From those days, we're now here, when our nation is making vaccines for the world. This increases our self-confidence." Lauding the country's efforts to combat Covid-19, the prime minister said, "Countries proudly say that they have India's Covid-19 vaccine".  In his reply to the 15-hour-long debate on the President's Address in the Rajya Sabha, the Prime Minister said, "Over 50 MPs expressed their views for over 13 hours, they expressed their invaluable views. So, I express my gratitude to all the MPs." "India is truly a land of opportunities. Several opportunities are awaiting us, so a nation which is young, full of enthusiasm and a nation that is making efforts to realise the dreams, with a resolve, will never let these opportunities simply pass by," he added. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-is-the-mother-of-democracy-pm-modi-in-rajya-sabha-948849.html
08-02-2021||National||Daily Covid-19 deaths again fall below 100||India's tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 1,08,38,194, with 11,831 new infections, while the daily deaths fell below 100 for the fourth time this year, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,55,080 with 84 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.    The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,05,34,505 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.20 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total Covid-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,48,609 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.37 per cent of the total cases, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,19,00,614 samples have been tested up to February 7 with 5,32,236 samples being tested on Sunday. The 84 new fatalities include 30 from Maharashtra and 19 from Kerala, 6 from Chhattisgarh, 5 from West Bengal, 4 from Uttarakhand, 3 from Karnataka, 2 each from Delhi, Goa, Haryana and Punjab. A total of 1,55,080 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,310 from Maharashtra followed by 12,383 from Tamil Nadu, 12,236 from Karnataka, 10,879 from Delhi, 10,207 from West Bengal,  8,687 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,159 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/daily-covid-19-deaths-again-fall-below-100-948853.html
08-02-2021||National||1st Test: England lose Rory Burns before lunch; India all out for 337||England lost Rory Burns on the first ball of their second innings after they bowled out India for 337 on day four of the opening Test on Monday. India fell 42 runs short of avoiding the follow on despite an unbeaten 85 by Washington Sundar. But England decided against making the home side bat again and started their second innings to build on a lead of 241. The tourists were 1-1 at lunch after Burns fell on the first ball to Ravichandran Ashwin. Dom Sibley and Dan Lawrence were batting at the break. Spinner Jack Leach and paceman James Anderson claimed two wickets each to end India's innings after the hosts resumed on 257-6 in Chennai. Sundar put on 80 runs with Ashwin (31) before Leach broke the stand with his left-arm spin. Left-hander Sundar, who made his debut in the fourth Test of India's historic win in Australia last month, raised his second successive Test fifty with a boundary off Leach. Leach sent back Shahbaz Nadeem for nought, caught at slip after facing 12 deliveries. Anderson took the final two wickets. England spinner Dom Bess claimed four wickets on Sunday to leave India reeling at 257 for six at close of play. Wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant top-scored with a blazing 91 on day three.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1st-test-england-lose-rory-burns-before-lunch-india-all-out-for-337-948858.html
08-02-2021||National||Government doubts Twitter 'neutrality' after CEO Dorsey likes pro-farmer protests tweets||The Modi government is now concerned about the 'neutrality' of microblogging site Twitter after its CEO Jack Dorsey liked pro-farmers tweets and those praising Rihanna, one of the first celebrities from the West to raise her voice for the farmers protest taking place near Delhi borders for over two months now. Jack Dorsey liked tweets by a Washington Post reporter who praised Rihanna for her stand on farmers and asked Twitter to add a new emoji in support of the protest, like it did for the 'Black Lives Matter' movement after the death of George Floyd, who allegedly died due to police brutality. "It raises questions over the neutrality of the platform" a government source said. Series of sour relationships culminating? Recently, Twitter faced flak from the Indian government for restoring several accounts after 'withholding' them. Farmers are conducting a growing protest against new agriculture laws and the government last week sought an "emergency blocking" of the "provocative" Twitter hashtag "#ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide" and dozens of accounts. Twitter initially complied but later restored most of the accounts, citing "insufficient justification" to continue the suspensions. Twitter's refusal to comply with a government directive to block more than 250 accounts and posts for using the '#FarmerGenocide' hashtag put the social media giant at the centre of a political firestorm in one of its key markets. Government officials, business people and ordinary netizens are split over free speech and the US company's compliance practices. The showdown after Twitter this week "declined to abide (by) and obey" the order to remove posts and accounts that the government said risked inciting violence, is the latest instance of worsening relationships between Prime Minister Narendra Modi's administration and US social media platforms like Facebook and WhatsApp. Meenakshi Lekhi, a BJP lawmaker, who heads a parliamentary panel on data privacy, has criticised Twitter for disobeying government orders, adding she has yet to decide whether to summon company executives. "Twitter needs to understand they are not lawmakers," Lekhi told Reuters. "It is not their policy which will work, it is the policy of the state, country which will work." Twitter's public policy director resigns Twitter, confirming Kaul's resignation, said that she would stay on through March and was helping with the transition, but otherwise declined to comment. It said this week that it withholds access to content on receiving a "properly scoped request from an authorised entity". Meanwhile, the Centre has asked Twitter to remove 1,178 Pakistani-Khalistani accounts for spreading misinformation and provocative content around farmers' protests. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-doubts-twitter-neutrality-after-ceo-dorsey-likes-pro-farmer-protests-tweets-948860.html
08-02-2021||National||PM Modi warns against new kind of FDI, urges farmers to end protest||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday once again appealed to farmers to end their agitation against farm laws, assuring them that the Minimum Support Regime (MSP) regime will stay even as he targeted the Opposition for their "U-turn" on agriculture reforms. Replying to the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address in Rajya Sabha, Modi also warned the protesters against the "new breed of aandolan jeevis (professional protesters)" who are "parasites feasting on protests" and the "new FDI or Foreign Destructive Ideology", without mentioning any names or the support they received from international celebrities and others abroad. In his around 75-minute speech in which he spent around 30 minutes on the contentious laws and agitation, he also spoke about Covid-19 management in the country and said India has proved wrong all those who raised apprehensions and the world appreciates the country's efforts in saving humanity. Mocking the Opposition's attack on him over farm laws and Covid-19 management, Modi said he was glad that he was of some use to them. "In this Covid-19 season, you must be stuck at home and I am sure there must be trouble at home. At least this way you could take your anger out," he said. Referring to the Opposition's boycott of the President's address, he said it would have been better if everyone was present but his speech was so powerful that even without listening to it, everyone had a lot to say about it. On the farmers' issue, he said Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has been constantly in touch with agitating farmers and there is no tension between both sides. "To protest is your right but I appeal to you to send back elderly among the protesters. Let's find a solution. Please end this agitation. The roads (for negotiations) are open. Through the medium of this House, I am inviting you," he said. "It is time for taking decisions to reform the agriculture sector... We have to modernise mandis... I assure MSP was there, MSP is there and it will remain there," he said. Referring to some of the organisers of the farmers' agitation, Modi said a new breed of "aandolan jeevi" has emerged, which one can see in any protest and sometimes behind the scenes, giving an "ideological spin". "These are parasites who are feasting on protests and one who finds ways for agitation and the people should keep themselves away from them," he said. He also said, "We must save India from a new version of FDI - Foreign Destructive Ideology.  While we must keep the first form of FDI intact, foreign direct investment, we must protect ourselves from the new version of FDI." Modi said the speeches by Opposition MPs during the debate were more of the agitation and none of them referred to the core reasons of their objections to the laws. He said someone had to take hard decisions and he chose to take it. "Let the abuses come to my account but let us move ahead together," he said even as he questioned the Opposition parties which while in the government brought reforms but took a "U-turn suddenly". The prime minister also quoted former Prime Ministers Charan Singh and Manmohan Singh and referred to Lal Bahadur Shastri and H D Deve Gowda. Quoting Singh, who was present in the House and had earlier emphasised the need for reforms in agriculture, Modi said, "Manmohan ji had talked about giving a free market to farmers and making India a large common market. Don't listen to me but listen to him. You should be proud that Manmohan Singh ji said it and Modi is implementing it." Referring to former Agriculture Minister and NCP chief Sharad Pawar who had earlier written letters to states seeking reforms, he said those in power earlier in states too had done reforms.  During the Green Revolution, Modi said, the then Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri faced opposition and none wanted to be Agriculture Minister because they were scared of making farmers angry. C Subramanium who assumed office had to face opposition from the Cabinet and even the erstwhile Planning Commission for initiating reforms in the agriculture sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-warns-against-new-kind-of-fdi-urges-farmers-to-end-protest-948862.html
08-02-2021||National||Subrata Bakshi takes oath as Rajya Sabha member||Trinamool Congress leader Subrata Bakshi on Monday took oath as a member of Rajya Sabha. Bakshi, who was elected to the Upper House from West Bengal last year, took oath in Bengali. After the oath, he greeted Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and signed the members' register. Welcoming him, Naidu noted that Bakshi was earlier a Lok Sabha MP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/subrata-bakshi-takes-oath-as-rajya-sabha-member-948881.html
08-02-2021||National||A new breed of agitators has emerged in India, says PM Modi in Rajya Sabha||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday made a fervent appeal to protesters to end their agitation against the new farm laws even as he questioned opposition parties for their sudden "U-turn" on the agriculture reforms. The Prime Minister also hit out at those behind the protests, saying a new "breed" of agitators has emerged in the country who cannot live without agitation and the country should be beware of them. He also said the new FDI (Foreign Destructive Ideology) has emerged in the country and "we need to be more aware to save the country from such ideology". Modi also stressed that India is very proud of the contribution of Sikhs and the language used by some for them will not benefit the country. He alleged that some people are also trying to defame Sikhs. "This is a community that has done so much for the nation. The country takes pride in the contribution of Sikhs, but some people are trying to defame them. The words and blessings of the Guru Sahibs are precious. The language used by some for them will not benefit the country," he said, replying to the Motion of Thanks on the President's address in Rajya Sabha. On the farm sector and the ongoing protest, Modi said, "MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain in the future. Affordable ration for the poor will continue. Mandis will be modernised". He quoted former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on the need for reforms in the farm sector and said Congress should take pride that Modi had to do what the former Prime Minister wanted. Modi said since 2014 his government has initiated changes in the agriculture sector aimed at empowering the farmer. The crop insurance scheme was changed to make it more farmer-friendly. The PM-KISAN scheme was also brought in, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-new-breed-of-agitators-has-emerged-in-india-says-pm-modi-in-rajya-sabha-948885.html
08-02-2021||National||Siemens ties up with IISc, CMTI to set up digital transformation labs||Siemens on Monday said it has signed pacts with Indian Institute of Science (IISc) and Central Manufacturing Technology Institute (CMTI) to set up digital transformation labs. Siemens signed two separate memorandums of understanding (MoUs) with IISc and CMTI, respectively, to establish first-of-its-kind digital transformation labs, the company said in a statement. The labs are aimed at enhancing the expertise of researchers at IISc as well as technical skills of professionals in the machine tool industry, it said, adding that the MoUs will focus on development of industrial Internet of Things and Industry 4.0-enabled products and technologies. This initiative will benefit many research scholars, students and industry professionals across the machine tool industry in Bengaluru for a period of three years, it noted. Special emphasis will be given to equip the labs with technologies, products and prototypes of emerging digital technologies such as digital twin, blockchain technology and automatic guided vehicle. This initiative will encourage adoption of smart digital technologies by MSMEs of manufacturing sector. Sunil Mathur, MD and CEO of Siemens, said: “With digital transformation now a priority for industry, premier educational institutions such as IISc and CMTI have a crucial role to play in equipping researchers and professionals with cutting-edge technology and expertise.” The Smart Factory at IISc and the Smart Manufacturing Demo and Development Cell at CMTI are two of the five experiential and demonstration centers for Industry 4.0 sanctioned under the Smart Advanced Manufacturing and Rapid Transformation Hub (SAMARTH) Udyog initiative of the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises, Government of India. The support from Siemens will be used to develop IIoT/Industry 4.0 enabled digital twin-based platform for machine tool industry and a machine tool health monitoring app on the platform, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/siemens-ties-up-with-iisc-cmti-to-set-up-digital-transformation-labs-948886.html
08-02-2021||National||Haryana man arrested for hoax tweet on bomb blasts in Mumbai||Mumbai Police have arrested a 19-year-old man from Haryana for allegedly posting a tweet about bomb blasts at some multiplexes in the city which later turned out to be a hoax, a police official said on Monday. The accused, identified as Banwari Singh, had also tagged the Mumbai Police and their commissioner in his tweet posted on January 22, he said. The man, in his post from a Twitter handle named 'Commando Singh', said explosions would take place in seven multiplexes where Hindi film Madam Chief Minister was screened in suburban Malad and Andheri, and Vasai in neighbouring Palghar district. After the police came to know about the message, they carried out checks at various multiplexes and later declared it as a hoax tweet, the official said. In the meantime, the accused deleted the tweet. The police here registered a case and their cyber cell started a search for the accused, who was nabbed from Haryana last week, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber) Rashmi Karandikar said. The police also seized a mobile phone from which the accused had tweeted the message, another official said. The accused has been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-man-arrested-for-hoax-tweet-on-bomb-blasts-in-mumbai-948900.html
08-02-2021||National||Won't allow business over hunger, need law on MSP: Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said business over hunger will not be allowed in the country and once again demanded a law on minimum support price (MSP) for crops along with the repeal of new contentious agri-marketing laws. The Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson's comments came soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address in the Rajya Sabha during which he assured "MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain in the future". "Desh mein bhook pe vyaapaar nahi hoga. Bhook kitni lagegi anaaj ki keemat utni hogi. Desh mein bhook se vyaapaar karne walon ko baahar nikaala jaaega (There will not be business over hunger in the country. If hunger goes up, price of crops will be decided accordingly. Those wanting business over hunger will be driven out of the country)," he told reporters. "The way rates of a flight ticket fluctuate three to four times a day, the price of crops will not be decided the same way," Tikait said. On the PM's remark about the emergence of a "new community" which is "engaged in protests", Tikait said, "Yes, this time it is the farmers' community which has emerged and people are also supporting the farmers". He said what the farmers protesting against the new laws have highlighted is that there is no law on MSP, because of which traders loot them by buying crops at lower prices. He also slammed the attempts to divide the ongoing movement of farmers on caste and religious lines. "This movement was first portrayed as Punjab's issue, then Sikhs' then Jats, so on and so forth. The farmers of the country are united. There is no small farmer or big farmer. The movement belongs to all farmers," he said. Earlier in the day, Modi in his response to the Motion of Thanks on the President's address in Rajya Sabha, said, "MSP was there. MSP is there. MSP will remain in the future. Affordable ration for the poor will continue. Mandis will be modernised".  Reacting to the PM's speech, another farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, who is also member of Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, said that the government has already said "hundreds of times" that the MSP will not go anywhere and it will remain. "If the government is claiming that MSP will remain, why doesn't it provide a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for our crops," Kohar told PTI. Asked about the PM's invitation to farmer unions for talks, he said that protesting farmer unions are ready to hold talks with the government, but it should come through formal channels. "Any issue can be resolved through proper dialogue. We are ready in-principle to resume talks," the farmer leader. Sukhdev Singh, Punjab general secretary of BKU Ekta Ugrahan, sought to know why the government is not ensuring a legal guarantee on MSP for crops, adding that it is trying to divert the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wont-allow-business-over-hunger-need-law-on-msp-rakesh-tikait-948903.html
08-02-2021||National||Whole country is with Uttarakhand: Rahul Gandhi on glacier burst||Expressing solidarity with those affected by the glacier burst in Uttarakhand, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the whole country is with the people of the state and it is important that relief operations are not hindered in the next few days.  The glacier burst in the state's Chamoli district triggered a deluge killing 10 people, while over 140 are missing. "The whole country is with Uttarakhand. The most important thing right now is that relief operations are not hindered in the next few days," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. "I am with those affected with all my heart and pray for your safety," he said. पूरा देश उत्तराखंड के साथ है। इस समय सबसे ज़रूरी है कि आने वाले कुछ दिन राहत कार्य में कोई बाधा ना आए। मैं पूरे दिल से प्रभावितों के साथ हूँ और आपकी सुरक्षा की कामना करता हूँ।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whole-country-is-with-uttarakhand-rahul-gandhi-on-glacier-burst-948916.html
08-02-2021||National||SC dismisses plea seeking President’s rule in UP over rising crime graph||The Supreme Court Monday dismissed a petition seeking imposition of President’s rule in Uttar Pradesh citing alleged breakdown of Constitutional machinery and rising crime in the state. The top court warned the petitioner-advocate of imposing cost on him and questioned him about the research of crime records of other states. A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told petitioner- advocate CR Jaya Sukin that there is no research on the claims which he has been making and asked him how his fundamental rights were violated.   Sukin while referring to data of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) and National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) said that he has done his research and crime graph has gone up in Uttar Pradesh. “In how many states have you studied the crime record? Have you studied crime records of other states? What is your research of crime records in other states? Show us on what basis you are saying this,” the bench said. The top court said that there is no research done by him on the claims he has been making.   The bench, while dismissing the plea said, “We will impose heavy cost on you if you will argue further”.   Sukin, who appeared in person in the hearing conducted through video conferencing, alleged that unlawful and arbitrary killings including extrajudicial killings are being perpetrated by police in Uttar Pradesh. He alleged that situation has arisen in the state in which the government of Uttar Pradesh cannot be allowed to carry on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. “That imposition of Article 356 of the Constitution in Uttar Pradesh is necessary to save the Indian democracy and lives of 20 Crore people,” he claimed in his petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-seeking-president-s-rule-in-up-over-rising-crime-graph-948922.html
08-02-2021||National||No respite from cold in most parts of Punjab, Haryana||Cold weather conditions persisted in most parts of Punjab and Haryana on Monday, with minimum temperatures hovering below normal limits. In Punjab, Adampur was the coldest place recording a low of 4.6 degrees Celsius, according to the Meteorological (MeT) Department officials here. Amritsar, Bathinda, Faridkot and Halwara registered their respective minimums of 5.5, 5, 5.8 and 5.6 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature in Ludhiana (7.1), Patiala (7.4) and Gurdaspur (7.7 degrees Celsius) also settled below the normal limits. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 7.6 degrees Celsius. Narnaul in Haryana was the coldest place in state at 5.2 degrees Celsius. Karnal (6), Ambala (8.1), Hisar (6.6), Sirsa (7.6) and Rohtak (7.4 degrees Celsius) in Haryana also experienced a cold night||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-respite-from-cold-in-most-parts-of-punjab-haryana-948924.html
08-02-2021||National||Modi targets Opposition, refers to G-23 in Congress after Azad's 'praise'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday sought to turn the tables on the Opposition in Rajya Sabha by giving a new definition of FDI, referring to 'professional protesters', invoking the controversy surrounding G-23 in Congress and quoting former Prime Ministers. In his reply to the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, which saw the Trinamool Congress walking out as he stood up for his speech, Modi questioned the "U-turn" by Opposition parties on agriculture reforms and said they could take the credit for the good that is happening. The Prime Minister specifically picked up Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad for praise, one of the only two from the Opposition benches to get a positive reference, for his comments on conducting successful local body elections in Jammu and Kashmir but did not leave the opportunity to take a dig at Congress leadership. "I am scared of your praise. I hope your partymen will take it in the right spirit and not as the opinion of the G-23 in the party," Modi said amid laughter from the Treasury benches. Azad was among the 23 leaders, referred to as the G-23, who wrote to party chief Sonia Gandhi seeking clarity on the leadership issue and demanding intraparty elections, including for the post of Congress president. This has put him and others against the faction that owes its allegiance to Rahul Gandhi. He also used the remarks of former Prime Ministers Charan Singh and Manmohan Singh to corner the Opposition and put a stamp on his move to go in for reforms in the agriculture sector. In what is seen as an attack on the backroom boys of the farmers protest, he said a new breed of 'aandolan jeevi' (professional protesters) who are seen at labour protests, student protests and lawyers' protest among others. "You need to keep away from them," he said while also referring to "Foreign Destructive Ideology", a new form of FDI which one should keep away. On the criticism of the programmes like lighting lamps during lockdown, he said, "how can you laugh at the modest efforts by poor people, the elderly who lit diya as part of the government call to fight Covid-19?" He also tried to make light of criticism against his government and said, "a lot of attacks were directed at me. But I am glad I was of some use to you. In this Covid-19 season, you must be stuck at home and I am sure there must be trouble at home. At least this way you could take your anger out."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-targets-opposition-refers-to-g-23-in-congress-after-azads-praise-948928.html
08-02-2021||National||Rafale induction ceremony cost exchequer over Rs 41 lakh: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh||The induction ceremony of the first five Rafale jets at the Ambala Air Force base on September 10 last cost the exchequer a little over of Rs 41 lakh including Rs 9.18 lakh GST, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said in Rajya Sabha on Monday. "The first five Rafale aircraft of IAF were formally inducted into IAF on September 10. The arrangements for this event were made mostly through local resources of IAF. The total expenditure on the event was Rs 41.32 lakh including Rs 9.18 lakh of GST," he said. Singh said all new variant of aircraft are traditionally inducted into the Indian Air Force through a "befitting ceremony" The Rafale induction ceremony was attended by French Defence Minister Florence Parly and the top echelon of the French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, the manufacturer of the aircraft. The first batch of the five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, nearly four years after India signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36 of the aircraft at a cost of Rs 59,000 crore. The formal induction ceremony of the fleet had taken place nearly six weeks later. A second batch of three Rafale jets arrived in India on November 3 while a third batch of another three jets joined the IAF on January 27. The Rafale jets are India's first major acquisition of fighter planes in 23 year after the Sukhoi jets were imported from Russia. The fleet has been carrying out sorties in eastern Ladakh where Indian and Chinese troops have been engaged in a standoff for the last nine months. The first squadron of the Rafale jets is stationed at the Ambala air base while the second one will be based at the Hasimara base in West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rafale-induction-ceremony-cost-exchequer-over-rs-41-lakh-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-948940.html
08-02-2021||National||Sent names of 2.5 lakh Bengal farmers to Centre for PM Kisan scheme: Mamata Banerjee||A day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi slammed the TMC dispensation for not implementing central schemes in West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday told the Assembly that her government has sent to the Centre names of 2.5 lakh farmers who are eligible for benefits under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. She sought to know why the Union government has not disbursed any cash benefit to the beneficiaries as yet. Banerjee told the House that the state government had received a list of six lakh applicants from the Centre for verification, of which 2.5 lakh names have been sent to the Centre for financial assistance under the central welfare programme. She also said that her government would float 19 industrial projects in the state, entailing an investment of Rs 72,200 crore, and create 3.29 lakh employment opportunities. The CM was responding to questions raised by the members of the House during a debate on a vote-on-account that she had presented on February 5. With state elections round the corner, Banerjee had presented a vote-on-account for Rs 2.99 lakh crore in the Assembly and made a slew of announcements, including a hike in the annual aid of farmers. The chief minister has increased the annual financial assistance, under the state government's 'Krishak Bandhu' scheme, to Rs 6,000 from Rs 5,000, keeping in mind the interest of farmers. She said that benefits of the central scheme should be made available to the sharecroppers, along with support provided by the state to all cultivators, irrespective of their landholdings. Under the PM Kisan scheme, Rs 6,000 per year in three equal instalments is provided to small and marginal farmer families having a combined landholding of up to two hectares. Addressing a rally in Haldia on Sunday, the prime minister had assailed the state government for not implementing central schemes like Ayushman Bharat and PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. He asserted that once the BJP forms its government in the state, it will take steps to implement all such stalled programmes at the very first cabinet meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sent-names-of-25-lakh-bengal-farmers-to-centre-for-pm-kisan-scheme-mamata-banerjee-948947.html
08-02-2021||National||Rajya Sabha nod to J&K Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill||The Rajya Sabha on Monday cleared The Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that seeks to replace the ordinance to merge the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) cadre of civil services officer with the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre. The Bill was introduced in the Upper House of the Parliament last week. Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy said the Constitution of India is now fully applicable on Jammu and Kashmir, and that the bill will enable availability of officers in Jammu and Kashmir who have experience of running union territory administration. He said around 170 central laws are being implemented in Jammu and Kashmir. He said the bill will increase the strength of officers in the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Leh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-nod-to-jk-reorganisation-amendment-bill-948950.html
08-02-2021||National||IndiaMART CEO, two others booked for selling Govardhan Hill rocks online, probe underway||Police in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura district, about 400 kilometres from here, registered an FIR against five persons, including a CEO of an Indian e-commerce company, for allegedly selling pieces of rocks of the sacred 'Govardhan Hill'. 'Govardhan Hill', which is also called 'Mount Govardhana' and 'Giriraj', is a sacred Hindu site in the Mathura district of UP, and is visited by a large number of devotees. The devotees take a round of the eight-kilometre long hill located at Govardhan and Radha Kund.   According to the police sources in Lucknow, three persons were arrested in this connection. The local supplier of the company was also arrested. An FIR has been filed under Section 265 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 66 of the Information Technology Act against IndiaMART founder-CEO Dinesh Agarwal, co-founder Brajesh Agrawal and Mathura-based supplier Ankur Agrawal, according to a PTI report. Sources said that hundreds of local residents and seers and saints had held a demonstration before the local police station demanding stern action against the e-commerce company CEO and others. A memorandum was also submitted to the district administration in this connection. Police said that the web site on which the rocks of the Govardhan Hill was being sold had given the address of a firm in Chennai in Tamil Nadu. The site claimed that the rock was 'natural' and had priced a piece of the same Rs 5,175. The Govardhan Hill, also known as 'Giriraj', is situated around 20 kilometres from Vrindavan. According to the Hindu mythology, the sacred Hill is considered to be Lord Krishna himself. A 'mahant' (head of a math) from Govardhan said that the 'Bhagavad Gita' (a Hindu scripture) has mentioned Lord Krishna saying that the Hill was not different from him and that worshipping its rocks was the same as worshipping him. Siya Ram Baba, a saint from Mathura, condemned the act by the company saying, "Govardhan is Krishna himself. Anybody entering into a trade involving Govardhan would be inviting the wrath of the deity." According to the Hindu mythology, Lord Krishna had once lifted the Hill on one finger to save the residents from the fury of rains after Lord Indra, considered to be the god of rains by the Hindus, had become angry with them. Meanwhile, Uttar Pradesh Brahmin Mahasabha has decided to meet the Mathura DM on Monday for strict action against the company and the supplier.   (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indiamart-ceo-two-others-booked-for-selling-govardhan-hill-rocks-online-probe-underway-948955.html
08-02-2021||National||India to have 17 Rafale jets by March; entire fleet by 2022: Rajnath Singh||India will have 17 Rafale jets by March this year and the entire fleet of the fighter aircraft bought by the country will reach by April 2022. In 2016, India had signed an inter-governmental agreement with France to procure 36-Rafale Jet aircrafts at a cost Rs 59,000 crore. "I want to inform that till 11 Rafale have arrived and by this March 17 Rafale will be on our land. I also inform that all Rafale will be reach India by April, 2022," the minister said while replying a question in the Rajya Sabha. Singh said all new aircraft types in IAF are traditionally inducted through a befitting ceremony. The first five Rafale aircraft of IAF were formally inducted into IAF on September 10, 2020. The arrangements for this event were made mostly through local resources of IAF. The total expenditure on the event was Rs 41.32 lakhs including Rs 9.18 lakh of GST. To another supplementary query whether the government will privatise few aspects of defence in the coming days, the minister said, "We are giving special focus on indigenisation". He said 101 items have identified which will manufactured locally and not imported."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-have-17-rafale-jets-by-march-entire-fleet-by-2022-rajnath-singh-948997.html
08-02-2021||National||Franchisee scam: SC refuses to consider plea seeking CBI, ED probe||The Supreme Court on Monday declined to further consider a plea by a group of people seeking a probe by the CBI, Enforcement Directorate and SFIO into what they called the "biggest franchisee scam of the country". "We will not adjudicate this. Go to jurisdictional High Court," a bench, presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde, told advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, appearing for the petitioners. The counsel, for his part, said the court had already issued a notice in the matter. "We made a mistake in issuing notice. We have no problem in admitting our mistake. (Do) you want to withdraw or not?" the bench further asked the counsel. The court then dismissed the matter, giving the petitioners the liberty to approach the High Court. In their plea, the group alleged they had been cheated and duped of their hard-earned money by 'Westland Trade Private Limited' which floated bogus companies like Hyper Supermarket, Hyper Mart, Big Mart Super Mart, Louies Salon, Midnight Cafe, Franchisee World, BM Mart, H Mart and S Mart etc. The court had earlier sought a response from the Union Home Ministry, Finance Ministry, CBI, ED, SFIO, Police Commissioner of Delhi, Police Commissioner of Noida and Police Commissioner of Gurugram on the plea made through three separate sets of petitions by victims of fraud from as many as 18 states. According to the petitioners, about 53 companies were set up throughout the country and around 500 innocent investors were duped of more than Rs 300 crores. The main company took Rs 3 lakh to run a grocery store in May 2019. It opened stores in Karnataka, Telangana, Goa, Maharashtra, Bihar, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, UP, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab, MP, Delhi and many other states, according to the petition. However, in April this year, the company defaulted in payment, leaving about 500 investors high and dry. The petitioners sought an investigation into criminal economic offences like cheating, fraud, forgery, money laundering, benami transactions, amassing of disproportionate assets, among others, committed by the fraudsters involved in the 'gargantuan franchisee scam'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/franchisee-scam-sc-refuses-to-consider-plea-seeking-cbi-ed-probe-949005.html
08-02-2021||National||FDI is Fear, Deception, Intimidation: Oppn hits back at PM Modi's FDI remark||Opposition leaders on Monday attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his reference to 'aandolan jeevi' (professional protesters) and support for the farmers' protest from abroad as "Foreign Destructive Ideology" during his address in Rajya Sabha, saying it comes from someone whose governance is based on "Fear, Deception, Intimidation". Modi made the reference to professional protesters and FDI as Foreign Destructive Ideology during his reply to the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address in Rajya Sabha. "In Parliament today, PM Modi said that FDI is also 'Foreign Destructive Ideology'. This from someone whose governance has been based solely on FDI — Fear, Deception, Intimidation," Congress Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh tweeted. In Parliament today, PM Modi said that FDI is also ‘Foreign Destructive Ideology’. This from someone whose governance has been based solely on FDI — Fear, Deception, Intimidation. CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury also attacked Modi for his comments saying, "Aandolan jeevi? People protest for saving their lives and for security, for greater opportunities and ensuring better livelihood. Protesters are not parasites, they are patriots. Those who grab power on the strength of protests are (parasites)." Former Finance Minister and senior Congress leader MP P Chidambaram also found fault with Modi's coinage and said "this mindset" of the BJP should go. He said human rights know no borders and India has been commenting on international issues for long. "Didn't we comment on people storming the US Capitol? Didn't we comment on Sri Lanka, Nepal and even Pakistan? Therefore human rights activists will comment. You will have to take it in the right spirit," he said. "I am disappointed that the Prime Minister has called dissenters agitationists and human rights commentators Foreign Destructive Ideology," Chidambaram said adding Modi used it in a "pejorative" way. CPI(M) Parliamentary party leader Elamaram Kareem said the Prime Minister was "ridiculing" the democratic protesters by calling them "aandolan jeevi". "Nothing more can be expected from the leader of a party which never took up burning issues of the nation and conducted any agitations for people's welfare. People's protest is raising against the policies of the government. Modi's reply failed miserably in addressing these," he said. CPI Parliamentary party leader Binoy Viswam said the Prime Minister has put out a "masterclass on whataboutery". On the new coinage on FDI, he reminded that Modi was the person who went to the United States and chanted 'Ab ki baar Trump Sarkar' (Next time, Trump government). "It appears that the definition of FDI is a reflection of his own actions and beliefs," he said. Senior Congress MP Mallikarjun Kharge said there was no substance in Modi's speech and he overlooked Congress' proposal on what lacks in the three farm laws and rejected concerns of farmers, graduates and scientists saying nobody knows anything.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fdi-is-fear-deception-intimidation-oppn-hits-back-at-pm-modis-fdi-remark-949006.html
08-02-2021||National||PM Modi slams those abusing Sikhs, appeals to farmers to end protest against farm laws||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday slammed those abusing agitating Sikh farmers, saying it will not do the country any good as he went on to appeal to the protesting farmers to call off their over two-month-long stir, assuring them of continuing with the purchase of crops at an administered price or MSP. In the same vein, he also hit out at deleterious influences from abroad, referring to them as 'foreign destructive ideology', as well as a new "breed" of agitators -- 'Andolan-jivi' -- in the country who cannot live without a tumult. He dug out old statements such as one by his predecessor Manmohan Singh supporting farm reforms to allow farmers to sell their produce where they get the best price, saying the opposition parties had done a 'U-turn' on their own words and they have not been able to give out reasons for the continuation of the farmers' agitation. "Give the agriculture reforms a chance," he said while replying to a discussion in the Rajya Sabha on a motion thanking the President for his address to Parliament at the start of the current Budget session. In an apparent reference to tweets by pop star Rihanna and Swedish climate-activist Greta Thunberg favouring the agitating farmers, Modi played on the term 'Foreign Direct Investment or FDI' to warn against deleterious influences from abroad. "I see that a new FDI has come to the fore. We have to protect the nation from this new FDI. We need Foreign Direct Investment but the new FDI is 'Foreign Destructive Ideology', we have to protect ourselves from it," he said. He also hit out at some of the protestors, saying a new crop of agitators has emerged in India who cannot live without agitation and the country should be beware of them. "There is a new crop of 'Andolan-jivi'. They live for protests. They look for ways to start a new movement. The country needs to be aware of these Andolan-jivi," he said. Thousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November demanding the repeal of three new agriculture laws that they say will end the minimum support price (MSP) based procurement of crops like wheat and paddy by the government and usher in big corporates into the farm sector. They have rejected the government's offer to suspend the reforms for 18 months and have not joined talks after 11 rounds of talks ended last month. The Prime Minister promised to continue with MSP-based procurement at the 'mandis' as well as subsidised ration supply through the public distribution system (PDS) to the poor. He indicated the government was open to amending the laws. "We are ready to remove shortcomings," he emphasised. "I assure you that mandis will be modernised," he said. "MSP was there (in past). MSP is there (now). MSP will remain in the future." He also cited former agriculture minister and Maratha leader Sharad Pawar's support for agriculture reforms to buttress his point on the U-turn by the opposition. "Those taking a U-turn will perhaps agree with him (Singh)... Whether they were able to do it or not, but everyone has advocated that it should be done," he said. Attacking TMC -- which his party BJP is challenging in the forthcoming assembly elections in West Bengal, Modi said he was left wondering if party MP Derek O'Brien using phrases such as 'freedom of speech' and 'intimidation' were for the country or his state. "He (Derek) sees all this (in West Bengal) 24 hours, so he might have thought that is how it is in the rest of the country too," he remarked. The farm laws are aimed at empowering the small and marginal farmers, who make up for more than two-thirds of the farming community in the country and often do not benefit from loan waivers and other schemes as they cannot avail of credit from banks, Modi said. The government has toughened its stance against the protesters following violence during a tractor rally on Republic Day last month. Three main protest sites have been fortified with concrete barricades, concertina wires and long metal spikes. In an oblique reference to agitating Sikhs being called 'Khalistani' terrorists and other names, the Prime Minister said the nation was proud of every Sikh. "India is very proud of the contribution of Sikhs. This is a community that has done so much for the nation. The words and blessings of the Guru Sahibs are precious," he said. "Language used by some for them and attempt to mislead them will never benefit the nation." "We mustn't forget what happened with Punjab. It suffered the most during the Partition. It cried the most during the 1984 riots. They became victims of the most painful incidents. Innocents were killed in Jammu and Kashmir. And the business of weapons was carried out in the northeast. All this affected the nation," he said. These laws, he said, address the root cause of the agrarian problem and are aimed at helping small farmers. "We urge those sitting on the agitation that even though it is their right to agitate, the manner in which the old people are sitting there is not right. They (agitators) should be taken back. "They should end the agitation and we will together find a solution as all doors are open for dialogue. From this House, I again invite them for dialogue," he said while appealing to farmers to end their agitation. All the amendments moved by the opposition to the President's address, including mention of the repeal of farm laws, were negated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-slams-those-abusing-sikhs-appeals-to-farmers-to-end-protest-against-farm-laws-949013.html
08-02-2021||National||Having Covid-19 vaccine does not mean we should be complacent: Harsh Vardhan||Having the Covid-19 vaccine does not mean one should be complacent, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday stressing that preventive measures must be followed now and in the near future as well. These remarks were made by Vardhan, also the Chairman of the Indian Red Cross Society, as he presided over the distribution of masks and soaps among various Transport Unions, a health ministry statement said. "I am very happy to be a part of the initiative of distributing masks as part of the Covid-19 response activities. This is part of a series of such distributions across the country. "In Delhi itself, we have distributed masks on railway stations, sabji mandis and other places considering the high chances of infection at these places," he was quoted as saying in the statement. Acknowledging the efforts of the Indian Red Cross Society and emphasising the need of following COVID-appropriate behaviour even after vaccine development, Vardhan said, the government has already started the largest vaccination drive in the world. "But having the vaccine does not mean that we should be complacent. In fact, all the preventive measures must be followed by all of us now and in the near future, as well. Considering this, it is praiseworthy that IRCS is continuing the distribution of masks from the prevention perspective," he said. Transport drivers and helpers travel throughout the country and are vulnerable to the infection, he said, adding the masks being distributed by the IRCS will be of great help to them. Speaking on the Covid-19 situation, Vardhan said India has one of the highest recovery rates in the world. "Positive cases are also declining and stand at 1.48 lakh as of today. From one lab in January 2020, we now have 2,373 labs (for testing coronavirus). We have a capacity to conduct more than a million tests a day. We have completed 20 crore cumulative tests. This is a result of 'whole of Government' and 'whole of Society' approach,” he was quoted as saying in the statement. He further added that India has not only become self-reliant in production of masks, PPE kits, ventilators etc but is also in a position to export them now. On the ongoing vaccination drive in the country, he said more than 58 lakh beneficiaries have been vaccinated till now. On misinformation and rumours surrounding the vaccine, Vardhan said, "Many people are trying to spread misinformation and rumours related to vaccine. I appeal to the people to not believe in any such rumors."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/having-covid-19-vaccine-does-not-mean-we-should-be-complacent-harsh-vardhan-949024.html
08-02-2021||National||SC asks Centre, UPSC to give an extra chance to age-barred aspirants||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Centre and UPSC to consider giving an extra chance to Civil Services examinations 2021 aspirants who were age-barred, in view of hardships faced by them due to Covid-19 pandemic. A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar told Additional Solicitor General S V Raju that the government should not be rigid and give one more attempt to the candidates who had exhausted their attempts and were age-barred. "All that they are asking is if they are age barred then give them one more attempt. Is it okay to be rigid in this aspect due to the extra ordinary circumstance we have all gone through," the bench asked the law officer. To this, Raju said we were of the view that relaxation cannot be granted but then we did after the court suggested it. Maintaining that we can't direct in policy matters, the bench said, "We are also for it that age should not be changed but since you have done it before cannot you do it again for this extraordinary situation?Some of the candidates were in essential services. May be some will get undue benefit but there are genuine cases also." The court noted only about 2,200 more candidates would be benefited by such a decision. The court would further consider the matter on Tuesday. Earlier senior advocates Shyam Divan and Pallav Sisodia, appearing for the candidates urged the court to direct the UPSC to allow those were age barred to appear one more chance. On Friday, the Centre and the UPSC on Friday agreed before the court to give an extra chance to candidates who appeared for Civil Services Examinations-2020. However, the relaxation would be granted only to those who appeared as their last permissible attempt and are otherwise not age-barred. At present, candidates from general category get six attempts till age of 32, nine attempts by the OBC till 35 and SC/ST candidates unlimited attempts till 37 in the Civil Services examinations conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-upsc-to-give-an-extra-chance-to-age-barred-aspirants-949032.html
08-02-2021||National||Lok Sabha logjam ends after Rajnath Singh appeals ‘to not break tradition'||Lok Sabha resumed normal functioning Monday after a week-long disruption over the three Central farm laws following an appeal by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh that it was a duty of every member to maintain the tradition of passing the Motion of Thanks to President's address. After the House convened at 5 PM, Singh said the tradition of thanking the President has been continuing for long and it should not be broken in a healthy democracy. He also said that Rajya Sabha has already passed the Motion of Thanks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's reply and "I appeal to members not to break this tradition in the Lok Sabha". Singh said that members are free to speak on farm laws during the discussion on the Motion of Thanks. Congress Leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury too said that this tradition has been continuing since 1921 and should not be broken. "Our demand was to discuss the issue of farmers who have been sitting in the cold on the borders of Delhi in protest against farm laws. It is regrettable that they are being stopped from entering the capital by sharp nails and barbed wires," he said referring to the reinforced barricading at the farmers' protest sites. He said the Opposition wanted an assurance from the government for a standalone discussion on the farmers' issue either after the debate on Motion of Thanks or after the discussion on Budget. Speaker Om Birla also appealed to the members to allow the House to function and not indulge in sloganeering. The House was repeatedly disrupted by the Opposition members from February 2 over the three farm laws which was passed by Parliament in September last year. Earlier Birla had called a meeting of leaders of different political parties to break the impasse in the House. In the meeting, an agreement was reached to resume its normal functioning with Singh making an appeal to start the debate on President's address.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-logjam-ends-after-rajnath-singh-appeals-to-not-break-tradition-949044.html
08-02-2021||National||SC directs for filling up vacant dental colleges seats by lowering percentile marks||The Supreme Court on Monday ordered that vacant seats in first year BDS course in government and private medical colleges for the year 2020-2021 should be filled up from the candidates who appeared in NEET-UG by lowering the marks by 10 percentile.  A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Krishna Murari set aside the December 30, 2020 decision of Union government on reducing the minimum marks for admission to BDS course, saying it suffered from the vices of illegality and irrationality. Acting on a writ petition by Harshit Agarwal and others, the court rejected the Union government's contention that taking such a move would lower the standards of dental course. The Centre also maintained that there are 2.77 lakh registered Dentists in the country. It further pointed out there is one Dentist for every 6080 persons which is better than the WHO norms of 1 : 7500. "There are about 7,000 seats available for admission to BDS course. We are not impressed by the argument that there are sufficient number of Dentists in the country and, therefore, there is no harm in the seats being unfilled," the bench said.  The court pointed out the Dental Council of India itself recommended for lowering the minimum marks and the regulations also provided for it. The court also said the total number of seats available for the academic year 2020-2021 for MBBS are 91,367, BDS 26,949 and AYUSH 52,720 making it a total of 1,71,036 seats, while the NEET qualified candidates are 7,71,500.  "Thus, the basis for the decision to not reduce minimum marks that there are sufficient eligible candidates is without considering the vital facts," the bench said. The bench asked the Managements of private Dental Colleges to consider reducing the fee charged by them to encourage students to join the Colleges, as the government contended it proved to be a deterrent for the seats not being filled up.  Out of 7,000 seats, 265 are vacant in government colleges and remaining in private Dental Colleges.  The judgement said candidates belonging to the general category and SC/ST/OBC categories who have secured 40 and 30 percentile would be eligible to be considered for admission in the first year BDS course in 2020-21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-directs-for-filling-up-vacant-dental-colleges-seats-by-lowering-percentile-marks-949056.html
08-02-2021||National||Labour Ministry to finalise rules under 4 codes by this week to make reforms a reality soon||The Ministry of Labour and Employment is likely to complete the process to finalise the rules under the four labour codes paving the way for making reforms are reality soon. Besides, the ministry is also progressing to roll out a web portal by June 2021 for registration and other facilities of workers in the unorganised sector, including gig and platform workers and migrant workers as enshrined in her budget speech this year by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. "Rule making process is already underway and likely to complete in the coming week. All stakeholders are also consulted in framing of rules. This ministry would soon be in a position to bring into force the four Codes, viz., Code on Wages, Industrial Relations, Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions (OSH) and Social Security Codes," Labour Secretary Apurva Chandra in a media briefing on Monday. The labour ministry had envisaged implementing the four labour codes from April 1 this year in one go. The ministry is in the final leg of amalgamating 44 central labour laws into four broad codes on wages, industrial relations, social security and OSH. The ministry wants to implement all four codes in one go. The work on setting up of the portal for informal workers by this ministry is progressing as per the schedule, Chandra told reporters adding that the portal will collect relevant information on gig, building and construction workers, among others. The portal will help formulate Health, Housing, Skill, Insurance, Credit and food schemes for migrant workers. Chandra informed that the portal will be rolled out by May or June 2021 for registration and other facilities of workers in the unorganised sector, including gig and platform workers and migrant workers. The enrolled workers on the portal will be provided with an incentive of free coverage for a period of one year for accidental and disability cover under Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bhima Yojana(PMSBY). Chandra also told that the Labour Bureau, an attached office under this ministry, has started vigorously work on four new survey for Migrant workers, Domestic workers, Employment generated by Professionals and Transport Sector. The Bureau will also commission 'All India Establishment based Employment Survey (AIEES)'. Results of all these surveys are likely to come within eight to nine months from the start of actual field surveys, he added. About the budget proposal to bar employers for taking deduction of delayed amount of social security contributions, Chandra said, "It is a very good announcement in the budget as it will provide security of amount deducted by employer towards payment of contribution deducted from employee on account of employees Provident Fund and Employees Insurance Scheme." On the rationalisation of tax-free income on provident funds, he said, "This decision will stop high net worth individuals to misuse a welfare facility and earn wrongfully tax-free income as assured interest return. Interest portion is calculable on a year-to-year basis just like bank interest." Under the provision, taxpayers will be required to include the annual income from contribution beyond Rs 2.5 lakh into their PF accounts while filing their returns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/labour-ministry-to-finalise-rules-under-4-codes-by-this-week-to-make-reforms-a-reality-soon-949058.html
08-02-2021||National||PM takes dig at TMC leader Derek O'Brien's comments on freedom of speech, intimidation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took a jibe at Derek O'Brien for using phrases like 'freedom of speech' and 'intimidation', saying he thought the TMC member was referring to the situation in West Bengal. "I was listening to Derek Ji. He was using great words like 'freedom of speech', 'intimidation' and 'hounding'. When I was hearing these words, I was wondering if he was talking about West Bengal or the country. "It is obvious he sees and hears such things 24 hours. So he probably may have said those things by mistake here (in the House)," Modi said. He was replying in the Rajya Sabha to the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address. Assembly elections are due in the state later this year. The BJP has been focusing on the state to wrest power from the Mamata Banerjee-led TMC government. It has been accusing the West Bengal government of criminalising politics, institutionalising corruption and politicising the police. Derek, who represents the TMC from West Bengal, had on Thursday last week participated in the discussion. He had demanded that the government repeal the three controversial farm laws and even offered a 'Repealing Bill 2021' drafted by him for the purpose. He had interrupted his speech to observe a minute's silence in the House along with other opposition leaders, mainly the Congress, to pay tribute to the farmers who lost their lives during the two-months agitation. The prime minister also took a jibe at Congress MP Pratap Singh Bajwa, saying Bajwa too spoke at length while participating in the debate and it seemed he would soon talk about Emergency as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-takes-dig-at-tmc-leader-derek-obriens-comments-on-freedom-of-speech-intimidation-949060.html
08-02-2021||National||AAP leader writes an open letter to Sachin Tendulkar||Aam Aadmi Party leader Preeti Sharma Menon has shot off an open letter to cricketing legend Sachin Tendulkar to support the request of Ranjeet Bagal, a farmer's son who visited his Bandra residence on Monday. Ranjeet came all the way from Pandharpur, to request Sachin Tendulkar to tweet out at least one tweet in support of the farmers who are protesting against the three farm laws introduced by Centre. Menon, who is AAP's national executive member, has endorsed Ranjeet's request and has written an open letter to Sachin Tendulkar, imploring him to tweet "in favour of our farmers who are protesting."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-leader-writes-an-open-letter-to-sachin-tendulkar-949061.html
08-02-2021||National||Andolans liberated India from colonial rule: Samyukta Kisan Morcha on PM Modi's 'andolan jeevi' remark||Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the organisation spearheading the agitation against the three contentious farm laws, on Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has "insulted" the farmers and they are proud to be 'aandolan jeevi' as it was agitations that liberated India from colonial rule. In a statement, the SKM targeted the ruling "BJP and its predecessors" saying they never participated in any "andolan against Britishers" and they were "always against the andolans" and are "still scared of public movements". It also "questioned the commitment of the government in seriously and sincerely" resolving the farmers' demands. It also pointed out that the government is introducing the Electricity Amendment Bill 2021, despite assuring farmers' organisations of withdrawing the draft bill. The farmer leaders' comments came soon after Modi's reply to the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address in Rajya Sabha during which he urged them to end the agitation and reiterated the invite for dialogue even as he said reforms in agriculture was necessary. During the speech, Modi referred to 'aandolan jeevi' (professional protesters) feasting like "parasites" on protests. He also referred to FDI as "Foreign Destructive Ideology" in an apparent reference to the agitation getting international support. The SKM said, "farmers would like to remind the PM that it is 'andolans' (agitations) that have liberated India from colonial rulers and that is why we are proud  to be 'aandolan jeevi'. It is the BJP and it's predecessors that had never did any andolan against britishers and they were always against the andolans, they are still scared of public movements." The statement said that the farmers would be "more than happy to get back to farming" if the government at least now accepts their legitimate demands. It is the Government's adamant attitude that is creating more 'andolan jeevis', it said. "Empty statements on MSP will not benefit farmers in any way and that such meaningless statements were made in the past too. Farmers will benefit in reality and in an equitable as well as sustainable manner only if MSP is made into a legal guarantee for all crops," it said. "The PM's FDI approach is dangerous too, even as we distance ourselves from any "Foreign Destructive Ideology". However, SKM stands with constructive democratic processes that uphold basic human rights anywhere in the world and expects similar reciprocation from all like minded citizens all over the world because injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere, it added. Protesting farmer leaders on Monday asked the government to fix a date for the next round of talks on the contentious three agri laws after Modi urged them to resume the dialogue and end their stir. Shiv Kumar Kakka, a senior member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, the farmers unions are ready for the next round of talks and that they have never refused to talk. He said the government should tell them the date and time of the meeting. "We have never refused to hold talks with the government," he said. Another farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar also said that the unions are ready for dialogue but insisted that the issue of Minimum Support Price getting legal backing is important. "If the government is claiming that MSP will remain, why doesn't it provide a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for our crops," Kohar said. So far, the government and the farmers union have held 11 rounds of talks over the three farm laws but a consensus has eluded. The farmers have been insisting that the three laws should be repealed. Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said business over hunger will not be allowed in the country. "There will not be any business over hunger in the country. If hunger goes up, the price of crops will be decided accordingly. Those who wish to do business over hunger will be driven out of the country," Tikait told reporters at the Ghazipur protest site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andolans-liberated-india-from-colonial-rule-samyukta-kisan-morcha-on-pm-modis-andolan-jeevi-remark-949063.html
08-02-2021||National||'Informal' school started by farmers' group at Singhu border resumes after two-week break||A makeshift 'informal' school at Delhi's Singhu border, where farmers have been protesting the new agri laws, has resumed after a two-week break with less children owing to the tense situation following the tractor parade violence on Republic Day. A group of farmers from Punjab's Anandpur Sahib had in December started the school in a makeshift tent for school going children who had accompanied their parents to the Singhu border protest site and those living in the slums nearby. Pioneered by writer Bir Singh and advocate Dinesh Chaddha, the temporary school is part of the multiple 'sewa' practices being offered at the protest site.   Sukhwinder Singh Barwa, a resident of Roop Nagar district in Punjab, said they resumed the classes on February 5. "We started the school in the first week of December. There were over 170 students studying here. Due to the tense situation on Republic Day, we closed it on January 24. It was later resumed on Friday," Barwa said. He said there were 30 local students who have never been to school before. "As the schools have opened and the internet was suspended here, most of the students who came here from Punjab and other states have gone back to attend their classes and to prepare for their upcoming exams. Now around 60 students come here. They are from class 1 to 7," he said. The timing of classes is from 11 am to 4 pm. "During morning hours from 8 am to 11 am, there is library time where people read books whatever they want according to the availability. Earlier, we used to get almost every newspaper, however, after the restrictions were imposed, we only get few Hindi and Punjabi papers," Barwa said. "We are teaching students general subjects, including morale science and languages. We also have the history books of different religions and those who are interested can read them. There are eight to nine teachers who teach students in a group of 10 according to their class," he added. Its not just academic learning at the makeshift school but skill learning too. "Many students have tried their hands in painting also and they have done a really good job. They have created several beautiful pictures on charts which we have displayed at 'Sanjhi Sath', the place where classes being held. Several people come here by their own and draw pictures and write slogans on charts," Barwa said. 'Sanjhi Sath' is a reference in Punjabi used for a place where people gather to have discussions. Maninder Singh, a resident of Ludhiana in Punjab, said children love them a lot. "Sunday is a holiday, but yesterday many students came to the school and urged us to take their classes. They wanted to study. We have not planned for the future when the protest will end, but we will do something for the children" he said. Maninder said the volunteers came in contact with each other at the protest site and started doing their work. Thousands of protesting farmers had clashed with the police during the tractor rally called by farmer unions on January 26 to highlight their demand for repeal of the Centre's three farm laws. Many protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and the flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled by the prime minister on Independence Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/informal-school-started-by-farmers-group-at-singhu-border-resumes-after-two-week-break-949071.html
08-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Modi appeals to farmers to end stir||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom,  Modi appeals to farmers to end agitation; Sensex rallies 617.14 points to end at a new lifetime high of 51,348.77; V K Sasikala returns to Tamil Nadu and Nineteen people confirmed dead after the Nandadevi glacier broke.  Here is the top news of February 8, 2021: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday once again appealed to farmers to end their agitation against farm laws, assuring them that the Minimum Support Regime (MSP) regime will stay even as he targeted the Opposition for their "U-turn" on agriculture reforms. Replying to the Motion of Thanks to the President's address in Rajya Sabha, Modi also warned the protesters against the "new breed of aandolan jeevis (professional protesters)" who cannot live without protests and the "new FDI or Foreign Destructive Ideology", without mentioning any names or the support they received from international celebrities and others abroad.   Sensex rallied 617.14 points to end at a new lifetime high of 51,348.77 on Monday while Nifty soared 191.55 points to record 15,115.80. A growth-focused, high-spending federal budget unveiled last week has powered India's stock market to multiple all-time highs. A Covid-19 vaccination drive that is underway and strong corporate earnings have also aided the upbeat sentiment.   Expelled AIADMK leader V K Sasikala on Monday returned to Tamil Nadu to a grand reception, days after completing her four-year jail term in Bengaluru in a corruption case, amid indications of a confrontation with the ruling party which she once controlled. Sasikala's return to Tamil Nadu is being keenly watched for political impact as it comes at a time when the assembly elections in the state are to be held in the next few months.   Nineteen people were confirmed dead on Monday after the Nandadevi glacier broke in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on February 7, washing away houses near the Dhauliganga river, officials said. At least 202 others were still missing after the massive flash flood triggered by a glacial outburst devastated part of the state, with raging floodwaters even washing away two hydropower stations, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-modi-appeals-to-farmers-to-end-stir-949073.html
08-02-2021||National||No child deprived of online education during pandemic: Javadekar||No child was deprived of online education during the pandemic as the government had taken several steps in that direction, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Monday in the Lok Sabha. Replying to queries during the Question Hour, he said that in providing online education, India has surpassed many countries. Right from age 5 to university education, practically everything became online, he said. Under-privileged children were provided access to mohalla schools, he said adding now there are 34 educational channels -- 22 for higher education and 12 for school education. "So in India, despite the pandemic, nobody was deprived of education and online education," he said. When asked whether the government is going to re-start schools anytime soon, the minister said many states have taken initiative and started schools. "The education reached everywhere, practically there is no gap now," he said, adding people who did not have even access to TV, they were provided access to mohalla schools. On the outlay for digital education in the Budget, he said it was an evolving budget, "therefore no fixed amount was given." But over Rs 600 crore have been incurred as expenditure on digital education from the government's side, he said. "I can assure that there will no dearth of money for this initiative of Modi- government." he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-child-deprived-of-online-education-during-pandemic-javadekar-949076.html
08-02-2021||National||Do not link farmers' stir with any religion, Sukhbir urges PM||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to link the agitation against the farm laws with any religion or community and said he should instead focus on giving “justice” to farmers. The SAD chief told reporters here that farmers are on one platform against the Centre’s three contentious agricultural laws. “We should all be clear that farmers are fighting for the welfare of the 'annadaata' at large and we should not try to divide this struggle by trying to limit it to one religion or community,” Badal appealed to the PM while adding that he should instead focus on ensuring “justice” to farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday had slammed those abusing agitating Sikh farmers, saying it won't do the country any good as he went on to appeal to the protesting farmers to withdraw their over two-month-long stir and give the new agriculture reform laws a chance. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of three farm laws. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, who was here to address ward-level meetings ahead of the the February 14 civic body polls in the state, also slammed the ruling Congress, accusing it of unleashing “goondaism”. He urged the SAD workers to be resolute and ensure the victory of Akali candidates. He alleged that even though there was a “complete collapse” of the law and order and the State Election Commission (SEC) had “abrogated” its constitutional duty, the SAD will not be cowed down by such “tactics”. He said the officers who “murdered democracy” and its institutions at the instance of the Congress party will be taken to task once the SAD formed a government in the state. Meanwhile, the SAD complained to the State Election Commission (SEC) regarding alleged changing of wards of many voters in Batala and urged it to immediately take action. In a complaint, SAD’s senior vice-president and spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said it is forwarding a complaint in this regard from MLA Batala Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal, in which he has mentioned how the ruling party is “trying to change” wards of several hundred voters even after allotment of election symbol to the candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/do-not-link-farmers-stir-with-any-religion-sukhbir-urges-pm-949090.html
08-02-2021||National||Debate on Motion of Thanks: Lok Sabha to sit till midnight||Lok Sabha proceedings were extended till midnight to accommodate the long list of speakers participating in the Motion of Thanks to the President's address. Lok Sabha meets between 4 PM and 9 PM. Meenakshi Lekhi, who was presiding over the proceedings, said there is a long list of speakers participating in the debate and extended the time till midnight after taking the sense of the House. After several days of impasse over the three new agri laws, the House resumed the debate on the Motion of Thanks on Monday evening. The time allocated for the debate is 15 hours and it would continue on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/debate-on-motion-of-thanks-lok-sabha-to-sit-till-midnight-949093.html
08-02-2021||National||Black money: I-T dept issues notices in 475 cases for undisclosed assets of Rs 14,300 cr||The Income Tax Department has issued notices in 475 cases involving undisclosed foreign assets and income of over Rs 14,300 crore under the foreign black money act, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur said on Monday. Besides, the undisclosed income of more than Rs 8,460 crore has been brought to tax and penalty of over Rs 1,290 crore levied so far for deposits made in unreported foreign bank accounts in HSBC cases, he said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. In the Panama Paper leaks probe, undisclosed foreign investments amounting to over Rs 1,700 crore have been detected so far, while sustained investigations conducted in the cases revealed by International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) have led to the detection of more than Rs 11,010 crore of credits in the undisclosed foreign accounts. "As on December 31, 2020, notices have been issued in 475 cases under the Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015, involving undisclosed foreign assets and income of over Rs 14,300 crore," Thakur said. He said the government has taken various initiatives in the recent years to bring back black money from abroad. These include enactment of 'The Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015' which has come into force from July 1, 2015. The government has also constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) on black money under Chairmanship and Vice-Chairmanship of two former judges of the Supreme Court. Also the government has entered into Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements/Tax Information Exchange Agreements /Multilateral Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters/SAARC Multilateral Agreement with other countries which provide for exchange of information. India has been proactively engaging with foreign governments, for exchange of information under these tax treaties. Besides, the tax treaties/ agreements have been comprehensively amended to enable procuring the requisite information from the relevant foreign jurisdiction. India has also implemented Automatic Exchange of Information based on the Common Reporting Standard (CRS) and receives, from 2017 onwards, financial account information of Indian residents in other countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/black-money-i-t-dept-issues-notices-in-475-cases-for-undisclosed-assets-of-rs-14300-cr-949099.html
08-02-2021||National||Both sides showed interest on resuming FTA negotiations: EU after trade talks with India||The European Union has said that its first high-level dialogue on trade with India saw interest by both sides in resuming negotiations for an ambitious, comprehensive and mutually beneficial trade and investment pact once their respective approaches and positions are "close enough". It said the two sides had "open and constructive" exchanges on a broad range of issues with an aim of enhancing EU-India bilateral trade and investment relations. The EU said that the dialogue covered issues like the impact of the coronavirus pandemic as well as the production of vaccines and their distribution. The decision to establish the high-level dialogue mechanism on trade and investment was taken at the 15th EU-India summit in July last. The meeting on Friday was co-chaired by Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal and Valdis Dombrovskis, the executive vice-president and commissioner for the trade of the EU. The negotiations between India and the EU on a free trade agreement have been stalled since May 2013, when both sides failed to bridge substantial gaps on crucial issues, including data security status for the IT sector. The negotiations were launched in June 2007. "Minister Goyal and Executive Vice-President Dombrovskis reiterated their interest in resuming negotiations for ambitious, comprehensive and mutually beneficial trade and investment agreements once their respective approaches and positions are close enough," the EU said in a statement. "In the meantime, they examined alternative approaches and looked into the possibility of opening new areas of cooperation, for instance in relation to the resilience of global value chains and regulatory cooperation, notably in relation to new technologies," it said. The statement was released by the EU's office in India on Monday. "In the run-up to the Leaders' Meeting, the co-chairs tasked experts to look into the feasibility of resuming work on trade and investment agreements; new areas of cooperation (regulatory aspects and resilient value chains); as well as enhancing collaboration on WTO reform," the EU said. "This will be followed by another meeting of the high-level dialogue to take stock of experts' discussions ahead of the Leaders' Meeting," it said. The EU-India annual summit is expected to be held later this year. The EU said Dombrovskis and Goyal discussed trade and investment issues with an emphasis on the socio-economic impact of the Covid-19 pandemic as well as vaccine production and distribution mechanisms, including value chain linkages. The two sides exchanged views on "the state of play of EU-India bilateral trade and investment relations, and possible ways forward", it said. "The two sides recalled their continued attachment to the rules-based multilateral trading system," the EU added. It said Dombrovskis and Goyal further exchanged views on various key policy developments and market access issues. "The EU side provided an update on the ongoing review of the Generalised Scheme of Preferences, which expires end of 2023, and on the work towards EU Carbon Border Adjustment Mechanism under the European Green Deal, while the Indian side provided an updated on the 'Make in India' and 'Self-Reliant India' initiatives," the EU said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/both-sides-showed-interest-on-resuming-fta-negotiations-eu-after-trade-talks-with-india-949102.html
08-02-2021||National||Scientists had warned earlier that glacier collapse would likely happen in Uttarakhand||Scientists from Divecha Centre for Climate Change (DCCC) who had previously studied the Nanda Devi glacier in Chamoli, Uttarakhand, had warned that a glacial collapse would likely happen. Dr Anil Kulkarni, a prominent glaciologist told DH that studies at many glacial lakes had revealed the risk of glacial bursts happening in the Alaknanda valley. “In the entire Alaknanda valley, we have identified around 25-26 glacier lakes which can potentially cause a flood. Moreover, this particular glacier lake [at Nanda Devi glacier] was identified as being risky,” explained Dr Kulkarni, a Distinguished Scientist at the Centre, which is located in the Indian Institute of Science (IISc). While he added that previous papers had suggested that the glacier bursts would happen in the monsoon, there is no reason to think it would not happen in winter. “This is a classical case stemming from climate change,” he said. Another scientist added that the glacial burst was not entirely unexpected in the scientific community even though it caught the government off-guard. “Everyone in the scientific community thought it was coming. This is the disconnect between the scientific community and the government,” the scientist said. Scientists believe that the February 7 burst was likely caused by the build-up of water underneath or adjacent to the glacier, prompted by rising temperatures and ice melt. “As of now, based on our previous study and what we know so far about this incident, I think it is it safe to say that some kind of outburst of the glacier lake has taken place,” Dr Kuklarni said. He added that such bursts can be nipped in the bud in most cases, and pointed to the similar case of an expanding glacier lake in Sikkim in 2016. “The experts from Isro had said it could potentially cause a flash flood. The Chief Minister took it seriously. There was a special committee formed by the central government which I was chairing. After extensive studies, we suggested a mechanism by which you can reduce the volume of lake water, through tightening and widening of channels,” he said. He added, however, that the effort had worked because of timely intervention and cooperation between the scientific community, the political leadership, plus the army and the Defense Research and Development Organization (DRDO).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scientists-had-warned-earlier-that-glacier-collapse-would-likely-happen-in-uttarakhand-949104.html
08-02-2021||National Politics||'Playing with fire': Twitter's India's government order snub sparks debate on free speech, compliance||Twitter Inc's refusal to comply with an Indian government directive to block more than 250 accounts and posts has put the social media giant at the centre of a political firestorm in one of its key markets. Government officials, business people and ordinary netizens are split over free speech and the US company's compliance practices, in a controversy that comes soon after Twitter's top lobbyist in India resigned. The showdown, after the firm this week "declined to abide (by) and obey" the order to remove posts and accounts that the government said risked inciting violence, is the latest instance of worsening relationships between Prime Minister Narendra Modi's administration and US social media platforms like Facebook and WhatsApp. For Twitter, the stakes are high in a country of 1.3 billion where it has millions of users and is ardently used by Modi, his cabinet ministers and other leaders to communicate with the public. Farmers are conducting a growing protest against new agriculture laws, with tens of thousands camping out on the outskirts of New Delhi and launching a nationwide road blockade on Saturday. As the prolonged crisis escalated, the government this week sought an "emergency blocking" of the "provocative" Twitter hashtag "#ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide" and dozens of accounts. Twitter initially complied but later restored most of the accounts, citing "insufficient justification" to continue the suspensions. The technology ministry warned the company, in a letter seen by Reuters, of legal "consequences" that could include fines or jail, saying the government was not required to justify its demand to ban accounts. Twitter's public policy director Mahima Kaul recently resigned from her role, two sources said. A LinkedIn ad showed the company is seeking candidates for the key government relations position. Kaul did not respond to a request for comment. Twitter confirmed Kaul's resignation, saying she would stay on through March and was helping with the transition, but otherwise declined to comment. It said this week that it withholds access to content on receiving a "properly scoped request from an authorized entity". 'Not lawmakers' Free speech activists say the government should not attempt to use legal provisions to muzzle freedom of expression, while others argue Twitter should comply or go to court. "Twitter is playing with fire," said an Indian social media executive who was surprised by the company's non-compliance. "If there is a legal request, you are required to take down content. You are free to challenge it" in court. In 2019, a parliamentary panel headed by a lawmaker from Modi's Hindu nationalist party warned Twitter after CEO Jack Dorsey failed to appear before the committee. The previous year Dorsey sparked a social media storm after a picture of him holding a poster saying "smash Brahminical patriarchy", referring to the highest Hindu caste, went viral. This week, Dorsey became a talking point on Indian TV news after he liked a tweet suggesting the company should consider introducing a farmer protest emoji. Meenakashi Lekhi, a lawmaker from Modi's party who heads a parliamentary panel on data privacy, criticised Twitter for disobeying government orders, adding she has yet to decide whether to summon company executives. "Twitter needs to understand they are not lawmakers," Lekhi told Reuters. "It is not their policy which will work, it is the policy of the state, country which will work." Calling the showdown "inevitable", the Hindu newspaper said in a Friday editorial: "Provocative posts have no place on any platform, (but) free speech should not be hit." Prasanth Sugathan of Software Freedom Law Center India, said, "The selective government approach to ask social media companies to ban content when it doesn't suit the official narrative is problematic. "It stifles free speech and press freedom."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/playing-with-fire-twitters-indias-government-order-snub-sparks-debate-on-free-speech-compliance-948806.html
08-02-2021||National Politics||India proved sceptics wrong, says PM Modi on the government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took on the opposition parties for criticising the government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, and said India has proved wrong all those who raised apprehensions. Replying to the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address, Modi said there were predictions like crores would be infected and lakhs would die. The world today appreciates India's efforts in saving humanity, and the credit does not go to any government or individual, "but the credit goes to Hindustan", he said. Criticism is fine but no one should indulge in acts that can break the confidence of the country, the prime minister said. Modi said India emerged as a hub of pharmacy for the world during the pandemic, and added that the country is implementing the world's largest vaccination programme. He also complimented the science community for coming up with a vaccine for the coronavirus in a very short time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-proved-sceptics-wrong-says-pm-modi-on-the-governments-handling-of-the-covid-19-pandemic-948867.html
08-02-2021||National Politics||Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad raises doubts over govt's intention to give full statehood to J&K||Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad on Monday doubted the Narendra Modi government's promise to restore statehood to Jammu and Kashmir at an appropriate time, as the Upper House passed a bill merging the Jammu and Kashmir cadre with AGMUT cadre. Participating in the debate on the Jammu and Kashmir (Amendment) Bill 2021, Azad said bringing the Bill creates "suspicion" on the government's intention. "I want to ask Home Minister Amit Shah if the present cadre was working well then why the need to merge it? You had promised that the statehood will be restored....But bringing this bill creates suspicion that GoI wants to keep Jammu and Kashmir permanently a union territory," Azad said. Noting that perhaps this could be his last speech in the House as his term ends on February 15, he said he didn't want to use harsh language but was forced to say that the government's promise to develop Jammu and Kashmir has been stalled. The Bill aims to replace an ordinance issued in January with an aim to merge the Jammu and Kashmir cadre of IAS, IPS and IFS with the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram, and Union Territory cadre, also known as AGMUT cadre. The rationale behind the bill is to address the shortage of civil servants in the union territory. Before the Bill was passed by a voice vote in Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said "revolutionary and historical decisions" have been taken for the development of the Union territory. Reddy also said Kashmir will be connected by train by December 2022 and an elevated light rail system is being planned in the region. "Since the last two years, speedy development is happening in Jammu and Kashmir, when compared to the last 70 years. Both the Centre and the Jammu and Kashmir government are trying to develop the region and will do more. Due to coronavirus, we could not reach the set target," Reddy said. Earlier participating in the debate, BJP MP Dushyant Gautam alleged that parties in the state were exploiting people under the guise of Article 370. RJD's Manoj Jha said he wanted to know whether the changes proposed under the bill were temporary or permanent in nature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-ghulam-nabi-azad-raises-doubts-over-govts-intention-to-give-full-statehood-to-jk-948959.html
08-02-2021||National Politics||PM Modi says calling agitating Sikh farmers names will do no good; asks farmers to end stir||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday slammed those calling agitating Sikh farmers names, saying it won't do the country any good as he went on to appeal to the protesting farmers to withdraw their over two-month-long stir and give the new agriculture reform laws a chance. He also slammed the politics over the farm laws, saying opposition parties were mum over the reasons for the agitation. Punning on the term FDI, which stands for Foreign Direct Investment, Modi said a new thing of FDI has emerged in India, which he said was Foreign Destructive Ideology. "We need to be more aware to save the country from such an ideology," he said while replying to a discussion in Rajya Sabha on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Parliament at the start of the Budget session. He also slammed the mushrooming of a new breed of 'andolan-jivi' -- professional protestors -- who can be seen at every agitation. These "parasites feast on every agitation." In an oblique reference to agitating Sikhs being called 'Khalistani' terrorists and other names, the prime minister said the nation was proud of every Sikh. "India is very proud of the contribution of Sikhs. This is a community that has done so much for the nation. The words and blessings of the Guru Sahibs are precious," he said. "Language used by some for them and attempt to mislead them will never benefit the nation." Farmers from Punjab and other northern states have been protesting at the borders of the national capital for over two months against the three new farm reform bills that they fear will end the current practice of the government buying their produce like wheat and paddy at a Minimum Support Price or MSP. "We mustn't forget what happened with Punjab. It suffered the most during partition. It cried the most during the 1984 riots. They became victims of the most painful incidents. Innocents were killed in Jammu and Kashmir. And the business of weapons was carried out in the northeast. All this affected the nation," he said. Modi vehemently denied that the laws will end MSP or the mandi system of crop procurement. "I assure you that mandis will be modernised. Not just this, MSP was there, it is there and will remain. Cheap ration given to over 80 crore people will continue. Please do not try to spread misinformation. We also need to strengthen means to increase the incomes of farmers," he said. Reeling out statistics, the prime minister said over two-third of farmers have small landholdings and the new laws give them the freedom to sell their produce anywhere, helping to realise the best prices. Modi also criticised the opposition for not listing out the reasons that prompted the stir against the farm laws. These laws, he said, addressed the root cause of the agrarian problem and are aimed at helping small farmers. The opposition parties too advocated farm reforms, he said citing a statement by his predecessor Manmohan Singh on the need to reform the procurement system. The prime minister asked the farmers to end the agitation saying the government is ready for talks. "I invite you to come forward and solve the problems of the agriculture sector by making those protesting against the laws understand the reforms... Let's move forward together," he said. He said the agriculture minister has been holding constant dialogues with farmers and has held several meetings with them and there is no tension yet as both sides are trying to understand each other. "We urge those sitting on the agitation that even though it is their right to agitate, the manner in which the old people are sitting there is not right. They (agitators) should be taken back. They should end the agitation and we will together find a solution as all doors are open for dialogue. From this House, I again invite them for dialogue," he said while appealing to farmers to end their agitation. "We should move forward and not take the country behind. All the opposition and the government and protesters should give these reforms a chance and see if this change helps them. We are ready to remove shortcomings," he said. The prime minister admitted that there were problems in the agriculture sector and said everyone together has to find a solution to them. "I feel time cannot wait. Every law requires reforms as we are not ones living in a static state. We should all move together with good reforms," he said. Further, the prime minister said that during the Covid-19 pandemic, there were efforts to challenge the nation's borders but the trained and brave soldiers gave them a befitting reply and every India should be proud of this. He said that India has a clear view on the situation on LAC (Line of Actual Control) and there would be no laxity in developing border infrastructure. He also lauded Leader of Opposition and Congress veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad for praising the Centre for holding local bodies elections in Jammu & Kashmir. Modi hoped that people in the Congress party would take his praise of the government in the right spirit and would not see it as "advice of G-23", in an apparent reference to a letter written to the Congress interim President Sonia Gandhi by 23 senior party members, including Azad. All the amendments moved by the opposition to the President's Address , including mention of repeal of farm laws, were negated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-says-calling-agitating-sikh-farmers-names-will-do-no-good-asks-farmers-to-end-stir-948971.html
08-02-2021||National Politics||Punjab Congress to hold protest on February 11 against fuel price hike||The Punjab unit of the Congress will hold a state-wide protest on February 11 against the fuel and LPG price hike by the Centre. Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief Sunil Jakhar on Monday said protests will be held across the state from 11 am till 1 pm. "Due to oppressive policies of the Centre, each segment of the society is distressed. On one side, the Centre's ego is forcing farmers to protest and on the other hand, it is putting undue financial burden on common man by hiking prices of petrol, diesel and gas," he alleged in a statement here. He said a gas cylinder used to cost Rs 438 in 2014 when Manmohan Singh was the prime minister. The same cylinder now costs over Rs 750, he said, adding that this too when prices of crude oil is almost half than what it used to be in 2014. "The prices of oil and gas should have come down as a result of decrease in crude oil prices but the Centre is deliberately increasing prices each time to break the back of the common man," alleged Jakhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-congress-to-hold-protest-on-february-11-against-fuel-price-hike-949020.html
08-02-2021||National Politics||MP: Vaccination drive for 3.31 lakh frontline workers begins||A Covid-19 vaccination drive for over 3.31 lakh frontline workers began across 825 centres in Madhya Pradesh on Monday, with a state minister informing that doses would be administered four days a week. MP health minister Prabhuram Choudhary, who inspected the site to check arrangements, said that the frontline workers who will be covered during this drive include police and revenue department staff. He said that 3.31 lakh frontline workers have registered for the vaccine, and the drive will take place four days a week. "I found laid down norms and protocol being followed at the all the sites," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mp-vaccination-drive-for-331-lakh-frontline-workers-begins-949074.html
08-02-2021||National Politics||PM Modi's speech full of untruths: CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury||CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury Monday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his speech in Parliament and alleged it was full of "untruths". "PM's speech is full of untruths. We have all along sought agri reforms for strengthening Indian agri, ensuring food security with healthy remuneration to farmers. NOT for destroying Indian agri & annihilation of farmers, all to benefit crony corporates. Repeal three black laws," he said in a tweet. He also objected to the prime minister's remarks in Rajya Sabha that a new "breed" of agitators called "andolan jivi" has emerged in the country. "Aandolan jeevi"? Yechury said in his second tweet. "People protest for saving their lives & for security, for greater opportunities & ensuring better livelihood. Protesters are patriots not parasites. Those who grab power on the strength of protests are." The prime minister in his address had hit out at those behind the protests, saying a new "breed" of agitators called "andolan jeevi" has emerged in the country who cannot live without an agitation and the nation should guard against them. He had also slammed the politics over the farm laws, saying opposition parties were mum over the reasons for the agitation. Punning on the term FDI, which stands for Foreign Direct Investment, Modi said a new thing of FDI has emerged in India, which he said was Foreign Destructive Ideology. "We need to be more aware to save the country from such an ideology," he said, while replying to a discussion in Rajya Sabha on a motion thanking the President for his address to the joint sitting of Parliament at the start of the Budget session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modis-speech-full-of-untruths-cpim-general-secretary-sitaram-yechury-949094.html
08-02-2021||National Politics||Ruling Congress ‘misusing' power to influence Punjab municipal body polls: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party Monday slammed the ruling Congress, accusing it of misusing the government machinery to influence the February 14 municipal polls in Punjab. AAP Punjab in-charge Jarnail Singh alleged his party candidates were "bullied" at the behest of Congress leaders. "The misuse of power by the ruling party was reprehensible and oppressive," he said in a statement here. AAP candidates from Zira, Jalalabad, Sunam, Ferozepur, Fazilka and Jagraon had to face harassment and assault, he alleged. He further alleged several incidents in various districts across the state were reported in which the ruling party "committed blatant hooliganism, intimidated and prevented" AAP candidates from filing their nomination papers, thus "violating" the democratic values. He also raised questions over the law and order situation, alleging the safety of candidates was at risk. Singh alleged that Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had turned a blind eye to the "worsening" law and order situation. The AAP leader demanded the State Election Commission to deploy paramilitary forces to ensure free and fair elections. Elections to the eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in the state will be held on February 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ruling-congress-misusing-power-to-influence-punjab-municipal-body-polls-aap-949096.html
08-02-2021||National Politics||Congress launches 'Join Social Media' campaign; Rahul Gandhi says online warriors will counter hate||The Congress on Monday launched a 'Join Congress Social Media' campaign with an aim to have five lakh online "warriors" who, former party chief Rahul Gandhi said, will counter hate and "defend the idea of India". The country needs non-violent warriors to fight for truth, compassion and harmony, Gandhi said in a video message that was streamed at the launch of the campaign. Launching the campaign along with AICC social media head Rohan Gupta and party spokesperson Pawan Khera, AICC in-charge (Administration) Pawan Kumar Bansal said the aim is to have five lakh social media "warriors". In his video message, Gandhi said, "As a young person you know what is going on. Nothing is hidden from you, in your schools, colleges and universities, you can see the oppression, you can see the attack on the idea of India." "Look outside Delhi, you can see what is happening to the farmers. The backbone of this war on the nation is a troll army. Thousands of people who spread hatred and anger and are paid to do so. We also need warriors to defend liberal values, to defend the ideas of compassion, peace, harmony and affection," the former Congress chief said. "Come, join this army. This is not an army of hatred, this is not an army of violence, this is an army of truth and this is an army that will defend the idea of India. We are building this platform for you to give you the tools to fight this battle and win it," Gandhi said. Gupta, in his remarks, alleged that the Modi government is scared of social media and "we are giving a platform to the youth to raise their voice". He said people can join through website, toll-free number or by WhatsApp. Gupta said the party will take this campaign to people for a month and invite them to join. Then there will be a basic interview in all states and "we will give responsibilities accordingly", he said. He said people can work at different levels -- district, state and national -- and they will be given responsibilities accordingly. After a month of interviews those who do well will be given training, Gupta added. In his remarks, Khera said when the BJP came to power in 2014, many criticised the Congress for not being on social media, and when the party became active on social media, many said it is not on the ground, but now "we are on both".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-launches-join-social-media-campaign-rahul-gandhi-says-online-warriors-will-counter-hate-949097.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand floods rescue operations under way: 10 key things to know||As many as 14 people were killed and over 200 people were still missing in massive flooding in the Alaknanda and Dhauliganga rivers that followed after what is seen as glacier burst in Joshimath of Uttarakhand's Chamoli district. The deluge damaged five bridges, several homes, an NTPC power plant and a small hydropower project in Rishiganga. National and state disaster relief forces have been deployed among ITBP forces, Army and Navy teams for rescue operations.  Here are the 10 key things to know:  2. Officials said that connectivity in the region had also been hit after a bridge collapse in Reni village. "There is an accessibility issue because it's a tough terrain. By road, only two teams could manage to reach Joshimath, the remaining teams were airlifted. It's difficult to predict how long, but rescue operation can possibly take 24-48 hours," NDRF DG SN Pradhan told ANI.  4. Prime Minister Narendra Modi vowed support for the state, saying "India stands with Uttarakhand and the nation prays for everyone's safety there." Home Minister Amit Shah had also offered assistance.  6. National Crisis Management Committee on Sunday assured that information from the Central Water Commission had shown no dangers of downstream flooding. They said that the dramatic rise in water levels had been contained and was no threat to the neighbouring villages.  7. The rescue operation was underway on Monday as several people continue to remain trapped in the aftermath of floods. On Sunday, hospitals in the region were alerted and the medical team were deployed at the rescue sites. Army columns were also sent in for the rescue operation.  9. The floods are a stark reminder of Kedarnath floods in 2013 and the fragile ecosystem of the state. In Kedarnath, the cloudburst had resulted in massive rains and floods that resulted in the loss of many lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-floods-rescue-operations-under-way-10-key-things-to-know-948809.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Scientists leave for Uttarakhand for reconnaissance after glacier burst||A team of scientists, flown to Dehradun after the glacier burst in Uttarakhand, left for Joshimath area on Monday for surveillance and reconnaissance. The scientists, belonging to the Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), were flown to the Uttarakhand capital on Sunday night. "A team of scientists of DRDO-SASE, flown in last night to Dehradun, is leaving for Joshimath area for surveillance and reconnaissance," a Home Ministry spokesperson said on Monday. A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, triggering an avalanche and a deluge in the Alaknanda river system that washed away hydroelectric stations, leaving at least 10 people dead and 143 others missing. The sudden flood in the middle of the day in the Dhauli Ganga, Rishi Ganga and Alaknanda rivers -- all intricately linked tributaries of the Ganga -- triggered widespread panic and large-scale devastation in the high mountain areas. Two power projects - NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project and the Rishi Ganga Hydel Project - were extensively damaged with scores of labourers trapped in tunnels as the waters came rushing in. Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said 153 people were missing from the two hydel projects at Raini and Tapovan out of which 10 bodies have been recovered while 143 are still missing. "The efforts are focussed at the moment on rescuing 30-35 people trapped in a 250-metre-long tunnel at Tapovan," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scientists-leave-for-uttarakhand-for-reconnaissance-after-glacier-burst-948844.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Operation to rescue 34 people trapped in Uttarakhand's Tapovan tunnel under way||A multi-agency operation to rescue an estimated 34 people trapped inside a big tunnel at Tapovan was carried out overnight after a glacier burst-triggered deluge killed 10 people in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district while over 140 are missing, officials said on Monday. Personnel from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and some state disaster response teams are clearing the tunnel that has been blocked with slush, debris and silt, and are inching closer towards the stuck workers.   "Our teams are working overnight to rescue about 30 workers who are trapped in the tunnel. Specialised equipment for such operations has been deployed. We are hopeful we will able to rescue everyone," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said in Delhi. Around 300 ITBP personnel are currently deployed at the site, he said. Another officer said it is estimated that around 34 people are trapped in the 'head race tunnel' or HRT. The force's Additional Director General (Western Command) M S Rawat also reached the spot Monday morning to take stock of the situation and interacted with officers working at the site, Pandey added. ITBP teams were seen clearing the over 1,500-metre-long tunnel, which is executed till over 1,329 metres, using earthmovers driven by local workers. A team of senior officials, in a video provided by the force, were seen analysing the tunnel's map to find the best way of approach. The tunnel has only one entry, an official said. ITBP rescuers were seen carrying wooden planks which will be used to create a platform to pull out the trapped people using ropes. Teams of the NDRF also reached the spot late Sunday night and were seen using shovels to clear the tunnel's approach. The force has also brought along canine teams that will help them detect lives trapped underneath better. More teams have been sent to the site on Mi-17 helicopters that landed at the helipad in Joshimath, NDRF chief S N Pradhan said in a Twitter post. He said the agencies are working in close coordination. Some teams from the Army have also reached the Tapovan spot, a senior official supervising the operation said. At least 12 workers were rescued from a smaller tunnel in this area by ITBP on Sunday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/operation-to-rescue-34-people-trapped-in-uttarakhands-tapovan-tunnel-under-way-948866.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||BSF kills intruder along Indo-Pak border in Jammu||The Border Security Forces (BSF) shot dead a Pakistani intruder along the International Border (IB) in Jammu’s Samba district on Monday. “On February 8, at about 9:45 am, ever vigilant BSF troops observed a Pakistani intruder heading towards the fence near BP No 64 in area of BOP Chak Faquira, Sector Samba, Jammu,” a BSF spokesperson said. He said despite repeated warnings, the intruder kept moving under suspicious circumstances and “approached fencing in an aggressive manner towards the fence and was fired upon by BSF troops.” The body of Pakistani intruder has been recovered, the spokesman said and added that another intruder was killed in the same area on November 23, 2020. “A tunnel was also detected in this area recently. A search of the area is in progress,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsf-kills-intruder-along-indo-pak-border-in-jammu-948875.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Minimum temperature dips to 7.6 degrees C in Delhi||Delhiites woke up to a cold morning on Monday, with the minimum temperature settling at 7.6 degrees Celsius. On Sunday, the minimum temperature had stood at 8.3 degree Celsius. The minimum temperature was one notch below the season's average on Monday, Meteorological (MeT) department officials said. The minimum temperature recorded at Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, was 7.6 degrees Celsius in the early hours of Monday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The weatherman has forecast mainly clear sky during the day time. The Palam Observation station recorded a low of 9.5 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minimum-temperature-dips-to-76-degrees-c-in-delhi-948887.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Delimitation Commission to hold first meeting with J&K members on February 18||For the first time since it was set up in March last year, the Delimitation Commission for Jammu and Kashmir is going to hold its first meeting with associate members from the Union Territory on February 18 in New Delhi. The Commission was set up by the Central government on 6 March, 2020, to redraw the parliamentary and assembly constituencies as per the J&K Reorganisation Act, 2019. However, due to Covid-19 pandemic, the Commission couldn’t hold any meetings since then with its associate members. The Commission has also not visited Jammu and Kashmir so far. Sources said that Justice (retd) Ranjana Prakash Desai, the Chairperson of the Commission, has called a meeting at a five-star hotel in New Delhi where it will be setting up its office on February 18. Pertinently, the Commission meeting comes just days ahead of the end of Justice Desai's one-year term. The associate members who have been invited for the meeting include Union Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) Jitendra Singh, Jugal Kishore Sharma, both from the BJP, Farooq Abdullah, Mohammad Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi (National Conference). All five are Lok Sabha members from J&K. The other members of the Commission besides Desai, a retired Judge of Supreme Court, include Election Commissioner Sushil Chandra and State Election Commissioner (SEC) of J&K KK Sharma. The NC, however, had said that its three MPs will not accept their positions as part of the Delimitation Commission since that would be “tantamount to accepting the events of 5th August 2019”— the day the special status of the erstwhile state was abrogated. The erstwhile state of J&K had 111 seats, including 24 reserved for Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), while elections were held for 87 seats. Delimitation of the Assembly constituencies was last held in 1994-95 during the President’s Rule when seats of the erstwhile state assembly were raised from 76 to 87. Elections to the J&K Assembly will be held only the after delimitation of constituencies is completed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delimitation-commission-to-hold-first-meeting-with-jk-members-on-february-18-948898.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Pakistani troops target forward posts in J&K's Kathua||Pakistani Rangers opened fire on forward posts and villages along the International Border in Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Monday. The firing from across the border in Karol Krishna border outpost area started around 10:20 pm Sunday, prompting strong retaliation by the Border Security Force (BSF), the officials said. They said the cross-border firing between the two sides continued till 5 am but there was no report of any damage on the Indian side.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistani-troops-target-forward-posts-in-jks-kathua-948902.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand floods: Part of under-construction Tapovan hydro plant damaged||State-run power giant NTPC said that an avalanche on Sunday has damaged a part of its hydro power project in Tapovan in Uttarakhand but the impact may not be material as per Sebi regulations. Earlier in the day on Sunday, a glacier broke off in Joshimath in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district which caused a massive flood in the Dhauli Ganga river and endangered lives of people living along its banks, raising fears of massive destruction. In a regulatory filing, the NTPC said, "An avalanche near Tapovan in Uttarakhand has damaged a part of our under construction hydropower project Tapovan Vishnugad (520 MW) in the region. While rescue operations are on, situation is being monitored continuously with the help of district administration and likely loss or damage caused is being assessed. Appropriate insurance cover is available for the loss/damage caused." However, it said "considering the total size of operations of NTPC Limited (present standalone commercial capacity 51,310 MW and group commercial capacity 63,925 MW), the impact of above event on the company as a whole may not be considered material" as per Sebi regulations. The Tapovan Vishnugad power plant is a 520 MW run-of-river project which is being constructed on Dhauliganga River in Chamoli District of Uttarakhand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-floods-part-of-under-construction-tapovan-hydro-plant-damaged-948907.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||SP to hold state-wide programme on National Women's Day||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Monday asked women to join a programme to be held by the party across the state on the birth anniversary of Sarojini Naidu on February 13, which is celebrated as National Women's Day in the country. The party will hold 'mahila ghera' in the entire state. The 'mahila shakti' (women power) is urged that they should join this programme, and "make it (programme) so big that the sleep of those in power is broken," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "The women should come forward," the SP chief said while using the hashtag #nahi_chaahiye_bhajapa. Yadav also targeted the BJP government on the issue of three new farm laws. "The BJP government is not bothered about India's image getting maligned abroad, and we are of the view that in order to give benefits to his capitalist friends, it will hatch a plot to linger on the issue of farm laws. But this time, the farmers will not get misguided, and will defeat the BJP," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sp-to-hold-state-wide-programme-on-national-womens-day-948911.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Kashmiri engineer missing after U'khand glacier burst||An engineer from Kashmir, who was working in a power project at Joshimath in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, has been missing since a glacier breach on Sunday. At least 14 people have been killed and over 170 are still missing, after a part of a glacier burst in Chamoli on Sunday morning, triggering an avalanche and massive flash floods. Among the missing include Basharat Ahmed Zargar, a project engineer from Soura area of Srinagar. A local news gathering agency quoting the family of the missing engineer said his mobile phone has been switched off since the incident. The family sought help from the Jammu Kashmir government and appealed to them to help them in tracing out the missing engineer. Pertinently, the glacier swept away roads while 170 people -148 employed at the NTPC plant and 22 at Rishiganga – are still missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiri-engineer-missing-after-ukhand-glacier-burst-948920.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Dentist withdraws plea for criminal prosecution against NCB chief Rakesh Asthana||A Chandigarh-based dentist Monday withdrew his plea from the Supreme Court seeking directions to investigate and launch criminal prosecution against Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) chief Rakesh Asthana on the basis of his allegations. The petitioner told a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Ravindra Bhat that he will approach the Punjab and Haryana High Court to pursue the remedy. The plea by Mohit Dhawan contended that he had filed a complaint against Asthana, who also heads the BSF, before the CBI Director in 2019 but there has been no action or adjudication so far. Dhawan levelled allegations of extortion, harassment and fabrication of documents by police. The petition, filed through advocate Sushil Tekriwal, also sought directions for providing adequate security to the petitioner in view of grave threats. The plea in the top court alleged that Central Vigilance Commission and the CBI are sitting over the complaint for more then 16 months and not updating the petitioner on the status of the action taken and hence criminal prosecution be initiated against all such erring persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dentist-withdraws-plea-for-criminal-prosecution-against-ncb-chief-rakesh-asthana-948923.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand disaster: At least 39 labourers from Uttar Pradesh missing||At least 39 labourers from different districts of Uttar Pradesh were among those reported missing after Sunday's glacier disaster in Utarakhand's Chamoli district. So far, family members of 22 labourers, who were working at the hydropower projects on Rishiganga and Dhauliganga rivers, had contacted the district administration in Lakhimpur Kheri and informed it that they had not been able to contact them since the tragedy.  According to sources, this number was expected to go up as the rescue operations were still on in the affected areas of the hill state.  Three labourers from Saharanpur, four from Meerut and five from Gorakhpur divisions were also said to be missing following the tragedy. Besides, one labourer each from Shamli, Moradabad and Chandauli districts were reportedly missing, sources said. Sources said that one of the labourers, who worked at the Tapovan power project and survived the disaster, called his family members in Lakhimpur Kheri and informed them that many workers were either swept away in the flood or were trapped in the tunnel. The family members of the missing workers said that their efforts to speak to them proved unsuccessful. Those missing also included two brothers. The district officials said that they had no information about the missing people. ''We are in touch with the authorities in Chamoli and Dehradun... The actual situation will become clear only after the rescue operations are over,'' said a district official in Lakhimpur Kheri on Monday. He, however, said that the administration was preparing the list of people from the district, who were reported to be missing. The glacial burst damaged two hydropower projects on Rishiganga and Dhauliganga rivers and caused massive flooding in the rivers downstream. About 140 workers at the two projects were reported to be missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-disaster-at-least-39-labourers-from-uttar-pradesh-missing-948929.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Mindless rampage on Himalayas in name of development must stop: Chipko movement leader||The glacial burst near Chamoli district's Raini village, the cradle of the Chipko movement, should serve as a wake-up call to stop the rampage on the Himalayan ecological system in the name of development, said Magsaysay awardee Chandi Prasad Bhatt on Monday. According to the 87-year-old environmentalist, who was a Chipko movement leader, projects like the Rishi Ganga hydel project, which bore the brunt of Sunday's calamity, should not have been given environmental clearance. Bhatt said that in 2010 he had written to the then environment minister warning against the adverse effects of the project. "Had my advice been heeded, the loss of lives and largescale damage to property at the project site could have been prevented. The mindless rampaging on the Himalayas in the name of development must stop," he said. A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, triggering an avalanche and a deluge in the Alaknanda river system that washed away hydroelectric stations, leaving at least 10 people dead and 143 missing, who are feared dead. The sudden flood in the middle of the day in the Dhauli Ganga, Rishi Ganga and Alaknanda rivers -- all intricately linked tributaries of the Ganga -- triggered widespread panic and large-scale devastation in the high mountain areas. Two power projects -- NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project and the Rishi Ganga Hydel Project -- were extensively damaged with scores of labourers trapped in tunnels as the waters came rushing in. Pointing out that the Himalayas are too delicate to bear too much human intervention, Bhatt, who has also been honoured with the International Gandhi Peace Prize, said, "Sunday's avalanche was a wake-up call and so was the 2013 Kedarnath deluge in which thousands perished but authorities refuse to learn from natural calamities." A devastating natural disaster in the form of torrential rains of unseen magnitude had struck Kedarnath on 16-17 June in 2013. The banks of the Chorabari lake in Kedarnath collapsed due to a cloudburst that had resulted in a major flash flood causing widespread destruction in Uttarakhand and led to heavy losses to infrastructure, agriculture lands, human and animal lives. "The Chipko movement had begun from Raini village after largescale devastation in the Rishi Ganga and Alakananda Valleys caused by a devastating flood in 1970. The flood awakened the locals to the need of saving the forests of Raini," said Bhatt who lives in Gopeshwar told PTI. The movement had resulted in a ban on cutting of trees in the catchment area of the Alaknanda river, he said. Women from Raini village of Uttarakhand had started the movement in the 1970s by clinging onto trees to prevent them from being cut. Though the movement was started to prevent the felling of trees, it went on to become an inspiration for environment conservation. Bhatt said environmental clearance to a 13 MW hydel project in a river close to its point of origin in a Himalayan glacier amounts to inviting calamities like this. Environmental clearance to projects like that on the Rishi Ganga without proper consideration could be highly detrimental to the delicate Himalayan ecological system. It also results in inordinate delay in clearance to infrastructural projects of public use, he said.  Bhatt also underscored the need for updating the knowledge of the ecological system connected with places where rivers like the Ganga and its tributaries originate in the Himalayas.  "On the points where the Ganga or its tributaries originate there are not only glaciers but also lakes of varying sizes, big and small, about which our knowledge is negligible. It needs to be augmented," he said. "We need to identify such lakes and glaciers, show them on our maps and keep a tab on them. An effective mechanism of sharing basic information on their vulnerability with the local administration and the local populace should also be developed," Bhatt stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mindless-rampage-on-himalayas-in-name-of-development-must-stop-chipko-movement-leader-948954.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Punjab govt defending terrorist, Uttar Pradesh govt tells Supreme Court||The Uttar Pradesh government on Monday contended before the Supreme Court that the Punjab government was vociferously defending don-turned MLA Mukhtar Ansari, a "terrorist" who was "enjoying a five-star facility" in a Punjab jail, avoiding trials in serious cases including murder. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta told a bench presided over Justice Ashok Bhushan that Ansari faced serious charges where summons have been issued, had an FIR lodged against him in Punjab, did not apply for bail and was enjoying in jail. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi opposing the plea maintained that video conference hearing was taking place. Mehta, however, countered him saying one cannot sit in five-star accommodation and appear for trial in Uttar Pradesh. He asked the court to record the statement by the Punjab government that there was no urgency in the matter. The court posted the matter for consideration on February 24 to enable the UP government to file a rejoinder affidavit. The Punjab government has earlier refused to shift Ansari to face trial in as many as 14 cases pending in the state. It cited Ansari’s hypertension, diabetes, depression, back pain and skin allergy, to reject the UP government’s request.  Ansari, MLA from Mau, remained lodged in a Rupnagar jail in Punjab since January 2019 after he was named in an extortion case. Out of 26 production warrants issued by UP courts for Ansari’s appearance, the Punjab government has claimed that 10 of these were not received by the jail authorities. On other dates, Ansari was advised “bed rest” by government doctors and medical boards, the Punjab government claimed. Ansari has not applied for bail in the FIR registered in Punjab in January 2019 and the police have also not filed any charge sheet against him. Ansari, for his part, apprehended threat to his life in Uttar Pradesh and sought to appear in cases through video conferencing only.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-govt-defending-terrorist-uttar-pradesh-govt-tells-supreme-court-948956.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand glacier burst: How a phone call saved their lives, recount survivors||They had lost hope of survival when one of them found his mobile phone network working, helping them contact the authorities who rescued them from an underground tunnel at Tapovan in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli where flash floods wreaked havoc following a glacier burst. "We heard people screaming at us to come out of the tunnel but before we could react, a sudden gush of water and heavy silt swamped upon us," rescued Tapovan power project worker Lal Bahadur said. He, along with 11 of his other colleagues, was rescued by the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) from an underground tunnel in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district on Monday evening. According to officials, they remained stuck there for about seven hours, from around 10 am to 5 pm, till the last man was evacuated by rescuers. The ITBP provided their recorded video accounts to the media. They are now being treated at an ITBP hospital in Joshimath, about 25 km from the incident spot. This is also the base of the ITBP’s Battalion No. 1, tasked with guarding the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China that runs along the state. At least 11 bodies have been recovered while 202 are still missing since the disaster struck in the upper reaches of Chamoli district, according to the ITBP. "We were 300 metres deep in the tunnel when the water gushed in. We got trapped. The ITBP rescued us," Nepal resident Basant said. Another unidentified worker who hails from Dhak village in Chamoli and worked at the Tapovan project said as the water gushed in, the only thing they could do was to lunge onto the crown of the tunnel. "We lost hope...but then we saw some light and felt some air to breathe...suddenly one of us found he had network on his mobile and then he called up our general manager informing him about our situation," the man said from the hospital bed. Officials said the project GM subsequently informed the local authorities who requisitioned ITBP rescuers to save them. The ITBP teams, armed with ropes, pulleys and carabiners, rappelled down a steep slope and brought out these men from the narrow snout of the tunnel on Sunday evening. Vinod Singh Pawar, a resident of Joshimath, said they climbed up half-way inside the tunnel through the rods but got stuck as a gush of water came in. "We are thankful to the ITBP rescuers for saving us," he said in the video. The border force began air-dropping food packets on Monday in at least nine villages that have been cut off due to the floods. "Beyond the Raini bridge (which was swept away by the floods), there are nine villages and choppers are dropping food packets after picking them up from our base in Joshimath," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-how-a-phone-call-saved-their-lives-recount-survivors-948958.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand floods: ISRO, DRDO helping to ascertain exact cause; relief work immediate priority. says CM Rawat||As multi-agency relief operations continue in Chamoli and adjoining areas of Uttarakhand, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat Monday said a comprehensive analysis of the entire incident is being carried out to avert future tragedies and asserted the immediate priority was to provide food and other assistance to the affected people. In an interview with PTI, he said the incident appeared to have happened due to the breaking of the glacier and the Chief Secretary has been instructed to find out the real reasons. Preliminary estimates show that around 200 people are still missing, while 11 bodies have been found, he said. "A DRDO team is already studying the cause of this tragedy and we have also sought the help of ISRO scientists and experts for the same," he said. After a comprehensive analysis is undertaken to find the reasons of this incident, "we will build an elaborate plan to avert any potential tragedy going forward", Rawat said. Asked about the ongoing relief operations, he said they are continuing in full swing. "We have made all arrangements needed for the rescue and relief operations along with providing healthcare facilities to the affected people. Most importantly, we are working on re-establishing the connectivity to the affected villages," he said. Rawat said while the extent of economic loss will be ascertained in due course, the topmost priority, for now, is to save as many lives as possible and to rehabilitate those who have got displaced from their homes. Multiple agencies coordinated efforts to search for survivors on Monday, a day after a portion of the Nanda Devi glacier possibly burst through its banks at Joshimath, triggering an avalanche and a deluge that rippled through the Alaknanda river system in the upper reaches of the Himalayas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-floods-isro-drdo-helping-to-ascertain-exact-cause-relief-work-immediate-priority-says-cm-rawat-948966.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand glacier disaster survivor recounts escape from Himalayan tunnel||A whistle turned into a roar of water that trapped a dozen men in a Himalayan tunnel after a glacier burst in northern India, but Rajesh Kumar lived to tell the tale. Eighteen people were confirmed dead on Monday and at least 200 others missing after the glacier broke off a mountainside, triggering a flash flood through a valley in the northern state of Uttarakhand. Floodwaters swamped a nearby hydro complex where Kumar and his colleagues were working 300 metres (984 feet) inside a tunnel. "We didn't think we were going to make it," the 28-year-old told AFP from his hospital bed. "Suddenly there was a sound of whistling... there was shouting, people were telling us to come out. We thought it was a fire. We started running but the water gushed in. It was like a Hollywood movie." The men clung to scaffolding rods in the tunnel for four hours, keeping their heads above water and debris, trying to reassure each other. "We just kept telling each other -- come what may, we must not let go of the rods. Thank god our hands did not lose their grip," said Kumar. As the flood coursed down the valley, the water started to recede in the tunnel, leaving it filled with more than five feet (1.5 metres) of debris and mud. "We climbed across the rock debris and forced our way to the mouth of the tunnel," said Kumar. There they found a small opening but they were not sure where it led. "All we knew was that we could feel some air." Eventually, they saw some light coming through and one of the men got a phone signal and called for rescue. There were emotional scenes as Kumar and his colleagues were pulled out of a tiny hole at the surface. Some punched the air in joy as they saw daylight, some were put straight onto stretchers and carried away. One man put his arms in the air and then fell face-first into the mud. They were trapped inside a flooded tunnel for four hours but miraculously managed to escape with just minor injuries. The glacier broke away as the power complex was in full operation, and scores of workers at two power plants are still missing. Some 35 workers were feared trapped in another tunnel. The chief minister of Uttarakhand, Trivendra Singh Rawat, said efforts to clear the tunnel had continued through the night. About 80 metres of mud and rock had been taken out, but there was still another 100 metres to go to reach the workers. "It is possible that about 35 people are stuck inside," Rawat said. Hundreds of paramilitary and emergency service workers were scouring the valley on Monday for signs of more survivors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-glacier-disaster-survivor-recounts-escape-from-himalayan-tunnel-948970.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||School bus hits truck in Haryana, seven children injured||Seven children sustained minor injuries when their school bus hit a cement-laden truck from behind while negotiating a turn in Haryana's Rewari district on Monday, a police official said. The accident took place near Palhawas village. The bus driver and a teacher were also injured in the accident, the official said. "Luckily, no one sustained any serious injury," SHO of Rohrai police station Manoj Kumar said over the phone. The bus was going towards the school in Rewari when the accident occurred, Kumar said, adding that all the injured persons were taken to a hospital in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/school-bus-hits-truck-in-haryana-seven-children-injured-948973.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Indo-US joint military exercise 'Yudh Abhyas' begins in Rajasthan||The 16th edition of the Indo-US joint military training exercise 'Yudh Abhyas' commenced at the Mahajan Field Firing Ranges in the western sector of Rajasthan on Monday. Brigadier Mukesh Bhanwala, Commander of the 170 Infantry Brigade of the Indian Army, welcomed the US contingent at the firing range and impressed upon both the armies to achieve optimum cohesion and interoperability during the exercise. He laid stress on the importance of free exchange of ideas, concepts and best practices between the troops and the necessity to learn from each other's operational experiences, defence spokesperson Lt Col Amitabh Sharma said. "The exercise will enrich both the contingents from each other's rich experience in counter-insurgency operations. Besides counter-insurgency operations, exchange of experiences in humanitarian assistance and disaster relief will also be a part of the exercise," the spokesperson said in a statement. The official said a number of aerial platforms, including the newly inducted indigenous Advance Light Helicopter WSI 'RUDRA', MI-17, Chinooks, Stryker Vehicles of the US Army and BMP-II Mechanised Infantry Combat Vehicles of the Indian Army, will be utilised in the exercise, which will go on till February 21. The drill comes days after the air forces of India and France held a five-day joint exercise in Rajasthan in January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indo-us-joint-military-exercise-yudh-abhyas-begins-in-rajasthan-948986.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Climate change, Western disturbance, or both? Scientists ponder reasons for Uttarakhand floods||Global warming or maybe a Western disturbance bringing fresh snow that melted could have triggered the inundation in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, experts said on Monday as they scrambled to understand the reasons for the avalanche and floods that wreaked havoc in the upper reaches of the Himalayas. Recalling the horrors of the 2013 deluge in the hill state in which thousands were killed, a part of the Nanda Devi glacier “broke off” at Joshimath on Sunday, leading to a massive flood in the Alaknanda river system. Till late afternoon Monday, 18 bodies had been recovered and 202 were missing. The Snow and Avalanche Study Establishment (SASE) of the Defence Research and Development Organisation is investigating the exact reason for the flooding but there are no clear answers yet for a glacier to have melted in the winter. It is not clear whether the flood is a typical Glacial Lake Outburst Flood (GLOF) or some temporary damming due to a landslide and avalanche that might have blocked the mainstream to form a temporary lake which burst, said Ranjit Rath, director general of the Geological Survey of India (GSI). A GLOF is a type of outburst flood that occurs when the dam containing a glacial lake fails.   “Once the water level recedes a team of experts will assess the damage as well as the triggering factor responsible for the outburst,” Rath told reporters here. As the nightmare envisaged by numerous environmentalists warning against untrammeled development in the mountains came true on Sunday, glaciologist Farooq Azam said a glacial burst is very rare. "We have been trying to understand the event since yesterday. Right now what we can tell is a glacier slipped from around 500-600 metres, which started a landslide with an icefall that triggered this disaster," Azam, assistant professor, Glaciology & Hydrology, Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Indore, told PTI. "For sure there was no glacial lake outburst flood, for sure there is no cloud burst because there is no lake available in the region at this particular time. Even if there are lakes, they are frozen and they don’t have any activity. The disaster happened because of an icefall and landslide." he added. Satellite and Google Earth images, Azam added, do not show a glacial lake near the region, but there's a possibility there may be a water pocket in the region. “Water pockets are lakes inside the glaciers, which may have erupted leading to this event,” Azam told PTI.   The scientist, however, said further analysis, weather reports and data are needed to confirm if this indeed was the case.   “There is no doubt that global warming has resulted in the warming of the region. Climate change driven erratic weather patterns like increased snowfall and rainfall, warmer winters have led to the melting point of a lot of snow,” he added. Climate scientist Roxy Mathew Koll agreed and also said more data is needed. He said the recent climate change assessment report for India shows significant melting and decline in glacier mass over the Himalayan region in the recent decades due to warmer temperatures.   Koll also said it was not clear if an accumulation of glacier melt led to this burst, and noted that Western disturbances during last week did bring in a lot of snow over the region, followed by clear sky and warm temperatures.   “It is quite possible that climate change and melting of fresh snow led to piling up of water in this area,” Koll, the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) in Pune, told PTI. Weighing in with his views, Amit Srivastava,  head of School of Civil Engineering, Lovely Professional University (LPU), Punjab, said Sunday’s event was a simple phenomenon.   “Natural reservoirs or ice glaciers are created in the top Himalayan region due to hill boundaries. Due to climate change, when temperatures rise, ice melts and turns into a water reservoir,” Srivastava, who specialises in geotech engineering, explained. High water pressure breaks the barrier and creates flood-like situations, he said, adding that scientists have been predicting this for a very long time but it is happening now. Pointing out that there is not enough data to give information on what caused the avalanche and floods, Anjal Prakash, adjunct associate professor at the Indian School of Business (ISB), Hyderabad  said, “What we know, prima-facia, is that this looks very much like a climate change event as the glaciers are melting due to global warming.”   According to him, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC)’s Special Report on Oceans and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate (SROCC) shows that climate change has altered the frequency and magnitude of natural hazards.   “The scientists reported with medium confidence that in some regions snow avalanches involving wet snow have increased while the rain on snow floods have also increased at lower elevations in springs,” Prakash, lead author of the ongoing 6th Assessment report of IPCC, said in a statement.    The impact of global warming on glacial retreat is well documented, he said. The IPCC report shows that temperatures are rising in the Hindu-Kush Himalayan region and the rise in global temperature will have more impact in the Himalayan region due to elevation-dependent warming, Prakash added.   He urged the government to spend more resources in monitoring the region better so there is more information about the change, adding this could help develop better adaptation practices. The glaciers in the Himalayas are retreating under climate change scenario, which is a global phenomenon, Rath said.   "With the passage of time, some of the glacial lakes near the terminus often coalesce together and form large glacial lakes dammed by glacial moraines. The constitution of the moraines comprising loose boulders, gravels, sand admixture often containing dead ice, imparts inherent weakness to these dams,” Rath said.   "These lakes are quite common on the debris-covered Himalayan glaciers wherein the lower part of the glacier moves very slowly and at times remains almost stationary. The breach glacial and outbursts, termed as GLOF, can result in the discharge of a huge volume of water leading to severe damage in the areas falling in the downstream region," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/climate-change-western-disturbance-or-both-scientists-ponder-reasons-for-uttarakhand-floods-948993.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||21 patients from Myanmar arrive at Delhi hospital for organ transplant||Twenty-one people from Myanmar, with chronic cases of kidney, liver and cardiovascular diseases, have arrived in Delhi to undergo organ transplant at a city hospital. According to a statement by the hospital, these patients have been waiting for organ transplants for over six months now. Easing of travel restrictions has come as a respite for these patients requiring specialised medical attention, it said. "The Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals along with the Indian Embassy has arranged for a special chartered flight to get these patients to India for immediate kidney/liver transplants and expedite treatment for patients requiring attention for cardiovascular ailments. They reached India on February 5," the hospital said. The Indian Mission in Myanmar was of great help in transporting these patients. They had been waiting for a while, some even for over six months, to get treated. These are all critically ill patients who were on regular follow up but couldn't travel for treatment, it said. "We tried to treat them optimally through virtual consultations, but now they needed surgery," said Dr Anupam Sibal, the group medical director at the Apollo Hospitals. The treatment for these patients will be supervised by Dr Sandeep Guleria, senior consultant in renal transplants, senior nephrologist Dr Sanjiv Jasuja, Dr Neerav Goyal, senior consultant in liver transplants and Dr Amit Mittal, consultant in interventional cardiology at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, New Delhi. Leading the renal transplant procedures Dr Guleria said, "The uncertainty of the coronavirus pandemic, lockdowns, and border restrictions has proved fatal for millions of international patients who choose India for their medical treatments." Ease in travel restrictions and also declining Covid-19 positivity rate in India has come as a relief for international patients seeking specialised medical attention, he said. Dr Mittal said, "We have been in constant touch with the patients and have gone through their reports to access their condition. Most of the patients suffering from cardiovascular ailments have multiple blockages in their arteries and hospitals in their native country are not equipped for treatment hence the need to fly to India. "It is essential that these patients are treated on time else they would be prone to heart attacks and lifelong heart-related ailments," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/21-patients-from-myanmar-arrive-at-delhi-hospital-for-organ-transplant-948995.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Farmers' leaders say they're ready for talks after PM Modi's invite, ask Centre to choose date||Farmer unions agitating against the three agri laws on Monday asked the government to fix a date for the next round of talks, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged them to end their stir and invited them to resume the dialogue. They, however, objected to Prime Minister Modi's remarks in Rajya Sabha that a new "breed" of agitators called "andolan jivi" has emerged in the country, and said that agitation has an important role in a democracy. Farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka, who is a senior member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha which is spearheading the ongoing stir, said they are ready for the next round of talks and the government should tell them the date and time of the meeting. "We have never refused to hold talks with the government. Whenever it has called us for dialogue, we held discussions with Union ministers. We are ready for talks with them (government)," Kakka told PTI. Eleven rounds of talks have been held over the contentious farm laws but the impasse continues as the farmer unions remain firm on their demands -- the repeal of the three laws and legal guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP). In the last round of talks, the government had offered to suspend the laws for 12-18 months, but the farmer unions rejected it. Thousands of agitating farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for over 70 days. While replying in Rajya Sabha on Monday to a debate on the President's address, PM Modi assured the farmers that Mandis will be modernised, saying "Not just this, MSP was there, it is there and will remain." "We urge those sitting on the agitation that even though it is their right to agitate, the way the old people are sitting there, is not right. "They (agitators) should be taken back. They should end the agitation and we will together find a solution as all doors are open for dialogue. From this House, I again invite them for dialogue," Modi said while appealing to farmers to end their agitation. Farmer leader Abhimanyu Kohar, who is also a member of Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, said that the government has already said "hundreds of times" that the MSP will not go anywhere and it will remain in place. "If the government is claiming that MSP will remain, why doesn't it provide a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for our crops," Kohar told PTI. He said that the farmer unions are ready to resume talks with the government, but there should be a formal invitation. "Any issue can be resolved through proper dialogue. We are ready in-principle to resume talks," the farmer leader. In his speech, Modi slammed the mushrooming of a new breed of 'andolan-jivi' -- professional protestors -- who are seen at every agitation. These "parasites feast on every agitation," he said. "Agitation has an important role in democracy. People have a right to oppose the government's wrong policies," Kakka said, referring to the remarks by the prime minister. Sukhdev Singh, Punjab general secretary of BKU Ekta Ugrahan, sought to know why the government is not ensuring a legal guarantee on MSP for crops and alleged that it is trying to divert the issue. Farmer leader Baldev Singh also said that government should repeal these farm laws and provide a legal guarantee on MSP for farmers' crops. Earlier in the day, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said business over hunger will not be allowed in the country. "There will not be any business over hunger in the country. If hunger goes up, the price of crops will be decided accordingly. Those who wish to do business over hunger will be driven out of the country," Tikait told reporters at the Ghazipur protest site. To press their demands, protesting unions held a nationwide 'chakka jam' last week, during which national and state highways were blocked in Punjab, Haryana and other parts of the country||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-leaders-say-theyre-ready-for-talks-after-pm-modis-invite-ask-centre-to-choose-date-949001.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||SC junks PIL for President's rule in Uttar Pradesh||The Supreme Court on Monday chided an advocate, who sought a direction to impose President's Rule in Uttar Pradesh citing increasing crime rate and breakdown of constitutional machinery.  “How many states crime record have you studied? Where is the research," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde asked petitioner-in-person advocate C R Jaya Sukin. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, also warned him that it may impose a heavy cost. Sukin, for his part, maintained that almost 30% of crimes have been reported in Uttar Pradesh. Citing data from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) and the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Sukin contended that he has done his research and crime graph has gone up in Uttar Pradesh. The court, however, declined to consider the matter, saying that there was no research to support the claims of the petitioner and also, he failed to establish that his fundamental right has been violated. The PIL, citing NCRB data released in January 2020, said a case of rape is registered with the Uttar Pradesh police every two hours while crime against a child is reported every 90 minutes in the state. “That report claims that 4,322 cases of rapes were reported in 2018, with almost 12 taking place daily and state also recorded 59,445 crimes against women with 162 being reported every day, which indicates a surge of 7 % in 2017, when 56,011 crimes - 153 crimes per day - were registered," the PIL claimed. It asked the court to issue direction for the imposition of Article 356 of the Constitution in Uttar Pradesh immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-junks-pil-for-presidents-rule-in-uttar-pradesh-949004.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Govt is taking all measures to help Uttarakhand: PM Modi to state MPs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday asserted that his government is taking all measures to support the people of Uttarakhand, parts of which were hit by floods following a glacier burst on Sunday, and assured a delegation of state MPs that it is working to further strengthen infrastructure there to deal with any natural disaster in future. According to BJP MP Anil Baluni, a Rajya Sabha member from the state, Modi said that the central government stands with the people of the hill-state in this hour of crisis and is constantly monitoring the ongoing rescue operations. Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president J P Nadda were also present at the meeting. Modi said several institutions of the central government, be it the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, National Disaster Response Force, Army or Air Force, are part of the rescue mission and state bodies are also working effectively, according to Baluni. Noting that the Himalayan state is vulnerable to natural disasters, Modi asserted that the government is working to further boost the state's infrastructure to deal with such crisis. Uttarakhand MPs Ajay Bhatt, Ajay Tamta, Naresh Bansal and Mala Rajya Laxmi Shah were also part of the delegation from the state. Eighteen bodies have been recovered and 202 are still missing after the glacier burst in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district, officials said on Monday, as multiple agencies joined hands to rescue at least 30 workers trapped in a tunnel at a power project site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-is-taking-all-measures-to-help-uttarakhand-pm-modi-to-state-mps-949016.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Four booked in Madhya Pradesh under new anti-conversion law||Four persons have been booked in Madhya Pradesh's Seoni district under provisions of the new law which penalises religious conversions through fraudulent means, police said on Monday. The accused allegedly tried to lure and pressurise the complainant, a resident of Simaria village, to change his faith, Adegaon police station in-charge Ishwari Patle said quoting the FIR. A case has been registered against the four for trying to pressurise and lure the complainant for religious conversion under the new law and under provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the officer said. The complainant stated that the four persons started visiting houses in the village recently on the pretext of helping villagers, Patle said. "Villagers on Saturday informed the police that Joel Pastor, one of the accused, and three others were organising an assembly for religious conversion at a house in the village. When police reached the spot, Pastor and his associates fled from the spot," the officer said. Further investigation is underway. Last month, the Madhya Pradesh government promulgated the Freedom of Religion- 2020 ordinance which penalises religious conversions by the use of misrepresentation, allurement, use of threat of force, undue influence, coercion or marriage or by any other fraudulent means. It provides for 10 years in jail in some cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-booked-in-madhya-pradesh-under-new-anti-conversion-law-949019.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Swachh Bharat Mission a priority, will ensure toilets for eveyone: UP Panchayati Raj Minister Bhupendra Chaudhary||Uttar Pradesh Panchayati Raj Minister Bhupendra Chaudhary on Monday said the Swachh Bharat Mission is a priority for the state government and the construction of community toilets will ensure that no one is deprived of the basic facility. He also claimed that the work carried out by his department in the past four years of the BJP rule in the state is being praised across the country. Giving a detailed account of the works done by his department, Chaudhary said the construction of community toilets at public places is continuing to ensure that no one was deprived of this basic facility. Referring to the Swachh Bharat Mission, the minister said it was started in 2014 and on coming to power in the state in 2017, the Yogi Adityanath government included it in its top priorities. "Uttar Pradesh achieved the first spot in the construction of 'izzat ghars' (toilets),” the minister claimed. Elaborating on the achievements of his government, he said in the villages on the banks of the Ganga, cleanliness drives were carried out due to which the spread of diseases was checked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/swachh-bharat-mission-a-priority-will-ensure-toilets-for-eveyone-up-panchayati-raj-minister-bhupendra-chaudhary-949057.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||'Farmer on tractor' most sought-after symbol in Punjab civic body polls||A "farmer riding a tractor" remained the most in-demand symbol among independent candidates for the February 14 civic body polls in Punjab, according to officials. Some contestants opting for the symbol said it will help them get votes of those who expressed solidarity with the farmers camping at the Delhi borders against the Centre’s new farm laws. According to former Mohali mayor Kulwant Singh, 26 of 43-member Azad Group led by him opted for the symbol. The rest are contesting on the "bucket" symbol. For 19 wards of the Nawanshahr municipal committee, at least seven independent candidates are contesting on the symbol, said an official. Kuldeep Singh Sidhu, whose wife is contesting as an independent from Ward No. 13 in Mohali’s Kharar, said the the symbol of a "farmer driving a tractor" will help them get votes in the elections. He said the symbol represented farmers and farm labourers. “This symbol was the first choice of each Independent candidate in the wake of the farmers' agitation,” said Sidhu, who belongs to a farming family. According to officials, in the wards where the number of candidates seeking the symbol was more, draws were taken out. A total of 9,222 candidates are in the fray for the February 14 municipal polls in Punjab. Of them, 2,832 are contesting as independents, 2,037 are from the ruling Congress while 1,569 are Shiromani Akali Dal nominees. The number of candidates from the Bharatiya Janata Party and the Aam Aadmi Party are 1,003 and 1,606, respectively. Elections to eight municipal corporations, 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats will be held on February 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmer-on-tractor-most-sought-after-symbol-in-punjab-civic-body-polls-949075.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||PM should ask MPs, MLAs to give up pension, use funds to support youth: Rakesh Tikait||The way Prime Minister Narendra Modi had urged people to forego subsidy on LPG cylinders, he should now ask MPs and MLAs to give up their pension so that funds can be used to financially support the youth, farmer leader Rakesh Tikait said on Monday. He also batted for safeguarding the interests of people engaged in dairy and milk supply in the country, apprehending a new government policy on import of such products could jeopardise the community's livelihood. “The way the prime minister had urged people to give up their subsidy on LPG cylinders, he should now appeal to parliament members, state legislative assembly members and ask them to give up their pension,” Tikait told reporters. The Bharatiya Kisan Union leader said that the youth of the country has no monetary support from the government but legislators do get the pension, so Modi should make an appeal to the lawmakers to give up the benefit. “And the farmers' unions will express gratitude to the MPs and MLAs who give up their pension,” he added.   Tikait claimed the government is coming up with a policy on milk importation and that milk is being imported in large quantities from foreign countries, dealing a “death blow” to those engaged in dairy work in the country. “The input cost is high and the selling rate of milk is low (in India),” he said, adding a uniform price for milk should be fixed. He said, even today, in rural parts of the country, milk is sold for Rs 22 per litre to Rs 28 per litre – around the same price a litre of packaged water costs. He claimed the number of livestock in the country has fallen and apprehended that India could meet the fate of Turkey soon. “Turkey has no livestock, its land has deteriorated and it imports milk. But our farmers won't let this happen here,” he said. Tikait is leading thousands of farmers at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border where they have occupied a stretch of the Delhi-Meerut highway since November to protest against the Centre's new agri laws amid stringent security deployment around the site. The protesters are demanding that the Union government take back the contentious laws and make a new law to guarantee minimum support price for crops. The government, which has held 11 rounds of formal talks with protesters, has maintained the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-should-ask-mps-mlas-to-give-up-pension-use-funds-to-support-youth-rakesh-tikait-949083.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Punjab: Farmers' protest forces BJP to cancel meeting||Farmers here on Monday forced their way through police barricades to protest outside the venue of a meeting called by the BJP, leading to the cancellation of the event which was to be attended by state party chief Ashwani Sharma. Despite heavy police presence, the protesting farmers broke police barricades put up at several places and reached the meeting venue at Pandora Mohalla here. Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma was scheduled to meet party leaders, said officials. Farmers led by activists of the Kirti Kisan Union staged a sit-in outside the venue and accused the BJP of spoiling the atmosphere by organising meetings despite the ongoing agitation against the Centre's new farm laws. The farmers said they will continue to oppose the BJP till the Centre repeals its farm laws. Later, the meeting was cancelled. BJP’s district president Poonam Manik described the incident as a “murder of democracy” and accused the ruling Congress of “orchestrating” such protests to “hide its failures”. Meanwhile, a group of farmers raised slogans against BJP leader and former Union minister Vijay Sampla in Moga. Sampla was to hold public meetings in the wake of the upcoming municipal polls in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-farmers-protest-forces-bjp-to-cancel-meeting-949086.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Heavy snowfall for two days may have triggered an avalanche, which led to the Uttarakhand disaster||An avalanche triggered by heavy snowfall for two consecutive days in the upper reaches of Chamoli district – and not the snapping of a glacier as thought earlier - was the likely cause behind the devastating flash flood in Uttarakhand, Indian scientists have found after analysing satellite images of the area. At a review meeting in Dehradun on Monday, scientists from the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing presented images showing heavy snowfall on the catchment area of Rishi Ganga on February 5-6, which disappeared after the event. "This accumulated snow may have fallen down the slope after attaining a critical mass, triggering the disaster. It is not a case of a part of any glacier being broken down,” Santosh Rai, a senior glaciologist at the Wadia Institute for Himalayan Geology, Dehradun told DH. The institute has dispatched a team of researchers to Joshimath to look for the signature of such an event on the ground. They would explore the areas near NTPC’s Tapovan power plant and may even trek upwards in the mountain to check if there is back up evidence. After a meeting with the scientists Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat also said that the disaster took place due to lakhs of metric tonnes of snow sliding down abruptly from a trigger point on top of a naked hill. Rai said such a course of action was entirely “plausible” because after a heavy snowfall if a small portion of it melts, the water acts as a “lubricant” for the entire mass of ice to flow downward. As the avalanche goes down it acquires high velocity and generate a lot of friction energy that melts the snow. But the chain of events would leave its imprints on the ground such as crashed trees, which the WIHG team would try to find out. Besides the two institutes, representatives from the Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority, Central Water Commission and ITBP attended the review. However, neither the five IMD stations at Chamoli districts recorded heavy snowfall nor the DRDO issued an avalanche warning. The MeT officials said that the stations recorded “light to moderate” rainfall whereas DRDO didn’t issue any avalanche warning. “IMD observatories are over towns and cities. Only satellites can measure snowfall over hilly regions and over glaciers. Let us wait for the ground inspection reports for conclusions,” said M Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/heavy-snowfall-for-two-days-may-have-triggered-an-avalanche-which-led-to-the-uttarakhand-disaster-949089.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Congress alleges 'forces within govt' behind Red Fort incident||Demanding Joint Parliamentary Committee probe into Republic Day violence, the Congress on Monday alleged that the government had sent "vandals" to Red Fort to "desecrate" the monument and defame the ongoing farmers' agitation.  "With such a strong Home Minister like Amit Shah, how can some people reach the Red Fort, that too on January 26 when the highest level of security was in place in Delhi," Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said.  Participating in the debate on the motion thanking the President for his address to Parliament, he said, "Why isn't there a proper investigation into it. It is actually a big, well-planned conspiracy to defame the farmers. The fact is that you have sent some vandals to the Red Fort to create vandalism. Forces within the government are behind it." He also demanded JPC probe into the alleged TRP scam and purported chats of a television anchor that have allegedly been linked to Balakot airstrikes. "You want to create a rift between Punjab and other states," he claimed in the House when Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were in attendance. Chowdhury likened the current situation in Delhi with Kabul, Baghdad and Syria, saying that barricades, barbed wire and nails have been put in and around the sites of the farmer protests at Delhi''s borders. Chowdhury alleged that the central government had earlier conspired against the Muslims and now against the farmers. "We should not be afraid of debate. Dissent, disagreement and dialogue are the hallmarks of our civilisation. Mahatma Gandhi had once said farmers are the kings. Given a chance, I would make a farmer the Governor-General," he said. Taking a dig at BJP leaders, Chowdhury said that it is one thing to take someone''s name and it is another matter to practically follow his idealogy. "The BJP is bereft of any national icon. You are borrowing the national icons. There is nothing wrong in borrowing. But try to understand and comprehend these icons. You often take the name of Netaji (Subhash Chandra Bose). But why not take the names of (Jawaharlal) Nehru or Indira Gandhi. This reflects your pettiness," he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-alleges-forces-within-govt-behind-red-fort-incident-949092.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||BJP gets DDC chairpersons, vice chairperson posts in Udhampur, Doda||After getting a majority in the recently-held district development council polls, BJP members were elected to the posts of chairpersons and vice chairpersons in Udhampur and Doda districts of Jammu region on Monday. Lal Chand was declared elected unopposed for the post of chairperson and Juhi Manhas to the post of vice chairperson at a meeting chaired by Udhampur panchayat election officer Piyush Singla, officials said. Singla congratulated the newly-elected chairperson and vice chairpersons, hoping that with the establishment of the three-tier panchayat raj institutions, the development process at grassroots level would get further boost. The official also complimented the people of Udhampur for their wholehearted participation in the DDC elections. In Doda district, BJP's Dhananter Singh Kotwal was elected to the post of DDC chairperson, while Sangeeta Rani Bhagat was elected as vice chairperson of the district council, the officials said. District Election Officer Sagar Doifode said all the 14 elected DDC members participated in the election and the winning candidates got nine votes each. In the first phase, BJP members were elected to the post of chairperson and vice-chairperson in Jammu and Kathua districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-gets-ddc-chairpersons-vice-chairperson-posts-in-udhampur-doda-949095.html
08-02-2021||North and Central||Nitish Kumar to expand Bihar cabinet on Tuesday||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar will expand his cabinet on Tuesday, an official said. Induction of new members in the state cabinet will take place in the afternoon at Raj Bhavan where they will be administered the oath by Governor Phagu Chauhan. The state cabinet at present has 14 members, including the chief minister. As per norms, it can have up to 36 members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nitish-kumar-to-expand-bihar-cabinet-on-tuesday-949105.html
08-02-2021||Oasis||Is fate invincible?||Fate, it is said, is inevitable and invincible. Yet scripture and folklore have instances where people beat not just their own fate but also that of others.  A folktale tells us that in times of yore, a learned man was once called away to attend a debate. This happened at a time when his wife was due to deliver a child. He went away leaving a young student behind to manage matters. The student fetched the midwife when it was time for the delivery, sat down outside and, after a while, dozed off. When he opened his eyes he found the door open and a man coming out. Chasing him, the young student demanded an explanation. The man smiled and said he was Brahma and had come to write the fate of the child. The busy God not wanting to waste time said that the boy will have as his possession only one buffalo.  Many years went by. Now a successful teacher himself, the thought occurred to him to visit his guru and also check on the fate of the boy. As he reached the town he learnt that the old guru and his wife were both no more. Their son lived in a hut in poverty and all that he possessed was one buffalo. He introduced himself to the boy, became his guest, and promised to help him. He advised him to sell the buffalo and spend all the money on a feast. The feast made the boy happy and the next morning he was overjoyed to find a younger and better buffalo in the place of the one he had sold. He found no words to thank his honoured guest who asked him again to sell this buffalo and spend every penny on a feast. Every day there was a new buffalo and a bigger feast. When the guest took his leave it was dawn. The former student smiled as he spotted the hassled Brahma pulling a buffalo behind him. The God recognised him. He also understood what he had done. I cannot change what is writ but I will grant it to you that the boy will always have a good meal he conceded. Fate may appear invincible, but it is sometimes overcome by ingenuity and will.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/is-fate-invincible-948800.html
08-02-2021||Opinion||Understanding Vivekananda||Speaking at the 125th anniversary of Prabuddha Bharata, a monthly journal of the Ramakrishna Order a few days ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that Swami Vivekananda’s approach had guided India during the pandemic. It was an acknowledgement of the great patriot-saint’s inspiring legacy to the building of modern India. Vivekananda’s personality was so magnetic and his work so phenomenal that different groups of people have used, rather appropriated, him for their own purposes. It is therefore essential to understand his contributions to India and the world in proper perspective. Trained as a monk by his mystic guru Ramakrishna Paramahamsa, he nevertheless moved out of the cloistered environs of a religious math to venture into the din and bustle of a poverty-stricken India and an industrially advancing west. Vivekananda’s mission was two-fold: a) to awaken a weakened and dispirited India under colonial rule to its true potential, and b) to carry India’s lofty philosophical ideas and spiritual legacy to the western nations. To achieve the first goal, Vivekananda travelled across the length and breadth of the country to discover the real India. He came in contact with the rich and the poor, the high and the mighty and the common people. And what left him distressed was the crushing poverty and misery of the masses. In the midst of despair, he also saw hope - of awakening his countrymen to their infinite possibilities, by spreading education, particularly for women, and empowering the poor. The Prime Minister highlighted Vivekananda’s two-fold approach to empower the poor: first, taking empowerment to the poor if the poor themselves cannot go to empowerment; secondly, giving ideas to the poor, opening their eyes to what’s going on in the world around them so that they are able to work out their own salvation. Modi did not, however, dwell on Vivekananda’s approach to achieve his second goal. In the Parliament of Religions in Chicago in 1893, in his historic speech, described by the American poet Munro as “human eloquence at its highest pitch”, Vivekananda emphasised the importance of inter-religious harmony. In his own inimitable words, “If there is ever to be a universal religion, it must be one which will be infinite like the God - it will preach and whose sun will shine upon the followers of Krishna and Christ, on saints and sinners alike, which will not be Brahminical or Buddhistic, Christian or Mohammedan, but the sum total of all these and still have space for development”. More significantly and perhaps anticipating what was likely to happen later, he went on to add, “It will be a religion which will have no place for persecution or intolerance in its polity, which will recognise divinity in every man and woman and whose whole scope will be centred in aiding humanity to realise its own true, divine nature. Offer such a religion and all nations will follow”. While the concept of universal religion has remained a dream, intolerance is very much a reality in several countries including our own. It did not take long after Vivekananda’s untimely death in 1902 (he was only 39) for the Hindu-Muslim conflict to take shape, beginning with communal electorates in 1909, ultimately leading to partition of the country on the basis of religion. The wounds caused by the unprecedented violence and migration of people across borders continue to fester even after 70 years. Feelings of animosity and hatred between different communities seem to be manifesting in new forms of conflict. Forcible conversion vs love jihad, holy cow vs cow slaughter, desecration of places of worship in neighbouring countries and terrorist activities in the name of religion. One act serves as a provocation for another, further fanning the flames of communal passion. Countries beyond the Indian sub-continent are not free from such problems in some form or the other. How do we address these problems which have emerged as a heady brew of religion and politics? Religion and science While seeking answers to such questions, Vivekananda’s approach to religion and science, which can be condensed into three strands of thought, is illuminating: 1) Religious pluralism: Realising that a universal religion was not a practical solution, Vivekananda preached religious pluralism, describing different faiths as different paths to attain the same goal; He presented Hinduism as a religion that believed not only in tolerance but in universal acceptance. Thus, every individual and every community can pursue their own religion without disrespect to the beliefs of others. This is precisely what freedom of religion guaranteed in our constitution means. 2) Rational approach to religion: Religion and faith are normally seen as opposed to each other. Vivekananda was the first religious leader who advocated a scientific approach to religion. He exhorted the youth not to accept anything blindly without questioning. In trying to apply the scientific method to religion, he sounds strikingly modern. No wonder, he attracted large audiences in US which included scientists like Nikola Tesla. 3) Faith in science: Vivekananda was greatly impressed by the material progress made by western nations because of modern science and technology and wanted India to learn science and organisation from the west while offering them our spiritual knowledge. He is said to have influenced Sir Jamshedji Tata, whom he met on a ship, in the idea of setting up the Indian Institute of Science. The Ramakrishna Mission which he founded and has grown into a huge organisation rendering selfless service, is an example of his own organisational skills which he seemed to have learnt from US and Europe. Vivekananda tried to modernise Hinduism ridding it of superstitions, casteism and the stranglehold of priesthood by proclaiming that each soul, irrespective of class, caste and creed, is potentially divine and “the goal is to manifest this divinity within”. Can the Prime Minister, who carries his inspirer’s original name of Narendra, inspire his partymen and countrymen of all faiths to give up bigotry and dogmatism and lead us to a truly Awakened India? (The writer is former Chief Secretary, Govt of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/understanding-vivekananda-948796.html
08-02-2021||Opinion||India’s tough choices in Myanmar||Can democracy be a guiding principle of a country’s foreign policy? If a country is forced to choose between political values and national interests, what should take precedence? Or to put it somewhat differently, should the nature and type of political system in a given country matter for formulating foreign policy towards that country? All these questions come to the fore as the world, and more importantly, India, saw Myanmar’s military assuming control of the country. The military has reversed the gains of a democratic process of a decade, detained democratic political leaders including the Aung San Suu Kyi and has promised to hold fresh elections within a year. This latest development points towards the complexity of the relationship between democracy and the military as well as the balancing act that India has to undertake while dealing with non-democratic regimes in its neighbourhood including in Myanmar. A cursory glance at the political history of South Asia reveals that only India and Sri Lanka have managed to remain democratic since attaining independence. In all the other states, some form or the other of authoritarian government has been in power for long periods of time. Pakistan and Myanmar were dominated, even when civilian governments were in power, by the military. Nepal was ruled by a monarchy till 2006 and Bhutan, despite the onset of democracy, is still a constitutional monarchy. Bangladesh was ruled by the military between 1975 and 1991 and then again, the military was willing to return to power during 2006-2008.  Afghanistan, through the civil wars and insurgencies, has never had a truly democratic government and with a resurgent Taliban, there are serious questions over the survival of a democratic political system. The Maldives, for long, had been ruled by authoritarian rulers. To top it all, a politically-closed and increasingly repressive China is next door to South Asia. It is quite keen to export its governance and ideological model to the world. Thus, democracy is not a prevailing political system in and around the region where India’s critical strategic interests lie.  In fact, the last decade-and-a-half has witnessed some tangible gains in the democratisation of South Asia. Hence, India has been forced to do a balancing act between support for democratic forces and the need to engage with non-democratic regimes for ensuring national interest. Support for democratic forces is considered as a morally superior position. However, foreign policy and national security policies are essentially amoral in nature and are designed to pursue national interests.  It has been observed the world over, whenever there is a dilemma to choose between values and interests, interests triumph. Even the United States (US) which prides itself as a beacon of democracy has propped up non-democratic regimes in many parts of the world to support its interests. In the past, India’s sympathies and support for Aung San Suu Kyi has cost it much political ground in Myanmar. China was the largest beneficiary of India’s reluctance to engage with the military during the 1990s. Myanmar's military junta and China enjoyed a much closer relationship during those years. Interestingly, when India took steps in the 2000s to build ties with the military junta of Myanmar, the US and some other Western governments were critical of India’s position. However, later, recognising the geopolitical importance of Myanmar, the US also opened up to Myanmar.   Therefore, there are lessons from the past that India would do well to remember. Realists would argue that the nature of the regime and its treatment of its citizens are not and should not be a concern for India as long as the regime in power is friendly towards India’s interests. Morally, this is not a tenable position. However, geostrategic realities and economic leverages would temper the liberal enthusiasm for democracy in such a situation. In Myanmar, China enjoyed as much influence with the democratic government as it used to during the heydays of the military junta owing to these factors. India's Look East/Act East policy hinges on Myanmar and the country is crucial in the evolving geopolitics of the Bay of Bengal. Myanmar’s geostrategic location and role as a bridge between South and Southeast Asia don’t allow India much of a choice between the nature of the regime and India’s fundamental strategic interests. Therefore, democracy or the lack of it can not be a sole factor deciding India's Myanmar policy.     India’s former foreign secretary Shyam Saran said in 2005: “While democracy remains India’s abiding conviction, the importance of our neighbourhood requires that we remain engaged with whichever government is exercising authority in any country in our neighbourhood.” The same logic would most likely be applied while formulating the foreign policy position towards Myanmar.   (Sankalp Gurjar is a Research Fellow with the Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi. Views are personal)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-s-tough-choices-in-myanmar-948992.html
08-02-2021||Panorama||In budget: Laudable initiatives aimed at urban services||This year’s budget was presented during highly unprecedented and difficult times, with high expectations from experts and citizens to lift the economy out of the woods. Undoubtedly, this budget has been overshadowed by Covid-19 which struck at a time when India was fighting a recession, so it became a double whammy. Covid-19 is an urban phenomenon as it proliferates with greater density and population, common in cities. The pandemic, if anything, showed the revenge of the cities and begged for attention to their sanitation and health infrastructure. I note with much relief that Rs 35,000 crore has been allocated in the budget for Covid vaccines. In addition, the Finance Minister has devoted significant resources and signalled efforts to improve urban public services, most notably solid waste management, especially those resulting from construction waste, sanitation, and clean air in Tier-1 cities. Further, there are important initiatives targeted to urban public mass transport in the form of investment in Metro and buses in the largest cities of the country such as Chennai, Bengaluru and Nagpur. There is not much research on the channels through which cities affect the national economy, macro-economic growth and their GDP, even though we know them to be ‘engines of growth’. As per McKinsey, urban consumers are expected to trigger roughly $20 trillion a year in additional expenditure into the global economy, leading economic growth. Why are urban services important for the city and national economy? The World Bank estimates that inadequate sanitation costs India about 6% of its GDP. Public services such as water supply (the Jal Jeevan Mission initiative), sanitation (faecal sludge management and waste water treatment), and solid waste management (segregation at source), which have been the focus in this budget, directly target the urban population, and their health and productivity, which have effect on the GDP, as per the above estimates. Due to investment in the urban Swachh Mission 2.0, and related initiatives, basic services have become more accessible to the public, which earlier was just theory, even with investment in public-private partnerships. The government is now seized with the problem of poor air quality in the large cities, with the result it has proposed to manage waste from construction in a better way in this year’s budget. This is quite contradictory to the approach where traditionally only judicial activism has played a major role in cleaning up India’s urban environment. This is indeed to be lauded as a major step in preventing the emission of pollutants such as PM2.5 in our large cities, improving urban environment and public health. Transport contributes about 5% to India’s GDP. What are the advantages of investment in urban transport, as this year’s budget has proposed? Shorter travel time to work is a major determinant of a city’s effective labour market, implying that the shorter the travel, the more productive a city’s jobs are, given shorter commute implies accessibility of a large number of jobs within the distance. Given that the Metro is a fast mode of accessibility compared with traditional ones, Bengaluru, Kochi, Chennai and Nagpur Metros have been provided Central counterpart funding. India’s Census thus far has not published data on travel time to work, like other countries, on journey to work. In the absence of official data on travel time, private firms in India have gathered this data, and report it for major cities, although not for the smaller ones. The emphasis on the National Research Foundation with an outlay of Rs 50,000 crore is much needed, if India is to become a knowledge power, and promote world class universities and research, along with such data. Public transport In addition to the Rs 18,000 crore worth of public bus transport measures, it is welcome that the budget extends the transport outlay to peripheral areas of Tier-1 cities. This is appreciated because in the case of large cities, peripheral areas are ignored, they are usually left out of the master planning process, with the result that land use, and transport planning in such areas take a backseat when they are developing. In large cities, public transport such as buses and Metro are also ignored beyond the outer ring road, usually considered the city’s boundary. A World Bank report found that while metropolitan cores were deindustrialising, the suburbs and peripheries of metropolitan cities (Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Chennai, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad) were gaining industry. Most Indian cities have also suburbanised. As instance, the jobs within the identified employment sub-centres of Ahmedabad constituted 83% in 1980, while this reduced to 69% in 2010, with jobs locating in peripheral areas. However, peripheral areas, notwithstanding their inclusion in various plans, continue to suffer from severe traffic congestion. No doubt we found that travel time in the peripheral areas is quite long in Bengaluru, compared with that in the central locations. Further, the cost of developing new residential units and public services such as water, roads, energy, sewerage and recreation in the city centre against that in the periphery is quite high. Obviously, such high costs are a strain on the already cash strapped urban local bodies and can be avoided with appropriate policies. Based on this evidence, the thrust on urban services and infrastructure in this year’s budget is to be applauded, as is the emphasis on their intra-city distribution. Despite the fact that urban development is a state subject, it is appropriate that the national government emphasises the focus on locally provided urban services, to encourage the state governments to follow suit. Only if our cities are strong, they can absorb farmers and migrants from rural areas and support their livelihoods. (The writer is Professor, Institute for Social and Economic Change)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/in-budget-laudable-initiatives-aimed-at-urban-services-948798.html
08-02-2021||Right in the Middle||Loss and profit||"There is some soul of goodness in things evil, would men observing distil it out”, wrote Shakespeare. Intriguingly, this is true of the ongoing pandemic too. Many have lost their loved ones, others have lost their jobs and financial distress has become all too rampant. Nevertheless, one perceives certain changes, which if adopted to our way of living, will prove salutary.  For a start, the world around us has become a quieter place. Silence, that for long was a luxury has become commonplace. No longer are our auditory organs assaulted day and night with deafening sounds. Traffic is at a minimum and, thanks to this, the blast of horns and revving of motors much less. The menace of loud music has at present come to an end. The ensuing silence not only soothes one’s nerves but encourages effective thought. We have been forced into a meditative frame of mind that allows us to ponder over the problems that face us individually and collectively. For the noisy set of people that we are, this is quite a bit of revolution.  Our environment has undergone a welcome change. There is less traffic and consequently much less dust. Our houses have a cleaner look. The necessity of using sanitisers and masks have rendered us more hygienic. We are prevented from sneezing, coughing and spitting as the impulse takes us. This exercise will hopefully induce cleaner habits. Extravaganzas have come to an end. Social distancing has made opulent weddings, boisterous get-togethers and noisy celebrations taboo -- indeed a welcome development. There is a definite need today to cut down on ostentation, to realize that in these matters, less is more. The pandemic has brought to the fore the compassionate side of human nature. There were newspaper reports of those who came willingly to the help of the migrants. Many were those who paid their helpers full salaries though they were unable to come for work. Doctors and healthcare workers did all they could to care for the ill and nurse them back to health. This they did, in spite of long hours of work, clad as they were in very uncomfortable attire.  A great spin-off of the pandemic, and one that we should not forget, is the return to Nature. Human interference being less, birds and insects became more prevalent. One could see tailor birds, bulbuls, sun-birds and other feathered creatures inhabiting gardens and parks. More and more people, tired of being cloistered in their homes, adopted dogs and cats. They have proved to be as loving and loyal as their loftier cousins!  It seems, like every cloud, Covid-19 has its silver lining too!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/loss-and-profit-948801.html
08-02-2021||Second Edit||Justice for all: Address issues||The recently released India Justice Report 2020 shows how much work all the states, and therefore the whole country, has to do to ensure a fair level of justice for the citizens. The Supreme Court has ruled that access to justice is a fundamental right. But then, it is not a real and accessible right for many and is unequally dispensed across states, classes and other social and economic groups. Justice itself can be of different kinds like social justice and economic justice, but the report has mainly studied the state of legal justice available to citizens. It is a comprehensive study done with the help of a number of reputed institutions, and has ranked states on the basis of their ability to deliver justice. This is the second edition of the report. Maharashtra ranks as the best-performing among the major states and Tripura tops the ranking among small states. UP continued to be at the bottom. Karnataka slipped to the 14th position from the sixth place that it held last year.  The study was based on factors like human resources of the justice system, workload, infrastructure, police, prisons, legal aid and diversity across judiciary. While different states performed differently on each of these factors, even the top state, Maharashtra, did not score more than 60% with respect to key indicators like the police, judiciary, prisons and legal aid. The report notes that nearly two-thirds of the prisoners are undertrials. That shows not just the overcrowding of the prison system but the malfunctioning of the justice system as such. There is a shortage of judges in all courts, and courts are slow and handicapped for various reasons. Women comprise only 29% of judges and theirrepresentation is low in all institutions like the police. Though the numbers are increasing, they are mostly in the lower ranks. In fact, all institutions which are part of the justice system are understaffed. Legal aid is important for many people but very few people have access to it. The report says that 80% of the country are entitled to it, but in the last 25 years, only 1.5 crore people have got it.  Karnataka has the highest ranking among states with respect to police and diversity. It has the highest SC, ST and OBC diversity for officers and has increased number of women in the police force. But lok adalats in the state disposed of fewer cases than last year and its prison administration slipped from last year’s ranking. Every state needs to address its weaknesses and improve its functioning in those areas. Justice is a public good and it is the duty of the state to provide it to its citizens equally and efficiently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/justice-for-all-address-issues-948795.html
08-02-2021||South||V K Sasikala heads to poll-bound Tamil Nadu from Bengaluru||V K Sasikala, a close aide of former Tamil Nadu chief minister late Jayalalithaa, left the Prestige Golfshire Resort in Devanahalli for Tamil Nadu on Monday morning. After serving four-year imprisonment in a disproportionate assets case, Sasikala was released from jail on January 27 while she was being treated for Covid-19 at Victoria Hospital. While it was speculated that thousands of supporters would descend on the resort to welcome her, the actual number turned out to be about 200 as police started regulating the entry of her supporters from Tamil Nadu on Saturday.  Known as 'Chinnamma' among her followers, Sasikala had taken over the reins of AIADMK after the death of Jayalalithaa. However, she was dismissed from the position after her conviction in the disproportionate assets case.  The crowds that gathered here, however, saw a new beginning in her entry to Tamil Nadu. "She is coming out after four years. She has touched many lives. Many people have deserted her after getting all the help from her. However, there are thousands of us who still believe in her. She is now coming to save Tamil Nadu, we are waiting for her," said one supporter who was waiting in front of the gate.  Ponnanand and Shanti Anand, a couple who had travelled from Rajapalayam in Virudupuram district along with their children, said they only wanted a glimpse of 'Chinnamma'. "We have come here to show that we are with her. Chinnamma is our leader and will remain our leader," Ponnanand said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/v-k-sasikala-heads-to-poll-bound-tamil-nadu-from-bengaluru-948811.html
08-02-2021||South||Teenaged boy, techie drown in Bhavani river in Tamil Nadu||Two people drowned in Bhavani River at Bhavanisagar in the district, police said on Monday. The tragedy occurred when six friends entered the river for a bath on Sunday evening, they said. A team of police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel retrieved the bodies of the two -- a 23-year old software company employee and a 17-year old boy, after being alerted by others, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/teenaged-boy-techie-drown-in-bhavani-river-in-tamil-nadu-948882.html
08-02-2021||South||V K Sasikala returns to Tamil Nadu after 4 years to grand reception||Expelled AIADMK leader V K Sasikala on Monday returned to Tamil Nadu to a grand reception, days after completing her four-year jail term in Bengaluru in a corruption case, amid indications of a confrontation with the ruling party which she once controlled. Sasikala, a close aide of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, crossed into Tamil Nadu at Athipalli in Krishnagiri district bordering Karnataka, around 10 am as her supporters broke into celebrations, dancing to drum beats and showering flower petals on her convoy. She later offered prayers at a Goddess Mariamman temple in Hosur town in the district, about 40 kms from Bengaluru. Her nephew T T V Dhinakaran, who accompanied her, said she would visit the residence of AIADMK founder and late Chief Minister M G Ramachandran in Chennai later. He claimed several functionaries of the ruling AIADMK turned up to welcome Sasikala and that she was travelling in the vehicle of one of the ruling party functionaries after her car developed some issue. The AIAMDK reiterated that Sasikala and those with her had nothing to do with the party and that it was illegal on their part to use the party flag as she travelled in a car sporting it, for the second time in the last two weeks Sasikala's return to Tamil Nadu is being keenly watched for political impact as it comes at a time when the assembly elections in the state are to be held in the next few months. She underwent her sentence in the Rs 66.65 crore disproportionate assets case at the Parapana Agrahara central prison in Bengaluru since February 2017 and was set free on January 27. However, she remained at the Government Victoria Hospital, where she had been admitted after testing positive for Covid-19 while under judicial custody. She was discharged from the hospital on January 31 after which she stayed at a resort, about 35 km from Bengaluru. On Monday morning, she left the resort, accompanied by Dhinakaran, also the general secretary of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, in a convoy of around 200 vehicles as her supporters raised slogans hailing her.   Before leaving, Sasikala offered floral tributes to a portrait of Jayalalithaa. Clad in a green colour saree, the favourite hue of Jayalalithaa, and wearing a face mask, she travelled in a car that sported the AIADMK flag over the bonnet, disregarding the warning by the ruling party against its use by non-members. The AIADMK has recently petitioned the Tamil Nadu police seeking to restrain 'non-members' of the party from using its flag after Sasikala travelled in a car sporting the flag on her discharge from a hospital in Bengaluru on January 31. However, Dhinakaran has defended it, saying she continued to remain the AIADMK general secretary, pointing to petitions pending in court over her 'expulsion'. 'Chinnamma', as she is fondly addressed by her followers, was greeted by a large gathering of people who waved both the AIADMK and AMMK flags as she entered Tamil Nadu. At several locations along the road to Hosur, welcome arches were erected to greet Sasikala while scores of people turned up to have a glimpse of her. A festive atmosphere gripped the towns in the border district of Krishnagiri in western Tamil Nadu with banners, flex boards, posters and hoardings welcoming Sasikala. Women holding on their head 'Kalasha' or pitchers decorated with flowers lined up on the roadsides to receive the leader. Meanwhile, Dhinakaran said many AIADMK functionaries and workers had turned up to welcome his aunt, with the party flags in their hands. "She is travelling in a car that belongs to the AIADMK functionary who came to welcome her. He is there in the car (travelling with her)," he told a Tamil TV channel. To a question, if they were visiting Ramapuram Garden, the residence of Ramachandran, Dhinakaran answered in the affirmative. Meanwhile, senior AIADMK leader and Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar took exception to Sasikala using the party flag and recalled the AIADMK's police complaint. "Sasikala and her aides have no link to AIADMK... it is illegal for anyone else (other than party functionaries) to use the flag," he told reporters in Chennai. When asked if the ruling camp was 'nervous' about Sasikala's return, Jayakumar said "there is no need for us to panic." It was Dhinakaran who will be nervous as Sasikala may seek an explanation from him on many issues. Sasikala along with her sister-in-law J Ilavarasi and Jayalalithaa's disowned foster son V N Sudhakaran was sentenced to four years imprisonment by the Supreme Court in the disproportionate assets case. The assets case was originally filed against Jayalalithaa and the three others for amassment of Rs 66.65 crore assets disproportionate to their known sources of income between 1991 and 1996. The case was later transferred to Bengaluru. While the trial court in Bengaluru convicted all the four, the Karnataka High Court later acquitted them. The Supreme Court, allowing appeals challenging their acquittals, confirmed and restored the trial court order convicting Sasikala, Illavarasi and Sudhakaran, while abating appeals related to Jayalalithaa in view of her death in December 2016. After Jayalalithaa's death, Sasikala was elected the AIADMK's interim general secretary and as its legislature party leader in February 2017, paving the way for her elevation as chief minister. However, with the apex court restoring her conviction in the assets case, she chose her then loyalist K Palaniswami to be the chief minister before proceeding to Bengaluru for serving the sentence. The AIADMK suffered a split with O Panneerselvam, now deputy chief minister, and Palaniswami heading two factions, but they later merged the groups and the general council of the combined party expelled Sasikala in September 2017 along with Dhinakaran and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/v-k-sasikala-returns-to-tamil-nadu-after-4-years-to-grand-reception-948930.html
08-02-2021||South||Sabarimala women entry issue leads to a row over dialectical materialism theory in Kerala||A bid by a CPI(M) central committee leader to dilute the party stand on Sabarimala women entry issue has caused embarrassment to the party over the leader’s remark that dialectical materialism theory was not practical in the present context. CPI(M) leader from Kerala M V Govindan made the statement the other day at a time when the stand of the CPI(M)-led government in Kerala on Sabarimala women entry issue is being actively discussed as the state heads for Assembly polls. Govindan said that feudalism still existed and a large section of the society still firmly holds to a different religion. Hence the theory of dialectical materialism was not practical. While Govindan maintained that what he said was CPI(M)’s official line, CPI(M) politburo member S Ramachandran Pillai on Monday openly expressed his difference with Govindan’s view. Pillai said that dialectical materialism theory was never impractical. Being a novel ideological tool based on science and logic it would be always practical, he said. Meanwhile, both Govindan and Pillai were of the view that further discussion would be required on the Sabarimala women entry issue once the SC order on review petitions came. Pillai said that the opinion of the people and a consensus was important on Sabarimala women entry issue. The Opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front has indeed put the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front in tough spot by triggering the Sabarimala issue and pressuring the left-front to clarify its stand on the issue. The CPI(M) earlier stuck to a progressive approach and tried to enforce the Supreme Court order of 2018 lifting the restrictions on women between the age of 10 and 50 (considered menstruating age) to the hill shrine, but the setback in the Lok Sabha polls that followed is now forcing the CPI(M) to dilute its stand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimala-women-entry-issue-leads-to-a-row-over-dialectical-materialism-theory-in-kerala-949017.html
08-02-2021||South||IUML's Youth League faces flak over reports of misuse of funds raised for Kathua, Unnao victims||Muslim Youth League, the youth wing of the Indian Union Muslim League, found itself in the middle of a controversy on Monday after it was accused of swindling funds raised to support victims and families of the Unnao and Kathua rape cases. A dissident faction within the party publically accused it of swindling Rs 1 crore, a claim also being backed by a Kerala minister. Youth League National Council member Yusuf Padanilam alleged that the party leaders, including State General Secretary P K Firoz, misused the funds for personal purposes.  Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel, a former IUML activist, said that the Youth League leadership must explain how the funds were spent as massive fund collection was carried out in the name of the two cases. Even as the Youth League was trying to put up a defense by maintaining that funds were given to lawyers and the families of the victims, the rival factions were trying to counter its claim by seeking back account statements. Sources said that the government is likely to order a probe into the allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iumls-youth-league-faces-flak-over-reports-of-misuse-of-funds-raised-for-kathua-unnao-victims-949021.html
08-02-2021||South||ISB tops FT's MBA 2021 rankings in India; stands at 23 globally||The Post Graduate Programme in Management of the Indian School of Business (ISB) is ranked number one in India and is positioned at number 23 worldwide, according to the Financial Times Global MBA Rankings 2021. Amongst Asian business schools, ISB ranks at number five. It is the only B-School from India to figure in the top 25 ranks globally. Alumni from PGP Class of 2017 were surveyed for this ranking. ISB has campuses in Hyderabad and Mohali. The institute has done well in other areas of The Financial Times rankings too. “ISB is ranked at number one in India and number three in Asia and globally for the salary percentage increase for the alumni. The school’s career progress rank (21 globally) has improved, indicating a better employment opportunity for the alumni. ISB continued to progress in the weighted salary and career service rank (39 globally) year on year. ISB was also acknowledged for being the top business school from India to be featured in the research rankings (77 globally),” ISB said in a statement on Monday. Further, ISB said that it continues to rank high (21 globally) when it comes to alumni recommendations. “At 40 percent, ISB has over twice the percentage of women students in the MBA programme compared to other top Indian institutions ranked by FT.” Dean Rajendra Srivastava said, “Coming on the back of our top ranking in India by The Economist, the FT ranking is a collective victory of the concerted, untiring efforts of the entire ISB community. The increasing number of prominent business schools from India making their mark globally makes the world notice India as a destination for high-quality management education."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/isb-tops-fts-mba-2021-rankings-in-india-stands-at-23-globally-949034.html
08-02-2021||South||Mass Covid-19 spread in schools triggers alert in Kerala||With around 180 students and over 70 teachers of two schools in Malappuram district testing positive for Covid-19, the state education department has directed all schools to ensure stringent compliance of social distancing norms. Health department sources said that flouting social distancing norms while allowing classes 10, 11 and 12 to go on for revision and practical purposes was the reason for a large number of students and teachers getting the infection. Following this, the education department directed all schools in the state to ensure that students did not flout social distancing within the classrooms and outside. The mass spread of coronavirus was reported at schools at Marancherry and Perumbadappu in Malappuram. Students of nearby schools are also being subjected to Covid-19 tests. Meanwhile, a decline in the Covid-19-test positivity rate in Kerala during the last couple of days has triggered allegations of manipulations. A section of doctors alleged that several negative test results that were earlier unreported by private laboratories were now being added to the state tally. As a result there was considerable increase in the daily test figures by the government during the last couple of days and the test positivity rate also came down to less than eight percent, while it was over ten percent earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/mass-covid-19-spread-in-schools-triggers-alert-in-kerala-949070.html
08-02-2021||South||48-day rejuvenation camp for temple elephants begins in Tamil Nadu||Twenty six elephants from various temples and mutts in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry were brought to Thekampatti in the district for the nearly two-month long rejuvenation camp, which got underway on Monday. Nutritious food, top-class treatment for ailments will be provided to the pachyderms at the 48-day camp, HR& CE department sources said. The government has allocated Rs 1.67 crore for the camp and all steps are being taken for the safety and protection of the pachyderms, particularly to prevent entry of wild elephants from the jungles, they said. Forest Minister Dindigul Srinivasan, Local Administration minister S P Velumani and HR&CE Minister Sevur S Ramachandran inaugurated the camp by feeding fruits and sugarcane to the elephants. The annual camp, organised by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department since 2003, was introduced by former chief minister Jayalalithaa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/48-day-rejuvenation-camp-for-temple-elephants-begins-in-tamil-nadu-949077.html
08-02-2021||South||Telangana govt issues order for 10% reservation for EWS||The Telangana government on Monday issued orders providing 10 per cent reservation to the economically weaker section (EWS) in educational institutions and state government jobs, in line with the Central government guidelines. "Government, after careful consideration of the matter, have decided to implement 10% reservation to the Economically Weaker Section for admissions into all educational institutions in the State and also in respect of initial appointments to the posts in services under the State, following the criteria and guidelines prescribed by the Government of India," a government order (GO) said. Necessary amendments to rules and guidelines in this regard shall be issued by the general administration department and education department separately, it said. The Telangana government has decided to implement the quota in the state nearly two years after the Centre announced 10 per cent reservation for the Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) in government jobs and educational institutions. As of now 50percentreservations are being implemented for the weaker sections in the State.With10per cent reservation to the EWS, thereservationpercentage will go up to 60 per cent, according an official release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-govt-issues-order-for-10-reservation-for-ews-949079.html
08-02-2021||South||Purandhara Dasa Aradhana Mahotsavams at Tirumala||The Aradhana Mahotsavams of “Karnataka sangeeta-pitamaha” Sri Purandhara Dasa would be held at Tirumala by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams from February 10-12. Born in 1480 in Karnataka, Sri Srinivasa Nayaka became Purandara Dasa and penned nearly 4.75 lakh Sankeertans in his lifespan of 84 years. He breathed his last in 1564. Like Telugu “Pada Pitamaha” Sri Tallapaka Annamacharya, Purandhara Dasa did a great service to Lord Venkateswara through his impeccable Sankeertans. As a tribute to this great Kannada saint and poet, TTD has been observing Sri Purandhara Dasa Aradhana Mahotsavams every year since the inception of Dasa Sahitya Project in 1979. The visit of Sri Malayappa Swamy (Lord Venkateshwara's processional form) along with Sridevi and Bhudevi to Narayanagiri Gardens on the occasion of Purandhara Dasa Aradhana Mahotsavams commenced from 2006, the temple board said on Monday. During the three-day programme, Sri Vidyasreesha Theertha Swamy of Vyasaraja Mutt, Sri Sugunendra Theertha Swamy of Puttige Mutt, Sri Vidhadheesha Theertha Swamy of Palimaru Mutt, Sri Vidyaprasanna Theertha Swamy of Kukke Subrahmanyam will render Anugraha Bhashanam at the Asthana Mandapam. Suprabhatam, dhyanam, Nagara Sankeertana etc., events would also be conducted. Unjal Seva for the processional deities is at Narayanagiri Gardens on February 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/purandhara-dasa-aradhana-mahotsavams-at-tirumala-949082.html
08-02-2021||South||Telangana governor's 'Raj Bhavan Annam' takes initiative to feed school children||Telangana governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan, on Monday, inaugurated 'Raj Bhavan Annam,' a canteen offering free breakfast to Raj Bhavan School children along with sanitation, gardening and other workers at the governor's office cum residence in the city. Officials said that the NGO Sri Satya Sai Seva Samiti came forward to implement governor's idea to provide free and nutritious breakfast, primarily for school-going children. After inaugrating the canteen, the governor and her husband, eminent Nephrologist, Dr P Soundararajan served food to the students and sanitation workers before joining them for breakfast. "A good, nutritious breakfast is vital for the physical, cognitive and academic development of school going children," the governor said after taking feedback from the kids on the quality of the food. “A proper breakfast is necessary for school children for their all-round development. Such a meal, especially during the pandemic period, will improve their immunity levels while helping them grow well physically and mentally and do better academically,” Dr Soundararajan added. The governor stressed on the need to consume traditional food consisting of indispensable nutrients “instead of the junk food that is often found in the lunch boxes of school kids.” School children and sanitation workers thanked Soundararajan's gesture, who, they believe, is concerned about them both as “a mother and a doctor.” Dr Soundararajan praised “the poshan-abhiyan of the Narendra Modi government, intended towards ending malnutrition in the country.” She also said that the National Education Policy-2020 also envisions the provision for free breakfast to all the schoolchildren in the country. “Raj Bhavan Annam canteen is an initiative in tune with the new NEP,” she added. Sri Satya Sai Seva Samiti district president Mallikarjuna Rao said that they have prepared a daily menu to offer a balanced and nutritious diet for the kids and the sanitation workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-governors-raj-bhavan-annam-takes-initiative-to-feed-school-children-949085.html
08-02-2021||State||Stage set for Karnataka Council Chairman election; Horatti and Naseer Ahmed file nominations||Senior JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti and Congress MLC Naseer Ahmed filed their nominations for the Karnataka Legislative Council chairperson's post on Monday. The elections will be held on Tuesday. It was necessitated after former chairperson and Congress MLC Pratapchandra Shetty stepped down from the post, following a no-confidence motion moved against him by BJP which was backed by the JD(S) leader in the Upper House. At present, the BJP has a strength of 33 MLCs, JD(S) has 13 and Congress 28. As the combined strength of BJP and JD(S) amounts to a majority in the 75-member House, Horatti is likely to be elected as the next chairperson. After filing his nomination, Horatti said, " I have filed my nomination with the support of BJP," adding that the Congress was free to nominate its candidate. Since Shetty resigned owing to a no-confidence motion against him, and a lack of majority, the Congress's nomination of Naseer Ahmed came as a surprise. "I have filed my nomination as per the decision of the party leaders. The JD(S) has, from the beginning, claimed to be a secular party. Now the party has to decide whether they want to stand with a secular party or to support the communal BJP. None of the three parties have a clear majority. We will wait until the end," Ahmed told mediapersons after filing his nomination.  Previously in 2018, Shetty was elected as the chairperson with the support of JD(S), during the Congress-JD(S) coalition regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/stage-set-for-karnataka-council-chairman-election-horatti-and-naseer-ahmed-file-nominations-948936.html
08-02-2021||State||University of Mysore opens applications for Karnataka State Eligibility Test||University of Mysore (UoM), the nodal agency that conducts the Karnataka State Eligibility Test for Assistant Professorship, has opened applications for the examination. The test will be conducted for 41 subjects as per UGC guidelines. Submission of online applications will commence on February 8. March 7 will be the last date for online submission of applications without fine. The applicants can pay the fee online through Multi Option Payment System at State Bank of India. Examination fee for general category candidates is Rs 1,150. IIA, IIIB, IIIA and IIIB category candidates have to pay Rs 950. Rs 650 for SC/ST and Persons with Disability (PWD) candidates. The last date of submission of applications is March 13. The examination will be held at 11 nodal centres across the state on April 11.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/university-of-mysore-opens-applications-for-karnataka-state-eligibility-test-948960.html
08-02-2021||State||Sasikala gets rousing reception at Tamil Nadu border||Thousands lined up to welcome V K Sasikala after the expelled AIADMK leader drove into Tamil Nadu days after completing her four-year jail term in Bengaluru in a DA case on Monday morning. Clad in green saree, the 66-year-old Sasikala sat in the front seat of the car, responding to the greetings of the supporters with folded hands.  Sasikala had travelled in a Land Cruiser until Attibele border post. She then took to a silver-coloured Toyota Innova with an AIAMDK flag mounted to the front bonnet. Through her act of flying an AIADMK flag, Sasikala signalled that she would not slip away into quiet obscurity upon her return. The enthusiasm of the thousands of her supporters was palpable. They started showering flower petals on the car from 450 metres past the Attibele checkpoint, where Tamil Nadu territory officially began, to the highway checkpoint at the village of Zuzuvadi - a distance of 1.3 km.  Initially relegated to a cleared segment of the service road skirting of NH 44, Sasikala’s convoy slowed to a crawl as a sea of supporters took time to make way. A carnival spirit permeated celebrations. Women thrust their children at Sasikala as she sat in the front passenger seat, men shouted support and others attempted to take selfies.. One man clung to the vehicle for some distance, repeatedly chanting “welcome Chinnamma.” A drone hoisted a tubular banner expressing support for Sasikala. One group fired off a series of rockets. All throughout this, Sasikala, who wore a face mask, gestured gratefully at the crowd.  Sources told DH that Tamil Nadu police issued a notice against Sasikala for using the AIADMK flag. However, she reportedly told police that only the Election Commission had the authority to forbid her from using the flag. Many of the supporters had arrived on the highway in buses, about 20 of which were parked on the side.  After Sasikala crossed the Zuzuvadi and sped away, the crowd largely melted away as did the tour buses. Police said they had given permission for only five vehicles to accompany Sahikala’s vehicles. But a convoy of at least 80 vehicles raced behind her. Sasikala’s return is expected to create a flutter in the poll-bound Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sasikala-gets-rousing-reception-at-tamil-nadu-border-949124.html
08-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kurubas press for ST tag in massive Bengaluru rally||Thousands of people from the Kuruba community staged a rally in Bengaluru on Sunday, urging the state government to recommend Scheduled Tribe (ST) status for them. In a massive gathering at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre grounds, leaders of the community decided to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on the issue and agreed to continue the agitation until their demands are met. Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, who is at the forefront of the agitation, said that he was confident of securing the ST tag at the event where Congress leader Siddaramaiah, a Kuruba, was missing. "After consulting with the state government, we will meet PM Modi and Amit Shah. We won't rest until the whole community gets the ST tag in the state," he said. Refuting allegations by Siddaramaiah about the movement being sponsored by the RSS, Eshwarappa said that poor Kurubas had sponsored the padayatra by Kaginele Kanakaguru Peeta seer, Niranjanandapuri Swami. "They must withdraw their statement," Eshwarappa said. Siddaramaiah did not take part in the rally, have expressed reservations about the demands in the past. Niranjanandapuri seer, who reached Bengaluru last Wednesday after launching the padayatra from Kaginele on January 15, said they would not "blackmail Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa like other seers". "We only urge him to complete the socio-economic study of the community and recommend providing ST tag to the Centre," he said. Petition submitted Leaders of the community also submitted a petition to the state government over their demands. Revenue Minister R Ashoka accepted the petition on behalf of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and assured to take up the matter with the CM. JD(S) MLC AH Vishwanath trained his guns at Siddaramaiah at the convention. Without referring to the former chief minister by name, he said that a leader who became CM because of Kuruba community had not participated in an apolitical event. "He should open his eyes," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kurubas-press-for-st-tag-in-massive-bengaluru-rally-948782.html
08-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka gets 31st district; govt issues notification carving Vijayanagara out of Ballari||Karnataka got its 31st district with the state government on Monday issuing an official gazette notification carving out a new Vijayanagara district from the mine-rich Ballari. The new district will have six taluks and Hosapete will be its headquarters. Kudligi, Hagaribommana halli, Kotturu, Hoovina Hadagali, and Harapanahalli are the other five taluks. Ballari district will have five taluks- Ballari, Kurugodu, Siraguppa, Kampli, and Sanduru. Ballari taluk will remain its headquarters. On November 18 last year, the state cabinet had given in principle approval for creation of Vijayanagara district. The government's plan to create Vijayanagara district had run into opposition, especially from within the ruling BJP, including MLA Somashekar Reddy. Minister for Infrastructure Development, Haj and Wakf, Anand Singh, who is also the and Ballari district in-charge, had anchored the efforts for the new district. The plan for a new Vijayanagar district was first officially mooted by Chief Minister Yediyurappa in September 2019, when Singh was a disqualified legislator. As consensus eluded meetings held in this regard in October that year, the CM had deferred a decision on it. Many within the ruling BJP had criticised the move in 2019, stating the decision to create a new district was being taken under pressure from Singh, in return for his role in BJP coming to power. Singh, one of the 17 disqualified MLAs whose rebellion led to the fall of the previous H D Kumaraswamy -ed Congress-JD(S) coalition government, had cited the demand for a separate Vijayanagara district as one of the reasons for his resignation from the Congress. He subsequently joined the BJP and won from Vijayanagara seat on the party ticket. The timing of the notification has also come at a time when Singh is said to be sulking, unhappy with portfolios allocated to him during the rejig of portfolios last month, party sources said. Singh, who was Forest, Ecology and Environment Minister, was first moved to Tourism and was divested of Forest, leaving him with Ecology and Environment. This was again changed and he got Infrastructure Development, Haj and Wakf. Undivided Ballari was politically significant, comprising nine Assembly constituencies of which the Congress represents five and the BJP four. In a note written to the Chief Secretary in September 2019, Yediyurappa had said keeping public and administrative interest in mind, it was necessary to create the new district noting that some parts of the Ballari district were about 200 km from the present headquarters||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-gets-31st-district-govt-issues-notification-carving-vijayanagara-out-of-ballari-949008.html
08-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Kuruabas expect Siddaramaiah's participation in ST agitation, says BJP leader K S Eshwarappa ||District In-charge Minister K S Eshwarappa has stated that the members of Kuruba community want former chief minister and Congress leader Siddaramaiah to take part in the ongoing agitation for ST status to the community.  Speaking to mediapersons here on Monday, he said that the community convention held in Bengaluru was a huge success. The community seers Niranjanananda, Eshwarananda and others took part in padayatra. He also made it clear that neither the party nor he had donated money for the convention. "Members of the community voluntarily took part in the padayatra. Leaders of all parties, except Siddaramaiah, took part in the convention. The members of the community were primarily responsible for him becoming the chief minister. Naturally, they had expected his participation in the convention. Eshwarappa said. He claimed that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had given grants for the development of the community. Besides, he said, he had declared Kanaka Jayanti a public holiday. "The state government has given ST status to the community. The agitation committee would hold talks with the chief minister and urge him to recommend to the Centre to accord ST status to Kuruba community. It would be done after taking a decision in the Cabinet meeting. The community leaders would meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amith Shah and appeal to them to give ST  status to the community," he explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kuruabas-expect-siddaramaiahs-participation-in-st-agitation-says-bjp-leader-k-s-eshwarappa-949055.html
08-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Legislative Council passes anti-cow slaughter Bill amid protests by Congress, JD(S) leaders||The Karnataka Legislative Council passed the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill through a voice vote amid opposition from both Congress and JD(S) leaders. On Monday evening, the House passed the Bill even as both Congress and JD(S) MLCs demanded more time for discussion on the issue. A ruckus erupted with the opposition leaders rushing to the well of the House. Some MLCs threw sheets of paper in protest. Nonetheless, the Bill was passed and the House adjourned until Tuesday morning. Speaking to DH, Congress MLC BK Hariprasad said that the Bill was passed even though the Congress demanded a division of votes. "We demanded a division of votes. Without considering it, the Bill was passed. The House cannot pass a Bill amid a din." Both Congress and JD(S) leaders were against the tabling of the Bill on Monday. They wanted to continue the motion of thanks to the Governor's speech, as many leaders were waiting for their turn to speak. However, acting chairperson MK Pranesh said that the Bill had to be taken up on Monday itself as per the decision of the Business Advisory Committee (BAC). Soon after the Bill was tabled by Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan, some Congress and JD(S) leaders took turns to speak on the issue. Post 7 pm, the MLCs sought adjournment of the House and asked for the discussion to be continued on Tuesday. Notwithstanding the demand, the Bill was passed. Some MLCs alleged while speaking to DH that it was all pre-planned. "The Bill was passed a day before the election for the Council chairperson's post. On Monday, the House was chaired by Deputy chairperson MK Pranesh and the BJP wanted to pass it before the change of guard after the elections," opposition MLCs alleged.  Congress leaders said that they would stage a protest on Tuesday against the manner in which the Bill was passed. The anti-cow slaughter Bill, which was part of BJP's manifesto ahead of the 2018 Assembly elections, was passed in the Legislative Assembly in the previous session. However, the Bill was not passed in the Council and eventually the state cabinet passed an ordinance in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-legislative-council-passes-anti-cow-slaughter-bill-amid-protests-by-congress-jds-leaders-949084.html
08-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Five more Karnataka beaches to vie for Blue Flag certification||The Union Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change has selected five more beaches in Karnataka to vie for the ‘Blue Flag’ certification, an international recognition given to beaches. In the first phase, Padubidri Endpoint beach in Udupi and Kasarkod beach in Uttara Kannada districts had received the coveted Blue Flag certification in Karnataka - the only state in India to have got two beaches with Blue Flag accreditation. In the second phase of the certification, the five beaches shortlisted from Karnataka include Idya beach in Surathkal, Tannirbavi beach in Mangaluru, Kodi beach in Kundapura, Belekan and Tagore beach in Uttara Kannada districts. The Union ministry had already finalised the tender for the development of these five beaches in Karnataka for Blue Flag certification. The centre will spend Rs 10 crore each for developing these beaches in line with guidelines laid down for Blue Flag recognition. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there was a delay in the release of funds, sources told DH. A team from the ministry had visited two beaches in Dakshina Kannada—Idya and Tannirbavi last month and had collected information on water quality, the sustainability of the beaches among others. Dinesh Kumar, regional director, environment, said the team is yet to visit three other selected beaches. A list of 16 beaches was sent to the centre in 2019 for the Blue Flag certification. In this, five were selected for the second phase of the programme. To achieve international recognition, the beach needs to adopt high standards in categories including water quality, environmental management, environmental education and safety. The beach also should be disabled- and eco-friendly, having first aid equipment and so on. Blue Flag Programme for beaches and marinas is run by the international, non-government, non-profit organisation the Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE) based in Copenhagen. It was launched in France in 1985 and was implemented outside Europe since 2001.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/five-more-karnataka-beaches-to-vie-for-blue-flag-certification-949120.html
08-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Research on lithium deposits in initial stage, say scientists||The search for lithium at Allapattana and Maralagala villages in Srirangapatna taluk in the district is in the initial stage, Atomic Minerals Directorate (AMD) for Exploration and Research scientists have said. Recently, Union Minister Jitendra Singh, in a written reply to Davangere MP G S Siddeshwar, had said that preliminary surveys have shown the presence of lithium resources of 1,600 tonnes (inferred category) in the pegmatites of Maralagala and Allapattana.  On condition of anonymity, a scientist, involved in the research on the outskirts of Allapattana, said, “Rare minerals have been identified in the hillocks around Karighatta. Possibilities of lithium traces are more. A report will be submitted to the Department of Atomic Energy and the Prime Minister’s Office on the extent of deposits, lithium content and economic viability of mineral extraction”. “Lithium is used in battery-operated cars and mobile phone batteries. It has the capacity to hold electricity for a longer time. Research is being conducted on the hillocks at Allapattana and Maralagala to find the resources. The research is in the primary stage and there are many more stages. It may take four to five years for some results,” he said. Rare minerals were found at a Gomaala (Cattle grazing land) in 1979. The scientists unearthed Columbite-tantalite, Niobium tantalum and other minerals used in nuclear power generation. The soil is excavated and processed in three stages to collect the minerals. They are then transported to atomic nuclear energy plants at various places in the country, it is said. The employees of AMD Regional Director’s office in Bengaluru are managing the unit. The scientists are provided with accommodation on the premises. Around 30 locals are given jobs under daily wages. “We have not excavated lithium till now. The minerals that are required for nuclear plants are being separated. Some are spreading rumours that the minerals are lithium,” said scientists here. Villagers oppose Meanwhile, with the news of excavation of minerals and lithium gaining momentum on the social media, the locals oppose the same. “The research will spoil agricultural land and we will not allow any research,” they said. DC for research Deputy Commissioner Dr M V Venkatesh clarified that the barren land, with stones, are not fit for agriculture. The Gomaala land belongs to the government. The district administration will cooperate with the scientists for the research, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/research-on-lithium-deposits-in-initial-stage-say-scientists-949123.html
08-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||2 drown in bid to escape from police||Two persons who plunged into River Malaprabha for evading police arrest met watery grave here on Sunday. The bodies were recovered on Monday. The police raided a group of people who were gambling on the banks of the river in Ramdurg town on Sunday. In their attempt to escape arrest, some of them jumped into the river and managed to escape. However, Manjunath Laxman Bandiwaddar (28) and Sameer Mohammadsav Batkurki (23) drowned in the river. The efforts by police and fire personnel to trace the two did not yield any result. Finally, the Natural Disaster Response Team from Belagavi recovered the bodies on Monday. Family members and others alleged that police did not take measures to rescue them when both were drowning. Ramdurg police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/2-drown-in-bid-to-escape-from-police-949126.html
08-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Only less than half of crop loans waived in two years||Two-years since the announcement of the ambitious crop loan waiver scheme (CLWS), outgo from the state exchequer for the programme was less than half of the Rs 34,000 crore announced by the Congress-JD(S) coalition government. According to data, crop loan waived by the government was Rs 15,256.67 crore with only a small percentage of loan waivers pending. Farmer leaders say that the populist measure of the government failed to benefit many farmers due to the conditions imposed for waiver after CLWS was announced. Experts find similarities in Karnataka and Maharashtra’s waiver scheme, arguing that the disparity between projections and actual figures was due to the weeding out of bogus accounts. Details furnished in the Legislative Assembly recently by Co-operation Minister S T Somashekar shows that the number of beneficiaries under CLWS from co-operative banks was 17.06 lakh, eligible for a waiver of Rs 7,987.47 crore. Government has also identified 9.22 lakh beneficiaries of crop loans from commercial banks and set aside Rs 7,269 crore. Among those who availed loans from co-operative banks, the government has waived Rs 7,692 crore of 16.48 lakh farmers. The process of waiving Rs 295.14 crore worth loans of 57,229 farmers was still under progress. Similarly, commercial banks have waived Rs 7,269.2 crore of 9.22 lakh farmers. It can be recalled that the Congress-JD(S) coalition, under former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy, has estimated that around Rs 34,000 crore loan would be waived, a figure which shrank in subsequent days. Authorities had maintained that deduplication of documents would drag the figure down to around Rs 20,000 crore.  Wrong projections Kodihalli Chandrashekar, president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha said that the government projections itself were wrong, as the government initially estimated that around Rs 40,000 crore would be waived. Though Kumaraswamy has announced that all loans of farmers would be waived, it was subsequently changed to crop loans. “Government then imposed several conditions to filter applications. In some cases, the loan was not waived even after the government sent a beneficiary list to the banks - as banks insisted that loan would be waived only after the government deposited the amount,” he said. Bogus accounts Economist R S Deshpande said that government projections had to be revised as many bogus accounts of farmers were weeded out during document verification of CLWS. Seeding Aadhaar and PAN number with bank accounts revealed that beneficiaries had multiple bank accounts through which they had availed loans. Since the waiver involved only one account, the total amount of waiver reduced, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-only-less-than-half-of-crop-loans-waived-in-two-years-949127.html
08-02-2021||West||India's 'Pebbles' wins top prize at International Film Festival Rotterdam||Indian drama Pebbles, directed by filmmaker Vinothraj PS, has won the top honour, the Tiger Award for best film, at the 50th International Film Festival Rotterdam (IFFR). The Tamil language film follows an alcoholic abusive husband who, after his long-suffering wife runs off, sets out with his young son to find her and bring her back. IFFR shared the award announcement on its official Twitter handle. "This edition’s Tiger Award, IFFR’s most prestigious prize, goes to Pebbles by #VinothrajPS," the tweet read. Pebbles by Vinothraj P.S. wins the 2021 Tiger Award An emotional Vinothraj thanked the jury for selecting his feature directorial debut for the top prize. "Feeling emotional! Pebbles won the Tiger Award 2021. Our Hardwork, patience & Dream finally came true. Thank you all for your love and support," he posted on the microblogging site alongside IFFR's announcement. The Tiger Award is accompanied by a Euro 40,000 cash prize, to be shared between the director and producer of the winning film. The jury of the festival featured Mosotho screenwriter Lemohang Jeremiah Mosese, Syrian filmmaker Orwa Nyrabia, Egyptian visual artist Hala Elkoussy, Dutch screenwriter Helena van der Meulen and producer Ilse Hughan. On the festival's website, the jury described Pebbles as “a lesson in pure cinema”. "Although the story deals with gruelling poverty in the searing drought-ridden landscapes of southern India, it succeeded nonetheless in captivating the jury with its beauty and humour," the jury added. Titled Koozhangal in Tamil, Pebbles stars a host of newcomers and is produced by Vignesh Shivan and Nayantara. "First Production of @Rowdy_Pictures wins one of the most prestigious international award! First Tamil film to win this award. 2021 #TigerAward winner #Koozhangal #Pebbles. Can’t be happier!" Shivan tweeted. He had also attended the film's world premiere at IFFR last week along with Nayantahra. Soon after the movie's win, filmmaker Guneet Monga and directors Neeraj Ghaywan and Karthik Subbaraj congratulated the team for getting the top prize at the festival. The Special Jury Award at IFFR went to I Comete – A Corsican Summer by French filmmaker Pascal Tagnati, alongside Looking for Venera by Norika Sefa. The jury said I Comete is "a true love letter to humanity" while Looking for Venera is "an intimate slice of life...imbued with the precarious, yet resilient quest to find one’s young self." The Special Jury Award included Euro 10,000 cash prize for each winner. IFFR ran from February 1-February 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indias-pebbles-wins-top-prize-at-international-film-festival-rotterdam-948890.html
08-02-2021||West||One injured in cylinder blasts in Mumbai suburb||One person was injured in a chain of LPG cylinder blasts in the Mira Road suburbs of Mumbai on Monday. The blasts and fire took place in a truck in which cylinders were stocked and kept for delivery. Locals took to social media to report a series of explosions and fireball. They also posted videos.  The first blast took place at 0145 hours. The fire was doused by 0500 hours. The fire and blasts posed serious questions over the handling of LPG cylinders by dealers. The Thane police are investigating the matter. Three vehicles were damaged in the fire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-injured-in-cylinder-blasts-in-mumbai-suburb-948894.html
08-02-2021||West||Two held in Mumbai for selling call data records of 200 people||Mumbai Police have arrested two persons from suburban Goregaon for allegedly procuring and selling illegally call detail records and bank account details of nearly 200 people, an official said on Monday. The accused, identified as Shailesh Manjrekar and Rajendra Sau, were nabbed by the crime branch on Saturday night, he said. The police also seized six mobile phones, a pen drive with call detail records (CDRs) of around 200 people, CDR printouts, three laptops, an iPad and other material from their possession, the crime branch official said. As per regulations, only those authorised, such as police and some other departments, are permitted to access call data records with prior sanction from the authorities concerned, he said. The crime branch came to know about a Goregaon-based company being run by the accused who claimed it was a private intelligence agency, the official said. On the basis of information, the police searched the company's office on Saturday and arrested the two men. According to the official, the accused told the police that a man from Haryana and a woman from Delhi were providing them CDRs and other information. "A special team of the police is working on the case and efforts are on to nab seven other wanted accused. We suspect that a number of people are working with this gang," the official said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-held-in-mumbai-for-selling-call-data-records-of-200-people-948909.html
08-02-2021||West||Goa: Iron ore mining dependents take out protest march in Panaji||Hundreds of people dependent on Goa's mining industry took out a march here on Monday to protest against the failure of the Centre and the state government to resume iron ore extraction activities which have been shut in the state for last three years. On February 7, 2018, the Supreme Court quashed renewal of 88 mining leases in Goa, resulting in the closure of the industry which used to be a major revenue earner for the coastal state. On Monday, hundreds of mining dependents marched from the Panaji bus stand to the historic Azad Maidan here as a mark of protest, organised by Goa Mining People's Front (GMPF), an umbrella body of people dependent on the industry. GMPF president Puti Gaonkar said the march was peaceful as the mining dependents gathered in the state capital only to send across a message to the governments (Goa and the Centre) that their patience is running out. Since the last three years, the people whose livelihood depends on the mining activities, have been observing February 7 as a "black day", he said. The GMPF has tried all possible options to ensure the resumption of the mining industry, but nothing seems to be working, Gaonkar said. "We approached everyone, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, but there is no solution as of now," he said. The state is also facing a tough time as its revenues have plummeted due to the closure of the mining industry, he said. Gaonkar claimed around three lakh people are dependent on the industry and they have been seeking immediate resumption of the iron ore extraction operations in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-iron-ore-mining-dependents-take-out-protest-march-in-panaji-948915.html
08-02-2021||West||HC dismisses plea on lawyer's fees paid by BMC in Kangana case||The Bombay High Court on Monday dismissed a plea challenging the fees paid by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to a senior counsel in the case of demolition of actor Kangana Ranaut's bungalow, saying the court cannot interfere or regulate such decisions. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale rejected the petition filed by one Sharad Yadav, who claimed the BMC had paid Rs 82.50 lakh to senior counsel Aspi Chinoy for representing the civic body in the petition filed by Ranaut. "This is an area we cannot interfere or regulate. What fees should be charged by an advocate on record or a senior advocate is not something that this court should go into," the bench said. Yadav, who claims to be an RTI activist, had sought an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the matter and said the BMC caused loss to the public exchequer. The plea said the BMC ought not to have appointed such senior advocates in "simple and petty" matters. The HC, however, said it is not for the court to decide such matters. "It is the BMC's decision whom to appoint. For you (Yadav) it may be a simple and petty case, but for the BMC it might have been an important case," Justice Shinde said. "Who will decide whether it is important or petty matter? That is for the authority concerned to decide," the court said. Just like any other litigant, the BMC can appoint any lawyer they want, and there cannot be any restriction especially from the court, Justice Shinde said. The court also said if the petitioner feels an offence of cheating or causing loss to the public exchequer is made out, then he can approach the police or a magistrate court with a private complaint. Ranaut approached the HC in September last year, challenging the demolition of a part of her bungalow in Pali Hill area here by the BMC. She had alleged that the BMC acted out of vendetta. The civic body, however, claimed the bungalow had been altered in breach of structural permits. The high court, in its judgement in November last year, held the demolition as illegal and said the BMC had acted out of malice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hc-dismisses-plea-on-lawyers-fees-paid-by-bmc-in-kangana-case-948941.html
08-02-2021||West||Farmers' stir: MVA govt orders probe into celebrities' tweets; BJP hits out||In what is snowballing into a major political issue, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra has ordered a probe to examine whether the tweets by celebrities vis-à-vis the farmers' protest were posted under pressure. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh ordered a probe after state Congress General Secretary Sachin Sawant made a request over a Zoom conference. Deshmukh, who had recently tested Covid-19 positive, is currently under home quarantine in Nagpur. Among those who had tweeted last week include melody queen Lata Mangeshkar and 'Master Blaster' Sachin Tendulkar, both recipients of the coveted Bharat Ratna, India's highest civilian honour. After the development, the BJP has lashed out at the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government. Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has come down heavily on the government. "Disgusting & highly deplorable. Where is your Marathi Pride now? Where is your Maharashtra Dharma? We will never find such ‘ratnas’ (gems) in entire Nation who order probe against Bharat Ratnas who always stand strong in one voice for our Nation," Fadnavis said.  Has this MVA Govt lost all it’s senses❓MVA should feel ashamed while using the word ‘probe’ for BharatRatnas❗️Actually, now it seems necessary to probe the mental state & stability of the ones who made such demand & of people who ordered probe against our BharatRatnas ❗️ Hitting out at Fadnavis, Sawant tweeted, "Bjp is trying to deliberately twist the issue. We have demanded probe of BJP not celebrities. Why bjp is keeping mum on why tweets of Akshay Kumar and Saina Nehwal are matching with each other? Why Suniel Shetty tags his tweet to a BJP office bearer? Why bjp is scared of probe? (sic)" "Bjp is capable of pressuring celebrities. Hence this possibility must be ruled out. It is the duty of MVA govt to provide atmosphere where every individual can exercise their right of freedom of speech without any pressure. Even if pressure is from Modi govt. (sic)," Sawant said in another tweet.  Several Bollywood celebrities and sportspersons had also sent out tweets in support of the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/farmers-stir-mva-govt-orders-probe-into-celebrities-tweets-bjp-hits-out-948977.html
08-02-2021||West||Goa has suffered due to 'andolan jeevis': CM Pramod Sawant||Hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday told the Rajya Sabha that the country was witnessing a "breed" of compulsive agitators, or "adolan jeevi", Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said his coastal state was also suffering due to such elements. In a tweet, Sawant said "PM Shri @NarendraModi ji has correctly said we need to be aware of the #andolanjivi and be cautioned about the new #FDI. Goa has also suffered from a similar design". While Sawant did not specify who he was talking about, it was possibly a reference to protests against rail track doubling, highway expansion and power transmission line laying projects in Goa over the past few weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-has-suffered-due-to-andolan-jeevis-cm-pramod-sawant-949010.html
08-02-2021||West||BJP used us as ladder to grow in Maharashtra: Shiv Sena||A day after Union Home Minister Amit Shah criticised Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the Shiv Sena on Monday hit back at the BJP, accusing its former ally of using the saffron regional outfit as a ladder to climb in Maharashtra politics. Shiv Sena Chief Spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut  and Bharatiya Kamgar Sena President and Mumbai South MP Arvind Sawant spearheaded the latest attack on the BJP. Sawant said that Shiv Sena was unfazed. “People who had cursed Shiv Sena have come and gone...Five generations of Thackeray gharana has worked for the people of Maharashtra,” he said. He also said that the entire world knows that the Shiv Sena does not go back on its words. Referring to the Shiv Sena-BJP meeting at Matoshree, Thackeray's private residence, in February, 2019, he said that during the press conference, the then chief minister and now Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, while announcing the seat-sharing arrangement for the Lok Sabha, had said that for Vidhan Sabha, there would be a “equal-power sharing”. “Why did it take him (Shah) over a year to speak up?” Sawant asked. He said that the BJP had used the Shiv Sena as a ladder and with late Balasaheb's blessings to grow in Maharashtra politics. In a tweet, Raut said, “In 1975 Rajni Patel and in the 90s similarly Murli Doera said that Shiv Sena will be wiped off ...Again in 2012 Prithviraj Chavan said the same thing and on both the occasions Shiv Sena came up even more stronger than earlier !” In 1975 Rajni patel and in the 90s similarly (I guess Murli Doera said) that Shivsena will be wiped off ..Again in 2012 Prithviraj Chavan said the same thing and on both the occasions Shivsena came up even more stronger than earlier !जय महाराष्ट्र Shah had accused Shiv Sena President and CM Uddhav Thackeray of compromising with the principles and ideals of its late founder Balasaheb Thackeray and allying with the Congress-NCP after ditching the BJP. The home minister described the Maha Vikas Aghadi government as a “three-wheeler auto-rickshaw with the three wheels running in different directions – east, west and north and someone pulling it behind” and said, “Had we treaded on Shiv Sena's path in 2014, its existence would've been wiped off."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-used-us-as-ladder-to-grow-in-maharashtra-shiv-sena-949051.html
08-02-2021||West||Sena MP Raut takes dig at PM, says 'we all are andolan jeevi'||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the latter's use of the term "andolan jeevi", or those who survive on protests, during his address inthe Rajya Sabha and sought to associate himself with the expression. The Rajya Sabha MP shared a photograph of him and farmers leader Rakesh Tikait on Twitter and said in Hindi on the micro-blogging site, Say with pride..we are all andolanjeevi...jai jawan, jai kisaan. The photograph was taken when Raut met Tikait at the Ghazipur protest site outside Delhi on February 2 to express solidarity with farmers agitating against the Centre's new agri-marketing laws. Earlier in the day, Modi hit out at those behind the protests, saying a new crop of agitators has emerged in India who cannot live without agitation and the country should be beware of them. "There is a new crop of 'andolan jeevi'. They live for protests. They look for ways to start a new movement. "The country needs to be aware of this andolan jeevi," the PM said in the Upper House of Parliament while replying to the Motion of Thanks on the President's address.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sena-mp-raut-takes-dig-at-pm-says-we-all-are-andolan-jeevi-949121.html
