09-02-2021||Comment||Delhi’s global dilemmas||The apparent clash between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at the Parliamentary Consultative Committee on External Affairs recently provided piquant moments, but it had a serious aspect to it: What should India be doing to find its place in the present fluid geopolitical situation? Rahul Gandhi calling the presentation of foreign secretary Harsh Shringla a “laundry list” without a strategy, and Jaishankar hitting back saying he could give a graphic presentation so that Rahul Gandhi could grasp the pattern of India’s moves made for good copy and smart headlines, but if one were to ignore the question raised by Rahul Gandhi and the response of Jaishankar, we would be missing an important political conversation, one that should be happening in Parliament but is not. Rahul Gandhi was right in asking what the government’s strategic vision was, and Jaishankar gave the answer. The minister explained that China poses a challenge and Beijing wants to become the dominant power in global affairs, with the United States occupying the other end of the pole. He indicated that India’s strategy is to work for the continuance of a multipolar situation with India, Japan, Australia and Russia. This is indeed a realistic assessment, though there could be further scrutiny as to whether it is the right way, and if it is indeed the right way, what needs to be done to sustain the new equilibrium. What has been left unsaid is that it is the United States that is pushing for the India-Japan-Australia grouping to counter China’s influence in Asia. The US had built serial alliances -- from NATO in Europe to SEATO in East Asia -- to counter the Communist challenge posed by the Soviet Union in the 1950s and 1960s. It is only NATO that had some muscle of its own for long, and it survived the collapse of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War, but the others just withered away. The American response to growing Chinese power is not on the ideological axis, as it was in the case of the Soviet Union, but more on the economic and military. China is extending its influence in matters of trade all the way to North America and the European Union, even as it penetrates the African markets. The 2017 US National Strategy Document envisaged the Indo-Pacific theatre and included India as a key player in the region. Many in India did feel flattered that the US recognises India as a power to reckon with in world affairs. But this is still a US-driven strategic vision, and not India’s. New Delhi still needs to work out a strategic vision of its own, which needs to be articulated and debated vigorously. The strategic community in India is all too willing to follow the American line. China, through the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), formed in 2001, has anticipated the need to leverage its global position, and it had kept India out of it for a long time. India became a full member of the SCO only in 2017, along with Pakistan. India hosted the SCO Council of Heads of Government meeting in December 2020. It is to be seen in what way India can leverage its position in this Chinese strategic initiative. India, on its part, has tried to establish its position through several power groupings like the India-China-Russia trilateral, the Brazil-Russia-India-China- South Africa (BRICS) grouping, but these do not seem to be going anywhere because of the ambivalent relations with China. In our neighbourhood, India has been a half-hearted participant in the Bangladesh initiative of the South Asian Association of Regional Cooperation (SAARC) as it was hobbled by Pakistan at every stage. India is still to find for itself the role it wants to play on the world stage, and the path to getting there. India’s dilemmas are genuine. The Americans can fight some countries at the diplomatic and strategic levels, like they do with Iran, and show open support for Iran’s enemy, Saudi Arabia. India does not have the luxury of choosing between Iran and Saudi Arabia, or Israel and Palestine, though many strategic experts in India want the country to make the hard choices of opposing Iran and supporting Israel. India’s stakes are different from that of America. India is as dependent on Iran as it is on Saudi Arabia for energy supplies. It cannot afford to endorse Israel’s unrelenting opposition to Iran or its West Bank policies. India cannot abandon the Palestinian cause, and this is not due to indulging Indian Muslims’ sensibilities, a false argument foisted by the Congress as well as the BJP, but to remain credible in the eyes of the hapless Arabs across West Asia. India cannot afford to keel over to the Israeli side because then India would lose its status as an independent state and a power to reckon with, and thus lose its strategic importance. This has nothing to do with sentimentality. India also cannot stand for Taiwan because of India’s claims on Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir. India cannot afford to take clear positions on many issues. The way out of the dilemma, it may appear, is to follow the Chinese example: focus on expanding trade relations based on domestic an economic engine that is at full throttle and sidestep the political minefields. China will never be a superpower because it will not stand up for any issue or for any country apart from itself. India cannot do that. The world, not just the US, expects India to stand up for democratic values, for justice and fairness in international relations.  India may not currently have the military might to stand up for the weak and the oppressed, but it has the moral stature to speak for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/delhi-s-global-dilemmas-949166.html
09-02-2021||Comment||Defence allocation: Shrinking budget, rising threats||The realities of the defence budget seem to be blowing in the political wind and, despite claims to the contrary, the allotment for 2021-22 could at best be described as ‘more of the same’. An adverse turn in geopolitical ambience, signified by China’s exertions in Ladakh and the potential for worse to come, do not seem to have catalysed the political leadership to shift its priorities towards national defence.  For more than a decade, defence planners have been taking cognisance of the steady rise in the scope and scale of the Chinese threat, but this awareness among those in power has not had its logical impact on the defence budget. Countering the growing threat from China has been receiving more political lip support than budgetary support. Increases in budgets have been marginal, barely catering for inflation and forex changes. In the last decade, the defence budget rose at an average rate 9%, but it has been getting a progressively smaller share of the overall pie. Its share in terms of percentage of GDP and central government expenditure has been falling. The increase in capital allotment from the FY21 Revised Estimate to the FY22 Budget Estimate is less than Rs 500 crore. It cannot meet even the committed liabilities. In short, modernisation is adversely affected due to budget constraints. Undeniably, the political leadership has a wide canvas to cater for, and coupled with economic setbacks, accelerated by Covid-19, the allocation could be justified as a political choice. But choices have consequences and cannot be indifferent to national security dynamics. Such decisions impact the speed, scale and scope of military preparedness. What does not happen despite stagnation in the defence budget is the reconciliation of the political outcomes expected to be achieved by the military in the event of conflict. Such reconciliation must reflect in the political guidance that is informed by long-term resource availability and the emerging nature of threats. For several decades, political guidance to the military has been oriented towards Pakistan as the immediate threat and China as the mid to long-term threat. However, now, there should be no doubt that the Chinese threat has arrived at our doorstep. The political objectives expected to be achieved by the military resides in a document called the ‘Raksha Mantri’s Directive.’ The Directive continues to lack parentage for the lack of a coherent National Security Strategy. The Defence Planning Committee, headed by the NSA, was assigned this task two years ago. Nothing has emerged so far. In essence, the Directive is shaped by inputs not flowing from requisite logic and awareness. Only the adoption of and adherence to the dictates of a politico-strategic approach can provide the desired inputs. It is high time the political choice of long-term financial commitments is followed up by political guidance that is informed of resource constraints. The first and foremost measure is thus a political one. But that can be determined only after a sustained Civil-Military dialogue process, to reconcile the political objectives with the resources being made available. The dialogue is complicated because military planning is a long-term process and is not about the annual budget per se. The difficulty is compounded because of the clash between the natural proclivity of politicians for the short-term outlook in terms of results and the irrefutable need for the long-term view in strategic affairs. The military strategy that emerges should be cognisant of China’s strategy of constraining the growth of India’s maritime power by drawing away resources towards its continental borders with China and Pakistan. This is so because China’s strategic anxiety is derived from the growing maritime contestation in the Indo-Pacific. The capital budget for each Service must be prioritised only after the military leadership has reached a consensus on translating the expected political outcomes into the varied types of conflicts it has to be prepared to fight. Evolving Joint and Service-specific doctrines for the anticipated military operations is the next process, and it has the potential to alleviate to a large extent the problem of resource constraints. But this requires original and innovative thinking that must be steeped in the Indian context and shaped by indigenous factors. Though there is lot to learn from the experiences of others, blind imitation must be avoided and supremacy accorded to the envisaged strategic contexts. This has to be followed by deciding on various types of military power required to fight the envisaged operations and informed by what can be afforded. A revised 15-year Long Term Perspective Plan should be the end-product, which must have political approval of the Cabinet Committee on Security. The entire exercise will have to be spearheaded by the CDS while wearing his hat of the Permanent Chairman-Chiefs of Staff Committee. Arriving at a Joint Services consensus on types of conflicts to prepare for will be challenging. But what will be much more difficult to resolve will be the decisions on meta-issues like the balance to be struck between continental and maritime power and other issues involving kinetic and non-kinetic weapons, firepower and manpower, offensive and defensive forces, ground and aerial platforms, manned and unmanned platforms, specific and hybrid platforms, undersea and surface platforms, Special Forces and regular, etc. The political economy can be overwhelming, but it cannot justify parliamentary choices that weaken constitutional obligations to defend the country. Be that as it may, the political and the military leadership have their tasks cut out to manage enlarged geopolitical threats without a concomitant increase in financial resources. The politicians must institutionalise interactions with the military. The military leadership has to close ranks, look beyond their narrow Service-specific domain and indulge in giving and take. Time is of the essence (The writer is Director, Strategic Studies Programme, Takshashila Institution, Bengaluru, and former Military Adviser, National Security Council)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/defence-allocation-shrinking-budget-rising-threats-949487.html
09-02-2021||First Edit||Chamoli: Yet another wake-up call||A glacial burst in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district triggered massive flooding in the Alaknanda river system, resulting in the loss of many lives. The bodies of some 26 victims have been recovered so far. Over 170 others, many of them workers at the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) plant, are reported to be missing. Hydroelectric stations, villages and bridges have been swept away; the entire Rishiganga power project has been destroyed. National and state-level disaster teams, as well as Indian Army personnel, are working round the clock to find the missing and rescue those trapped in tunnels. There is a danger of the floods impacting villages further downstream. The state has repeatedly suffered natural disasters; a multi-day cloudburst in 2013 ravaged Kedarnath, killing over 5,700 people. What caused a part of the Nanda Devi glacier to ‘burst’ or breakaway, sending large volumes of water downstream is not known yet. Global warming, which is known to be melting the Himalayan glaciers at an accelerated pace, could have resulted in lake formation inside the glacier. The pressure built up is likely to have caused the glacier to burst, unleashing the massive surge of water in the Alaknanda river system. A failure of India’s remote sensing capabilities to locate the glacial lake and the pressure build-up leading to the disaster has been alleged. That may be so, but the underlying causes are much larger. Countless scientific reports have drawn attention to the impact of climate change; a 2019 report warned that the Himalayan glaciers are melting at a catastrophic pace. Extreme weather events have grown in fury and frequency. Yet, climate change is not getting the attention and action it deserves. India’s flawed development policies are contributing to disasters, too. Scores of dams are being built in regions above the altitude of 2,000 metres and in seismically sensitive zones. Though geologists and ecologists have warned against such construction, the government is pressing on with its grand plans for power generation. Experts have also called for a halt to dynamiting of rocks and stone quarrying as such activity is triggering avalanches in the Himalayas. But their pleas seem to be falling on deaf ears. Upper Uttarakhand already has 16 dams and another 13 are under construction. Its government plans to build another 54 hydel projects there. Insatiable greed is driving development policies that focus on endless exploitation of the mountains. In the process, not only are we destroying the environment but also triggering disasters. The Chamoli disaster is yet another wake-up call to rethink our extractive and exploitative development model. We must heed it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/chamoli-yet-another-wake-up-call-949165.html
09-02-2021||First Edit||Restoration of 4G in J&K welcome||The restoration of 4G internet services in Kashmir after a gap of 18 months is belated but welcome. The government had imposed restrictions on high-speed internet in the then state just before the scrapping of Article 370, which had given Kashmir a special constitutional status, on August 5, 2019. Though 2G services were restored in some areas later, high-speed services continued to be restricted. The need for and the utility of the ban has been widely questioned. The government had claimed that the presence of separatists and Pakistan-backed militants in Kashmir had necessitated the decision. But the measure does not seem to have helped. The threat from militancy was not serious in Kashmir at the time of the imposition of the ban. If anything, the situation is worse now.  The internet is an essential part of the lives of people now and the Supreme Court has declared that access to it is a fundamental right. But the ban continued for such a long period, casting a shadow on the country’s democratic credentials. No other democratic country has curbed the right to the internet for so long a duration for so many people, and the commitment of the government to basic democratic rights came to be questioned. It was not just a matter of respect for rights. The ban made life difficult for people. It had an adverse impact on all aspects of life like the economy, education, tourism, transport and trade. The functioning of the media was also affected. The pandemic aggravated the situation. It was pointed out in petitions before the Supreme Court that students in Kashmir lost two academic years because online classes were not possible with 2G. But service providers continued to charge customers for the full service though high-speed services were not available.  During the past 18 months, there were repeated requests from people and organisations from all walks of life for an end to the restrictions. The matter had received attention at the international level also and it has done much to tarnish the country’s image. David Kaye, the UN special rapporteur on freedom of expression, had called the ban “draconian” and “worse than collective punishment.” The UN has expressed itself against restrictions on internet usage even in areas of political strife. The reasons for the sudden decision to put an end to the ban are not known. But it is likely that rising international disapproval of the measure may have been a factor, especially after a similar decision to ban the internet in Delhi and its border areas in the wake of the farmers’ agitation came in for widespread criticism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/restoration-of-4g-in-jk-welcome-949485.html
09-02-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||Debt-ridden weaver ends life in Belagavi||A debt-ridden weaver ended his life by hanging to power loom bar at Teggin Galli in Vadgaon suburb here on Tuesday. He has been identified as Siddhalingeshwar Gangappa Horkeri (47).  Horkeri had borrowed loans over Rs 4.57 lakh during the lockdown for Covid-19 and had not been able to repay them.  He was also not able to earn due to business not taking off after lockdown norms were relaxed. Unable to repay loans, Horkeri took the extreme step, his wife Mahadevi told the police in the complaint filed. Shahapur police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/debt-ridden-weaver-ends-life-in-belagavi-949451.html
09-02-2021||In Perspective||The contestation over Turahalli||On February 3, some 50-100 people protested against the state government’s decision to create a 400-acre tree park in the Turahalli Reserve Forest. The protesters questioned the need to convert an existing forest into a tree park when a tree park had already been set up in the adjoining BDA layout in 2011. They contended that the project would resemble horticulture parks with manicured lawns and ornamental plants, not a forest. In December 2020, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had unveiled 'Bengaluru Mission 2022', under which the municipal agency BBMP is to develop ‘mini forests’ in Turahalli, Kadugodi, JP Nagar and Mathikere. The protesters had petitioned the Additional Chief Secretary and held a meeting with the Chief Conservator of Forests rejecting the project. The meeting had ended inconclusively. The Turahalli minor forest in south-west Bengaluru extends over 600 acres of land while the reserved forest adjoining it covers 552 acres. Considered the last reserved forest in a city once renowned for its flora and fauna, the area is home to spotted deer, wild boar, jackals, mongooses and peacocks. However, in the last 10-15 years, the massive urban expansion and escalation of infrastructure and building activity across Bengaluru has taken its toll on the area. The forest is surrounded by apartment complexes and institutions. The NICE road flanks the forest to the south-east and the building sprawl around it cuts through the adjoining green areas that stretch from Bannerghatta National Park to Savanadurga State Forest. The recent sighting of a leopard in a residential property in Begur was partly because of the destruction of this very same natural habitat of the animals through gradual encroachment. What was interesting was who the protesters were. The vast majority of the protesters were affluent, well-educated residents of the apartment complexes and gated communities on Kanakapura Road, Turahalli and Gubbalala, around the forest. They reflect the changes in Bengaluru’s social composition and political economy with the influx of the technology economy. They also reflect India’s new consumer and public cultures, and the global public perception of urban environmental problems and modes of civic engagement in the city, including the significant use of technology in their engagement with the State. These are people that are engaged in civic activism in their immediate vicinity on singular issues that directly affect their lives, but rarely engage with larger questions of equity, local governance and local democracy in the city. One hopes that the breadth of this civic engagement expands in future years. The second point of interest is the very idea and definition of the ‘park.’ The BBMP’s vision of ‘parks’ and ‘mini forests’, based on existing developments across the city, is primarily “manicured lawns with ornamental plants” and places with “walkways, cycle tracks, toilets and parking space.” The contestations in Cubbon Park are an example of the transformations of public spaces in the city -- how a once ‘public park’ becomes a ‘garden’; who accesses the park and how it is used. In Cubbon Park, the State’s imagination includes trees felled for road-widening in the vicinity of government buildings and the development of children’s parks, ubiquitous kangaroo dustbins, paved areas, flowering plants, fences and all the aspirations of urban development leading to gentrification. The situation in Cubbon Park also highlights how civic activism can define the discourse around public spaces. A ‘walkers’ association’ (a powerful local lobby) sees the park with high fences and manicured enclosures with corporate sponsorships and where licences, permits and registrations are required for entire communities of people that for decades have accessed the park for various purposes, such as hawkers, vendors, etc.; moral policing and eviction of those deemed ‘unsuitable’ for the park, thereby excluding large sections of society. There is a deep cultural divide between the State/BBMP/the ‘older’ and more traditional walkers’ association and the more current global environmental civic conceptualisations of public space; and in trends in the nature of control exercised over public spaces. The contestation over Turahalli falls between the BBMP’s archaic and outmoded conceptualisation of ‘tree parks’ and the more current global environmental visions of the protesting residents. The third point of interest is the process of the ‘development’ of the park/forest in Turahalli. This is yet another example of the opaque bureaucratic process in place, made public through the press, and met by organised public protest, petition, and/or by litigation. In typical fashion, the government will back off, wait till the protest dies down and then slowly re-engage with the ‘development’ a few years from now. The need for systematic, legal, democratic and more consultative channels (all mandated by state town-planning laws but never truly engaged with) through which citizens of all classes can participate in urban planning and governance is felt yet again in the development and planning of Bengaluru. This third point is probably the most critical structural reform required in the reshaping of modern-day Bengaluru. Hopefully, the state/BBMP will take note. (The writer is an urban planner based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-contestation-over-turahalli-949167.html
09-02-2021||In Perspective||Let children chase their dreams||The Hindi movie 3 Idiots (2009) focuses on a group of youngsters studying for an engineering degree. One of them, Farhan, is passionate about wildlife photography, but he goes to the engineering college to keep his father in good humour. As expected, he fails to do well there. He remains oppressed by the brooding melancholy that arises from the thought of not being able to lead a life of his choice. Things reach a tipping point by the time Farhan’s father understands that his son’s interests lie elsewhere. The movie poignantly highlights the dilemma of those creatively inclined youngsters from middle-class families who, mostly under parental pressure, take up engineering or medical programmes and, in the process, crush their innate talent. Why is it that in our society, the artistic instinct continues to play second fiddle to applied Science and Math? Why are the Humanities still looked down upon as merely the last refuge of mediocrity? Many parents get overly reductive when they say that the Humanities streams do not offer career options, unlike Engineering and Medicine. At times parents, and even teachers, populate students’ lives with spectres of dread sure to wreak havoc if they diverge from the Science stream. Many students grow up internalising these fears and fail to disenthrall themselves from their stranglehold. The thickets of prejudice tend to narrow parents’ views. No wonder, even today, when a student pursues English literature in college, many labour under the delusion that they opted for it out of compulsion as they didn’t have enough marks to secure admission to the Science stream. We have grown inured to the notion that Science subjects are the forte of the bright and intelligent. After all, for some parents, a flourishing career in engineering or medicine is the sine qua non of status, money and recognition which a course in Humanities doesn’t seem to bring. There are also people who are fixed in their ways as they feel English as a subject is something that one studies only till Class 12. The very idea that one needs to study this subject at the university level somewhat baffles them. English is considered a ‘scoring’ subject, like Mathematics, for most students at the final board exams; nothing beyond that. What they read till Class 12 is definitely not literature. A majority of schools in our country don’t have Elective English at the senior secondary level. As a result, students are not exposed to the works of great writers which can fuel their interest in English literature. What they have is a Core English syllabus that doesn’t require critical thinking and analytical skills.   It comes as no surprise that students shy away from pursuing literature at the undergraduate and postgraduate levels. They believe that a degree in Science opens up new vistas of opportunity as compared to a degree in the Humanities. Social worker and author Sudha Murthy have a piece of advice for parents: “Lead by example, if you want your children to read, switch off your TV or phone and sit down to read yourself. Kids learn much more by example than a sermon.’’ Both parents and teachers should make an effort to identify and channelise the talents of youngsters in the right direction. Parents should eschew the tendency to force their children to opt for Science or Mathematics after Class 10 if they are not interested in them. If a student shows an inclination towards music, painting or journalism, parents should rather give them a free hand and help them achieve their goals as much as they can. Similarly, if a student displays amazing brilliance in Science subjects, let him pursue the subjects of his choice. Who knows there could be an Edison or an Einstein hidden inside your child? It has often been seen that parents try to choose the careers of their children and live vicariously through them. In Charles Dickens’ famous novel, Hard Times, a young girl, Louisa has a tendency to ask questions and to imagine. However, her father, Mr Gradgrind, who is a stickler for facts, tries his best to suppress this natural inclination, telling her that she must “never wonder.” In 2019, Paulo Coelho, the bestselling author of The Alchemist, tweeted that it took him 40 years to pen his first book. The reason was that his father, who was an engineer by profession, was fairly convinced that if his son chose to become a writer, he would starve to death! Everyone is born with inherent abilities. To mould a child’s destiny accordingly is the responsibility of both parents and teachers. We should ask our children what they want to be and help them be that, instead of mindlessly foisting our choices on them. The rewards of living according to one’s own instinct and inclination can be immense. (The writer is a Delhi-based senior journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/let-children-chase-their-dreams-949488.html
09-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cong leader offers Rs 1L bounty to blacken BJP leader's face||Congress leader and former corporator Prathibha Kulai invited controversy by announcing a bounty of Rs 1 lakh for blackening the face of the BJP District Vice President Jagadish Adhikari for his alleged remarks against Billava community, folklore legends Koti-Chennaya and senior Congress leader B Janardhana Poojary. She made the statement on a Facebook video. She said, “Adhikari should arrive at Garadi and tender an apology by offering ‘tappu kanike’ within three days. Or else, anyone from the Billava community can smear ink to his face. I will give Rs 1 lakh reward to the person,” she said, insisting that he should apologise by falling at the feet of Poojary. Prathibha said politicians were misusing youths from the Billava community for personal gain. “Many youths are in jail for the sake of BJP and its leaders. Our youths do not have the power to question such an attitude in BJP,” she said. “Many call me as anti-Hindu. I have not issued any anti-Hindu statements. I have just said if you want to die, then join organisations. The organisations should be in favour of the religion and not against the religion,” she stressed. Prathibha also urged BJP leaders to remove Adhikari from the party. “Or else, Billavas, who constitute 60 per cent of the population in the district will give a befitting reply in the next election,” she warned.  Meanwhile, an FIR has been registered at Moodbidri police station against Adhikari for allegedly abusing Koti Chennaya and maliciously insulting Billava Community during a Nemotsava programme organised at Valpady. Raju P K, president of Brahmasri Guru Narayana Swamy Seva Sangha, has registered the complaint, alleging that Adhikari hurt religious feelings of members of the Billavacommunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cong-leader-offers-rs-1l-bounty-to-blacken-bjp-leaders-face-949249.html
09-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cattle bones found on temple premises||Even as the Karnataka Legislative Council passed the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, an incident, likely to disturb peace, is reported at Rathnapuri village of Hunsur taluk, Mysuru district, on Monday night. On Monday night, a couple of bones of a cattle was found in the sanctum sanctorum of Sri Anjaneya Swamy temple at Rathnapuri, Hunsur taluk, Mysuru district. Deputy Superintendent of Police Ravi Prasad said that he rushed to the temple on Monday night, as he learnt that some miscreants had desecrated its sanctum sanctorum. “As the incident may hurt the religious sentiments of the devotees and followers of a particular faith, a thorough probe is initiated,” he said. Hanuma Jayanthi Committee president Prabhakar has lodged a complaint at Hunsur Rural Police Station, in this regard. Finger print experts visited the spot to collect evidence. Besides, two separate teams of three inspectors and three sub-inspectors are formed, to trace the miscreants. Meanwhile, a peace meeting, of members of Hindu and Muslim communities, was held at Rathnapuri on Tuesday. Prabhakar, also a Taluk Panchayat member, said, "Hindus and Muslims have been celebrating Anjaneyaswamy Jayanthyothsava and Jamaal Bibi Urs cordially, in the village, with each other’s cooperation since over a decade. The incident now is unfortunate. It is a black mark on the unity between the communities.” The tahsildar has taken all precautionary measures to prevent any untoward incident in the village. Police security is provided to the temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cattle-bones-found-on-temple-premises-949452.html
09-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Insufficient KSRTC bus schedules to towns affect students||Even after the reopening of schools and colleges, Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has not resumed its service to the towns to full capacity, causing inconvenience to students and also other commuters. The problem is reported from Arkalgud, Arsikere, Sakleshpur and Belur towns. As there are no sufficient buses, students are forced to travel on foot-boards of buses, risking their lives. KSRTC and private buses had stalled operations during the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak. With the situation slowly returning to normalcy, buses have started plying. But, not to full capacity, like before. With schools and colleges reopened, students from rural areas are facing a lot of difficulty to attend classes with no sufficient buses. Only a handful of buses are plying on the routes. We are paying Rs 40 every day for autorickshaws to attend college, complained a few students. Besides, there are hundreds of people dependent on KSRTC buses for every day commuting. Bus services should be increased soon. With the exam time-table being released, this would impact the studies, the students complained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/insufficient-ksrtc-bus-schedules-to-towns-affect-students-949453.html
09-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Inter-caste weddings should be encouraged: Siddaramaiah||Besides simple marriages, inter-caste weddings should be encouraged, given the prevailing social conditions in India, said Leader of Opposition party Siddaramaiah. He was speaking after inaugurating the 95th monthly ‘mass marriage’, organised by Jagadguru Sri Veerasimhasana Mahasamsthana Mutt, Suttur, Nanjangud taluk, on Tuesday. “To eradicate caste system and to establish an equal and secular society, inter-caste weddings are much needed. The society is divided into four varnas. Such varna and caste systems should be eradicated,” he said. Siddaramaiah said that social reformer Basavanna facilitated the wedding between the grooms and brides of upper castes and other castes in the 12th century itself. His reforms were revolutionary, nearly a century ago. "Basavanna established Anubhava Mantapa for exchange of ideas and opinion, like we have Parliament and Assembly now. Thus, I planned to build the Anubhava Mantapa at Basava Kalyana. But, before it could be initiated, my term ended. Now, the state government has laid the foundation stone for the Anubhava Mantapa. It will be a reality soon.” He said that Suttur is under his former Assembly constituency ‘Varuna’, now represented by his son Dr Yathindra. “But, even now, I consider Varuna as my home constituency, as I was elected MLA from here, to become chief minister,” he added. Twenty-three couples entered the wedlock in the presence of seer of Suttur Mutt Shivaratri Deshikendra Swami, Siddeshwara Swamy of Jnana Yogashrama, Vijayapura, and Siddalinga Swamy of Siddaganga Mutt, Tumakuru. Siddaramaiah shared the dais with District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar after a long-time. It has to be recalled that Somashekar was a close confidant of Siddaramaiah in the Congress. However, he, along with 16 other MLAs, resigned to facilitate the formation of the BJP government, by B S Yediyurappa. Later, he joined the BJP, got re-elected and became minister. Of late, Somashekar has been criticising Siddaramaiah, for his statements against Yediyurappa and the BJP government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/inter-caste-weddings-should-be-encouraged-siddaramaiah-949455.html
09-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Weddings bring burden of debts: Somashekar||Grand weddings bring the burden of debts on parents, posing hurdles in the way of prosperity, said District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar. He was speaking after releasing the book ‘Vachanakkondu Kathe’, written by M A Neelambika, during the 95th monthly ‘mass marriage’, organised by Jagadguru Sri Veerasimhasana Mahasamsthana Mutt, Suttur, Nanjangud taluk, on Tuesday. Neelambika writes under the pen name Rajendra Shishu. He said that for financial stability of families, mass marriages, held in a simple way, should be encouraged. “People of all social, educational and financial backgrounds spend a lot of money on weddings. Instead of spending so much money on weddings, people should spend on the education of their children,” the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/weddings-bring-burden-of-debts-somashekar-949456.html
09-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka CM Yediyurappa promises hike in reservation for STs after seer warns hunger strike||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced that he would take suitable steps soon on increasing the reservation percentage for ST communities from the existing 3% to 7.5% soon after Maharshi Valmiki Gurupeetha Seer Prasannananda Swami warned that he would stage a hunger strike if the hike in reservation is not announced in a month, in the two-day Valmiki Fair organised by Maharshi Valmiki Gurupeetha at Rajanahalli in Harihar taluk on Tuesday. Though the Chief Minister was scheduled to deliver his speech at the event, the seer delivered the speech and warned that he would stage hunger strike on the premises of the mutt from March 10 if the government fails to announce 7.5% reservation for ST communities in the state. He also asked people of the community, who gathered in thousands whether they would stand by him if he dies in his fight for the reservation. This triggered tension at the dais. The Chief Minister, ministers, MLAs of the community asked the seer not to make such comments. Later, the seer said he would withdraw his words as the Chief Minister promised to hike the reservation. "I am not asking this for personal gains but for the welfare of people of the community. The Chief Minister is like our father and children would ask the father to meet the demand," the seer quipped. Later, in his speech, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said, "The seer has the right to ask the government to hike reservation for the community on behalf of people of the community. I would fulfil it soon."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-promises-hike-in-reservation-for-sts-after-seer-warns-hunger-strike-949394.html
09-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||No record of division of votes, Horatti tells Congress members||Karnataka Legislative Council chairperson Basavaraj Horatti on Tuesday ruled that there was no record of Congress leaders seeking division of votes and hence, passing of the Anti-cow Slaughter Bill in the House on Monday was valid.  Congress MLCs staged a protest in the Council on Tuesday against the passing of the Anti-cow Slaughter Bill. They argued that they had sought the division of votes on the Bill, in spite of which the Bill was passed without taking it into consideration.  The entire day, the MLCs stood in the well of the House, marking their protest. Before the election for the chairperson’s post was held, Congress MLC BK Hariprasad demanded Acting Chairperson MK Pranesh to adjourn the session for half-a-day and examine the CCTV footage to corroborate their demand for the division of votes. However, his request was denied.  The MLCs continued their protest even after the new Chairperson Basavarah Horatti took the charge and asked him to examine the CCTV footage. Upon examining the records, Horatti said there was no record of the Congress MLCs’ demand for the division of votes and hence, the passing of the Bill was valid.   Not satisfied with the response, the Congress leaders insisted that they had sought for a division. They stood in the well till the session was adjourned sine die in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/no-record-of-division-of-votes-horatti-tells-congress-members-949472.html
09-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Congress protests fuel price hike||The Congress staged a protest in Bengaluru on Tuesday, protesting the increase in price of fuels and other essential commodities. The protest was organised by the Bangalore Central, North and South Congress units, in which KPCC working presidents Ramalinga Reddy, Saleem Ahmad and other senior leaders of the party took part. Congress MLA Krishna Byre Gowda accused the government of fleecing the common man by increasing fuel prices. "Crude oil prices in international markets is half the price it was during UPA rule. Yet, people are made to pay almost double for petrol and diesel," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-congress-protests-fuel-price-hike-949475.html
09-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Shivakumar to tour Karnataka from February 20||KPCC president D K Shivakumar will be on a state tour from February 20 to strengthen the party cadres. A decision to this effect was following a meeting of the party's working presidents and other office-bearers here on Tuesday. Discussions were also held over the upcoming Assembly elections in three constituencies - one Lok Sabha and two Legislative Assembly segments - during the meeting. As the official notification for the elections is expected shortly, the party leadership decided to gear up for the polls and launch the campaign activities in the constituencies soon. The official induction of Ramalinga Reddy and R Dhruvanarayan as the party's working presidents will be held on February 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/shivakumar-to-tour-karnataka-from-february-20-949479.html
09-02-2021||Mysuru||Forest department traps leopard in Mandya||A leopard, that was causing trouble to the people of Anechakanahalli and surrounding villages finally fell into the trap laid by the Forest department, on Monday, near Kikkeri, Mandya district. It may be recalled that a leopard cub that was separated from its mother, was found dead at the village last week. It had died after falling into a pit, while dragging a pet dog, according to sources. This had created panic among the residents, who complained of frequent sightings of leopards in the region. Based on the complaints, the Forest department placed a cage to trap the leopard cub's mother and the personnel were camping in the village to observe the movements of the wild cat. As expected, the leopardess fell into the trap on Monday night. It might have strayed into the village for food or in search of the cub, said department personnel. Learning about the leopard trapped in the cage, the residents of the village started arriving in large numbers to have a glimpse of the leopard, creating a lot of commotion. Personnel shifted the cage to the Forest department's taluk office. The wild cat would be kept under observation to monitor its health and later released into the forest, as guided by higher officials, said Taluk range officer Gangadhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/forest-department-traps-leopard-in-mandya-949381.html
09-02-2021||National||Biden speaks to PM Modi, stresses defence of democratic norms and strong regional ties||Even as he agreed with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to continue close US-India cooperation in Indo-Pacific, the new American President Joseph R Biden underscored during the first call with his counterpart in New Delhi that his administration would defend democratic institutions and norms around the world. Modi and Biden spoke over a phone late on Monday – three weeks after the change of guard at the White House in Washington DC. They agreed to continue “close cooperation to promote a free and open Indo-Pacific, including support for freedom of navigation, territorial integrity, and a stronger regional architecture through the Quad,” according to a readout issued by the White House early Tuesday. They further resolved that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld in Myanmar, where the military of late taken over power, questioning the legitimacy of the re-election of Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League of Democracy to power. During his phone call with the Prime Minister, the US President “underscored his desire to defend democratic institutions and norms around the world” and noted that “a shared commitment to democratic values” was “the bedrock for the US-India relationship”. The stress on defending democratic norms in the White House statement on Biden-Modi phone call was significant as it came close on the heels of a statement issued by the US State Department, subtly criticising the way the Government of India was dealing with the protest by the farmers against the new agricultural laws. The US State Department noted that “peaceful protests” were a “hallmark of any thriving democracy”. It added that unhindered access to information, including the internet, was fundamental to the freedom of expression. The statement was issued after local authorities shut down internet access for the agitating farmers camping on the border of the national capital of India. India, US, Australia and Japan had first launched the 'Quad' in 2007, but the initiative had fizzled out very soon. The four nations, however, relaunched the 'Quad' in Manila in November 2017 – ostensibly to create a bulwark of democratic nations to counter expansionist moves of China in the Indo-Pacific region. Modi and Biden reiterated the “importance of working with like-minded countries to ensure a rules-based international order and a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region,” according to a separate statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi. The two leaders discussed at length the “regional developments and the wider geopolitical context”, the MEA added, apparently indicating that the Prime Minister and the US President had exchanged views on growing belligerence of China, not only along its Line of Actual Control with India, but also in the disputed waters of the South China Sea, East China Sea, Taiwan Strait and elsewhere in the Indo-Pacific. They noted that the India-US partnership was “firmly anchored in a shared commitment to democratic values and common strategic interests”. The senior diplomats of the four nations had several meetings ever since the uad was re-launched. It was elevated to the level of Foreign Ministers when the then US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, hosted his counterparts from Japan, Australia and India on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in September 2019. Pompeo and the foreign ministers of the three other nations – S Jaishankar of India, Maris Payne of Australia and Toshimitsu Motegi of Japan – had another meeting in Tokyo on October 6 last year. But the Trump administration’s move to formalise and expand the ‘Quad’ and turn it into a NATO-like bloc for the Indo-Pacific region did not succeed, as not only India, but Australia and Japan too were not yet ready to go the whole hog and overtly gang up with the US against China. The Biden administration recently proposed to further elevate the ‘Quad’ with a virtual meeting of the leaders of the four nations. New Delhi is cautiously studying the proposal. The Prime Minister and the US President affirmed the importance of addressing the challenge of global climate change. Modi welcomed Biden's decision to re-commit to the Paris Agreement and highlighted the ambitious targets India has set for itself in the area of renewable energy. The prime minister also welcomed the US President’s initiative to organise the Climate Leaders Summit in April this year and looked forward to participating in the same. He invited Biden and his wife Dr Jill Biden to visit India at their earliest convenience.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biden-speaks-to-pm-modi-stresses-defence-of-democratic-norms-and-strong-regional-architecture-949131.html
09-02-2021||National||DH Toon | Greta Thunberg caught between melting glaciers and FIR||Swedish environmentalist Greta Thunberg took to Twitter last week and drew the world's attention to the near three-month-long farmers' protests over the new farm laws. Thunberg's comment was met with sharp criticism from the government and its various officials in the days that followed. The Delhi Police, which is under the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had filed the teenage activist's tweets in a First Information Report (FIR) for the 'toolkit' that she shared about the farmers' protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-greta-thunberg-caught-between-melting-glaciers-and-fir-949174.html
09-02-2021||National||Fuel prices at record high as brent crude rates soar||Fuel prices touched a record high on Tuesday after petrol and diesel prices went up by 35 paise. Petrol price in Delhi now stands at Rs 87.30 per litre and in Mumbai, it costs Rs 93.83 per litre. Diesel costs Rs 77.48 per litre in Delhi, while in Mumbai, it stands at Rs 84.36 per litre.  In Bengaluru, petrol costs Rs 89.83 per litre, while diesel stands at Rs 82.79 per litre.  Continuous increase in petrol and diesel prices may push the overall prices of other commodities higher. Despite the Reserve Bank of India nudging the Centre to cut petroleum prices, government officials privy to the development said it is highly unlikely that the Centre will move to cut excise duty or any other taxes as there is no fiscal space. Fuel prices were last hiked by 30 paise on February 5. Rates have risen by Rs 3.59 per litre in case of petrol and by Rs 3.61 on diesel in 2021.  Last week, Mukesh Kumar Surana, head of India's third-largest fuel retailer Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL), said that a sudden spike in international oil prices because of a perception of mismatch in demand and supply as well as a cut in production by Saudi was fuelling the retail price hikes. He had said that only 25-30 per cent of the retail pump rates are dependent on cost and the rest are central and state taxes. "We probably have no choice but to pass on the variation (in benchmark cost) to the consumer," he had said. "The government has taxation handle." Also last week, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan told the Rajya Sabha in a written reply to a question that excise duty levied by the central government makes up for Rs 32.98 per litre of the price of petrol in Delhi and sales tax or VAT of the state government constitutes Rs 19.55. For diesel, the central excise adds up to Rs 31.83 and VAT to Rs 10.99, he had said. Besides, the price includes a dealer commission of a minimum Rs 2.6 per litre on petrol and Rs 2 on diesel. Retail petrol rates have risen by Rs 17.71 per litre since mid-March 2020 after the government raised taxes by a record margin to mop up gains arising from fall in international oil prices. Diesel rates have gone up by Rs 15.19. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-prices-at-record-high-as-brent-crude-rates-soar-949189.html
09-02-2021||National||Sri Sri Ravi Shankar recognised as Global Citizenship Ambassador by US university||Indian spiritual leader Sri Sri Ravi Shankar has been recognised as a Global Citizenship Ambassador by a prominent American university in recognition of his pioneering work as peacemaker, humanitarian, spiritual teacher and global interfaith leader. The Northeastern University Center for Spirituality, Dialogue and Service honoured him as its inaugural Global Citizenship Ambassador last week, according to a statement issued on Monday. “We are grateful to Sri Sri. We can think of no better way to launch our Global Citizenship Ambassador recognition than to dialogue and learn from a joyful humanitarian who embodies the best of our shared human values,” said Alexander Levering Kern, executive director and Lead Spiritual Advisor (chaplain) at the university. The university is a global leader in experiential education and research with campuses around the world and is home to students from over 100 countries. It is ranked among the top 50 in the US and has one of the three largest international student populations. “On behalf of the interfaith community at Northeastern, in Boston and beyond, we look forward to working together to nurture global citizens and to build more just, peaceful, and healthy world for all people,” Kern said. Sri Ravi Shankar has fostered peace by way of dialogue and strategic initiatives that engage multiple levels of government, business and humanitarian organisations, the statement said. He has lead conflict resolution and trauma-relief programmes in many countries, including Afghanistan, Brazil, Cameroon, Colombia, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel-Palestine, Kenya, Kosovo, Lebanon, Mauritius, Morocco, Nepal, Pakistan, Russia, South Africa, Sri Lanka, and the United States of America. “The first thing in a conflict is a communication breakdown. Second, there is a trust deficit. If we can bridge these somehow, then the process begins. Inside every culprit is a victim crying for help. If you heal the victim, the culprit disappears,” the Indian spiritual leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sri-sri-ravi-shankar-recognised-as-global-citizenship-ambassador-by-us-university-949250.html
09-02-2021||National||Government to issue guidelines for OTT platforms soon, Prakash Javadekar says in Rajya Sabha||The government will soon issue guidelines for regulation of OTT (over the top) platforms that will address issues such as sensitive content, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Replying to a Zero Hour mention, Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said a lot of suggestions and complaints on the regulation of OTTs have been received. "Guidelines and direction are almost ready. It will be soon implemented," he said in his brief submission. Earlier, raising the issue through a Zero Hour mention, Mahesh Poddar of the BJP said the content and language on OTT platforms was discriminatory and offensive. Objectional content on OTT platforms includes sexual discrimination and abusive language, he said adding that the government should, without delay, implement the Internet regulations. There are at least 40 OTT platforms, including global ones such as Netflix, Amazon Prime and HotStar (Disney Plus), and hundreds of news content websites. "It is an important issue. We get a lot of suggestions and complaints. Guidelines and directions are almost ready. It will be soon implemented," Javadekar said. Ram Gopal Yadav of the SP opposed direct recruitment for the post of joint secretary in Government of India, saying the IAS and IRS fraternity was unhappy with these lateral entries. Besides, there is no reservation for SC, ST and OBC in these appointments, he said, demanding that the Department of Personnel and Training be told to stop such recruitments. Neeraj Dangi of the Congress demanded raising of monthly pension to pensioners covered under the EPF-95 scheme to Rs 9,000 from the current Rs 300 to Rs 3,000 a month. N Gokulakrishnan of the AIAMDK alleged that "step-motherly treatment" being meted out to Puducherry in partly increase of Rs 26 crore in the annual fund allocation for the Union Territory. Seeking at least a 10 per cent annual increase in fund allocation, he said the demand for a special package, writing off of legacy loans and reimbursement of pay commission arrears have been pending with the central government. Kanakamedala Ravindra Kumar of the TDP sought reconsideration of the government decision to privatise Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL) which has a steel plant in Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh. The steel plant, he said, was built after 22,000 acres of land was sacrificed by the people of the state. About 16,000 people were displaced due to the plant. The plant is incurring losses as it does not have a captive iron ore mine and is burdened by huge debt servicing liability, he said, adding the entire steel industry was facing high iron ore and freight cost, pushing them into losses. He called for reconsideration of the disinvestment plans of RINL Visakhapatnam. Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi raised the issue of Indians stuck on a ship in the China Sea since last year and asked the government to bring them back on priority. Shipping Minister Mansukh L Mandaviya said the issue will be resolved in a short time and the crew will return home. He said 23 sailors on one ship -- MV Jag Anand -- have returned home and the Indian government is in touch with the Chinese authorities for the return of 16 Indian crew on another vessel, MV Anastasia. Indian bulk cargo vessel MV Jag Anand had been on anchorage near Jingtang port in Hebei province of China since June 13. Another vessel, MV Anastasia, is on anchorage near Caofeidian port in China since September 20. DMK's Tiruchi Siva raised the issue of 49 Kendriya Vidyalaya schools in Tamil Nadu not having a single teacher to teach Tamil as a third language. Sanskrit and Hindi have been made compulsory languages but not Tamil. This, he said, was an injustice to the local language. KVs are preferred for their good education and very low fee and not teaching Tamil would be an injustice to poor students, he said. "Tamil should be the compulsory language for teaching in KV schools." Sasmit Patra of the BJD raised the issue of a long-pending demand for the building of a new international airport at Puri in Odisha. Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri responded saying the request for the new international airport at Puri came from the state government "only a few days ago" and to say it has been long pending will be incorrect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-to-issue-guidelines-for-ott-platforms-soon-prakash-javadekar-says-in-rajya-sabha-949263.html
09-02-2021||National||YSRCP MP V Vijayasai Reddy expresses regret over remarks against Rajya Sabha Chair||V Vijayasai Reddy of the YSR Congress Party on Tuesday expressed regret for the comments he made against the Rajya Sabha chairman, saying he never intended to cast any aspersions on the Chair and had uttered them in a state of anguish. Reddy had on Monday sought expunging of certain comments made by a TDP MP a few days ago. He went on to make the objectionable comments when Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu asked him to give a notice for examination. "I never intended to bring any disrepute or make the chair dysfunctional sir. I am no one to make the chairman of Rajya Sabha dysfunction," he said in the House on Tuesday. He said he was in a state of anguish when he made those comments on Monday and now wishes to take back his words. "I sincerely regret my comments made yesterday. They were unintended and made on a spur of anguish. I had become emotional," he said. "I had no intention to hurt the chair or cast aspersions on the chair. I, therefore, regret it once against and assure you sir it will not be repeated again." After Reddy expressed regret, Naidu said "the issue is closed." Earlier, when the House met for the day, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said Monday's episode was condemnable. "We have all respect and regard for you, especially for the Chair," he told Naidu. "Whatever happened is unacceptable. Throwing aspersions on the Chair is not at all accepted. This is very commendable." He requested Reddy to apologize. On Monday, Reddy had ignored Naidu's plea for writing to him on the remarks that he had found objectionable in the TDP MP's submission a few days back. Reddy had continued to speak despite his mike being turned off and the Chair ordering that nothing would go on record. During this time, Reddy cast aspersions on the Chair. "You are saying the chairman is biased," Naidu had remarked on Monday. Naidu had said such comments were made to make the chairman "dysfunctional" and he felt "really sad". "But I will not be cowed down by this sort of effort to make the chairman dysfunctional," he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ysrcp-mp-v-vijayasai-reddy-expresses-regret-over-remarks-against-rajya-sabha-chair-949266.html
09-02-2021||National||The Tikaits and rebellions — It's all in the family||The Tikait family has a history of being a thorn in the side of Indian governments that take on the country's farmers, and their emotional appeal has again energised a showdown with authorities. Three decades after his father led a massive protest into the capital, Rakesh Tikait has revived a campaign against agricultural reforms that had quieted after a rally last month turned into an ugly rampage. Sat in a cold protest camp on the outskirts of Delhi with police building barricades, the internet cut and some farmers drifting away, the 51-year-old lit a fuse with his ultimatum. "If the laws are not repealed, Rakesh Tikait will commit suicide," he said in a tearful video. His message spread like wildfire on social media around Punjab and Haryana states and beyond. Tikait also refused an order to vacate the Ghazipur protest camp and the next day a new wave of tractors carrying thousands more protestors arrived. "Everyone cried that day, it wasn't just Tikait," said Giriraj Saini a farmer from Uttar Pradesh state who spent hours manoeuvring through barricades and diversions to reach the camp at the crack of dawn after seeing the video. "It's like a rebirth of the protest," said Kuldeep Tyagi, a protestor from Haryana. Since November, tens of thousands of farmers opposing new free market reforms have posed the biggest challenge to Prime Minister Narendra Modi since he came to power in 2014. The Hindu nationalist government says the changes will bring new investment to a sector that employs about two thirds of Indians and will boost rural incomes. Farmers say corporate giants will overtake the industry and the loss of longstanding guaranteed minimum prices will ruin them. The tussle took an international turn earlier this month when pop superstar Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted their support for the farmers, sparking furious reactions from Modi fans in Bollywood and India's sporting world. Rakesh Tikait has suddenly become the face of the protests like his father, Mahendra Tikait, was in 1988. Tikait senior marshalled around 500,000 farmers onto the lawns in front of the government complex in the capital to force an increase in sugar cane prices. Rakesh now pours scorn on the government on a stage at the Ghazipur protest site covered with posters of his father. He says he is aware of the family comparisons, particularly in his native Uttar Pradesh. "I will rise to their expectations. I will finish what I have come for," he told AFP. In the past week, tens of thousands of people have flocked to rallies to hear him condemn Modi's Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which he had allied with for the 2009 elections. Tikait was also named -- along with BJP politicians -- in an official investigation into communal riots in Uttar Pradesh in 2013. And Defence Minister Rajnath Singh appeared with Tikait at a 2015 commemoration for his late father. But now, his sharp words for his former allies are hitting home. People line up each day to take selfies with Tikait and hand over donations from their villages. The government knows it has a fight on its hands. Journalist and commentator Ajoy Bose said Tikait's mobilisation of the farmers has become a big "headache" for the government which thought it was finished with the protests after a January 26 rally turned violent and left hundreds injured. "It's difficult to vilify him. He's mainstream so you can't call him anti-national, and he's not Sikh so one can't even bring in the Sikh extremism angle," Bose said. Many of the protesting farmers are Sikhs from Punjab. Tikait says the protests could go on for months, no matter if water supplies are cut and barbed wire fences surround the camp. Harinder Rana, a 69-year-old farmer from Haryana, said Modi had "messed with the wrong person". "He (Tikait) will not let you go this time," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-tikaits-and-rebellions-its-all-in-the-family-949272.html
09-02-2021||National||More than 50 lakh healthcare, frontline workers given Covid-19 vaccine in 21 days, government says||More than 50 lakh healthcare and frontline workers have been vaccinated against coronavirus in 21 days in India which is the fastest rate in the world, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Responding to a question on vaccine hesitancy, he said at the start of Covid-19 vaccination drive, fewer than planned beneficiaries attended the vaccination sessions due to transient technical issues in CoWIN portal, vaccine hesitancy, among others, which have progressively been addressed. A total of 93.6 lakh healthcare and 77.9 lakh frontline workers had been registered for the vaccination till January 31, the minister said in a written reply. He said 37.58 lakh workers were vaccinated till January 31. "Initially the coverage was low… however, the rate of vaccination coverage has subsequently increased," Choubey said. Asked if the healthcare and frontline workers are not confident of the vaccine available for them, the MoS said, "This is not a fact. More than 50 lakh healthcare and frontline workers have been vaccinated in 21 days in India which is the fastest rate in the world." A communication campaign is being carried out to raise awareness about Covid-19 vaccines and address the misinformation regarding the vaccination process, he said. The communication strategy aims to disseminate factual information about the vaccine and the vaccination process. This is being done through multimedia platforms and through the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) website. The rollout of Covid-19 vaccination drive had begun from January 16. During the initial phases, the vaccine is being provided to the priority groups of healthcare and frontline workers for free by the central government. Till January 26, a total of 200 lakh doses of 'Covishield' and 28.03 lakh doses of 'Covaxin' have been supplied, Choubey said in a separate reply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-50-lakh-healthcare-frontline-workers-given-covid-19-vaccine-in-21-days-government-says-949313.html
09-02-2021||National||US condoles deaths in Uttarakhand flood, wishes for a speedy recovery of injured||The US has condoled the loss of lives due to the avalanche caused by a glacial burst in India's Uttarakhand state and extended wishes for a speedy recovery of those injured. "Our thoughts are with our Indian friends and partners during this challenging time. We extend our deepest condolences to the family and friends of the deceased, and we hope for a successful rescue effort and a speedy and full recovery for the injured," Ned Price, spokesperson of the Department of State told reporters, said. A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier broke off in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, triggering an avalanche and a deluge in the Alaknanda river system that washed away hydroelectric stations and trapped more than 100 labourers who are feared dead. Twenty-six bodies have been recovered and 171 people still missing as multiple agencies worked at rescuing over 30 workers feared trapped in a tunnel at a power project site. Congressman Tony Cardenas also expressed his concerns for the people suffered in the incident. "Praying for the people of India," he said in a tweet. "We are witnessing the devastating effects of climate change. This is not a crisis we can ignore. This now deserves a response," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-condoles-deaths-in-uttarakhand-flood-wishes-for-a-speedy-recovery-of-injured-949315.html
09-02-2021||National||Molestation case: Child knows good touch, bad touch, says POCSO court||A special POCSO court here has denied bail to a man accused of molesting a five-year-old girl, saying even though the victim is a child, it cannot be said she is not aware of "good touch or bad touch". The order was passed by the court on February 6 and a copy of it was made available on Tuesday. Special judge Bharati Kale, while rejecting the bail plea of the accused, said the victim has categorically stated that the applicant touched her and "she felt it was a bad touch". "The victim being small girl, it cannot be said that she is not aware about good touch or bad touch," the court observed. The man, who is the victim's neighbour, is accused of touching her inappropriately when she used to go to his house to play. He has been booked under Indian Penal Code Section 354 (molestation) and relevant provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Refuting the charges, the accused's lawyer had argued that the victim, being a child, used to visit his house and it cannot be said that the applicant's touch was a "bad touch". The prosecution contended that the victim is aware of the nature of the touch and specifically said it in the statement about the same. Finding merits in the prosecution's arguments, the court rejected the bail plea of the accused. "I find that the nature of accusations is serious and the applicant is alleged to have committed aggravated sexual assault," the judge observed. "In the circumstances, I do not find that the applicant is entitled for bail," the judge said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/molestation-case-child-knows-good-touch-bad-touch-says-pocso-court-949327.html
09-02-2021||National||Rajya Sabha passes bill to regularise unauthorised colonies in Delhi||The Upper House of Parliament on Tuesday passed the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Bill, 2021 to regularise unauthorised colonies in Delhi. The bill replaces the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 which was promulgated by President Ram Nath Kovind on December 30, 2020. "1.35 crore people of Delhi, those living in unauthorised colonies, they will get their ownership right," Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri said in Rajya Sabha He said that tenders have been floated for "Jahan Jhuggi Wahan Makaan". "Delhi will not only benefit from the improvement in living condition of 1.35 crore people but the Central Vista project will also make Delhi one of the finest cities in the world," Puri said. The ordinance amended the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second Act, 2011. The 2011 Act was valid till December 31, 2020. The ordinance extended the deadline to December 31, 2023. The 2011 Act provided for the regularisation of the unauthorised colonies that existed in the national capital as on March 31, 2002 and where construction took place till June 1, 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-passes-bill-to-regularise-unauthorised-colonies-in-delhi-949336.html
09-02-2021||National||Haryana farmer dies after falling from tractor-trolley at Tikri border protest site||A 28-year-old farmer from Haryana's Rohtak district, who was providing voluntary services at Tikri border protest site, died after sustaining serious head injuries when he fell off a tractor-trolley, police said on Tuesday. Deepak was hospitalised at PGIMS, Rohtak where he died during treatment on Monday, Kuldeep Singh, SHO, Aasoda Police Station in Jhajjar district, said over the phone. He said the accident took place at Bahadurgarh bypass road on February 5. “Deepak was sitting in the tractor-trolley and distributing ration (to farmers sitting in protest at Tikri). He fell down and sustained head injuries. He died during treatment at PGIMS Rohtak,” the officer added. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the Centre has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-farmer-dies-after-falling-from-tractor-trolley-at-tikri-border-protest-site-949337.html
09-02-2021||National||Women entering Sabarimala: SC stays 'gag order' against activist Rehana Fathima||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the Kerala High Court order restraining activist Rehana Fathima from posting her views in all kinds of media. The court, however, said 2018 bail condition not to hurt religious sentiments through her posts would continue against her. A bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman suspended operations of the November 23, 2020 order of the High Court, which came down heavily on her for uploading a video of a cookery show on social media where she had allegedly hurt religious sentiments. After hearing senior advocate Colin Gonsalves for Fathima, the bench, also comprising Justices Hemant Gupta and B R Gavai, said, "it is a complete gag order." Gonsalves asked the court to set aside the bail condition. The High Court order stated till the trial was over, she would be restrained from sharing or transmitting any material or her comments through visual and electronic media, open to public.   However, the top court said that another bail condition previously imposed in November 2018, which restrained from her sharing or disseminating any comment hurting religious feelings or sentiments, should continue.   The High Court had observed that use of term having religious sentiments during a cookery show was prima facie likely to hurt Hindu’s religious feelings, who worshipped cow as a deity.    Justice Sunil Thomas said that by using the contentious term during the show she had violated the bail condition imposed by the High Court in 2018 in another case connected with the publication of derogatory materials about Lord Ayyappa of Sabarimala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-entering-sabarimala-sc-stays-gag-order-against-activist-rehana-fathima-949340.html
09-02-2021||National||Uttarakhand disaster: 70 from Uttar Pradesh, including 34 from Lakhimpur Kheri, missing||At least 70 people from Uttar Pradesh are feared missing in the glacier burst at Joshimath in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district that triggered an avalanche and a deluge in the Alaknanda river system that washed away hydroelectric stations on Sunday, officials said. Of the 70 people, 34 are from Lakhimpur Kheri district alone. "As of now, 70 people from Uttar Pradesh are feared missing, including 34 from Lakhimpur Kheri, nine from Saharanpur and five from Shravasti," Relief Commissioner of Uttar Pradesh Sanjay Goyal told PTI on Tuesday. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath sent a team of three ministers to Uttarakhand for better coordination with the state in carrying out relief works after the disaster, an official spokesperson said here. A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier possibly burst through its banks in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, leading to an avalanche and a deluge that ripped through the Alaknanda river system in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. Thirty-one bodies have been recovered so far and around 175 people are missing. "The chief minister has formed a committee of three ministers and sent them to Uttarakhand for better coordination with the state. The ministers are Suresh Kumar Rana, Vijay Kashyap and Dharam Singh Saini," the spokesperson said. Adityanath has also constituted a team of officers led by Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi to ensure coordination in carrying out relief works, he said, adding that a control room has been established at the Relief Commissioner's office. Control rooms have also been set up in districts affected by the tragedy and administration, police and irrigation department employees are deputed there. "We will meet Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and work will be done in coordination to cremate those who lost their lives in the tragedy," Rana said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-disaster-70-from-uttar-pradesh-including-34-from-lakhimpur-kheri-missing-949359.html
09-02-2021||National||UPSC civil service: Not in favour of granting relaxation in age limit, Centre tells SC||The Centre Tuesday told the Supreme Court that it is against granting one-time relaxation on age limit to UPSC civil service aspirants, including those who had exhausted their last attempt in 2020 exam amid the Covid-19 pandemic and would get one more chance this year provided they are not age barred, as it would be discriminatory to other candidates. The Centre told this to a bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar which reserved its verdict on a plea which had sought one more chance in the UPSC's civil services exam to those aspirants who could not appear in their last attempt in 2020 due to the pandemic. Additional Solicitor General S V Raju, appearing for the Centre, said that initially the government was not willing to concede the extra chance and it was later done at the suggestion of the bench. “This is not the exam where you prepare at the last minutes. People prepare for years together,” Raju told the bench, adding, “My first offer remains”. The Centre had on February 5 told the apex court that it was agreeable to give an extra chance as a one-time relaxation to those civil service aspirants, who had appeared in their last attempt in the 2020 exam and are otherwise not age-barred. It, however, had said that no relaxation shall be granted for 2021 exam to those candidates who have not exhausted their permissible number of attempts or to those who are otherwise age-barred from appearing in 2021 exam as per the prescribed age limits of different categories, or to any other candidate for any other reason whatsoever. The counsel appearing for the petitioners had Monday argued that there should be one-time relaxation on age limit for the aspirants. On February 5, the Centre had filed a note in the apex court which said, “Relaxation, only to the extent of providing one extra attempt for Civil Service Examination (CSE), specifically limited to CSE-2021, may be granted to only those candidates who appeared for CSE-2020 as their last permissible attempt and are otherwise not age-barred from appearing in CSE-2021.” “This relaxation for the candidates and to the extent as prescribed above, shall be a one-time relaxation only and shall apply only for appearing in CSE-2021 and shall not be treated as a precedent,” it had said. “As per the suggestion of this court, the Union of India is agreeable for the following ex-gratia, one-time, restricted relaxation to be granted to the prospective candidates, subject to the same being part of a consent order, disposing off the petition,” the note had said. On February 1, the Centre had told the top court that it cannot grant an extra chance to civil services aspirants who could not appear or prepare well for their last attempt in the UPSC civil service exam in 2020 due to the pandemic, while reiterating that it would amount to extending “differential treatment” to similarly placed candidates. The Centre had earlier furnished a chart in the apex court giving details of relaxation given by Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) in civil services exams since its inception and had said that in 1979, 1992 and 2015 relaxations were given to the candidates due to change in patterns of examination. The top court on September 30 last year had refused to postpone the UPSC civil services preliminary exam because of the COVID-19 pandemic and floods in several parts of the country. However, it had directed the central government and the UPSC to consider granting an extra chance to candidates who have their last attempt in 2020, with corresponding extension of the upper age-limit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upsc-civil-service-not-in-favour-of-granting-relaxation-in-age-limit-centre-tells-sc-949360.html
09-02-2021||National||India says Johnson & Johnson interested in making Covid-19 vaccine in country||Johnson & Johnson is interested in manufacturing its Covid-19 vaccine in India, a government official told a news conference on Tuesday. India also currently has no concern over the efficacy of the AstraZeneca vaccine that is being used in the country's massive inoculation campaign, Vinod Kumar Paul said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-johnson-johnson-interested-in-making-covid-19-vaccine-in-country-949361.html
09-02-2021||National||Covid-19: No new deaths in 15 states and UTs; less than 5 in another 18 in the last 24 hours||No new Covid-19 deaths were reported in the past 24 hours in 15 states and Union Territories, whereas in another 18 states and UTs, the death count was less than five, the Union Health Ministry said here on Tuesday, releasing fresh data on the shrinking epidemic. For two consecutive weeks, the case fatality ratio has stayed below 1%, which was the original target for the government when it was battling the rising epidemic. There has been a 55% decline in average daily deaths in the past five weeks. While Jharkhand, Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir are the only big and populous states and UTs on the first list of 15, almost all major states barring Kerala, Maharashtra and Punjab, fall into the second group of 18. Karnataka, for instance, has three deaths since Monday. Out of 78 deaths recorded in the past 24 hours, Kerala (16), Maharashtra (15) and Punjab (11) account for 42 deaths. Thirty-three out of 36 States and UTs have less than 5,000 active cases. The three exceptions are Kerala (65,670), Maharashtra (35,991) and Karnataka (5,953). Taken together they account for 75% of the active cases. “In the case of Maharashtra, there is a steady decline from January to February, but in Kerala, the number of cases increased,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. The Union Health Secretary also asked the states to administer the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to healthcare workers by February 20 and hold a mop-up round by February 24. Similarly, the cut-off date for the frontline workers to complete the exercise is March 6. Those who miss out would be relegated to the third category of the 27 crore general population.  So far, more than six million Indians – mostly healthcare workers - have received the vaccine. “We accelerate towards the third group of 26 crore people, who would mostly be individuals above 50 years. Both vaccines have been proven safe as there is only one adverse effect (mostly minor) for every 1,400 cases,” said V K Paul, NITI Ayog member. Bhushan said a national-level panel on AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) met for the first time on February 5 to discuss five post-vaccination deaths. The panel deduced that two of the five deaths were not linked to the vaccine whereas for the remaining, the committee sought histopathology and chemical analysis reports from the states. There have been 23 such deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-no-new-deaths-in-15-states-and-uts-less-than-5-in-another-18-in-the-last-24-hours-949367.html
09-02-2021||National||Republic Day violence: Actor Deep Sidhu sent to 7-day police custody||Actor-activist Deep Sidhu who was "a prominent player" behind the violence at the Red Fort on Republic Day has been arrested by the Delhi Police, officials said on Tuesday. Later in the day, a city court sent him to seven-day police custody after police alleged that Sidhu was one of the main instigators of the violent incidents at the Red Fort on January 26. The arrest was made by a team of the Delhi Police's Special Cell, said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav. Sidhu was arrested from the Karnal Bypass at 10.40 pm on Monday, Yadav told PTI, adding that he was wanted in connection with the case of instigating the crowd at the Red Fort on Republic Day. "The Crime Branch will investigate his role in detail," the DCP said. Asked where he was hiding after the January 26 violence, Yadav said the investigation at in an initial stage. Taking to Twitter, the Special Cell claimed that Sidhu was "a prominent player" behind the Republic Day violence and he was instigating youngsters with his provocative speeches and stardom even when he was hiding from the law. Police had announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information leading to Sidhu's arrest. After the January 26 violence, which had left over 500 security personnel injured and one protestor dead, the 36-year-old actor-activist was posting videos on social media. "Sidhu was in contact with a woman friend who lives in California. He used to make videos and send it to her, and she used to upload them on his Facebook account," a police source said. Sidhu kept changing his locations to evade arrest, sources said, adding that several teams are working to arrest other persons who were involved in the violence. Sidhu was sent to seven-day police custody by Metropolitan Magistrate Prigya Gupta. However, Sidhu's counsel claimed that he had nothing to do with the violence and was at the wrong place at the wrong time. The violence took place when tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on January 26 during their tractor parade to highlight their demand for repealing the new agri laws. However, their parade dissolved into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and delivered a national insult hoisting a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India's tricolour. Thousands of protesting farmers who reached ITO from the Ghazipur border clashed with police. Many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where the religious flag was also hoisted. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protestors died. At the Red Fort on January 26, several police personnel had fell or jumped tens of feet down a wall after being pushed to the edge by a marauding mob. In the FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, police said two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protestors who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear. "The mob later hoisted different flags there. They also started creating nuisance on the rampart. The unruly mob was asked to come downstairs. They went to Meena Bazar area to enter the into Red Fort. When the police tried to take them out of Lahore Gate, the mob became violent and attacked personnel. The mob thrashed the police personnel and threw them in the wells," police had said in the FIR. "They damaged a bus, a government gypsy and other vehicles. The mob robbed the anti-riots gears -- cane stick, shields, body protectors, helmets etc from the police personnel," it had also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-violence-actor-deep-sidhu-sent-to-7-day-police-custody-949370.html
09-02-2021||National||PM Modi expresses concern over increasing violence in Afghanistan||In a message of solidarity with Afghan people, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said "no external power" can stop the development of Afghanistan or its friendship with India and that both the neighbours want to see their region free from the "grave" threat of terrorism and extremism. He also expressed concern over increasing incidents of violence in Afghanistan including cowardly targeting of innocent citizens, journalists and activists, and noted that India supports a comprehensive ceasefire to end the hostilities. Modi was speaking at a virtual meeting with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani which was organised to sign a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the construction of the Lalandar dam by India in Afghanistan that would help in meeting the drinking water requirement of Kabul city. "I want to assure every Afghan brother and sister, from Badakhshan to Nimroz and Herat to Kandahar that India stands with you. At every step of your journey of patience, courage and determination, India will be with you," Modi said. In his remarks, Ghani said peace in Afghanistan is within the grasp if parties and their backers in the Taliban embrace a true political solution, seen as a clear reference to Pakistan. The Afghan President said terrorism must be seen as a "full eco-system" and not as isolated groups or individuals, noting that the "destructive forces" are threatening the future of the region. Modi said strengthening internal unity among Afghan people is very important and exuded confidence that a united Afghanistan will be able to face any challenge. "No external power can stop the development of Afghanistan, or the India-Afghanistan friendship," he said. India has been a major stakeholder in Afghanistan and it has extended developmental assistance to tune of around USD 3 billion in the last few years to the country. "We are concerned about the increasing violence in Afghanistan. Innocent citizens, journalists and activists are being cowardly targeted. We have called for an immediate end to the violence, and we immediately support a comprehensive ceasefire," Modi said. "Violence is a retaliation for peace, and the two cannot go together. As a close neighbour and strong strategic partner, both India and Afghanistan want to see their region free from the grave crisis of terrorism and extremism," he said.   The prime minister noted that India has been supportive of a peace process that is led, owned and controlled by Afghanistan. "In the success of Afghanistan, we see the success of India and its entire region," Modi said. In his brief address at the meeting, Ghani said all stakeholders must be asked to respect "rules of sovereignty'' and stop giving "sanctuaries" and interfering in the affairs of their neighbours, in an apparent reference to Pakistan. "Peace in Afghanistan is within grasp if parties and their backers in the Taliban embrace a true political solution. But Afghan people will not submit or surrender. It must be understood that our security forces are not defeated," he said. The Afghan president also cautioned that if his country plunges into uncertainty, then the consequences for the region and the world will be "dire". Describing India as a true partner, Ghani thanked it for "gift of water" and said the Shatoot dam will inject sufficient water into Kabul river. He said India's assistance provided the foundation of Afghanistan's democratic stability and prosperity. "India's assistance is iconically marked on our landscapes from the Salma dam to the transmission lines to the parliament of Afghanistan, the symbol of our democracy," he said. "We would like to thank (Rabindranath) Tagore again for having given the Indian people the image of Kabuliwala and today on behalf of Kabuliwalas, I would like to say thank you to you," he told Modi. The Lalandar dam, popularly known as Shatoot is a part of India's new development assistance for Afghanistan. "The Lalandar dam would meet the safe drinking water needs of Kabul City, provide irrigation water to nearby areas, rehabilitate the existing irrigation and drainage network, aid in flood protection and management efforts in the area, and also provide electricity to the region," the Ministry of External Affairs said. It is the second major dam being built by India in Afghanistan after the Salma Dam, which was inaugurated by Modi in June 2016. "Signing of the MoU on Lalandar (Shatoot) dam is a reflection of India's strong and long-term commitment towards the socio-economic development of Afghanistan and the enduring partnership between our two countries," the MEA said. It said India has completed more than 400 projects covering all 34 provinces of Afghanistan so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-expresses-concern-over-increasing-violence-in-afghanistan-949374.html
09-02-2021||National||ED raids news portal premises in Delhi, Oppn says Modi govt's mantra is subjugate, suppress and stifle||The ED action came under severe criticism from Congress which said "subjugate, suppress and stifle is the only mantra of the Modi government as proved by" the searches. ED officials claimed that the action was undertaken to collect additional information to probe money laundering charges against the news company and its promoters. The places searched include its owner Prabir Purkayastha and editor Pranjal. The organisation's office in Delhi’s Saidulajab was also raided. Pranjal said in a statement earlier, "there is a search going on since morning, also at some of our houses. We are cooperating and will continue to cooperate. They are searching through the documents and have given us a notice." CPI(M) Polit Bureau member Subhashini Ali tweeted that the searches were the result of "fearless" journalism. "The popularity of the news click has increased greatly as a result of the tremendous coverage of the peasant movement," she said. CPI(ML) Polit Bureau member Kavita Krishnan said that Modi and Shah continue to "muzzle independent small media, that unlike Big Modia, insists on reporting on the  Andolans - people's movements - of our country...Shame!" Senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan tweeted, "shockingly malafide! An attempt by the government to muzzle independent alternative media. And by an ED whose Director has been given illegal retrospective extension."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-raids-news-portal-premises-in-delhi-oppn-says-modi-govts-mantra-is-subjugate-suppress-and-stifle-949376.html
09-02-2021||National||Pioneering paws: Indian Army uses dogs to detect Covid-19 to cut time delay||In a first for the country, the Indian Army is using its dogs for quick detection of Covid-19 to cut downtime delays associated with regular diagnostic techniques. The canine members of the armed force are known for their pronounced olfactory capability and have earlier helped in explosive and narcotics detection, search and rescue operations, and other challenging tasks. Now, they have another job. Two dogs – two-year-old cocker spaniel Casper and one-year-old Jaya, a 'chippiparai', which is an indigenous breed from Tamil Nadu – have been trained to detect Covid-19 by sniffing samples of sweat and urine, senior Army officials said. A demonstration of their skills using real samples was held on Tuesday on the premises of the 48 Military Veterinary Hospital at Delhi Cantonment. Their handlers were wearing full PPE kits. Lt Col Surinder Saini, an instructor at the Dog Training Facility of the Remount Veterinary Corps (RVC) Centre in Meerut, said these dogs are "pioneering canines" of not just the Army, but of entire India. "Countries like the UK, Finland, France, Russia, Germany, Lebanon, the UAE and the US have already trained dogs for detection of Covid-19. Dogs have been previously used abroad to detect malaria, diabetes and Parkinson's disease, but this is the first time canines have been used for medical detection in India," he told reporters. To a question on where the dogs are being deployed, Saini said that after their training in September, the dogs were deployed at the Army's transit camp in Delhi in November. From December, they are being deployed at the transit camp in Chandigarh from where troops move to large areas, including the Ladakh region, under the North Command. "Army dogs were successfully trained on specific biomarkers emanating from urine and sweat samples of positive patients. These samples do not contain living virus, but only volatile metabolic biomarkers, which the dogs have been trained to detect. Prior to bringing in front of them, to avoid any surface contact transmission to people handling the dogs, the samples are first exposed to UV rays," Saini said. "This is the first time in India that the olfactory capability of canines are being used to detect tissues infected with pathogens releasing volatile metabolic biomarkers," he added. The Indian Army has around 1,200 dogs, out of which nearly 700 are deployed, a senior official said. "Besides these two dogs, eight other dogs, including four labradors, are also undergoing training," Saini said. One-year-old Mani, another chippiparai dog undergoing training, also showed his skills during the demonstration. Mani is the elder brother of Jaya. "The use of such canines in detection of Covid-19 can assist in quick and real time detection of the disease, and help in cutting down scale of RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests, both of which take time. And, in Army, time is of the essence. Besides, these dogs can be used at live events to screen people," the instructor said. Saini said the dogs have sniffed out 22 positive cases of Covid-19 from 800 samples at the Delhi transit camp and nearly 3,000 samples at the Chandigarh transit camp. "Their response time after detection is one second or even less, and accuracy rate is over 90 per cent," he said. The dogs have been trained to sit next to a sample kept in a container if it is positive for the disease and move forward after sniffing if it is negative, he added. Positive and suspected samples were obtained from the Military Hospital, Meerut Cantonment, and the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Subharti Medical College, Meerut, for the purpose of the training, officials said. "The sensitivity and specificity of both the dogs obtained from screening of 279 urine and 267 sweat samples during the initial trial procedure was found to be very high," a senior official said. Scientifically, it is evident that infected body tissues release "unique volatile metabolic biomarkers", which are used as disease signatures for detection of disease by medical detection dogs, he said. A concerted effort has been made to train an indigenous breed of dog under the prime minister's initiative of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' besides a cocker spaniel to detect the "volatilome of Covid-19 disease from urine and sweat samples of positive cases by comparatory method", the official said. These dogs are constantly monitored by their handlers, and their body temperature is recorded in the morning and the evening, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pioneering-paws-indian-army-uses-dogs-to-detect-covid-19-to-cut-time-delay-949377.html
09-02-2021||National||Man gets death penalty for raping, murdering five-year-old girl||A court here on Tuesday awarded death penalty to a 23-year-old man for raping and murdering a five-year-old girl in December 2017. Judge B Suresh Babu of the Metropolitan Sessions Judge (MSJ) Court found Dinesh Kumar Dharne, a labourer, guilty under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSOAct), IPC section 302 (murder) and other provisions, police said. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 1,000, a release from Cyberabad Police Commissionerate said. According to the prosecution, on December 12, 2017, he lured the girl from a shop on the guise of providing chocolate. She was taken to nearby bushes where he raped her and murdered her by hitting her head with a boulder. When he returned to the labour camp the girl's mother asked him about her daughter. But, he replied that he had dropped her at the camp some time ago and she might be playing somewhere. The girl's family members (a native of Odisha State) were working as labourers and used to stay at a labour camp in Narsingi Police Station limits here. The woman later filed a complaint with the police against the man. The accused, a native of Madhya Pradesh, was subsequently arrested and remanded to judicial custody. Police said after committing the offence, he joined the crowd at the labour camp and acted as a spectator when the parents were searching for their daughter. Police raided his room and on interrogation, he confessed to having committed the offence, the release said. Key witnesses were examined and the charge sheet was filed and steps were taken to conduct a speedy trial. However, the accused absconded after obtaining bail and went into hiding in Madhya Pradesh and the trial was interrupted for a brief period. Special Teams were formed to trace him and he was arrested. The Court directed authorities to keep the accused in judicial custody till the trial was completed. The Telangana Police till now has successfully got seven death penalties awarded by courts pertaining to different cases of rape and murder of girls and a woman besides murder of nine people in Warangal district, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-gets-death-penalty-for-raping-murdering-five-year-old-girl-949380.html
09-02-2021||National||6.76 lakh people renounced Indian citizenship since 2015: MHA||Over 6.76 lakh people have renounced Indian citizenship in five years since 2015 while another 1.24 crore Indians are living in foreign countries, the Ministry of Home Affairs informed Lok Sabha on Tuesday. This was disclosed in a written reply by Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai to questions raised by Congress MP Karti Chidambaram. According to official figures, 6,76,074 people gave up Indian citizenship between 2015 and 2019. The highest number was in 2016 when 1,44,942 renounced citizenship followed by 1,41,656 in 2015. It decreased further in 2017 and 2018 when 1,27,905 and 1,25,130 such cases were reported. However in 2019, the number increased again to touch 1,36,441. To a question on the number of Indians currently living in foreign countries, Rai said 1,24,99,395 Indian nationals are living in foreign countries as per the information available with the Ministry of External Affairs. Rai also said the Government was not considering any proposal for providing dual citizenship. When asked about whether there has been an increase in the number of people seeking Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) cards, Rai said 36,99,476 people have been granted OCI cards between 2005 and 2020. *No of Indians who gave up Indian citizenship and took citizenship of other countries2015 -- 1,41,6562016 -- 1,44,9422017 -- 1,27,9052018 -- 1,25,1302019 -- 1,36,441Total -- 6,76,074 *1,24,99,395 Indian nationals are living in foreign countries *No. of Foreigners Registered as Overseas Indian Citizens (OCI) Cardholders2015 3,16,3312016 4,03,9002017 4,05,5222018 3,39,5132019 3,29,3522020 1,91,609Total (from 2005) -- 36,99,476||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/676-lakh-people-renounced-indian-citizenship-since-2015-mha-949382.html
09-02-2021||National||India sees improvement in online civility score in 2020: Microsoft study||Fewer people in India experienced negative online interactions or encountered online risks in 2020 compared to the previous year, even though the risk of hate speech grew during the year, according to a report by Microsoft. Microsoft's annual study 'Civility, Safety, and Interactions Online 2020' along with findings from its 2020 Digital Civility Index (DCI) indicated that India's score in online civility has improved to 68 in 2020 from 71 in 2019. Lower scores indicate more civility online. This indicates that fewer people are experiencing negative online interactions or encountering online risks, it added. "A few risks remain high for India's online users — especially hate speech, which has doubled from 2016 to 26 per cent. There has also been a 5 per cent increase in hoaxes, scams, and frauds since 2017 to 22 per cent, and 6 per cent increase in discrimination since 2016 to 16 per cent," it said. Countries with the best DCI score included the UK, the Netherlands, Germany, Malaysia and the US. The countries with the worst scores include Vietnam, Russia, Colombia, Peru and South Africa. The latest instalment of the DCI survey, which has been conducted annually for the past five years, surveyed around 16,000 respondents in 32 geographies. The research polled adults and teenagers about their interactions online and experiences of online risks. This year's research included nine Asia Pacific geographies: Australia, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, and Vietnam. "Microsoft's annual study on digital civility is crucial for raising awareness and encouraging positive online interactions. "Our societies are relying on and embracing digital technologies more than ever before and a safer internet will improve experiences and shape the well-being of our communities," Microsoft India Group Head and General Counsel Keshav Dhakad said. According to the report, most common risks included unwanted contact, hate speech, trolling, mean treatment and unwanted sexting. Topics that drove the most incivility included sexual orientation (40 per cent), religion (39 per cent) and politics (37 per cent), physical appearance (31 per cent) and gender identity (29 per cent). Also, social media sites are most common online space for risks, it added. The report said the five most "painful online risks" were damage to professional reputation, unwanted sexting, online harassment, damage to personal reputation and misogyny. As per the report, teenagers (aged 13-16) in India were found to be positive drivers for improvement in DCI performance, and scored 67 in the measure of online civility, as opposed to adults at 69. Additionally, 38 per cent of respondents in India said online civility was better during the pandemic, attributed to witnessing more people help others and a greater sense of community. However, 22 per cent said online civility was worse due to greater spread of false and misleading information and more personal attacks or negative comments. "It's heartening to see our next generation take the lead in driving positive interactions online, and to witness digital citizens come together to uplift online communities during the pandemic. "Nonetheless, threats such as hate speech, together with other uncivil behaviours, continue to pervade society, requiring us all to take positive action," Dhakad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-improvement-in-online-civility-score-in-2020-microsoft-study-949385.html
09-02-2021||National||SC seeks Centre's reply on transfering plea against minority status to 5 communities||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Centre on a plea to transfer pending cases, related to the definition of minorities, from several high courts to the top court. The pending matters challenged the Centre’s notification to declare five communities — Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists and Parsees — as minorities. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde and comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notices to Ministry of Minority Affairs, Ministry of Law and Justice and Ministry of Home Affairs, on the petition filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. Senior advocate C S Vaidyanathan appeared for Upadhyay. He sought transfer of all cases from high courts to the top court in order to decide the issue.   The high courts at Delhi, Meghalaya and Guwahati are already seized of the petitions challenging the constitutional validity of section 2(c) of the National Commission for Minorities Act, 1992. In October 1993, the notification was issued under this Act, which declared the five communities as minorities across the country. The transfer plea filed by advocate Ashwini Upadhyay argued as a result of this notification, majority population of Sikhs in Punjab and Muslims in Jammu and Kashmir have received benefits, which were originally meant for minorities||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centres-reply-on-transfering-plea-against-minority-status-to-5-communities-949387.html
09-02-2021||National||SC dismisses plea over sedition law as ultra vires of Constitution||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to consider a PIL for declaring penal provision of sedition as ultra vires of the Constitution, due to its chilling effect on freedom of speech and expression. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde rejected a plea filed jointly by three advocates Aditya Ranjan, Varun Thakur and V Elanchezhiyan. The court said the petitioners were not affected party, they should approach when cause of action arose. The petitioners claimed that they were aggrieved of the blatant misuse of Section 124-A of the IPC and its chilling effect on freedom of speech and expression on the constitutional democracy. They said the Supreme Court in Kedar Nath Singh versus State of Bihar (1962) upheld validity of the provision by reading it down. However, six decades of experience showed that the judgement required reconsideration in the light to recent spate of incidents of sedition charges against those speaking out against the government of the day. "It is essential to test the constitutionality of Section 124-A of the IPC on the touchstone of law developed in last six decades," their plea said adding several freedom fighters including Mahatma Gandhi and Lokmanya Tilak were subjected to this draconian law as constitutional principles were not available before 1950.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-over-sedition-law-as-ultra-vires-of-constitution-949388.html
09-02-2021||National||Hours after Amit Shah’s visit to Sindhudurg, Shiv Sena jolts BJP||Hours after Union Home Minister Amit Shah visited Sindhudurg in coastal Konkan region of Maharashtra, the Shiv Sena delivered a rude shock to its former ally when seven councillors of the BJP walked to its camp. The development has not gone down well with BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP and Konkan strongmen Narayan Rane, the bête noire of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The seven councillors are from Nagar Panchayat of Vaibhavwadi - which falls in Kankavli, from where Rane’s son Nitesh Rane is a BJP MLA. Rane Jr acknowledged the development in a sarcastic Valentine's Day message to Thackeray. “Dear Uddhavji, Happy Valentine's Day... Shiv Sena is our old love… It’s said that you should never forget your old flame… Our ideal was always the late HinduHridaySamrat Balasaheb Thackeray… We respected him yesterday, today and will do so even in future…,” he said. In a jibe, he said: “...in order to ensure that the Shiv Sena of Balasaheb Thackeray should not fall apart, the BJP was sending these seven councillors... moreover, the chief minister had very promptly cleared the files of our medical college ... We are not in a position to give him anything, but we are giving these seven councillors which we humbly request him to accept.” It needs to be mentioned that Shah inaugurated the Lifetime Hospital’s Medical College on Sunday, when he had launched a scathing attack on Thackeray and Shiv Sena for parting ways with BJP and joining hands with the Congress-NCP to form the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Last week, Mumbai BJP vice-president and former Congress MLA Krishna Hegde and a BJP ex-MLA Hemendra Mehta, followed by two former municipal corporators in Mumbai, Sameer Desai and Priscilla Kadam, other senior leaders like Anil Kadam, Vivek Gholap, all quit the BJP to join the Sena.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hours-after-amit-shah-s-visit-to-sindhudurg-shiv-sena-jolts-bjp-949390.html
09-02-2021||National||Delhi Police acted swiftly, in impartial manner during northeast Delhi riots: Govt to Lok Sabha||The Delhi Police had acted swiftly and in an impartial and fair manner while dealing with the 2020 northeast Delhi riots, Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy also said that proportionate and appropriate actions were taken by the Delhi Police to control the situation. "During the northeast Delhi riots, Delhi Police acted swiftly in an impartial and fair manner. Proportionate and appropriate actions were taken by Delhi Police to control the situation," he said replying a written question. "Sincere, dedicated and incessant efforts made by Delhi Police brought the riotous situation to normalcy within a short span of time and also prevented the riots from spreading across to other areas of Delhi and NCR," he added. Reddy said the police used appropriate force to control the crowd and disperse it and necessary legal and preventive actions were taken by Delhi Police on all complaints and calls received, as per law and procedures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-acted-swiftly-in-impartial-manner-during-northeast-delhi-riots-govt-to-lok-sabha-949395.html
09-02-2021||National||SC protects AAP MP Sanjay Singh in hate speech case in UP||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted protection from arrest to Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh in a case where summons were issued against him by an Uttar Pradesh court for his alleged hate speech made in August last year. However, the court told him, "You are an MP so you should be careful in what you are speaking". It also said that he cannot divide people based on caste and religion lines. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy also issued notice to the Uttar Pradesh government on his writ petition for clubbing of multiple FIRs.  Singh approached the top court for quashing the summons and clubbing of a number of FIRs lodged against him in various districts of Uttar Pradesh after his press conference in August last year, where he claimed that the people of the state feel "a specific caste is running the government". Senior Advocate Vivek Tankha, appearing for the MP, contended these are identical FIRs in 14 places. "These are due to speeches, I am a political person," he said. He submitted that since the petitioner is a Rajya Sabha member, sanction for prosecution should have been given by Rajya Sabha chairman. The trial court issued summons against him taking cognisance of a charge sheet in the case lodged in police station Hazratganj at Lucknow, on the basis of sanction granted by the Governor under Section 196 of the Criminal Procedure Code. On this, the bench said, "You should also consider while giving your speech whatever you want to say, you can't divide people on their caste and religion." The bench also said that the UP government can approach Chairman of Rajya Sabha for sanction for prosecution. The court decided to consider the matter in the third week of March, saying that looking into the nature of the issue being raised, the matter needs to be decided finally on the next date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-protects-aap-mp-sanjay-singh-in-hate-speech-case-in-up-949396.html
09-02-2021||National||Rajya Sabha members bid farewell to retiring members||Rajya Sabha on Tuesday bid farewell to four retiring members of the Upper House with Deputy Chairman Harivansh heaping lavish praise on the leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, terming him a repository of rich experiences. The veteran Congress leader and Nazir Ahmed Laway (PDP) will retire on February 15 while the terms of Mir Mohammad Fayaz (PDP) and Shamsher Singh Manhas (BJP) will end on February 10. "It was my fortune that I got to sit next to Ghulam Nabi Azad in the House... He has connected the entire country with Jammu and Kashmir... I have not come across a person like him who has such rich experiences... Have learnt a lot from his guidance, decency, conduct...," Harivansh said. Azad's political stature is unparallel, he said and added that the Congress leader has risen to such a position in national politics from a block level worker in Kashmir. He appreciated him for the mammoth work in the health sector like National Urban Health Mission and setting up of medical colleges. Retirement from the house is only a temporary thing and not a break in his chosen path of serving the nation, Harivansh said. Azad said he is among those lucky people who never went Pakistan and feels proud to be a Hindustani Muslim. He spoke for almost 28 minutes, quoting several couplets and hoping for restoration of peace in Jammu & Kashmir and return of Kashmiri Pandits back to the valley. Fayaz in his speech said, "We work for this country. We have taken the flag of the country to villages. It hurts and saddens us when we are called anti-national by the media and others." He recalled his journey from Kupwara, near Pakistan border and from the municipal committee there to Rajya Sabha and said he worked for the mainstream and against separatist calls. He praised the government for the work in the areas of schemes like Ujjwala and appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, both of whom were present in the House, to "do justice to people to J&K" by restoring statehood and special status and thereby winning and strengthening their faith. In his speech, Manhas said: "I come from Kashmir, the mukat mani (crown jewel) of the country, and am sitting among others from the country. I have worked for this mukut mani and will work for it in the future too." He said he has visited all parts of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh and learnt a lot from Modi about conduct in public life.   Another retiring member Laway appealed for restoration of statehood besides rail connectivity. He remembered his party leader Mufti Mohammad Sayeed who sent him to this House and said he developed a relationship with all the members and people because he came to Rajya Sabha. He urged the prime minister and the home minister for human and other resources development work in Jammu & Kashmir saying they have to take care of the union territory because now there would no representation in the House from there. Satish Chandra Misra (BSP) said that the retiring members would "remain torch bearers for us in future and show us the way forward". He said that if his Congress wants to bid farewell to Azad then in that case people would bid farewell to the party not him. "It is not easy to lose Ghulam Nabi Azad," he added. Sanjay Raut (Shiv Sena) said he could not believe that Azad is retiring from Rajya Sabha. He suggested that since Azad has seen a long tenure from days of Indira Gandhi to Narendra Modi, he should write an autobiography titled "From Indira to Modi". He told the House that the Azad has very rich political experience which is very rare in politics. Addressing Azad, he said that you would never retire. Raut also said that there is no dearth of leaders in the Congress, but "Azad Sahib, there are few leaders whom people know across the country". He added he would not bid farewell to Azad but wait for him to come back again here in the House. Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale said the name may be Ghulam (slave) but all remained Azad (free). He said that Azad will always be remembered because "you are a large hearted person". He also said that Azad should be elected again to Rajya Sabha and if Congress does not want that then he and his party RPI would do that. He added that Rajya Sabha needed Azad back. Abdul Wahab (IUML) thanked Azad for the "wonderful leadership" in the House. Congress leader Anand Sharma said Azad has a very long and rich experience in various ministries and states. He also said that Azad is the only person in the party who remained general secretary of all states at different points of time including Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Haryana. Sharma termed Azad as very frank and hardworking. He said that Azad was always of the view that one should not get personal for ideology and there should not be bitterness on the basis of ideology. He also said that Azad has risen through the ranks and started from the bottom and reached top position by working hard unlike overnight rise of leaders of today. Sharma said Azad would play an important role in the elections of Jammu and Kashmir whenever they are held and would continue to provide his services to the nation. Sukhendu Sekhar Ray (TMC) lauded Azad's nature and hoped his party renominates him and brings him back in the House. A Navaneethakrishnan (AIADMK) said J Jayalalithaa had asked him to interact with Azad and other leaders and he learnt a lot from him. Prasanna Acharya (BJD) said Azad has the ability to befriend everybody in the shortest possible time. He added Kashmir is in his heart and mind and whenever he speaks about Jammu and Kashmir, his emotions come out. Tiruchi Siva (DMK) said today was one of the painful moments as he had to speak on the farewell of a member from the house. He said due to the concern of Azad, he has developed friendship with everyone. "The house will be lacklustre in the coming days," he said, hoping he returns to the House soon. K R Suresh Reddy (TRS) and Y Vijaisai Reddy (YSR-CP) recalled their association with Azad. Vijaisai Reddy wished that he may contribute his best to the country. Ram Gopal Yadav (SP) said Kashmir is beautiful and it is represented in the House by beautiful people. "Ghulam Nabi Azad acted as a bridge whenever there was a deadlock in the House. He is a very calm and polite person. I wonder who will fill the gap in the house. I wish he comes back to the house. This house will be poorer with Azads going. I hope he becomes chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir after its statehood is restored," he said. Ram Chandra Prasad Singh (JDU) said Azad has played a great role in this house and wished him good. Elamaram Kareem (CPI-M) said as leader of opposition, Azad tried to unite the opposition parties but also united them the ruling parties. "As leader of opposition, he gave us perfect view. He always was a role model for all members. He is not just a leader of the Congress party, but of the entire country. I saw him roar like a lion on August 5, 2019," he said, recalling the day when Article 370 was revoked in Jammu and Kashmir. Manoj Kumar Jha (RJD) and Satish Chandra Misra (BSP) wished Azad good in the life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-members-bid-farewell-to-retiring-members-949405.html
09-02-2021||National||Aadhaar-driving licence linking to reduce RTO crowds: Official||The Centre's decision to link Aadhaar card with driving licence and vehicle registration certificate (RC) will considerably reduce crowds at Regional Transport Offices (RTOs) and make them free of agents and touts, a top Maharashtra government official has said. Transport Commissioner Avinash Dhakane, talking to reporters at his office here on Monday, said the Union government has issued a draft notification about linking driving licence and RC with Aadhaar, a unique 12-digit identity number assigned to residents of India. "The Government of India has already issued a draft notification for Aadhaar linkage. Once that happens and Vahan and Sarathi systems get linked with Aadhaar, crowds at RTOs will reduce to 20 per cent (from current level)," he said. Post-these changes, only a few people will have to visit RTOs for work related to driving licence and vehicle fitness, among others, the transport commissioner said. The Aadhaar linkage will eliminate the need for visiting RTOs and submitting documents, he said. Officials said the move will also curb forgery and end the menace of duplicate driving licences. According to Dhakane, at present the 50 RTOs spread across the state have footfalls of about 1.50 lakh daily. This number will go down below 40,000 or even more once Aadhaar card is linked with driving licence and RC, he said, adding the move will also make RTOs free of agents and touts. Many people prefer to get their work done through RTO agents and touts, who charge hefty amounts, leading to corruption and depriving citizens of better services, according to activists. In 2014-15, the then transport commissioner, Mahesh Zagade, had announced a ban on the entry of agents and touts inside RTO premises, but the change did not materialise on ground due to various reasons. Maharashtra has a vehicle population of nearly 3.5 crores and over 20 lakh new vehicles get registered annually. Also, the state has already issued over 3.5 crore permanent driving licences and around 10-15 lakh new ones are issued annually. According to transport department officials, recently they launched a provision of digital signature for obtaining learning licence, which has a validity of six months. People can authenticate their documents by digitally signing them. A senior official said the department has already received over 700 learning licence forms signed digitally since the start of this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aadhaar-driving-licence-linking-to-reduce-rto-crowds-official-949408.html
09-02-2021||National||Covid-19 in Delhi: No fresh death recorded after more than 10 months; 100 new cases||No fresh Covid-19 death was recorded in the national capital on Tuesday after a gap of over 10 months while 100 fresh cases were registered with Health Minister Satyendar Jain asserting that "Delhi's collective will is gradually winning over the infection". The cumulative death toll on Monday stood at 10,882, and the positivity rate dipped to 0.18 per cent on Tuesday. "Today no death has been reported due to COVID infection. Delhi's collective will is gradually winning over the infection. I congratulate the people of Delhi for taking proper precautions and our healthcare and frontline workers who have fought this battle tooth and nail," Jain tweeted. These 100 new cases came out of the 56,410 tests conducted the previous day. The positivity rate stood at 0.18 per cent, according to a bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The infection tally in the city rose to 6,36,260, authorities said. The active cases tally on Tuesday dropped to 1,052 from 1,096 the previous day, according to the bulletin. The total number of tests conducted the previous day, included 31,300 RT-PCR tests and 25,110 rapid antigen tests, it said. The city had recorded 96 coronavirus cases on January 27, the lowest in over nine months, and the first time the daily incidence count had stood below the 100-mark in that month. On Friday and Sunday, two deaths were reported in the national capital, same as on February 2, which was the lowest in the last 10 months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-in-delhi-no-fresh-death-recorded-after-more-than-10-months-100-new-cases-949412.html
09-02-2021||National||Indians advised against travelling to Saudi Arabia, Kuwait via UAE amidst growing coronavirus cases||India has asked its nationals not to travel to Saudi Arabia and Kuwait via the UAE and get stranded in this country, in view of the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the region. In a statement posted on Twitter on Monday, the Indian Embassy in Abu Dhabi said: "It has been brought to the attention of the Embassy of Indian in Abu Dhabi and the Consulate General of India, Dubai that several Indian nationals intending to travel to Saudi Arabia and Kuwait have got stranded in the UAE." "Due to COVID-related restrictions on incoming passengers, currently it is not possible for Indian nationals to transit via Dubai and Abu Dhabi to Saudi Arabia and Kuwait," the statement said. The UAE has recorded a slight uptick in its daily count of COVID-19 cases in the last one month, when the economy reopened. In total, the coronavirus has claimed 947 lives, along with 332,603 confirmed cases, in the UAE, according to Johns Hopkins University. Abu Dhabi and Dubai are major transit points for flyers from India travelling to other Gulf countries, even North Africa and Europe. The Indian embassy said: "All Indian nationals are, therefore, advised to kindly ascertain the latest COVID-related travel guidelines of their final destination country before embarking on an outward journey from India. They are also advised to carry enough personal provisions and funds to cater to any emergent requirements." Saudi Arabia suspended entry to the Kingdom for non-citizens from 20 specific countries, including India and Pakistan, as it stepped up efforts to combat the coronavirus pandemic, the official Saudi Press Agency reported last Tuesday, citing an official source at the Interior Ministry. Indians, who are already in the UAE en route to Saudi Arabia or Kuwait, have been advised to consider returning to India and to make their further travel plan only after the restrictions in the final destinations countries are lifted. It may be noted that Saudi Arabia and Kuwait have recorded more coronavirus-related deaths than the UAE, at 6,406 and 969 deaths respectively, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-advised-against-travelling-to-saudi-arabia-kuwait-via-uae-amidst-growing-coronavirus-cases-949413.html
09-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Actor Deep Sidhu sent to 7-day police custody over Republic Day violence||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Deep Sidhu sent to 7-day police custody; 197 people are missing while 20 people have died due to floods in Uttarakhand, Union Home Minister Amit Shah told Rajya Sabha and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said that she would not back down against the BJP.     Hi, you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here is the top news of February 9, 2021: ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- A Delhi court Tuesday sent actor-activist Deep Sidhu to 7-day police custody in connection with the Red Fort violence on the Republic Day during farmers' tractor parade against the Centre's three new agri laws. Sidhu's counsel claimed he had nothing to do with the violence and was at the wrong place at the wrong time.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- As many as 197 people are missing while 20 people have died due to floods in Uttarakhand, Union Home Minister Amit Shah told Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. In a separate tunnel in the NTPC project, it is estimated that around 25 to 35 people are stuck inside, he said, adding "rescue operation to evacuate these persons is going on a war footing and all-out efforts are simultaneously being made for search of missing people.”------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Challenging the BJP, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said that she would not back down against the saffron party and continue to live like a Royal Bengal Tiger. The feisty Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo made it clear that she would never implement the CAA and NRC in Bengal. Addressing a rally at Berhampore in Murshidabad district Mamata lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his claim that the state government employees are not getting salaries in Bengal and asked him to show one such employee. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Source: DHNS / PTI ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-actor-deep-sidhu-sent-to-7-day-police-custody-over-republic-day-violence-949420.html
09-02-2021||National||#MeToo: Delhi court verdict likely tomorrow in M J Akbar's defamation case against Priya Ramani||A Delhi court is likely to pronounce verdict on Wednesday in M J Akbar's criminal defamation case against journalist Priya Ramani for her allegations of sexual harassment against him. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar had on February 1 reserved the judgment after Akbar as well as Ramani completed their arguments. Ramani had made an allegation of sexual misconduct against Akbar in the wake of #MeToo movement in 2018. Akbar had filed the complaint against Ramani on October 15, 2018, for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct decades ago when he was a journalist. He resigned as Union minister on October 17, 2018.  He has denied all the allegations of sexual harassment by all the women who came forward during #MeToo campaign against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/metoo-delhi-court-verdict-likely-tomorrow-in-m-j-akbars-defamation-case-against-priya-ramani-949422.html
09-02-2021||National||US President Joe Biden stresses need to defend democratic norms to PM Modi over call||US President Joe Biden, who spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi three weeks after taking over the Oval Office at the White House, underscored "his desire to defend democratic institutions and norms around the world". Biden, during his phone call with Modi, also underlined that "a shared commitment to democratic values" was "the bedrock for the US-India relationship", according to a statement released by the White House early on Tuesday. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said in a separate statement that the two leaders noted that the India-US partnership was "firmly anchored in a shared commitment to democratic values". The stress on defending democratic norms in the White House readout is significant as it comes close on the heels of a US State Department statement that subtly criticised the way the Modi government dealt with the farmers' protests against the new agricultural laws. The US State Department noted that peaceful protests were the “hallmark of any thriving democracy”. It added that unhindered access to information, including the Internet, was fundamental to the freedom of expression. The statement was issued after local authorities shut down Internet access to farmers camping on the borders of Delhi. The powerful India Caucus of the US Congress too urged New Delhi to adhere to democratic norms and allow farmers to protest peacefully and to have access to the Internet. The co-chairs of the caucus, Brad Sherman and Steve Chabot, the Democrat and Republican members of the US House of Representatives, had a meeting with New Delhi’s envoy to Washington DC, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, last week. The Modi government had drawn flak from some US lawmakers over the detention of political leaders and activists, shutdowns and restrictions imposed in Jammu and Kashmir after the erstwhile state was reorganised into two Union Territories in August 2019. The US lawmakers also criticised the BJP government for the new Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and the process of updating the National Register of Citizens (NRC) in Assam. Ahead of the US presidential polls on November 3 last year, Biden too had argued in favour of asking New Delhi to restore the rights of the people of Kashmir. He had also expressed disappointment over NRC and CAA issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-president-joe-biden-stresses-need-to-defend-democratic-norms-to-pm-modi-over-call-949423.html
09-02-2021||National||Indian Army steps up rescue efforts in Uttarakhand, death toll mounts to 31||Army on Tuesday stepped up efforts to rescue 37 persons trapped in a tunnel of an NTPC hydel project here even as the death toll from the landslide triggered by a glacier burst rose to 31. Earth-movers, excavators have been working non-stop for the past since Sunday afternoon to reach out to 37 persons trapped in the 1.8 km arc-shaped tunnel of the 520 MW run-of-river power project being developed in Tapovan. “There is lot of slush inside the tunnel. We have deployed men and machines to clear the tunnel of the debris. Rescuers were also rappelling from the top of the tunnel to reach out to the trapped workers,” Major General Rajiv Chibber told reporters here. Rescue workers feared the worst as chances of finding anyone alive appeared bleak given the limited oxygen levels inside the tunnel which was swamped with the debris from the landslide on Sunday morning. “Our spirits are up as we were able to rescue 17 persons alive on Sunday. We will leave no stone unturned to reach out to those who are trapped,” Sher Singh Butola, Assistant Commandant of the First Battalion of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) told DH. Rescue workers DH spoke to at the site said there were restrictions on the use of earth-moving machines inside the tunnel as it grows narrow as one moves forward. There are chances of the earth-moving machines hitting the roof, which may lead to a collapse. “We are now deploying small excavators inside the tunnel,” one rescue worker said. The ITBP was among the first responders to the tragedy on Sunday with the teams from the Army, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) teams joining the rescue efforts soon after. Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat visited Lata in Chamoli district on Tuesday to meet the residents of the avalanche-hit villages. Rawat, who reached Tapovan on Monday evening to review rescue efforts, undertook an aerial survey of the affected areas on Tuesday and also met 12 workers who were rescued from the tunnel on Sunday evening. According to the State Emergency Operation Centre, the death toll has risen to 31 with the recovery of five bodies on Tuesday. At least 175 people were still missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-steps-up-rescue-efforts-in-uttarakhand-death-toll-mounts-to-31-949435.html
09-02-2021||National||Modi refrains from overtly supporting Biden's call for strengthening Quad||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has refrained from explicitly supporting American President Joe Biden’s call for strengthening the ‘Quad’, although the two leaders agreed to continue close India-US cooperation in Indo-Pacific. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also discussed with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken India-US cooperation in Indo-Pacific during a separate phone call. Modi and Biden spoke over the phone late on Monday – for the first time after the change of guard at the White House in Washington D.C. on January 20. They agreed to continue “close co-operation to promote a free and open Indo-Pacific, including support for freedom of navigation, territorial integrity, and a stronger regional architecture through the Quad,” according to a readout issued by the White House early Tuesday. The Biden Administration recently proposed to further elevate the ‘Quad’ with a virtual meeting of the leaders of the four nations. New Delhi is cautiously studying the proposal. A separate statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi quoted the Prime Minister and the US President reiterating “the importance of working with like-minded countries to ensure a rules-based international order and a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region”. Jaishankar, however, tweeted in the evening that he had reviewed with his US counterpart Blinken the developments in Indo-Pacific and cooperation within the framework of ‘Quad’ The White House statement noted that the Prime Minister and the US President further resolved that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld in Myanmar, where the military of late taken over power questioning the legitimacy of the recent re-election of Aung San Suu Kyi’s National League of Democracy (NLD) to power. The MEA statement had no reference to any discussion between the two leaders over the military coup in the South East Asian nation. Modi and Biden, however, discussed at length the “regional developments and the wider geopolitical context”, the MEA stated, subtly indicating that the Prime Minister and the US President had exchanged views on growing belligerence of China, not only along its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India but also in the disputed waters of the South China Sea, East China Sea, Taiwan Strait and elsewhere in the Indo-Pacific. They noted that the India-US partnership was “firmly anchored” in “common strategic interests”. The senior diplomats of the four nations had several meetings ever since the quad was re-launched. It was elevated to the level of Foreign Ministers in September 2019. The second ministerial meeting of the four-nation coalition took place in Tokyo on October 6 last year. They noted that the India-US partnership was “firmly anchored” in “common strategic interests”. The senior diplomats of the four nations had several meetings ever since the quad was re-launched. It was elevated to the level of Foreign Ministers in September 2019. The second ministerial meeting of the four-nation coalition took place in Tokyo on October 6 last year. But the Trump Administration’s move to formalize and expand the ‘Quad’ and turn it into a NATO-like bloc for the Indo-Pacific region did not succeed, as New Delhi was in favour of moving cautiously and was hesitant to join a security architecture that would appear to be overtly adversarial to China. Australia and Japan too were not yet ready to go the whole hog and overtly gang up with the US against China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-refrains-from-overtly-supporting-bidens-call-for-strengthening-quad-949440.html
09-02-2021||National||Road accident scenario 'more serious' in India than Covid-19 with 415 deaths daily: Gadkari||Terming the road accidents scenario in India "much serious than COVID-19 pandemic", Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday said more than 40,000 kms of highways have been brought under safety audit to check deficiencies causing accidents. It is a sordid state of affairs that Indian roads witness 415 deaths per day in accidents, the highest in the world, and losses amount to 3.14 per cent of the GDP, Road Transport and Highways Minister Gadkari said. India accounts for the highest road accidents globally, with 1.5 lakh people being killed and more 3.5 lakh crippled annually. "Seventy per cent deaths are in the working age group of 18 to 45 years old. There are 415 deaths per day in road accidents in India. I would say this scenario is very much serious than COVID-19 pandemic and it is becoming an alarming situation for us year on year. "Unfortunately we stand at position 1 in the road accidents in the world, ahead of US and China. Being transport minister, I am sensible and serious for the subject," Gadkari said. He was speaking after inaugurating a webinar series by road safety body IRF's India chapter on 'Road safety challenges in India and Preparation of an Action plan'. Stating that road safety audit during different stages of development appears to be the most suitable way to correct all deficiencies causing accidents, the minister said more than 40,000 kms of highways have been brought under auditing. "The road safety institutes like IRF along with engineering colleges and IITs can help the government in road safety audits. Each engineering college can be given about 300-500 km of road stretch for road safety audit with some financial aid. Third-party road safety audits will help in finding engineering faults and correcting them," he said. Underlining that 'prevention is always better than cure', the minister lashed out at people behind faulty detailed project reports (DPRs) and sought collaboration from the International Road Federation (IRF) and other bodies for vetting these in a fortnight's time. "Many of DPRs are in very bad shape with lots of technical deficiencies which create further black spots (accident spots). DPR should be proof-checked and revised by competent authorities, third-party agencies, and educational institutions before implementation," Gadkari said. The government has proposed a State Support Programme to incentivise the states with Rs 14,000 crore funds, out of which Rs 7,000 crore would be from the Asian Development Bank and World Bank and the balance Rs 7,000 crore from the Centre to improve road safety, he said. Wondering why other states were lagging on the road safety front when Tamil Nadu could reduce road accidents by 38 per cent and deaths by 54 per cent, the minister urged states to replicate the Tamil Nadu model. He also stressed the need for qualitative, comprehensive and uniform accident data collection and recording. "In India, 78 per cent of road accident deaths are of two-wheeler riders, bicyclists and pedestrians. Protection and safety of these vulnerable road user group is the foremost priority of the Centre," he said. The minister sought the co-operation of all stakeholders to reduce road accident deaths by 50 per cent by 2025 and exuded confidence of achieving it. The minister also stressed the need for developing digital technologies, drones and app-based platforms and said over 60 per cent of the accidents occur at the road junctions, which clearly indicates that there are deficiencies in their design and construction. "Can we find alternate solution for junctions by redesigning them into roundabouts/rotaries, grade separators, flyovers or channelised diversions," he said, and added the ministry is working on more than 5,000 black spots identified on the highway network. Gadkari further said the chairman of the National Road Safety Council will be announced soon as this body will be responsible for collecting accident data and suggesting measures to further reduce road accidents. Stressing that 70 per cent of accident deaths In India are due to over-speeding, the minister said fitness check of all vehicles has been mandated through Automated Vehicle Inspection and Certification (I&C) centres. "Government has recently announced scrapping policy to deal with old, unfit vehicles and their safety concern. It is expected that more than 1 crore such vehicles would be removed," he said. The government plans to shift vehicles to alternate fuel and energy sources like ethanol, methanol, Bio-CNG, LNG, and electricity to reduce dependence on fossil fuels. K K Kapila, President Emeritus, IRF, said, "After the non-realisation of the target of UN Decade of Action for Road Safety (2011-2020), the Global Community had decided on 12 Voluntary Targets to be realised for Road Safety by all countries. The First Target identified by the Global Community is ... reducing the road fatalities to half by 2030 aligned to the Sustainable Development Goals." For implementing and enforcing the Motor Vehicle Act 2019 in sincerity, the government should remove the human interface from enforcement and extensively use Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) technologies to capture traffic violations, Kapila added. Others present in the webinar included Luciana Iorio, Chair - UNECE Road Safety Committee; Bill Halkias, President, IRF Geneva; and T K Amla, Secretary, IRF India, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/road-accident-scenario-more-serious-in-india-than-covid-19-with-415-deaths-daily-gadkari-949441.html
09-02-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi demands sacking of V K Singh over purported remarks on LAC||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday demanded that Union minister V K Singh be sacked for his purported remarks on transgressions at the Line of Actual Control, and said not removing him would amount to insult of Indian soldiers. "Why is a BJP minister helping China make a case against India? He should’ve been sacked. Not sacking him means insulting every Indian Jawan," he said on Twitter. Gandhi tagged a news report in which Union minister Singh is reported to have said that India has transgressed the Line of Actual Control (LAC) more often than the Chinese side based on perceptions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-demands-sacking-of-v-k-singh-over-purported-remarks-on-lac-949443.html
09-02-2021||National||Trying to prepare scoping paper to quickly start FTA review with Japan, ASEAN: Goyal||The Commerce and Industry Ministry is trying to prepare a roadmap and a scoping paper to quickly start review of respective free trade agreements with Japan and ASEAN, Union minister Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday. The Commerce and Industry Minister said that review of a free trade pact with Korea is underway. "With Japan and other ASEAN (Association of South East Asian Nations) countries, we are trying to prepare the roadmap and scoping paper so that we can start the reviews quickly," he told reporters here. When asked about the proposed mini trade deal with the US, Goyal said "we have" to wait for the new USTR (United States Trade Representative) to come in and they have to hear from the new administration about the deal. "We also have certain thoughts about it. It's only after we engaged with the new US administration, that we can comment on that," he said. The two countries are negotiating a trade package to iron out certain issues and promote two-way commerce. "We believe that India has comparative advantages to look at greater engagement with developed countries like the US, the UK and the EU. The US just had a change in the administration and we are waiting for the new USTR to be confirmed. "Once the new USTR is in office, we will start a dialogue with them to look at how we can expand our business and international engagement with them both on market access, and tariffs...," he added. About a proposal submitted by India and South Africa for relaxing certain provisions in intellectual property (IP) agreement of the WTO (World Trade Organisation) with a view to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, the minister said about 100 countries have already supported the proposal and there is some resistance from the developed world. "We are working along with other countries to try and come to a common position," he said. India and South Africa have submitted a proposal suggesting a waiver for all WTO members on the implementation, application and enforcement of certain provisions of the TRIPS Agreement in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of COVID-19. The Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights or TRIPS Agreement came into effect in January 1995. It is a multilateral agreement on intellectual property rights such as copyright, industrial designs, patents and protection of undisclosed information or trade secrets. The minister also hoped that the WTO would quickly put in place the appellate body of the dispute settlement system and the benefits of S&DT (special and differential treatment) will continue for perpetuity or for a longer period of time. The S&DT allows developing countries to enjoy certain benefits including taking longer time periods for implementing agreements and binding commitments, and measures to increase trading opportunities for them. He hoped that various negotiations that are going on a plurilateral basis move to multi-lateral negotiations such as on e-commerce. About the ongoing talks on fishery subsidy, Goyal said these subsidies should be based on "polluter pays" principle so that developing world like India has a policy space and "we can continue to give support at least proportional to the support that the developed world is giving, for a significant period of time". On the country's exports, he expressed hope that economic activities in the developed world will pick up quickly and the country will continue to record positive growth in exports. He added that the ministry is planning to roll out the next foreign trade policy on April 1. On FDI, he said there are no plans to relax norms in the multi-brand retail sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trying-to-prepare-scoping-paper-to-quickly-start-fta-review-with-japan-asean-goyal-949444.html
09-02-2021||National||On Shah's 'openness' jibe, Sena reminds of Fadnavis' early morning swearing-in||Days after Union Home Minister Amit Shah said he does not make promises behind closed doors, the Shiv Sena on Tuesday said it too does things openly and does not resort to stealth. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' asked whether BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis's early morning swearing-in as chief minister after the 2019 state polls was an example of openness that Shah spoke about. On Sunday, Shah said he had not promised (as later claimed by the Uddhav Thackeray-led party) that the BJP will share the chief minister's post if the Sena-BJP alliance won the 2019 polls. The two parties parted ways over this issue. During the event at Kankavali in Konkan region, Shah also said "whatever I do, I do it openly". "The Shiv Sena too does what it does openly. It would not have formed a government with the Congress and NCP had that not been the case," the Saamana said. BJP leaders were making such statements due to the "frustration" over the failure to retain power in Maharashtra, it added. It further asked how Fadnavis taking oath as CM at dawn with NCP's Ajit Pawar as his deputy at Raj Bhavan in 2019 could be described as `doing things openly'. In an unexpected development, Fadnavis had taken oath as CM after alliance talks with the Sena broke down. But he had to resign as Pawar could not muster enough MLAs from the NCP. The Sena mouthpiece also said the country was facing serious problems including farmers' protest on Delhi borders, and the Union home minister should pay attention to these issues. Displaced Kashmiri Pandits have not yet returned to Kashmir despite the abrogation of Article 370, the editorial said. On Shah's statement that the Shiv Sena would have ceased to exist had the BJP taken on it, the editorial retorted that it was the Sena which finished off those who tried to finish it. The BJP would not have seen its present-day success if the Sena had taken on it, it said. Thanks to the BJP `not keeping its word' about sharing the CM's post, the Sena is now seeing "achche din" (good days), it said in another dig at the former ally. "And for that, the people of Maharashtra will forever be indebted to Amit Shah," it quipped. Efforts were made and are being made to destabilize the Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra but those efforts will fail, it said. The editorial also took swipes at governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari without naming him. The state government in November recommended 12 names for appointment to the Legislative Council from the governor's quota but the decision on them was pending, it said. Those who think that not taking a decision will rattle the government are living under illusion, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/on-shahs-openness-jibe-sena-reminds-of-fadnavis-early-morning-swearing-in-949446.html
09-02-2021||National||65.28 lakh heathcare, frontline workers received Covid-19 vaccine doses till now||The number of healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated against Covid-19 has reached 65.28 lakh on day 25 of the nationwide inoculation drive, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. All states and Union Territories, except Uttar Pradesh, reported vaccination activity on Tuesday. The cumulative number of healthcare workers and frontline workers vaccinated against Covid-19 till Tuesday 6:30 pm is 65,28,210, according to a provisional report, the ministry said. Of these, 55,85,043 are healthcare workers and 9,43,167 frontline workers. A total 1,34,616 vaccination sessions have been held so far. On Tuesday till 6.30 pm, 7,860 sessions were held. "A total of 2,69,202 beneficiaries were vaccinated till 6:30 pm on Tuesday. Of these, 1,02,941 were healthcare workers, while 1,66,261 beneficiaries were frontline workers," the health ministry said, adding the final report would be completed by late in the night. Twenty-five case of adverse effect following immunisation have been reported till 6:30 pm on the 25th day of the vaccination drive. The health ministry said India is the fastest country to reach 60 lakh vaccinations, achieving it in just 24 days. Of the 65,28,210 beneficiaries who have been vaccinated, 4,02,081 are from Bihar, 3,21,189 from Kerala, 4,39,543 from Karnataka, 3,80,112 from Madhya Pradesh, 5,33,480 from Maharashtra, 1,26,353 from Delhi, 5,61,499 from Gujarat, 6,73,542 from Uttar Pradesh and 3,98,319 from West Bengal, according to the provisional report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6528-lakh-heathcare-frontline-workers-received-covid-19-vaccine-doses-till-now-949447.html
09-02-2021||National||Sunny Leone moves Kerala HC seeking anticipatory bail||Bollywood actor Sunny Leone on Tuesday moved the Kerala High court seeking anticipatory bail in a cheating complaint filed by an event management firm which alleged she had failed to appear for theirValentine Day event here in 2019 after accepting payment of around Rs 29 lakh. The petition is likely to come up on Wednesday. The petitioners-- Leone alias Karenjt Kaur Vohra along with her husband Daniel Weber, and another person-- submitted they were innocent, ready to cooperate with the investigation and no manner of criminality can be attributed against them. It was also submitted that"if arrested and remanded, it will cause irreparableloss and injury" to them. Leone, who was questioned by Kochi crime branch officials on February 3 at Thiruvananthapuram, said it was only then she realised that an FIR had been registered against them undervarious sections of IPC including 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) . They submitted they have fully cooperated with the officers and apprised them of the facts and circumstances, handed over documents substantiatingthe transactions that transpired between them and the complainant. It was also submitted that the complainant, Shiyas, had demanded Rs two crore as compensation from them, tried to "exploit and cheat the petitioners by compelling them to participatein shows prepared by him without paying the agreed consideration". While the event management organisers maintained that the former 'Big Boss' contestant had not turned up for their function, Leone said she had come twice and the event was not held. Though the function had to be postponed several times, it was finally scheduled to be held at Adlux International Convention Centre at Angamally near Kochi. The'Ragini MMS 2' star reportedly stated that the programme had been rescheduled several times by the organisers and it was not due to her inconvenience and a balance amount of Rs 12 lakh was still due to her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sunny-leone-moves-kerala-hc-seeking-anticipatory-bail-949450.html
09-02-2021||National||India, China discuss issues relating to UN Security Council||India and China on Tuesday held discussions on a wide range of issues relating to the United Nations Security Council, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said. The MEA said the Chinese delegation was briefed about India's priorities during its UNSC tenure in the meeting that took place in the virtual format. "Both sides discussed a wide range of issues on the UNSC agenda. The Indian delegation briefed the Chinese side on India's priorities during its UNSC tenure," the MEA said in a statement. It said both sides agreed to continue their engagement on key issues on the UNSC agenda. China is a permanent member of the UNSC while India began its two-year tenure as a non-permanent member on January 1. In August, India is scheduled to serve as the president of the powerful UN body. The Indian delegation was headed by Prakash Gupta, joint secretary (UNP and Summits) in the MEA. The Indian team comprised officials from East Asia (EA) and UN Economic and Social (UNES) divisions of the MEA as well as from India's Permanent Mission in New York and the Indian embassy in Beijing. The Chinese side at the meeting was led by Yang Tao, director-general of the department of international organisations and conferences at the Chinese foreign ministry. India and China are locked in a military standoff in eastern Ladakh since May 5 last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-discuss-issues-relating-to-un-security-council-949457.html
09-02-2021||National||Night curfew clamped in Indo-Bangla border||Night curfew and prohibitory orders have been clamped along the Indo-Bangladesh border in Assam's Cachar district with immediate effect, an official release said on Tuesday. The order has been promulgated in view of the movement of extremist elements out to create law and order problem in the district and also unauthorised movement of commodities, including cattle from the district through the areas surrounding the district borders. The order will remain in force for the next two months, the release added. Cachar deputy commissioner Keerthi Jalli issued an order by which movement of individuals shall remain strictly prohibited between sunset to sunrise within one km radius of Indo-Bangladesh border of Cachar district. No person shall be allowed to move on Surma river or on its high bank within the limit of the territory in actual control of India in the district between sunset to sunrise. No person shall be allowed to ply their boats on the river for fishing and the requisite permission has to be obtained from the Katigorah circle officer. No person will be allowed to carry on any vehicle, handcart, rickshaw or any other modes of transport, essential commodities like sugar, rice, wheat, edible oil, salt and others between sunset to sunrise within the five km belt inside the district along the Bangladesh border. The order will, however, not apply to the state and central government employees on duty in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/night-curfew-clamped-in-indo-bangla-border-949459.html
09-02-2021||National||97% of 7.75L people surveyed after getting jabs satisfied with Covid vaccination process: Govt||Over 97 per cent of 7.75 lakh people surveyed after receiving anti-coronavirus vaccine shots have expressed satisfaction with the immunisation process, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The government is taking feedback from those vaccinated since January 17 through its mobile app CoWIN and has got responses from 7.75 lakh people, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said a press conference. The nationwide inoculation drive against Covid-19 was launched on January 16 with over three crore healthcare and frontline workers prioritised to get the jabs initially. Bhushan said, "On January 17, we started taking feedback on CoWIN application through the Rapid Assessment System (RAS) from those users who have been vaccinated." "Ninety-seven per cent people are satisfied with overall vaccination experience. This data is based on feedback from 7.75 lakh people," he said. Through the system, beneficiaries were asked four questions in a personalised message, a day after COVID-19 vaccine was administered to them, Bhushan said. Of the total feedback received, 97.35 per cent expressed satisfaction with the overall process of vaccination and 97.31 confirmed that proper social distancing was maintained at immunisation sites, Bhushan said. He said 98.37 per cent confirmed that they were informed about the process of vaccination and that it was given properly, 88.76 per cent said they were informed about adverse event following immunisation and 97.19 per cent confirmed that they were asked to wait for 30 minutes for monitoring after being vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/97-of-775l-people-surveyed-after-getting-jabs-satisfied-with-covid-vaccination-process-govt-949461.html
09-02-2021||National||Country's democracy threatened, institutions working under govt pressure: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot Tuesday alleged the country's democracy was under threat, claiming that institutions like the judiciary, Election Commission, Enforcement Directorate, CBI and Income Tax Department were "working under pressure" of the Central government. In a video message in support of the 'Join Congress Social Media' campaign, he alleged the RSS and the BJP for the past 50 years have been "working to tarnish the image" of Congress leaders like Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi and also Rahul Gandhi. "Democracy in the country is under threat. The judiciary, the ED, the CBI, the Income Tax Department, the Election Commission, all are working under pressure of the NDA government. Intellectuals, farmers and other sections of the society are concerned about the future of the country," he said. The 'Join Congress Social Media' campaign was launched in Delhi Monday with an aim to have five lakh online "warriors" across the country to counter hate and "defend the idea of India". The campaign started in the state on Tuesday. In his video message, Gehlot appealed to youths to join the movement, saying the party has always promoted young people, and many of those who are in the leadership position today -- whether in the All India Congress Committee or as chief ministers -- started out either as Youth Congress members or had joined the party's student wing NSUI in the 70s. Citing his own example, Gehlot said he started with the NSUI and became union minister thrice, AICC general secretary as many times and is serving his third term as the chief minister. He said that the campaign was important in reaching out to masses at a time when there is a pressure on the mainstream media. Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee chief Govind Dotasra alleged the mainstream media was working under pressure of the Modi government, and therefore, the social media campaign will play an important role in shaping the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/countrys-democracy-threatened-institutions-working-under-govt-pressure-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-949462.html
09-02-2021||National Politics||Debate on Motion of Thanks: LS proceedings extended till midnight on Monday||Lok Sabha proceedings were extended till midnight to accommodate the long list of speakers participating in the Motion of Thanks to the President's address. Lok Sabha meets between 4 pm and 9 pm. Meenakshi Lekhi, who was presiding over the proceedings, said there is a long list of speakers participating in the debate and extended the time till midnight after taking the sense of the House. After several days of the impasse over the three new agri laws, the House resumed the debate on the Motion of Thanks on Monday evening. The time allocated for the debate is 15 hours and it would continue on Tuesday. Just before the House was to adjourn Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi proposed that the Question Hour for Tuesday and Wednesday be done away with to accommodate speakers. Speaker Om Birla took the sense of the House and approved the proposal. In Lok Sabha, 4 pm-5 pm is reserved for Question Hour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/debate-on-motion-of-thanks-ls-proceedings-extended-till-midnight-on-monday-949136.html
09-02-2021||National Politics||PM Modi breaks down as he bids farewell to retiring MPs in Rajya Sabha||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Leader of Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad turned emotional in Rajya Sabha during farewell speeches of retiring MPs on Tuesday as both recalled a terror strike in Jammu and Kashmir 15 years ago. Both made the mention of the terror strike during the farewell speeches of four retiring Rajya Sabha MPs, including Azad. Azad along with Nazir Ahmed Lavay (on February 15), Shamser Singh Manhas and Mir Mohd Fayaz (on February 10) are retiring from Rajya Sabha in the next one week and the Upper House held a farewell. With the retirement of these four MPs, Jammu and Kashmir will not have a representative in the Upper House, as the union territory does not have an elected Assembly to elect MPs. Also, the post of Leader of Opposition has been thrown open with names of senior Congress leaders Mallikarjun Kharge, P Chidambaram, Digvijay Singh and Anand Sharma doing the rounds. Modi said, "I worry that after Azad, whosoever will take over from him will have very big boots to fill because he cared not only about his party but about the country, as well as the House. This is no small feat, it is a big thing."  Referring to the 2005 terror strike incident, in which Gujarati pilgrims were killed in Jammu and Kashmir, Modi said Azad was the first to call him and inform about the incident. Modi was the Gujarat Chief Minister while Azad was his counterpart in Jammu and Kashmir. As he recalled the incident, Modi broke down in the House and said Azad was the first to call him, during which he (Azad) broke down. "Azad went to the airport later when the bodies were sent back and kept in touch till the plane landed in Gujarat," Modi said. "Power comes and goes but (only a few know) how to digest it...therefore like a friend, I respect him on the basis of the things he has done over these years," Modi said. "At a personal level, I would request him to not believe that he is not in the House. My door is always open for you. I will always expect and value your inputs. I will not let you become weak," Modi said as he saluted him. Azad also became emotional while recalling the incident and said that he cried out loud only four or five times, which included the sudden deaths of Indira Gandhi, Sanjay Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi as well as during the Super Cyclone in Odisha in 1999. "The fifth time was the incident the Prime Minister mentioned...When I reached the airport to see the injured who were being shifted to Gujarat, I saw a number of children. They grabbed my legs and cried. When children are crying how will you respond? Terrorism and militancy should end," Azad said as tears welled up in his eyes. Leader after leader praised Azad with Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu described Azad as a role model who will be missed by him the most. "His is a voice of sanity...He speaks softly but conveys the views very strongly," Naidu added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-breaks-down-as-he-bids-farewell-to-retiring-mps-in-rajya-sabha-949225.html
09-02-2021||National Politics||Toll climbs to 31 in Uttarakhand disaster, CM undertakes aerial survey of affected areas||The death toll from the Uttarakhand glacier disaster rose to 31 with five more bodies being recovered, officials said on Tuesday as multiple agencies raced against time to reach about 30 workers trapped inside a tunnel in a power project site and 175 people remained missing. Two of the bodies were recovered from the debris in Raini village, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) officials said, two days after a portion of the Nanda Devi glacier possibly burst its banks and triggered an avalanche and floods in the Alaknanda river system. The State Emergency Operation Centre said five bodies were found in the morning, taking the death toll to 31, and estimated that 175 people are still missing. With the hours ticking by inexorably, fears escalated about those missing since the disaster struck on Sunday morning, according to officials who stepped up efforts to locate survivors. The missing people include those working at NTPC’s 480 MW Tapovan-Vishnugad project and the 13.2 MW Rishiganga Hydel Project and villagers whose homes nearby were washed away. Teams of the Army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) coordinated efforts to rescue about 30 people who were working in a tunnel at the Tapovan-Vishnugad project when the waters came rushing in. The workers have been trapped in the 12-ft-high and about 2.5-km-long 'head race tunnel' (HRT). "Clearing of debris and slush continued the whole night. About 120 metres of the tunnel entrance stretch is now clear," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said in Delhi. "The height of the accumulated slush has reduced more. ITBP personnel are waiting to enter as soon as any movement deep inside the tunnel is possible," he said. A senior official added that the rescuers have not been able to make any contact with those stuck inside but are hopeful for "signs of life". Relief is also being distributed by helicopters among villagers cut off due to the washing away of a bridge in the avalanche at Malari. About 100 ration kits have been distributed in the affected areas of 13 villages with a total population of around 2,500, officials said. The villages that lost road connectivity in the wake of the calamity are Raini Palli, Pang, Lata, Suraithota, Suki, Bhalgaon, Tolma, Fagrasu, Long Segdi, Gahar, Bhangyul, Juwagwad and Jugju. On Tuesday, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat undertook an aerial survey of the affected areas, visited the ITBP hospital in Joshimath, about 295 km from Dehradun, and met the 12 workers who were rescued from a small tunnel in Tapovan on Sunday evening. The priority is to get to those trapped inside the tunnel and save as many lives as possible, he said. Rawat also visited some of the affected areas to meet residents of the disaster-hit villages. Additional heavy machines could be pressed into service to expedite the process of clearing the tonnes of debris inside the tunnel, blocking the path of rescue personnel. The clearing of slush and debris is a painstaking exercise but the multi-agency group of rescuers are there in large numbers and taking turns to dig in deeper with the help of heavy machines, officials said. The teams have been working since Sunday to clear the tunnel and rescue the trapped. As the temperature dipped to freezing levels at the site, awash with slush, silt and debris, bonfires were lit at multiple locations to keep the rescuers warm. The tunnel has become the focal point of rescue operations. While the ITBP has deployed as many as 300 personnel for conducting rescue operations at this site, many NDRF, SDRF and Army personnel are also present. The ITBP and other rescuers are carrying tall wooden planks which are being used by rescuers to wade in through the slush and will later also help create a platform to pull out the trapped people using ropes. Pandey had earlier said these teams are ready with dragon light sets, oxygen cylinders and stretchers to provide immediate medical help to those trapped inside.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/toll-climbs-to-31-in-uttarakhand-disaster-cm-undertakes-aerial-survey-of-affected-areas-949246.html
09-02-2021||National Politics||SC relief to Shashi Tharoor, journalists in case over tweets on Republic Day tractor rally||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the arrest of senior Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, and senior journalists, Mrinal Pande, Zafar Agha, Rajdeep Sardesai, and others in multiple FIRs lodged against them for tweets on the death of one of the protestors due to alleged police firing during the tractor rally on Republic Day. "We stay the arrest, till we hear the matter further," a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said.  Acting on separate pleas by Tharoor and others, the court also issued notice to the state governments of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and others. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Tharoor and others sought an immediate stay on the arrest of petitioners. As Sibal pleaded for no coercive action, till this matter is further taken up for hearing, CJI Bobde asked him, "Where is the danger?"  The court asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta if the petitioners are going to be arrested. Mehta, for his part, urged the court to take up the matter on Wednesday. "One should always think what could be the horrendous effect these tweets have? They have a lot of followers, you can't tell the impact of the tweets" he said. On this, the court stayed the arrest and sought a reply from the state governments within two weeks. Others who got the relief are Caravan magazine's editor Vinod K Jose, Anant Nath and Paresh Nath. During the tractor rally on January 26, a man was killed near ITO. Delhi police registered an FIR on a complaint by city resident Chiranjiv Kumar. He complained that Tharoor and the others misled people on the death of a protester in central Delhi's ITO when thousands of farmers entered areas in the national capital, including the Red Fort, which was not part of the agreed route to carry out the tractor rally. Earlier, Tharoor and six journalists were booked by the Noida Police for sedition, among other charges, in connection with the violence during the tractor rally in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sc-relief-to-shashi-tharoor-journalists-in-case-over-tweets-on-republic-day-tractor-rally-949248.html
09-02-2021||National Politics||BJP promises to double farmers' income, but stands against them during crisis: Sachin Pilot||Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister and Congress leader Sachin Pilot said on Tuesday while the BJP government has promised to double farmers' income, the saffron party is "standing against" the tillers in a time of crisis. He reiterated the demand of withdrawal of the Centre's three contentious farm laws, saying the Congress is in support of the farmers. "A promise was made to farmers that their income will be doubled, but when there is a crisis, the entire BJP is standing against them. Farmers of the country want to remind the party of its promises," Pilot told reporters in Dausa. "Raising farmers' voice is not a crime in a democracy. The Congress is with farmers and will continue to support them. The central government should abandon its adamant attitude and withdraw the anti-farmers laws which were made without consulting state governments and were imposed on the farmers," he said. Pilot said Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will visit Rajasthan to raise farmers' issues and will address the farmers' meeting. He said pressure on the central government will be built across the country so that the laws are repealed. Later, Pilot left for Bayana in Bharatpur to address a farmer's mahapanchayat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-promises-to-double-farmers-income-but-stands-against-them-during-crisis-sachin-pilot-949335.html
09-02-2021||National Politics||Ramchandra Guha's 6 lessons from the Uttarakhand floods||The flash floods that swept Central Uttarakhand's Chamoli district is the latest in a long list of calamities that have struck the Himalayan state over the past 40-50 years. The disaster, which took place on Sunday claimed the lives of 20 people, with 197 still missing.  Around 25 to 30 workers are also trapped at two tunnels near the Tapovan Dam, as rescue efforts from the Indo Tibetan Border Police and Uttarakhand Police are still underway.  1. Uttarakhand: Prone to disasters Guha speaks of previous calamities that stuck the north Indian state — the 2013 Kedarnath floods, the Alaknanda floods of 1978, and the Bhagirathi floods in 1970 — to drive home the message that the state's disaster-prone nature was by no means unknown. He also mentions two earthquakes - one in Utkarshi in 1991, and another at the present disaster's epicentre, Chamoli. 2. Disasters are both natural and man-made The historian says that the above mentioned disasters were "as much man-made as they are acts of nature." Had the forests been left as they were, the impact of an unusual burst of heavy rain, a glacial burst, or an earthquake, he says, would have "far less damaging effects." He goes on to mention the construction of dams, hotels, and carelessly constructed roads as causes for the floods. Uncontrolled construction weakens the hills and the resultant loss of lives and livelihoods to a disaster is "as much a consequence of such faulty policy-making, and of corruption and human greed, as it is of the "wrath of nature" per se," he says. 3. The Himalayas are for the country to protect The Himalayas, apart from its cultural significance and strategic importance, is a biodiversity hub. As tall as they stand, the mountains are environmentally fragile, making them prone to earthquakes, floods, and landslides, which makes safeguarding the range all the more important, the 62-year old says. In his article, Guha proposed a 'moratorium' on all dam projects in the Himalayas and doing away with the Char Dam highway project to keep what's left of the mountains and Uttarakhand intact. 4. Environment-friendly development Guha is of the opinion that development anywhere in the nation must be sustainable. He urges the government to stop mimicking the western industrial growth model that relies on capital- and energy-intensive model, which can not work in a country as densely populated as India. He slams "corporate-friendly" columnists who argue for easing of environmental laws and believe that India is "too poor" to be green. India, more than any other rich country, he says, needs to adopt greener policies for its sustenance. 5. Talk to experts, lawmakers! Politicians' reluctance to listen to subject experts, let alone consult them while drafting laws and projects leads to calamities like the floods in Chamoli, the Bengaluru-based historian believes.  The dams in Uttarakhand may have been built better or not built at all had experts in hydrology, energy planning, or mountain ecology been consulted, Guha opines. He pins the blame for such disasters on the nexus between lawmakers and bureaucrats. 6. Decentralise decision-making Guha believes that giving decision-making powers to those that are directly affected by a given policy can likely produce more sustainable and equitable economic policies. He cites the Gadricholi model as a stellar example of the benefits of decentralisation. A case study of community forest in Maharashtra's Gadricholi district showed that villagers, when given control over a variety of forests managed by state departments, were able to grow thicker forests while still "generating a steady stream of income and employment." This model, Guha says, can also be implemented across central India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ramchandra-guhas-6-lessons-from-the-uttarakhand-floods-949348.html
09-02-2021||National Politics||Not afraid of BJP, will live like Bengal tiger: Mamata Banerjee||Challenging the BJP, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said that she would not back down against the saffron party and continue to live like a Royal Bengal Tiger. The feisty Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo made it clear that she would never implement the CAA and NRC in Bengal. Addressing a rally at Berhampore in Murshidabad district Mamata lashed out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his claim that the state government employees are not getting salaries in Bengal and asked him to show one such employee. “As long as I am alive, I will not bow down. I will live like a Royal Bengal tiger. I have already announced that I will not implement CAA and NRC in Bengal and my stand will never change,” said Mamata. She also said that the BJP is targeting her because of her refusal to implement the CAA and NRC. Alleging that the BJP would try to intimidate the people, she said that she is not afraid of the ruling party at the Centre. Mamata also said that she knows very well how to fight against guns and goons. “BJP will try to intimidate you (the people). But don’t be afraid of them. I am not scared of them. My body is filled with scars from earlier attacks. I know how to fight against goons and guns. The people will give a befitting reply if they (BJP) try to intimidate me,” said Mamata. She raised the insider-outsider debate once again and said that not Gujarat but the people of Bengal would rule the state. “BJP is not a party of the poor. It is a party of the rich and big landlords. Gujarat will not rule Bengal. The people of Bengal will rule Bengal,” said Mamata. Lashing out at the defectors in the TMC, the chief minister said that they had joined the BJP in fear that their corrupt deeds may get exposed. “Some malcontents joined the BJP. They are afraid that they will get caught for cow smuggling or other corrupt deeds,” said Mamata. At another rally earlier in the day she accused the BJP government at the Centre of resorting to coercive measures against agitating farmers and demanded that the three farm laws must be withdrawn.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/not-afraid-of-bjp-will-live-like-bengal-tiger-mamata-banerjee-949363.html
09-02-2021||National Politics||BJP likely to move breach of privilege motion against TMC MP Moitra||The govt is likely to move a Breach of Privilege Motion against Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra over her speech in Lok Sabha on Monday. During the discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the President's address, Moitra made critical reference to a former chief justice of India. "Raising the issue of the Ram Mandir judgment (the Ayodhya temple-mosque verdict) and bringing the then Chief Justice and other things, it's a serious matter and we're thinking of taking appropriate measures," Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said. However, Mahua Moitra put out a defiant tweet on Tuesday. "It would be a privilege indeed if a breach of privilege motion is initiated against me for speaking the truth during India's darkest hour," she posted. Moitra speech created a furore in the Lok Sabha as treasury members accused her of violating parliamentary rules and demanding that her remarks be expunged. RSP MP N K Premachandran, who was in the Chair, at first, warned her that her remarks will be expunged if found objectionable. Later, however, as outrage over her incendiary remarks grew among lawmakers from the ruling party, the comments were expunged from the record. Union Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal termed her comments against the former CJI, who was not named, as "shameful". As per Article 121 of the Constitution of India, no Supreme Court or High Court judge who has discharged their duty or passed a judgement can be discussed in the Parliament. The Rules and Procedures 352(5) of the Parliament also make it clear that the conduct of people in constitutional positions cannot be questioned. The BJP leaders are of the view that despite the direction of the chair, Moitra continued to repeat her statements violating rules. During her speech, Moitra lashed out at the government for making "hate and bigotry" a part of its narrative and alleged that the judiciary and the media have also "failed" the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-likely-to-move-breach-of-privilege-motion-against-tmc-mp-moitra-949368.html
09-02-2021||National Politics||Priyanka to attend 'kisan panchayat' in Saharanpur on Wednesday: UP Congress||Amid the agitation against the Centre's agri laws, the Congress will on Wednesday launch its outreach campaign in politically crucial Uttar Pradesh with party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra attending a 'kisan panchayat' in Saharanpur. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra will be participating in the kisan panchayat at Chilkhana under the party's 'Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan' campaign that will be started in 27 districts of the state, media convenor of UP Congress Lalan Kumar said. He said that several prominent party leaders will be participating in the 10-day programme. The campaign is starting in 27 districts including Saharanpur, Shamli, Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Meerut, Bijnor, Hapur, Bulandshahr, Aligarh, Hathras, Mathura, Agra, Firozabad, Budaun, Bareilly, Rampur, Pilibhit, Lakhimpur Kheir, Sitapur and Hardoi, Lalan said. The Congress has been vociferously supporting the farmers' agitating against the new agri laws and is hoping to make inroads in the state where assembly elections are due next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-to-attend-kisan-panchayat-in-saharanpur-on-wednesday-up-congress-949392.html
09-02-2021||National Politics||Farm laws not religious scriptures that changes cannot be made: Farooq Abdullah||National Conference member Farooq Abdullah on Tuesday said that the new farm laws are not religious scriptures that changes cannot be made as he appealed to the Centre to hold a dialogue with the agitating farmers and come out with a solution. He was speaking during the discussion on Motion of Thanks to the President's address. "I just want to make this request on the farmers' issue. It is not a 'Khudai kitaab' (religious scripture) that we cannot make changes. But we have made law. If they (farmers) want it to be scrapped, why can't you talk to them," he said. "I would request you with folded hands that let us not stand on prestige... This is our nation. We belong to this nation and if we belong to this nation let us respect everybody in this nation," Abdullah said, adding, "Come out with a solution." He also urged the law minister to bring some law to stop such activities. Abdullah also asserted that Lord Ram belongs to the whole world. "Ram belongs to all of us. The way Muslims have held on to the Quran, the Quran is not just ours." He also accused NDA MPs of questioning the stature of political visionaries such as Jawaharlal Nehru and said that he feels really bad when he sees that fingers are being pointed at India's first prime minister, Sardar Patel, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi and other leaders. "It is not an Indian parampara. Respect those who have gone," he stressed. On the recently-concluded District Development Council (DDC) polls, he said, these happened peacefully but now elected members were being purchased to force the members to vote for others. Congratulating Indian scientists and the Serum Institute of India for developing a vaccine against coronavirus, he said that as of now very few people were being vaccinated and efforts should be made that more and more people get the jab. He also said that the virus has badly hit the tourism industry in Jammu and Kashmir and he has no words to explain the poverty of the people in the Union territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-laws-not-religious-scriptures-that-changes-cannot-be-made-farooq-abdullah-949434.html
09-02-2021||National Politics||Centre pursuing target of doubling farmers' income by 2022: Tomar||The government has been pursuing the target of doubling farmers' income by 2022 and several interventions took are showing a "positive impact", Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told Parliament on Tuesday. In 2016, Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government had set a highly ambitious target of doubling farmers incomes by 2022. An inter-ministerial committee on "Doubling of Farmers' Income" was set up in April 2016 to recommend strategies to achieve this goal. In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, Tomar said the committee submitted its report in September 2018. After acceptance of the panel's recommendations, the government has set up an 'Empowered Body' to review and monitor the progress. Responding to a query whether the target fixed for the year 2022 can be achieved at the present annual growth, the minister said, "The government has been pursuing the target of doubling farmers' income." He said that the implementation of various recommendations of the committee and comprehensive interventions of the government are "having a positive impact on the growth of agriculture and income of farmers". The government has adopted several developmental programmes, schemes, reforms and policies that focus on higher incomes for the farmers, the minister said responding to a separate query on the same topic. All these policies and programmes are being supported by higher budgetary allocations, non-budgetary financial resources by way of creating corpus funds, and supplementary income transfers under PM-KISAN. The latest major intervention includes the 'Atma Nirbhar Bharat- Agriculture package' which includes comprehensive market reforms and creation of 'Agricultural Infrastructure Fund' worth Rs 1 lakh crore. The minister was also asked about state-wise details of the income/wages earned per year by farmers from the base year till date and the annual growth percentage required to achieve the targets fixed for the year 2022. He replied that the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) during its 70th round had conducted 'Situation Assessment Survey (SAS) of Agricultural Households' in rural areas in the crop year 2012-13 (July-June). "There has been no further assessment of the farmers' income thereafter," he said. As per the NSO survey results, the average monthly income per agricultural household from all sources was estimated to be Rs 6,426, he added. The minister also mentioned that the committee on doubling farmers' income recommended seven sources of income growth. These include improvement in crop productivity; improvement in livestock productivity; resource use efficiency or savings in the cost of production; and increase in the cropping intensity. Diversification towards high value crops, improvement in real prices received by farmers, and shift from farm to non-farm occupations are also included, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-pursuing-target-of-doubling-farmers-income-by-2022-tomar-949448.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||UP CM asks officials to initiate action to trace people from state missing in Uttarakhand floods||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday directed officials to initiate effective action in collaboration with the Uttarakhand government for tracing people from the state who have gone missing in flash floods in the hill state, an official said. In a high-level meeting convened at his official residence on Monday night, the chief minister said that his government is committed to providing all possible help to those affected by the disaster, including its own people as well as extending all possible help to the Uttarakhand government, the official spokesperson said. Adityanath has also talked to his Uttarakhand counterpart Trivendra Singh Rawat and assured him of all possible help in this hour of crisis, the spokesperson said. The chief minister has directed that two officials be sent to Dehradun for coordinating with the Uttarakhand government besides opening a control room in the relief commissioner's office here for the help of the families of those missing. He also asked for setting up of district-level control rooms with a helpline number in the districts whose residents are missing. According to the official, Adityanath has directed the home department to contact the affected families and extend all possible help to them while specifically asking the commissioner and IG zone of Saharanpur to work actively in tracing missing people as well as monitoring relief operations. The state's Cane Development Minister Suresh Rana was asked by the chief minister to supervise the activities for tracing the missing and affected people in coordination with the Uttarakhand government, the official said. An ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh will be given to the dependents of each of the natives of the state who have died in the incident from the Chief Minister's discretionary fund besides proper treatment to those injured, the official said. The chief minister was apprised by officials that an emergency operation centre has been set up at the relief commissioner's office at the state headquarter-level and helpline numbers have also been issued, the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-asks-officials-to-initiate-action-to-trace-people-from-state-missing-in-uttarakhand-floods-949130.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand flood rescue ops: 10 key things to know||As many as 26 people were killed and over 200 people were still missing in massive flooding in the Alaknanda and Dhauliganga rivers that followed after what is seen as glacier burst in Joshimath of Uttarakhand's Chamoli district. The deluge damaged five bridges, several homes, an NTPC power plant and a small hydropower project in Rishiganga. National and state disaster relief forces have been deployed among ITBP forces, Army and Navy teams for rescue operations. Here are the 10 key things to know:  1. At least 171 workers, the majority of them at the NTPC plant, continue to be missing even as 27 labourers were rescued from a tunnel by a team of ITBP forces. A multi-agency operation to rescue an estimated 34 people trapped inside a big tunnel at Tapovan is underway. 2. Officials said that connectivity in the region had also been hit after a bridge collapse in Reni village. "There is an accessibility issue because it's a tough terrain. By road, only two teams could manage to reach Joshimath, the remaining teams were airlifted. It's difficult to predict how long, but rescue operation can possibly take 24-48 hours," NDRF DG SN Pradhan told ANI. 3. Chief Minister Trivendra Rawat on Sunday visited the affected district and said the cause of the disaster was still known. A team of scientists, flown to Dehradun after the glacier burst in Uttarakhand, left for Joshimath area on Monday for surveillance and reconnaissance. The chief minister also announced ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh to the family of the victims.  4. Prime Minister Narendra Modi vowed support for the state, saying "India stands with Uttarakhand and the nation prays for everyone's safety there." Home Minister Amit Shah had also offered assistance. PM Modi also met with the Uttarakhand BJP MP Anil Baluni.   5. NTPC had said that hydropower still under construction was also destroyed by an avalanche near Tapovan in Uttarakhand. 6. National Crisis Management Committee on Sunday assured that information from the Central Water Commission had shown no dangers of downstream flooding. They said that the dramatic rise in water levels had been contained and was no threat to the neighbouring villages.  7. The rescue operation was underway on Tuesday as several people continue to remain trapped in the aftermath of floods. On Sunday, hospitals in the region were alerted and the medical team were deployed at the rescue sites. Army columns were also sent in for the rescue operation. 8. Even though it may take time to find out the exact cause behind the disaster, the massive flood possibly caused by the glacial outburst in Uttarakhand once again puts the spotlight on the ecological fragility of the hill state, which faces multiple climate change threats on one hand while battling the consequences of large scale development work on the other. 9. The floods are a stark reminder of Kedarnath floods in 2013 and the fragile ecosystem of the state. In Kedarnath, the cloudburst had resulted in massive rains and floods that resulted in the loss of many lives.  10. A 2019 study covering 40 years of satellite observations in the sub-continent had said that the Himalayan Glaciers were melting at a rapid rate, almost at twice the rate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-flood-rescue-ops-10-key-things-to-know-949182.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Deep Sidhu, accused in Republic Day violence in Delhi, arrested||Punjabi actor-activist Deep Sidhu, who has been accused of instigating a group of farmers to enter the Red Fort during a tractor rally on Republic Day, has been arrested by Delhi Police. Sidhu was arrested by the Special Cell, which is investigating the conspiracy behind the violence during the tractor rally by farmers protesting against three contentious farm laws on January 26. He was arrested from Zirakpur, between Chandigarh and Ambala. Police earlier announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for anyone who provides information on him. Sidhu has been evading cops since the incident. Sidhu was in contact with a female friend who lives in California and used to make videos and send it to her, which she used to upload on his Facebook account. He has been evading arrest by changing his locations so far, a senior police official said. He alleged that Sidhu was a prominent player behind the Republic Day violence. He had been instigating youngsters with his provocative speeches and stardom even when he was hiding from law, the official claimed. Sidhu has been a controversial figure in the farmer protests and has been accused by farmer groups of attempting to derail their movement. Hitting back, he had claimed that the farmer leaders were backtracking on their protests. According to the FIR in the Red Fort violence case, he was present at Red Fort when violence erupted at the iconic Mughal-era monument. Along with Sidhu, police had also named gangster-turned activist Lakka Sadana in the FIR. The protesters had forced their way into the Red Fort after taking a detour of the pre-decided route on Republic Day and clashing with police. Sidhu, who had campaigned for BJP candidate and actor Sunny Deol during 2019 Lok Sabha polls, is also accused of handing over a flag to another person accused of hoisting it the Red Fort in place of the tricolour. Police had also claimed that protesters snatched two magazines with 20 live cartridges from two constables. "The mob later hoisted different flags there. They also started creating nuisance at the rampart. The unruly mob was asked to come downstairs. They went to the Meena Bazar area to enter the Red Fort. When police tried to take them out of Lahore Gate, the mob became violent and attacked personnel. The mob thrashed the police personnel and threw them in the well," it said. The FIR also accused the protesters of damaging a bus, a government gypsy and other vehicles. The mob robbed the anti-riots gear from the police personnel, the FIR claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deep-sidhu-accused-in-republic-day-violence-in-delhi-arrested-949198.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||'Run!': Uttarakhand flood survivors recount tunnel escape||A whistle turned into a roar of water that trapped a dozen men in a Himalayan tunnel after a glacier burst in northern India, but Rajesh Kumar lived to tell the tale. Twenty-six people were confirmed dead but at least 170 others remained missing Monday after the glacier broke off a mountainside, triggering a flash flood through a valley in Uttarakhand. On Sunday, floodwaters swamped a nearby hydroelectric power complex where Kumar and his colleagues were working 300 metres (nearly 1,000 feet) inside a tunnel. "We didn't think we were going to make it," the 28-year-old told AFP from his hospital bed. "Suddenly there was a sound of whistling... there was shouting, people were telling us to come out. We thought it was a fire. We started running but the water gushed in. It was like a Hollywood movie." The men clung to scaffolding rods in the tunnel for four hours, keeping their heads above water and debris, trying to reassure each other. "We just kept telling each other -- come what may, we must not let go of the rods. Thank god our hands did not lose their grip," said Kumar. As the flood coursed down the valley, the water started to recede in the tunnel, leaving it filled with more than 1.5 metres of debris and mud. "We climbed across the rock debris and forced our way to the mouth of the tunnel," said Kumar. There they found a small opening but they were not sure where it led. "All we knew was that we could feel some air." Eventually, they saw some light coming through and one of the men got a phone signal and called for help. There were emotional scenes as Kumar and his colleagues were pulled out of a tiny hole at the surface. Some punched the air in joy as they saw daylight, some were put straight onto stretchers and carried away. One man put his arms in the air and then fell face-first into the mud. Despite their hours-long ordeal, they miraculously managed to escape with just minor injuries. Shopkeeper Ramesh Negi from Raini village was basking in the Sunday morning sun at his home overlooking the plant when he heard a loud roar and saw a huge wall of water smash into and sweep away a bridge that led to the Chinese border. Dozens of workers building a concrete dam on the Dhouli Ganga river bed and grazers leading their cattle along the mountain slopes disappeared beneath the sudden deluge, leaving behind a wasteland of grey and brown sludge. "There was dust and screams all over," the 36-year-old Negi told AFP. "We tried to alert the grazers but they were blown away by the wind pressure before being consumed by the water and slush. We can only guess what happened." Mangra, another tunnel survivor, still can't sleep. On Sunday, he heard a loud, rumbling sound and the screams of other colleagues: "Run, run, run!" The 28-year-old from Lakhimpur Kheri in Uttar Pradesh state scrambled out of the tunnel. But six of his friends and neighbours from his village remain trapped, and Mangra can't stop thinking and praying for them. "The moment the water came close, it felt like the mountain was crashing and the Earth was moving," Mangra, who goes by one name, told AFP outside the tunnel, cuts and scrapes on his hands and legs. "Once the deluge of water rushed past me, there was dust and fear left behind." The glacier broke away as the power complex was in full operation, leaving scores of workers at two power plants missing. About three dozen were feared trapped in the U-shaped tunnel. Late Monday, giant floodlights lit up a tunnel entrance as teams of rescuers carefully searched through the debris with the help of an excavator for signs of life -- and human remains. Hundreds of paramilitary and emergency service workers were also scouring the valley for other survivors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/run-uttarakhand-flood-survivors-recount-tunnel-escape-949204.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||India reports less than 10,000 daily Covid-19 cases, 78 new deaths||The daily new Covid-19 cases fell below 10,000 for the second time this month taking India's tally of cases to 1,08,47,304, while fresh fatalities remained below 100 for the fourth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 9,110 new infections were reported in a span of 24 hours. The death toll increased to 1,55,158 with 78 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.    The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,05,48,521 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 97.25 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,43,625 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.32 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,25,87,752  samples have been tested up to February 8 with 6,87,138 samples being tested on Monday. The 78 new fatalities include 16 from Kerala, 15 from  Maharashtra and 11 from Punjab. A total of 1,55,158 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,325 from Maharashtra followed by 12,387 from Tamil Nadu, 12,239 from Karnataka, 10,882 from Delhi, 10,209 from West Bengal, 8,691 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,160 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-reports-less-than-10000-daily-covid-19-cases-78-new-deaths-949209.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Before Himalayan flood, India ignored warnings of development risks||Long before the floods came, washing away hundreds of people and wiping out newly constructed dams and bridges, the warning signs were clear. The Himalayas have been warming at an alarming rate for years, melting ice long trapped in glaciers, soil and rocks, elevating the risk of devastating floods and landslides, scientists warned. Nearby populations were vulnerable, they said, and the region’s ecosystem had become too fragile for large development projects. But the government overrode the objections of experts and the protests of local residents to blast rocks and build hydroelectric power projects in volatile areas like the one in the northern state of Uttarakhand, where disaster struck. Officials said Monday that the bodies of 26 victims had been recovered while the search proceeded for nearly 200 missing people. On Sunday, a surge of water and debris went roaring down the steep mountain valleys of the Rishiganga river, erasing everything in its path. Most of the victims were workers on power projects. Villagers said authorities overseeing the expensive development projects had not prepared them for what was to come, giving a false sense of confidence that nothing was going to happen. “There was no program or training in the village about disaster management by the government,” said Bhawan Singh Rana, head of the Raini village, hit by some of the worst damage. “Our village is on a rock, and we fear that it may slide anytime.” Security forces focused on one tunnel where they said 30 people were trapped. Food was airdropped to about 13 villages where the roads have been cut off, with roughly 2,500 people trapped. The devastation of the Uttarakhand floods has once again focused attention on the fragile ecosystem of the Himalayas, where millions of people are feeling the impact of global warming. The World Bank has warned that climate change could sharply diminish living conditions for up to 800 million people in South Asia. But the effects are already felt, often in deadly ways, in large parts of the Himalayan belt from Bhutan to Afghanistan. The region has about 15,000 glaciers, which are retreating at a rate of 100 to 200 feet per decade. The melting feeds or creates thousands of glacial lakes that can suddenly break through the ice and rocky debris holding them back, causing catastrophic floods. In Nepal, Bhutan, India and Pakistan, a large number of glacial lakes have been deemed imminently dangerous by The International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development, an intergovernmental group. Nepal has been particularly vulnerable, with climate change forcing entire villages to migrate to lower lands for survival from a deepening water crisis. Deadly flash floods, some caused by glacial lakes bursting, have also become more frequent. Scientists have warned repeatedly that development projects in the region are a deadly gamble, potentially making matters worse. Dr Ravi Chopra, the director of People’s Science Institute in Uttarakhand, said a 2012 expert group appointed by the government had recommended that dams should not be built in the Alaknanda-Bhagirathi basin, including on the Rishiganga. He was part of a scientific committee appointed by India’s highest court in 2014 that also advised against building dams in “the para-glacial zone,” what he described as an area where the valley floor is more than about 7,000 feet above sea level. “But the government has gone ahead and chosen to build them,” he said. Both of the hydroelectric projects hit by Sunday’s flood — one obliterated and the other badly damaged — were built in that zone, he said. D P Dobhal, a former scientist at the government-run Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology said, “When we develop such projects in the Himalayas such as hydro projects or roads and rail, in detailed project reports the glacier study data is never taken into consideration or included.” The government is building more than 500 miles of highway in Uttarkhand to improve access to several major Hindu temples, despite environmentalists’ objections to the massive forest clearance required, which can hasten erosion and raise the risk of landslides. A committee appointed by India’s Supreme Court and led by Chopra concluded last year that the government, in building the highway to the width of 10 meters, about 33 feet, had gone against the advice of its own experts at the Transport Ministry. The government had argued a wider road brought more economic dividends and was needed for potential deployment of large-scale military equipment to the disputed border with China. By the time the Supreme Court ruled that the road should be limited to 5.5 meters or about 18 feet, hundreds of acres of forest and tens of thousands of trees had already been cut, a report in the Indian news outlet The Scroll said. “When you have your own ministry experts telling you the Himalayan region roads should not have a tarred surface of more than 5.5 meters, and then to go against your own experts’ recommendations, then that is a serious matter,” Chopra said. “Unless the courts look into the issue of the sanctioning officials and the executing officials personally accountable, I don’t think the situation will change.” Trivendra Singh Rawat, the chief minister of Uttarakhand, warned against seeing the flooding as “a reason to build an anti-development narrative.” “I reiterate our government’s commitment to developing hills of Uttarakhand in a sustainable manner, and we will leave no stone unturned in ensuring the achievement of this goal,” Rawat said on Twitter. Exactly what caused the latest flooding was not clear as of Monday night, with the Indian government saying a team of experts would visit the site to investigate. Ranjeet Rath, the head of India’s geological survey, said initial information suggested a “glacial calving at the highest altitude.” Calving is the breaking of ice chunks from a glacier’s edge. Scientists studying satellite imagery from before and after the flooding said it was likely not caused by a glacial lake bursting, as no such lake was visible in the images. They said the disaster most likely began with the collapse of a rock slope that had become unstable from thawing of ice in recent summers, and such a landslide could have broken up part of a glacier. An avalanche could have dammed the river temporarily, creating a lake which then broke free, said Umesh K. Haritashya, a scientist who studies glacial hazards at the University of Dayton in Ohio. Avalanches also generate heat from friction, which can melt ice that lies in its path or is in the tumbling debris. “Basically it’s a landslide that is some fraction rock and some fraction ice,” said Dan Shugar, a geomorphologist at the University of Calgary in Alberta. “A lot of the ice melted. And it might have picked up a lot more.” The Raini village was in one of the areas hit hardest Sunday, where the 13-megawatt Rishiganga hydropower project was completely washed away. Afterwards, roughly 100 of the village’s 150 residents spent the night in the open. “We did not sleep in our houses out of fear that more water may come, rocks may shift, something more dangerous may happen,” said Rana, the village head. “We took our bedding up in the forest, lit some fires, and somehow passed the night.” The area was the site of a well-known environmental protest against deforestation in the 1970s. Protesters, a large number of them women, would hug trees to stop loggers from cutting them, in a movement that became known as “chipko,” or embrace. Rana said local residents also held protests against the construction of the Rishiganga power project, which began generating electricity last year, and they even filed court cases, but to no avail. They feared that the blasting of rocks would cause deadly landslides. “We used to hear blasting and see the rocks shift,” he said. “When this project was under construction, half of our village slid. We requested to be shifted from here to another place. The government said they would do it, but it never happened."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/before-himalayan-flood-india-ignored-warnings-of-development-risks-949215.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal's daughter duped of Rs 34,000 on ecommerce platform||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's daughter Harshita has allegedly been duped of Rs 34,000 by a man, who approached her as a buyer on an ecommerce platform, where she had put up a sofa on sale, police said on Monday. An FIR under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Civil Lines police station under the north district of the Delhi Police on Sunday after a complaint was received in this regard, they said. According to the police, the victim had put up a sofa for sale on an ecommerce platform. She was approached by a man who showed interest in making the purchase. To check if the account details shared by her were correct, he initially transferred a minimal amount of money into her account. Subsequently, the man sent a QR code to the seller and asked her to scan it so that the amount fixed under the deal could be transferred to her account but instead, Rs 20,000 got deducted from her account when she followed the instructions of the buyer, a senior police officer said. When she inquired about it, the man claimed that he had sent a wrong QR code by mistake and sent another link to her, asking her to follow the same procedure. But again an amount of Rs 14,000 got deducted from the seller's account when she scanned the QR code, the officer said. "Based on the complaint received, we have registered an FIR under the relevant sections of the IPC. An investigation has been initiated and we are trying to trace the suspect," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwals-daughter-duped-of-rs-34000-on-ecommerce-platform-949221.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||SC grants interim relief from arrest to AAP's Sanjay Singh in sedition case||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted protection from arrest to Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh in numerous FIRs filed against him in Uttar Pradesh for his alleged hate speech in August, wherein he reportedly accused the state government of favouring a certain class of society. The court, however, told him, "You are an MP so you should be careful in what you are speaking." The court said he can't divide people along the lines of caste and religion. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy issued a notice asking the Uttar Pradesh government why the FIRs against him should not be clubbed.  Singh approached the top court for quashing of a number of FIRs lodged against him in various districts of Uttar Pradesh after his press conference in August last where he claimed that the people of the state feel that "a specific caste is running the government". Senior Advocate Vivek Tankha, appearing for the MP, contended these are identical FIRs in 14 places. "These are due to speeches, Singh is a political person," he said. He submitted that since the petitioner was a Rajya Sabha member, sanction for prosecution should have been given by the Rajya Sabha chairman. On this, the bench said, "You should also consider while giving your speech whatever you want to say, you can't divide people on their caste and religion." The bench also said the UP government can approach Chairman Rajya Sabha for sanction for prosecution. The court decided to consider the matter again in March, saying that the matter needs to be decided expeditiously based on the nature of the issues being raised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-grants-interim-relief-from-arrest-to-aaps-sanjay-singh-in-sedition-case-949238.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Six killed, 11 injured in crash on highway in UP||Six people were killed and 11 others injured in a two-vehicle crash on the Varanasi-Jaunpur highway in Jalalpur area of Uttar Pradesh's Jaunpur district on Tuesday, police said. All the 17 people were travelling in a jeep after attending a cremation in Varanasi, they said. The injured have been admitted to a local hospital, where the condition of three is stated to be serious, police said. Those killed were identified as Amar Bahadur Yadav (58), Ram Singar Yadav (38), Munnilal (38), Indrajit Yadav (48), Kamala Prasad Yadav (60) and Ramkumar (65), they said. Additional Superintendent of Police (City) Sanjay Kumar said 112-year-old Dhanadei Devi, a resident of Jalalpur village in Sarai Khwaja area, had died and her son-in-law Lakshmi Shankar Yadav went to Manikarnika Ghat in Varanasi along with 17 people from his village to cremate her. Local police reached the spot after getting information about the accident and were joined in by rescue personnel. The truck driver escaped from the scene after the incident, the ASP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-killed-11-injured-in-crash-on-highway-in-up-949241.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Two men sentenced to 20 years in prison for raping mentally challenged teen in UP||A POCSO court in Fatehpur has sentenced two men to 20-year imprisonment for raping a 16-year-old mentally challenged girl in 2016. Additional District and Sessions Judge (POCSO) also imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 on each on the convicts Dinesh and Santram, Assistant Government counsel Devesh Srivastava said. The incident had taken place in a village in Hathgam area on December 22, 2016, he said. In another case, Additional district Judge (POCSO-4) Parul Srivastava awarded 10 years imprisonment to Antabh Lodhi for raping a 16-year old girl on January 24, 2014 in city area. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on the convict. In Mahoba, Additional District and Sessions Judge Santosh Kumar Yadav awarded 10 years imprisonment to Rohit Baghel for raping a 16-year old girl on February 7, 2018 in the city.The court also imposed a fine of Rs 13,000 on the convict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-men-sentenced-to-20-years-in-prison-for-raping-mentally-challenged-teen-in-up-949276.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Five rescued after house collapse in Delhi||Five people were rescued after a house collapsed in Sadar Bazar area of North Delhi on Tuesday morning, fire service officials said. A call about the house collapse was received at around 10.30 am and six fire tenders were rushed to the spot, said Delhi Fire Service Director Atul Garg. Five people have been rescued so far, of which three are in a critical state, he said, adding that search operations are underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-rescued-after-house-collapse-in-delhi-949278.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Partial shutdown in Kashmir on Afzal Guru’s death anniversary||Partial shutdown in Kashmir Valley on Tuesday marked the eighth death anniversary of Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru, who was secretly hanged in Delhi’s Tihar Jail this day in 2013. While shops, public transport, and other business establishments remained closed in the old city of Srinagar, private transport was seen plying almost normally. However, shops and business establishments remained open in civil lines areas of the city. Unlike previous years, this time the impact of the strike was far less in other district headquarters of Kashmir, reports said. Authorities had made elaborate security arrangements in Srinagar and other sensitive areas of the valley to maintain law and order. In the previous years, separatists would issue strike calls in advance on February 9 to press their demand for the return of Afzal’s mortal remains to his family. They would also call for a strike on February 11 demanding the return of the mortal remains of Maqbool Bhat, founder of the JKLF, who was hanged in the same prison on February 11, 1984. After both the executions, the bodies were buried within the precincts of the jail. However, since the abrogation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 in August 2019 and subsequent crackdown on separatists, no such strike calls have been issued. Even the local media doesn't publish any statements coming from separatist groups. Most of the separatist leaders have been jailed or gone in hibernation in the last two years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/partial-shutdown-in-kashmir-on-afzal-guru-s-death-anniversary-949288.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||HC seeks AIIMS response on plea to stop sewage treatment plant construction near residential colony||The Delhi High Court Tuesday sought AIIMS reply on a plea seeking that the construction of a sewage treatment plant (STP) near residential colony of Gautam Nagar be stopped as it will be a health hazard for the residents and lead to stench. Justice Prathiba M Singh asked the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) to file a detailed reply to the plea and listed the matter for further hearing on April 27. The court was hearing a plea by Gautam Nagar Residents Association challenging the unlawful action of the respondents, AIIMS authorities, by installing a sewage treatment plant (STP) situated just 30 feet away from the residential area. The court asked the petitioner why they have come so late as the construction work has been going for so long. To this, advocate Ajay Sharma, representing the residents association, said the work was going on in the basement and no one was aware about it and they have come to know about the plant recently and have given a representation to the authorities. Advocate Satya Ranjan Swain, representing AIIMS, said it was a premature petition and they have received the representation of the association and are preparing its reply which will be given to the petitioner after getting approvals from the higher authorities. The plea, filed through advocate Shafik Ahmed, said the STP is being installed near newly constructed Raj Kumari Amrit Kaur OPD and is just adjacent to the road dividing Gautam Nagar, that is, area of the petitioner and AIIMS. It said the installation of STP near the residential area is very detrimental to the health of the residents living in the area and there is an increase of possibilities for respiratory and skin diseases. “There is higher risk of inhabitants being irritable and moody. There is a higher risk of gastrointestinal. There is also a risk of prevalence of pathogenic airborne microorganisms originating from the waste water treatment plant. So the installation of STP within such a close proximity of the residential area called Gautam Nagar is a clear violation of fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” it said, adding that it also gives foul smell. The plea said there is no doubt that the health of atleast 20,000 people living in Gautam Nagar area will be put at jeopardy if the STP is installed in such a close proximity of the residential colony and sought to stop its construction there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-seeks-aiims-response-on-plea-to-stop-sewage-treatment-plant-construction-near-residential-colony-949289.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||UP CM Yogi Adityanath sends three ministers to Uttarakhand to coordinate flood relief works||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday sent a team of three ministers to Uttarakhand for better coordination with the state in carrying out relief works after the glacier disaster, an official spokesman said here. A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier possibly burst through its banks in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, leading to an avalanche and a deluge that ripped through the Alaknanda river system in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas. Twenty-eight bodies have been recovered so far and around 170 others are missing. "The chief minister has made a committee of three ministers to visit Uttarakhand for better coordination with the state. The members of the committee included Suresh Kumar Rana, Vijay Kashyap and Dharam Singh Saini, who have left for Uttarakhand on Tuesday," he said. Adityanath also constituted a team of officers led by Additional Chief Secretary, Home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi. A control room has also been established at the Relief Commissioners' office, he said. Control rooms have also been set up in districts affected by the tragedy and administration, police and irrigation department employees are deputed there. Rana said, "We will meet the Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat and work will be done in coordination to cremate those who lost their lives in the tragedy." Adityanath had on Monday directed officials to initiate effective action in collaboration with the Uttarakhand government for tracing people from the state who have gone missing in flash floods in the hill state, an official said.   During a high-level meeting convened at his official residence on Monday night, the chief minister said that his government is committed to provide all possible help to those affected by the disaster, including its own people as well as extending all possible help to the Uttarakhand government, the official spokesperson said. Adityanath had also talked to his Uttarakhand counterpart Rawat and assured him of all possible help, the spokesperson said. He announced that an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh will be given to the dependents of each of the natives of the state who have died in the incident from the Chief Minister's discretionary fund besides proper treatment to those injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-sends-three-ministers-to-uttarakhand-to-coordinate-flood-relief-works-949292.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||2 booked under MP's new anti-conversion law, 1 nabbed from UP||Madhya Pradesh Police have registered a case against two men under the state's new law which penalises religious conversions through fraudulent means, an official said on Tuesday. The accused allegedly used fake names to lure two minor girls from Mandsaur in MP on the pretext of marriage, raped them and asked them to convert their religion, he said. One of the accused was arrested last week from neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, the police said. A 16-year-old girl initially became friends with one of the accused after she received a call from an unknown number on her mobile phone, Suwasra police station's sub-inspector Ritesh Damor said. Later, she persuaded her 15-year-old friend living in the neighbourhood to run away from home with her. Both the girls left their homes on February 1 following which their parents filed a missing complaint at Suwasra police station, the official said. While searching for them, a team from Suwasra police station reached Delhi and got some clues about the location of the girls. The police team subsequently traced the girls to a room at Chandpur village in UP's Bijnor district last week, the official said. During questioning, the 16-year-old girl said she befriended a man, who had identified himself as Akash, after receiving a call from him about months back, Damor said. Later, the man called the girl and her friend to come to Bijnor on the pretext of marriage. The girls were allegedly raped and detained by the man and his friend, he said. The official said the girls also alleged that they were told to convert their religion for marriage. The girls also said they later found that Akash's real name was Irfan, he said. During the police raid in Bijnor last week, Irfan fled while his friend and co-accused Sahil (19) was arrested, the official said. A case has been registered against both the accused under sections for rape and abduction and provisions of the new anti-conversion law, he said. The Madhya Pradesh government last month promulgated the Freedom of Religion- 2020 ordinance which penalises religious conversions by use of misrepresentation, allurement, use of threat of force, undue influence, coercion or marriage or by any other fraudulent means. It provides for 10 years in jail in some cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-booked-under-mps-new-anti-conversion-law-1-nabbed-from-up-949298.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||197 persons missing, 20 dead in Uttarakhand flood: Home Minister Amit Shah||As many as 197 people are missing while 20 people have died due to floods in Uttarakhand, Union Home Minister Amit Shah told Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. In a separate tunnel in the NTPC project, it is estimated that around 25 to 35 people are stuck inside, he said, adding "rescue operation to evacuate these persons is going on a war footing and all-out efforts are simultaneously being made for searching missing persons". Making a statement in the House "regarding an avalanche in Chamoli District of Uttarakhand", the Union minister said these inputs were based on the information received till Monday 5 pm from the state government. Noting that an avalanche had occurred in the upper catchment of Rishiganga river, a tributary of Alaknanda riven in Chamoli District of Uttarakhand, which led to sudden rise in the water level of Rishiganga River, he said as per information, a total of 197 persons are reported missing which includes 139 are from the under-construction NTPC project, 46 people working on Rishi Ganga project and 12 villagers. He said in the financial year 2020-21, Rs 1041 crore has been allocated to the State of Uttarakhand under the State Disaster Risk Management Fund (SDRMF)and the first installment of the central share amounting to Rs 468.50 crore has been released to the State Government. The state government has reported that there is no danger of downstream flooding and the rise in water level has been contained, he said, adding the Centre and the State Government have been keeping a strict vigil on the situation. "It is observed from the satellite data (Planet Lab) of 7th February 2021 in catchment of Rishi Ganga river at the terminus of the glacier at an altitude of 5600m a landslide triggered a snow avalanche covering approximately 14 sq. km area and causing a flash flood in the downstream of Rishi Ganga river," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/197-persons-missing-20-dead-in-uttarakhand-flood-home-minister-amit-shah-949323.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Farmers’ protest finds echo in Uttar Pradesh wedding||The ongoing farmers' protest against the farm laws found an echo in a wedding in Uttar Pradesh's Amroha district. Though it was a wedding ceremony, for many, it appeared to be a protest against the new farm laws. While the groom Harmendra Singh drove a tractor to the venue of the wedding and also took the newlywed bride in the same, the wedding guests, who were also travelling in tractors, followed him carrying banners and posters supporting the ongoing agitation by the farmers. Posters in support of the farm agitation were also pasted on walls, doors and pillars at the venue of the wedding. Even the wedding invitation mentioned 'No Farmer, No Food''. The guests, who were present at the wedding, also raised slogans in support of the farmer's agitation. According to reports, Sardar Pyare Singh, a resident of Shahjahanpur village in Amroha district, had fixed the marriage of his son Harmedra with a girl of Bacharayun village in the same district. The marriage was solemnised on Monday.  ''Though we all wanted the marriage to be a grand event, everything changed after the agitation by the farmers began....we then decided that we would organise the marriage ceremony in such a way so as to show our solidarity with the agitation,'' Harmendra's elder brother said. Thousands of farmers have been on a dharna on the borders of Delhi for over two and half months in protest against the farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-finds-echo-in-uttar-pradesh-wedding-949343.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Collapse of rock mass weakened due to freezing may have caused Uttarakhand flash floods: Scientists||A rock mass, weakened due to years of freezing and thawing of snow, may have led to the creation of a weak zone, triggering its collapse that resulted in flash floods in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, initial observations by scientists of the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) suggest. The crashing rock mass also brought earth and mounds of snow with it. The friction may have resulted in heating, which could have caused the floods, the observations suggest. Scientists from the institute conducted a helicopter survey of the area to find clues as to what led to the deadly flash floods that swept everything in its way. So far, the flash floods have claimed 28 lives with around 170 people still missing. Kalachand Sain, Director of the WIHG, said the glaciers where the incident occurred feed the Rishi Ganga river that ultimately joins the Dhauli Ganga. "This region has a very steep gradient. Our observations suggest that the rock mass may have weakened due to freezing and thawing. This sometimes leads to the development of a weak zone and fractures. "As the rock mass weakened, the glacier and snow came down crashing, it resulted in flash floods," he said. The steep slopes of the mountains in the region further increased the intensity of the crash. Two teams of the WIHG comprising five glaciologists left for Joshimath on Monday to ascertain the reason behind the incident. An institute under the Department of Science and Technology (DST), the WIHG studies the Himalayan environment and its geology. Sain said an initial report will also be sent to the DST.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/collapse-of-rock-mass-weakened-due-to-freezing-may-have-caused-uttarakhand-flash-floods-scientists-949345.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Centre keeping strict vigil on Uttarakhand situation: Amit Shah in Parliament||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday informed the Parliament that the Centre and Uttarakhand government are keeping a strict vigil on the situation in the state following the avalanche in Chamoli even though there is no danger of any downstream flooding. Making a suo motu statement in the Rajya Sabha, Shah said that rescue operation to evacuate people trapped in the tunnels is going on and every effort is being made to search those missing. "The avalanche occurred on February 7 at around 10 AM in the upper catchment of Rishi Ganga river in Chamoli, which led to a sudden rise in the water level," he said. "The flash flood led to the washing away of a functional Rishiganga Hydro Project of 13.2 MW while affecting the under-construction 520 MW NTPC Hydro Power Project downstream at Tapovan on the river Dhauli Ganga," he said. "Initial information from the state government showed that 20 people have died and six have been injured so far. A total of 197 people are reported to be missing, which includes 139 at the under construction project of NTPC, 46 persons of the functional Rishiganga Project and 12 villagers," he informed. He also added that twelve people from the NTPC project site have been rescued, who were trapped in a tunnel besides 15 others from the Rishiganga project and in another tunnel of the NTPC project, around 25-35 people are suspected to be trapped. He said that 13 villages around the place of the incident have been cut off due to the washing away of one bridge. In these villages, necessary supplies and medical assistance is being provided through helicopters. He also informed the Parliament that Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself is monitoring the situation closely and both the Control Rooms of the Ministry of Home Affairs are monitoring the situation 24X7 and all possible help is being provided to the state. "Minister of State for Power R K Singh has visited the incident site and supervised the rescue and relief work. ITBP has set up their Control Room and 450 personnel of ITBP with all necessary equipment are engaged in rescue and relief operations," he said. "Five NDRF teams are at the place of incident. Eight teams of Indian Army, including one Engineer Task Force (ETF), are also carrying out rescue operations," he said. "One medical column with two ambulances are also deployed. One diving team of the Indian Navy has also reached the site. Five helicopters of Indian Air Force have also been engaged in rescue operations. A Control Room has been established at Joshimath," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-keeping-strict-vigil-on-uttarakhand-situation-amit-shah-in-parliament-949346.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Amit Shah rejects Chowdhury's claim that he sat on Tagore's chair, takes a swipe at Cong leaders||Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday rejected in Lok Sabha the claim by Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury that he sat on Rabindranath Tagore's chair during his visit to Visva Bharati. The minister said the record pertaining to this should be set right, as he produced documents to support his statement and sought Speaker Om Birla's permission to lay them before the House. "I have a letter from Visva Bharati's Vice-Chancellor where I have sought clarification from him and tell me after analysing the photos and videos whether I sat (on Tagore's chair) there or not. "He has very clearly stated that nothing of this sort has happened. The reference to the place I sat is a window and anyone can sit there," Shah said. Shah said that that "a former president of the country, (another former President) Pranab Mukherjee, (former Prime Minister) Rajiv Gandhi...and even I sat there (window)". "And when Bangladesh's Prime Minister paid a visit, she also sat at the same place and penned her comments," Shah said. Chowdhury had on Monday claimed in the House that Shah during his visit to Shantiniketan sat on Tagore's chair. Shah said that before speaking in the House, members should ascertain the facts. "It hurts the dignity of the House if something lifted from the social media is stated here," he said, adding the member who made the remarks committed the mistake due to the background of his party. "I did not sit there. But Jawaharlal Nehru sat on the same seat where Tagore used to sit. This is on record and the second photograph is of Rajiv Gandhi who is sitting on Tagore's sofa having tea," Shah said with photographs to support his rebuttal. Shah also rejected certain claims made by Chowdhury against BJP president J P Nadda. He said since Nadda is not a member of the House, he should not have been named.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amit-shah-rejects-chowdhurys-claim-that-he-sat-on-tagores-chair-takes-a-swipe-at-cong-leaders-949425.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Opposition asks govt to shed its 'arrogance' over farm laws||Opposition members on Tuesday asked the government in Lok Sabha to shed its "arrogance" over the three farm laws even as BJP MPs hailed the Centre for its welfare and pro-farmer measures. Speaking during the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President's address, Preneet Kaur of the Congress dubbed the three Acts, which have triggered protests, as black laws and asked the government to repeal them. She referred to "Khalistani" and "Maoists" barbs used by some people against a section of protesting farmers and said this was wrong while adding that a brother of a protester was a soldier who had laid down his life in the Galwan Valley clash with Chinese soldiers in Ladakh. "This government is a real threat to our democracy, not farmers," she said, asking the government to shed its arrogance. BJP's Dilip Saikia praised the government's welfare schemes for the poor and farmers. He focussed on the government's emphasis on boosting infrastructure in Assam and the Northeast in general, adding that the state has got an AIIMS. Several medical colleges have also been launched in Assam by the state dispensation, he said. During the China war in 1962, the then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru had left the entire Northeastern region to its fate, Saikia alleged and said it is the Modi government which has worked to boost connectivity, infrastructure and other development works there. He praised the annulment of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and also the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. TMC's Saugata Roy alleged that several Union ministers are doing "political tourism" in West Bengal. In an apparent reference to the upcoming state assembly polls, he said it was a battle between "Bengali and outsiders" and said the state cannot be ruled from Gujarat. He also took a jibe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi at his 'aandolan-jivi' jibe and said the BJP's ideological forebears never went to jail during the freedom struggle. Roy also demanded the repeal of the farm laws. BJP's Rita Bahuguna Joshi hailed the prime minister for his "foresight" in curbing the Covid-19 pandemic. While opposition members have been targeting him, Modi has been steadfast in his resolve to serve the poor and farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-asks-govt-to-shed-its-arrogance-over-farm-laws-949429.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Loud sounds and clouds of dust: Villagers recount horror of Uttarakhand flood disaster||“It is a miracle that I am alive. I was tossed aside by the impact of the landslide,” Godambari Devi, a resident of this remote village in Chamoli district. However, Godambari’s mother-in-law Amrita Devi was not that lucky. The 72-year-old Amrita was grazing goats a few metres ahead and was crushed under the debris. As Godambari regained her senses, massive boulders, trees and a sea of soil moved with immense force through the Rishiganga river washing away with it a concrete bridge that connected another village on the adjacent mountain. Godambari’s son Gaurav, who was nearby, narrowly missed being hit by a four-wheeler that was thrown up in the air due to the impact. "There was a lot of sound and suddenly everything was covered in clouds of dust," Jhooti Devi, a local resident, said. The 13.4 MW Rishiganga Hydel Power Project situated near the village was also destroyed. “The concrete bridge was washed away like a paper boat. The windows of our homes rattled,” said Devki Devi, also a resident of the village situated on the mountain slopes. It was in this village that Gaura Devi had launched the famous Chipko movement when local women hugged trees in a bid to prevent them from felling for development projects. Gaura Devi’s son Chander Singh and his family shifted to a cow shelter about 800 meters away in the higher reaches of the mountain, fearing a repeat of Sunday’s landslide. Rescue teams from the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have launched search and rescue operations. “We have been able to fish out four dead bodies from the debris,” Sher Singh Butola, Assistant Commandant, of the First Battalion of the ITBP said. However, there is no sign of Amrita Devi or other locals who are feared to be trapped under the debris, yet. Mamata Rana, 22, was alone at her home nestled in the upper regions of the mountain ranges when the landslide struck. “I do not want to stay here anymore. Our house is situated on rocks and you never know when the tragedy can strike again,” Rana said adding that it would be better if the government re-settles the village someplace safer. The village faced the brunt of floods in 2016 as well and the Rishi Ganga Project too was damaged leading to stoppage of power||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/loud-sounds-and-clouds-of-dust-villagers-recount-horror-of-uttarakhand-flood-disaster-949431.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Desperate search for survivors after Uttarakhand glacier disaster||Rescue workers struggled on Tuesday to dig away tonnes of rocks and mud to reach survivors in a choked Himalayan tunnel after a devastating flash flood likely triggered by a glacial burst. More than 170 people were still missing, two days after a wall of water and debris hurtled down a valley in the Uttarakhand, destroying bridges and roads, hitting two hydroelectric power plants and killing 32. The disaster has been blamed on rapidly melting glaciers in the Himalayan region caused by global warming. Building activity for dams and dredging riverbeds for sand and the clearing of trees for new roads -- some to beef up the defence on the Chinese border -- are other factors. Most of those missing were employees at two of the many hydro plants being built around Uttarakhand, a mountainous and ecologically fragile state slightly smaller than Switzerland. Hundreds of rescue workers were involved in the operation across the state, using helicopters equipped with surface-penetrating high-definition cameras, as well as sniffer dogs. On Tuesday the focus was attempting to locate and extract 34 workers who rescuers hoped were still alive in air pockets in a tunnel system filled with icy water and debris. Workers toiled throughout the day and as darkness fell the operation was ongoing. "We are trying to clear the slush inside the tunnel but it has been difficult," said rescue official PK Tiwari. "We are trying to use drones and other tools to get a clearer picture of the situation inside." Nearby, workers used heavy machinery to remove giant boulders from the road blocking the way to the second power plant where 35 people were missing. The plant was obliterated and is now a wasteland thickly coated with viscous grey mud. At a nearby village, four bodies were recovered, including that of a policeman. One who made it out was Rajesh Kumar, 28, who together with others clung to scaffolding rods in the tunnel for four hours before the water level fell and they were able to escape. "Suddenly there was a sound of whistling... there was shouting, people were telling us to come out. We thought it was a fire. We started running but the water gushed in. It was like a Hollywood movie," Kumar told AFP. "We just kept telling each other -- come what may, we must not let go of the rods," he said from his hospital bed. Shopkeeper Ramesh Negi was enjoying the Sunday morning sun when he heard a loud roar and saw a huge wall of water smash into and sweep away a bridge. Dozens of workers on the river bed and grazers leading their cattle along the mountain slopes disappeared beneath the sudden deluge, he recalled. "There was dust and screams all over," the 36-year-old told AFP. Mangra, another survivor, remembered hearing a loud, rumbling sound and the screams of other colleagues: "Run, run, run!" The 28-year-old scrambled out of the tunnel but six of his friends and neighbours from his village didn't make it. "It felt like the mountain was crashing and the Earth was moving," Mangra told AFP outside the tunnel, cuts and scrapes on his hands and legs. Twenty-five of the 32 bodies recovered were yet to be identified, officials said. Many of the victims are thought to be poor workers from hundreds of miles away in other parts of India. Netar Singh, 65, said that the body of his policeman brother Balbir, who worked at one of the power plants, was found only a few feet near his car. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. "He had called his family at 9 am and around 11 am we heard that the flood had struck.. There were mountains of debris at the plant and it took authorities around 24 hours to find his body," he said. He, like others, is cut off from his home village after a river bridge was swept away. Authorities were using ropeways to deliver food and were constructing a temporary bridge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/desperate-search-for-survivors-after-uttarakhand-glacier-disaster-949432.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand: Families await reunion with loved ones trapped in tunnel||They stand ashen-faced in small clusters near the devastating barrage of the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project, waiting for some news about their missing relatives. Camping at Tapovan since the glacier tragedy struck in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, the hope of being reunited with their missing kin brings them every morning to the banks of the Dhauli Ganga, half a kilometre from Tapovan, where intense efforts are underway to trace around 30-35 people trapped inside a tunnel that belongs to the project. One of the glum-faced bystanders is Dipak Nagwal of Kanchula village, whose sister's husband Sateshwar Singh, a contractual mechanic, was at work inside the tunnel at the time of the avalanche. His whereabouts are not known since the avalanche caught the workmen inside the tunnel unaware. The elder brother of Dipak's brother-in-law and other relatives are also staying with him at Tapovan in the hope of hearing some glad tiding about their missing kin. Every time a uniformed security man comes into view, they run towards him with their queries. However, the cluster returns disappointed as there is no news yet about Sateshwar. Three men of Chamoli's kimana village are also stuck inside the tunnel. Over 40 people from the village have been camping at Tapovan.  Darshan Singh Bisht, a resident of the village, said three of his relatives -- Arvind Singh, Ramkishan Singh and Rohit Singh -- are trapped in the tunnel.  Two months ago, the men, aged 18-20 years, joined a firm named Ritik, which worked at the site on contract for the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC). Their parents are waiting for their return. Standing at the tunnel gate, waiting to hear about his brother DS Bisht, Vijay Singh Bisht of Dak village said his restlessness and worries about the well-being of his brother are growing with every passing minute. He said advance equipment should have been used for clearing the debris inside the tunnel. That would have expedited the rescue operations, he said. Bhawan Singh Farswan (60) of Karchaun village has been coming to the tunnel site along the Dhauli Ganga river since Sunday to find out about a young man from his village, who, he said, is trapped in the tunnel. Two members of his family are also missing from the demolished Rishi Gana hydel project site at Raini, Farswan said. People from different parts of the country have gone missing in the tragedy, including 19 from Datunu village of the Jaunsar area in Dehradun district. Amar Singh of Datunu, who has come to enquire after his fellow villagers, said the entire village is in a state of shock after the calamity. "A total of 25 residents of my village worked at the NTPC project site, of whom six had a day off on Sunday and were luckily saved, but the rest are trapped inside the tunnel," Singh said. The scene at Raini, where 46 people went missing at the Rishi Ganga project site, is similar. People have gathered there to find out about their relatives. Four bodies were recovered at Raini on Tuesday, State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) commandant Navneet Singh Bhullar said, adding that one of the bodies was that of a police constable. "The daunting task of clearing the debris inside the tunnel at Tapovan is being dealt with by a multi-agency team of security personnel and we hope to make a headway," he said. The death toll from the Uttarakhand glacier disaster has climbed to 31 with five more bodies recovered, while around 175 people are still missing, officials said on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-families-await-reunion-with-loved-ones-trapped-in-tunnel-949438.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand glacier burst: 13 villages lose road connectivity||Thirteen villages in the Himalayan ranges have lost road connectivity as five bridges, including one on the road outside the village and stretching to the China border were washed away during Sunday’s landslide triggered by a glacier burst. Raini village is settled on two mountains separated by the river Rishiganga, which meets river Dhauliganga. Sunday’s landslide washed away a concrete bridge connecting the two villages, snapping road connectivity and forcing the government to press helicopters into service to deliver food supplies. “This is Raini Chak Subhai and across the river is Raini Chak Lata,” Chander Singh, a local resident, told DH. Besides the concrete bridge, four cable-stayed bridges – a common feature in these mountain ranges – were also damaged. "Raini Chak Lata, Pang, Suki, Bhallagaon, Suraithota, Tolma, Long Segdi (Tamak) and Jumma –located across the river Rishiganga have lost road connectivity, Sher Singh Butola, Assistant Commandant, First Battalion," ITBP said. Villages Jugju, Juwagwad, Bhanyal, Gahar and Aira across the river Dhuliganga too have no road connectivity. Several installations of the Army, ITBP and Border Roads Organisations too are located across the two rivers and currently have no road connectivity. “We have pressed helicopters into service and they have been evacuating those requiring medical help and airdropping food supplies,” Butola said. Chetan Rana and his brother Ravi cannot attend school as it is located across the river in Raini Chak Lata. “It has been a few days that we had resumed school after the closure due to coronavirus,” Ravi said pointing to the remnants of the bridge that was the sole connectivity across the river. A house located on the edge of the road too was washed away, locals said. Kaleram’s brothers Jaiprasad and Harender were posted as security guards at the Rishiganga hydel project and have been missing since Sunday. “The security office was located near the bridge and now it is gone under the debris,” Kaleram said watching the rescue operations in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-glacier-burst-13-villages-lose-road-connectivity-949445.html
09-02-2021||North and Central||By keeping mum over agitating farmers’ death, PM made fun of their martyrdom: Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday accused Prime Minister Narendra of trying to make fun of farmers' martyrdom by not speaking a word on their deaths during the agitation against the three central farm laws. "Instead of speaking a word on the death of more than 100 farmers, PM Modi has tried to make fun of their martyrdom, which is condemnable," Gehlot said in a tweet. He said before independence, the RSS had always kept a distance from the freedom movement and so after the independence, Jan Sangh and BJP do not understand the importance of movements. In another tweet, Gehlot said Mahatma Gandhi used to agitate against the British for the demands of the country. The prime minister calling protestors ''aandolan jivi'' is a proof of his anti-democratic thinking. “The foundation of India is made up of movements,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/by-keeping-mum-over-agitating-farmers-death-pm-made-fun-of-their-martyrdom-gehlot-949458.html
09-02-2021||Oasis||Less is more||It is a common observation that if our wardrobe is not crammed full, it’s easier to choose the outfit or if our desks are less cluttered we can focus more on the task at hand. Marie Kondo, Japanese organizing consultant, in her popular TV show, encourages people to get rid of items in their homes/closets that no longer have a purpose (or no longer “spark joy”) and keep items that are purposeful and meaningful. As a matter of fact, owning less is good but wanting less is even better.  Now coming to the clutter of internal kind, the worries and buried emotions like anger and hatred that populate the mind also result in unproductive thinking patterns and no longer spark joy. This mental clutter is self-sabotaging and impedes our creativity and destroys our peace of mind. The conversation purported to be between the Buddha and his disciple illustrates the benefit of decluttering the mind. After observing Buddha’s sideways sleeping posture for several days, one of his disciples asked him how he manages not to move this way or that way and maintain the same posture all night. He was also wondering if the Buddha is asleep at all or simply maintaining the posture all night. Gautam Buddha said, “Since I have cleared my mind of clutter, my body has found the right posture while asleep. You are searching for the right posture by simply turning and tossing of the body. In reality, it is your mind which is turning and tossing. Since my mind is decluttered, my body lies down like a corpse. Have you seen any corpse changing its posture?” Zen Buddhist philosophy of ‘less is more’ promotes a minimalist lifestyle as well as a clutter-free mind for harmonious living. It is about subtracting unnecessary things or thoughts and adding meaningful ones. It is necessary that we minimize the layers of masks as much as possible and be the kind of person we expect others to be.  Of course, more is less only in the case of love, love for Mother Earth and her inhabitants. For everything else, less is more.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/less-is-more-949171.html
09-02-2021||Panorama||What enmity does Modi have with farmers? Hanuman Beniwal asks Modi to withdraw farm laws||Hanuman Beniwal, the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) chief, has been a vocal supporter of PM Narendra Modi, but he quit the NDA over the farm bills issue. Beniwal, an influential Jat leader in central and northern Rajasthan had helped tilt the 2019 Lok Sabha polls decisively in favour of BJP. Speaking to DH’s Sagar Kulkarni, Beniwal alleged that he was given a false Covid-19 positive report and could not attend Parliament on the day the farm bills were passed.   Why did you leave the NDA? On the bills brought before Parliament earlier, I supported the BJP and NDA, including on Article 370 and Jammu and Kashmir. But these three farm bills, when they were brought before Parliament, none of the NDA allies were consulted. The BJP should have consulted all parties on issues that could become controversial and generate such impassioned reactions. The PM could have called a meeting of the NDA. The farm laws were brought in through the Ordinance route and then rushed through in Parliament. The day the bills were passed, my coronavirus report was also falsely reported as positive. I got myself tested again the same day -- both RT-PCR and antibody – and both tests certified that I did not have Covid-19. I was allowed to go to the Lok Sabha three days later, but by that time the government had got the farm bills passed. A reading of the bills makes it clear that they will not help in doubling farmers’ income. It is clear that big companies will create land banks and seize the lands of the farmers. These laws are not in favour of farmers. They will encourage black marketing, and markets will close down. This is the reason I quit the NDA. I had warned them, written letters, and met the top BJP leadership and urged them to take back the bills. My demand is that the government should accede to the farmers’ demand and repeal the three bills; pass a separate law to ensure that farmers get MSP and implement the Swaminathan Committee report in its true spirit.   Will you quit your Lok Sabha seat as well? I have not decided on it yet. But I have told the farmers that if required, I will do so for their cause. This is not my agitation, it is being led by the farmers’ unions and the RLP has extended support to it. I do not doubt the PM’s leadership, but I cannot be part of an alliance where the voice of our party is not heard. If he can scrap Article 370, what enmity does he have with the farmers? He should listen to the farmers, they have laid down their lives in the bitter cold in Delhi. In these six states – Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh – NDA has won more than 120 seats. How can you say a handful of farmers are protesting? And their MPs make outrageous comments, saying terrorists have infiltrated the agitation, farmers are enjoying biryani, and they are waving AK-47s! Such statements are a clear insult to farmers. They will not tolerate it. It is my request to the government – do not play with fire. It is up to the government what it wants to do, but we are with the farmers and fighting for their rights. Rajasthan government has passed its own laws to negate the Centre’s farm laws. Rajasthan government is merely pretending to help the farmers. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot even sat on a ‘dharna’ to awaken the farmers. Were we asleep? We have been agitating on the streets for such a long time. It is just a case of oneupmanship, just to show that Congress is also supporting the farmers’ cause. Congress leaders brought cycles in a truck near the border and cycled for 100 meters and claimed to undertake a cycle yatra. Congress has been exposed completely. It has no standing in the state. I am the son of a farmer, we are standing shoulder-to-shoulder with the farmers under our own party flag. How is the Gehlot government functioning in Rajasthan? Complete zero. There is a tacit understanding between Gehlot and former CM Vasundhara Raje. Gehlot has allowed her to continue to stay in the chief minister’s residence by allotting it to her. Her loyalists have floated a separate front in the state. She had even helped Gehlot by asking her supporters to back him when he was in trouble last year. This tacit understanding between them has been going on for the past 22 years. The people of Rajasthan have seen through all this and will teach both of them a lesson. What will be the stand of RLP in the 2023 Assembly elections? The RLP will win big against both Congress and BJP. We will contest all the seats in 2023. The fate of the smaller parties has been uncertain in Rajasthan. Parties such as BSP merged with Congress. We have seen smaller parties joining BJP as well. Rajasthan did not have its own regional outfit. RLP is the first party to keep the state’s interests at the forefront. BSP is an outsider, so are Communists. These parties of outsiders keep on merging with bigger parties. RLP will give Rajasthan a new alternative. We are performing the role of the opposition in Rajasthan, not BJP. It is the habit of BJP to decimate smaller parties. Congress is no different. But RLP will not be decimated. Our aim is to bring RLP to power in the state in 2023.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/what-enmity-does-modi-have-with-farmers-hanuman-beniwal-asks-modi-to-withdraw-farm-laws-949169.html
09-02-2021||Panorama||Rebuild governance in Bengaluru||What describes Bengaluru? More than 2.35 lakhs unauthorised buildings and around 2000 slums, nauseating sewage-laden rivers passing through the city, flooding, traffic woes, inadequate parking facility, deserted skywalks, dilapidated Government assets (Markets) fetching very low income to the BBMP, decaying inner-core city, the encroachment of lakes and more! Bengaluru’s decentralization through satellite towns remained a pipe-dream, though we spoke of it since the 1950s. Surprisingly, there has not been a single audit done on the overall implementation of the past Master plan proposals. Until now Bengaluru has lost 830 Sq Kms of green area since 1984. Bengaluru, with its 243 wards within 15 zones under the governance of the BBMP Act-2020, should effectively integrate with the provisions made in various other acts, and most importantly, the Karnataka Town and Country Planning (KTCP) Act. It’s a welcome move to have the MLAs and MPs be the representatives of BBMP, since they could also share their vision and use their office to influence central or state governments. Generally, an efficient city evolves with the improvement of each ward in all dimensions! Unfortunately, the Bengaluru Master Plan pauses vaguely at the Planning District (PD) level with general proposals, wherein, each PD constitutes 15 to 20 wards! At present, the developmental proposals at the ward level are very vague, short-term, adhoc in nature! Hence, there is no clear idea as to how each ward should be developed in terms of aesthetics, infrastructure, traffic management, parking, parks, and how these should be developed during the first, second and fifth years so that each ward’s development converges with the Master plan at city level! Hence, a “Comprehensive Ward Level Spatial Action Plan (CWLSAP)” need to be prepared for each ward by BBMP with the help of multi-disciplinary professionals in coordination with various government departments, bearing valid suggestions given by citizen groups/elected representatives!  For effective governance, the city corporators should be guided by “Comprehensive Ward level spatial action plans”. BBMP should rejuvenate the Inner city, monetise its assets, implement skywalks/parking lots at appropriate locations, improve parks. The BMRDA should be further strengthened. A new urbanisation policy should be unveiled! The Master plan-2015, that was prepared in 2008 is no longer relevant. The draft Master plan-2031 is pending for approval from the past four years. Hence, it should be revised. The City Mobility Plan (CMP) was prepared without much primary survey by churing out the 2005 data and was later approved. Hence, it is advisable to prepare a New City Mobility Plan (CMP), to put an end to the ambiguity at various levels of Bengaluru’s Urban transport governance! Though the National Urban Transport Policy (NUTP) envisages the creation of Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (UMTA), many metros including Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, etc., couldn’t pass the UMTA bill due to practical difficulties. The proposed UMTA bill may overlap with certain provisions of BBMP (and other authorities) and may also contravene with the provisions of 74th Amendment to Constitution. Hence, it’s rather pragmatic to constitute Metropolitan Planning Committee (MPC) with Bangalore Metropolitan Region Development Authority (BMRDA) as its secretariat and the Bangalore Metropolitan Land Transport Authority (BMLTA) as the transportation unit under BMRDA, more at a planning and advisory role--to address the traffic and transportation issues, and to prepare transportation plans and various transport policies. The future of Bengaluru depends on the strength and vision of BMRDA, as it has a 360-degree understanding of Bengaluru. The Chief Minister, who is the Chairman of the BMRDA, should do everything to strengthen it by creating a robust institutional structure. A new urbanisation policy should be unveiled by the government for the coherent development of Bengaluru and other emerging cities for a regionally balanced development of Karnataka! (The writer is an urban planner. Views are personal)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/rebuild-governance-in-bengaluru-949170.html
09-02-2021||Panorama||Oil price: Pundits’ forecasts as good as astrologers’ predictions ||Over the years, oil pundits have realised that if their prediction on prices turn out to be right, it is by chance and not because of any great insight. It is no different this year, as an analysis of recent forecasts by pundits and different government agencies shows.  To the surprise of all, Brent price has gone north of $60 per barrel this week. Will it continue to go up or fall, and to what level in either direction? What will be the average price of oil in 2021? Current predictions see the price range from $50 to $65. India’s recently announced Budget assumed the higher end.  The US Energy Information Administration (EIA)’s Brent price forecast for 2021 is $53/b, $4 above its earlier forecast. At the beginning of 2020, when no one expected the pandemic, the EIA had predicted that Brent would be $65/b. The actual average price for 2020 turned out to be $41.80/b.  The latest monthly poll of 50 analysts and economists by Reuters shows that Brent is expected to average $54.47/b in 2021. In 2020, a similar poll of analysts had predicted it to be $63.48/b before the pandemic. After the pandemic broke out, it predicted $35.84/b. Goldman Sachs is bullish on oil and predicting Brent Price to average $65/b in 2021. How good was its forecast for the second quarter of 2020? It had predicted an average price of $20/b, it actually turned out to be $30/b.  These three examples show how predictions of oil pundits based on the sound argument is no better than that any astrologer could make without any expertise. In 2020, there was an unprecedented and historic drop in petroleum demand due to the ‘black swan’ event of the pandemic. Despite such a major shock to supply/demand, oil price movement has not been impacted, unlike during the previous two oil disruptions when prices skyrocketed.  In 1973, the Organisation of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC) embargoed mainly the US for its support to Israel during the Yom Kippur war and also cut production. In 1977/78 again, there was oil production disruption in the wake of the Iranian revolution. Oil supply loss during these two disruptions was considerably less than the pandemic-related demand loss by orders of magnitude. Still, contrary to the predictions of most pundits, oil prices recovered in 2020 after falling to a single digit.  According to the International Energy Agency (IEA), the drop in demand for oil was around 8.8 million barrels per day in 2020. Still, Brent price averaged $41.80/b over the year. On April 21 last year, Brent hit a low of $9.12/b while the US benchmark crude closed at minus $38/b at the end of that month. This irrational price movement was only because of the imperfection of the futures market rather than any fundamental supply/demand imbalance.  When we analyse the annual Brent price for the last 10 years, we find two of the lowest prices -- of $43.64 in 2016 and $41.80 in 2020. Unlike in 2020, oil demand was actually rising in 2016. There was one thing in common between these two low oil prices. During these two years, there was an attempt made by one or the other producer to gain a bigger market share -- in 2016, it was Saudi Arabia; in 2020, Russia. However, in the history of oil, there has never been a crisis like the one in 2020. Besides the dramatic demand drop, the de facto leader of OPEC, Saudi Arabia, and the leader of 10 non-OPEC oil-exporting countries, Russia, had different production strategies. This resulted in a price war for a short period. Russia wanted to maximise production to kill the US shale industry. Saudi Arabia wanted to reduce production to support higher prices. Despite such fundamental differences, thanks to the initiative of Trump, OPEC+ agreed to reduce supplies by 10 mmbd to firm up prices.  With the global roll-out of different vaccines in record time, there is some optimism that oil demand in 2021 will be considerably higher than in 2020. All three major forecasts -- by the IEA, the US EIA and OPEC – say that oil demand will be about 5.5 to 6.0 mmbd above 2020, but below 2019 levels. However, the OPEC+, instead of increasing oil production as agreed earlier by 2 mmbd, decided to increase it by only 0.5 mmbd. Unless there is some unexpected geopolitical event, there is ample spare capacity to meet any rise in oil demand in 2021. Currently, OPEC+ has the unintended advantage of limited production from sanctions-hit Iran, civil war-hit Venezuela and Libya. This has helped OPEC+ to adhere to production quotas agreed since May last. But one or the other producer can always break discipline and raise production.   The IEA report shows that OPEC needs to produce about 28.4 mmbd to meet the likely demand in 2021. This is 5 mmbd higher than its production in 2020. OPEC has the capacity to produce as much as 34 mmbd. With such a surplus capacity, it is easy to develop a scenario in which oil price can fall. On January 6, the Saudis unilaterally decided to cut production by 1 mmbd for February and March. Such a ‘new year gift’ to fellow OPEC+ members has created a new uncertainty. It has become impossible to guess how far Saudi Arabia will go to support higher prices.   Like during the first quarter of 2020, when OPEC+ failed to agree on a production quota, the current pact may collapse in 2021. Even then, it is unlikely that price will fall below $30/b. This is because as oil price falls below $30/b, at least 4 mmbd of oil capacity with marginal cost higher than $30/b will be shut off and there will be better supply/demand balance. Since shale oil becomes economical to produce when price goes above $50/b, supplies will increase and there will be pressure on the oil price. Thus, the oil price will more than likely range between $45/b and $55/b this year. But don’t bet on it.  (The writer is a former governing council member of Manipal Institute of Technology and an international oil expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/oil-price-pundits-forecasts-as-good-as-astrologers-predictions-949490.html
09-02-2021||Panorama||Conservation of India’s five big cats||Wildlife in India is fighting a losing war with land conversion, deforestation, industrialization and illegal wildlife trade. The big cats are no exception to this. India is the habitat of five big cats, namely, the Royal Bengal Tiger (Panthera tigris), the Asiatic Lion (Panthera leo), the Indian Leopard (Panthera pardus), the Snow Leopard (Panthera uncia), and the Indo-Chinese Clouded Leopard (Neofelis nebulosa).  The umbrella legislation that protects wildlife is the Wildlife Protection Act 1972. It has six schedules that enlist the animals and plants that require human interventions. Schedule I and II list the species that require absolute protection. All the big cat species are listed in Schedule I, ensuring the maximum protection and indicating that their habitats are in danger.  The tiger’s range is restricted to pockets of wilderness scattered around eastern Asia. In India, hunting of tigers was totally restricted by 1970 and Project Tiger, was initiated by the government of India in 1973. A recent tiger census report indicates an increase in the tiger population from 2,226  in 2014 to 2,967 in 2018 – a clear result of tiger conservation efforts. At the start of the 19th century, the global wild tiger population was above 10,000. This number has dwindled to about 4,000 in 2018. This figure itself indicates that tiger conservation has still a long way to go before it can be deemed successful. Asiatic lions are only seen in Gujarat.  Once the species had a wide range across most of South Asia. But rampant poaching and habitat destruction has contracted their habitat only to the agro-pastoral landscape Saurashtra, covering nine districts in Gujarat. The unique Asiatic lions are conserved and there has been a rise in their population from 523 in 2015 to 674 in 2020. Community participation has been key to this success story. Currently, there is an active debate on the relocation of lions from Gujarat to other parts of India having similar ecology. Lions are pack hunters and competition between males to occupy territories is normal. In this context, relocating some lions to other spaces is logical and it will also decrease the competition. The leopard is another big cat which stays hidden from the national conservation focus on Asiatic Lions and Royal Bengal Tigers. Current estimate shows, leopard population in India has seen a 60% growth in the period of 4 years from 8,000 in 2014 to 12,852 in 2018. The highest leopard populations are in the state of Madhya Pradesh (3,421) followed by Karnataka (1,783) and Maharashtra (1,690). Wildlife conflict is prominent with leopards because of their attacks on humans and livestock in absence of their natural prey in their diminished native forests.  Snow leopards, the high altitude big cats are shy but excellent hunters. Because of their mountainous habitat range, accurate assessment of their population size is difficult. One estimate suggests that their population size ranges between 450 to 500 individuals in the Himalayan landscape of India. Though the population of this species is dwindling due to shrinkage of their natural mountain-forest habitat, the government of India has just started to look into their conservation plans. According to a 2020 report, Indian’s first snow leopard conservation effort is about to be launched in the state of Uttarakhand.  Clouded leopards are named after their distinctive markings of ellipse spots partially edged in black. Clouded leopards are seen in tropical forests at elevations of around 3,000 meters. They extensively use tree canopies for resting and hunting. In India, this elusive species of big cat can only be spotted in mountainous rain forest tracks in the states of Sikkim, West Bengal, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura. They have a population size of less than 10,000 individuals and are under imminent threat of extinction due to illegal poaching, illegal wildlife trade and habitat destruction. All the big cats of India are under pressure due to fragmented forests and rapidly disappearing wilderness in the name of development. Though the conservation efforts for tigers and Asiatic lions are gaining momentum, little has been done for other big cats such as the snow leopard and the clouded leopard. Protection of all the five big cats needs to be prioritised. (The writers are Dean and Assistant Professor, respectively, at Jindal School of Environment & Sustainability, O.P. Jindal Global University, Haryana)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/conservation-of-india-s-five-big-cats-949491.html
09-02-2021||Right in the Middle||Shades of grey||I have had a puritanical upbringing, hence frequently use euphemisms. In my world, a petticoat is “innerwear” and a partner, “a friend”. Thankfully, I still use “legs” and “buttocks” unlike unmarried Victorian old ladies, who referred to the aforementioned as “that with which I walk” and “that on which I sit”, respectively.  A few months ago, I connected with an artist on Facebook (let’s call him Dorian Grey). He had a colourful persona, with wild unkempt locks and eccentric mannerisms. The catchphrase, “I’m too old for this!” was routinely applied to this activity and that attitude. Dorian would share random nuggets of information (for e.g. The Mongolian Death worm can grow to be five-feet long and kills its prey with an electric shock from its eyes), along with the nonchalant refrain, “What am I supposed to do with this information?”  In a few weeks, I was introduced to Dorian’s pretty doctor girlfriend, Sibyl Vane. They were warm and friendly; soon, the three of us became online buddies.  When the footloose couple invited me to join their WhatsApp group, “Inner Circle”, I nearly burst with joy. In a short time, I had weaselled my way into the inner-chambers of Sibyl and Dorian’s heart. I took this development as an ode to my personal magnetism.  My first couple of hours in the group was blissful. Dorian requested me to provide my “Pictroduction”, which is picture cum introduction. I happily obliged. I was welcomed cordially, and my hobbies were generously admired. I basked in the warmth of this newfound attention.  My aura of bliss soon began to wane. Over the next few hours and days, new members began to flood the “exclusive” group. To my ego-puffed self, none seemed to possess particular charisma or distinctive characteristics! And lavish praise was heaped on every other new insider. My pride took a severe beating.  Then, the filth began. Explicit memes, which would make anyone blush, were shared by my new friends. The group was deluged with unclad pictures of women sporting “come-hither” looks. The photos lacked artistic appeal; the comments were anything but poetic.  My scandalised self beat a hasty retreat. A concerned Dorian messaged me, wanting to know if I was okay. I replied that I was, and mumbled something about cutting down on distractions. I didn’t tell Dorian that I had seen him in all his fifty shades of grey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/shades-of-grey-949168.html
09-02-2021||Right in the Middle||Alive in our memories||The dead are not dead. They are very much alive. Dr Prabhushankara headed the Prasaranga of Mysore University while H M Nayak was the director of the Kannada Institute. Their names had become synonymous with these institutions. While Nayak was known for his stiff upper lip, Prabhushankara saw humour in every situation like all ‘humour-mongers’ do.  The Prasaranga building needed urgent repair. He called the university executive engineer and took him round to show wherever immediate attention was required. He told the officer, “See, Prasaranga is full of cracks and the biggest crack is in this room!” There was a huge guffaw. A N Murthy Rao, the doyen of  Kannada letters, was nearing 100. He was born in 1900. Delivering the felicitation speech in the function arranged, Prabhushankara said, “Murthyrayare, you die in 2000, so that the critics would remember your DOB and DOD, without any confusion”. Murthy Rao was alert even at 98. Pat came to the repartee, “Prabhushankara asked me to die in 2000, to help the critics; but I will not oblige!” The audience was in splits. As he promised he lived up to 103. The chief editor of the Mysore University English-Kannada dictionary was J R Lakshmana Rao. This was in the 1970s, an era of black-coloured phones. JRL had kept a red phone on his table. Looking at the red phone before Rao Prabhushankara said, “Lakshman Rao, you’re an armchair communist”. Rao would laugh heartily, though he was a card-holding communist.  Prabhushankara was a well-known platform speaker. After introducing him to the audience if the compere asked him to speak ‘two words’ (eradu mathu), Prabhushankara would pretend to take it literally and say, “If I have to speak ‘two words’, I will say ‘Thank you’; if ‘four’, then ‘Thank you very much’”. The regaled audience would sit attentively to listen to him further. Prabhushankara has two books on humour, one in Kannada and one in English, besides innumerable works of serious literature. Murthy Rao, Lakshman Rao, H M Nayak and Prabhushankara – have all passed on. But the recollection of their times enlivens our day and sweetens the unpalatable draught of mortality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/alive-in-our-memories-949489.html
09-02-2021||Second Edit||Sero-survey: Need to recalibrate strategy?||The results of the third national serological survey conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) have provided much information that will be useful in the continuing fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. The survey, which was conducted from December 17 to January 8 to check for antibodies against the coronavirus, has found that 21.5% of the population has evidence of antibodies to the pathogen. This means that nearly 300 million people have possibly had the infection, though the national Covid-19 tally is just over 10 million. The huge difference shows that a very large number of people had infections with mild symptoms or no symptoms at all. While there was a three-fold increase of infections for the general population after the second survey, the increase for the 10-27 age group was five-fold. Health workers, including doctors, also had infections above the national average.  While the results show that large numbers of people have gained immunity, a better way of looking at them would be to consider that a much larger population is still vulnerable. That underlines the importance of vaccinations which have started, and of the need to continue with the Covid-19 protocols without complacency. It is important to continue to wear masks, to observe hygiene and to maintain social distance. This is especially so because there is still no clear understanding about how long the antibodies would be present among the people who are now found to have them. There is also the risk of the virus mutating and variants emerging. The increasing infections among the younger age group would necessitate a recalibration of the present strategy which had paid more attention to older people. There is a view that the younger persons should get vaccination earlier than scheduled. The third survey covered more villages than the earlier one and so the findings will be useful in deciding the relative numbers of villages and urban areas for vaccination.  It may also be too early to conclude that the decline of Covid-19 cases in the last few months is because of the increase in immunity among the general population. There is a welcome reduction in the positivity rate from 8.89% in August to 5.42% in February. In the last three weeks, no case has been reported from 48 districts across the country. The reasons for the decline are still being studied. But it should be noted that the weekly positivity rate of eight states is higher than the national average of 1.82%. Kerala and Maharashtra have, of late, contributed to 70% of the active cases in the country. The containment strategy should now concentrate on these two states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/sero-survey-need-to-recalibrate-strategy-949164.html
09-02-2021||Second Edit||Bring the corrupt in BDA to book||The Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has been a den of corruption right from its inception in 1976, and the unearthing of a Rs 3,000-crore scam recently is only the latest episode in a long saga, perhaps even just the tip of an iceberg that might be bigger than what it seems current. Though Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced in the Assembly that the BDA would be cleaned up within three months, such promises made by his predecessors have not materialised. One scandal after another has tumbled out of it with unfailing regularity. The BDA, which replaced the erstwhile City Improvement Trust Board (CITB), is tasked with “planning, regulating, controlling and facilitating urban development in Bengaluru metropolitan area to ensure sustainable and orderly growth and transform the city into a global destination with superior infrastructure and better quality of life”. In reality, the BDA, along with Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), has contributed in no small measure to the city’s decline from a ‘pensioner’s paradise’ to an unliveable city. Successive chief ministers and BDA commissioners, barring a few, have viewed the authority as a cash cow, to be milked dry at the cost of Bengaluru’s sustainable development. In the current scam, BDA officers had “hidden” 300 acres of land, to be illegally sold without the knowledge of the government. The malaise of corruption is so deep that recently, the police arrested a deputy secretary, Shive Gowda, and three other officers for running a parallel BDA office from private premises and illegally allotting sites without following due process. The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) had unearthed a large amount of cash and unaccounted wealth during a raid on the house of a land acquisition officer, B Sudha. Though such raids and arrests have taken place in the past, too, nothing significant has come out of them and it is soon back to business as usual because the corrupt often enjoy the patronage of senior officers and the political hierarchy. The audacity of this lobby can be gauged from the fact that the BDA commissioner had some time ago issued a circular barring his officers from sharing any documents or participating in any inquiry by the ACB, only to be struck down by the court. The BDA was also recently pulled up by the Chief Justice of Karnataka for the undue delay in implementing High Court orders. While Yediyurappa’s move to amend the relevant Act to enable the transfer of BDA employees outside the authority may be part of the solution, there can be no permanent end in sight unless the government prosecutes the corrupt and doles out exemplary punishment to them, starting with dismissal from service. The question is, does the government have the will?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/bring-the-corrupt-in-bda-to-book-949486.html
09-02-2021||South||First phase of Andhra Pradesh Panchayat elections under way||Polling for 2,723 panchayats in Andhra Pradesh was underway with people standing in queues to cast their vote early on Tuesday. Polling began at 6.30 AM and will go on till 3.30 PM while counting of votes will begin at 4 PM, an official said. Elections are also being held to elect 20,157 ward members. The polls will be conducted in four phases till February 21 with the first one being held on Tuesday. According to the Panchayat Raj Department, elections were to be held for 3,249 posts of panchayat sarpanchs, 525 have been unanimously elected, while no nomination was filed for a village in Nellore district. As many as 7,506 candidates are contesting for sarpanch posts and 43,601 are in the fray for ward members. The elections are being held using ballot paper and without any political party symbols. The department had said 29,732 polling stations were set up, out of which 3,458 have been identified as sensitive and 3,594 hypersensitive. All necessary precautions are in place as per Covid-19 protocol amid tight security and PPE kits will be provided to voters infected by the virus, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/first-phase-of-andhra-pradesh-panchayat-elections-under-way-949222.html
09-02-2021||South||Sasikala reaches Chennai from Bengaluru after 23-hour road trip||Expelled AIADMK leader VK Sasikala on Tuesday arrived here, 23 hours after her departure from Bengaluru, where she had served a four year jail term in a corruption case and also underwent treatment for Covid-19. The 65-year-old former confidante of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa arrived at T Nagar around 7 am on Tuesday. Her nephew and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) leader TTV Dhinakaran, who indicated Sasikala might contest elections, said his efforts to "retrieve" the AIADMK will continue and asserted that the aim was to ensure that DMK did not come to power in the coming Assembly polls in the state. Top actor Rajinikanth had enquired about Sasikala's health with him on Monday, he told reporters here. Earlier, Sasikala had left the Karnataka capital by car on Monday morning and was accorded a grand reception by her supporters all along the way, till she reached the city this morning. Before reaching home, she visited the residence of AIADMK founder and late Chief Minister M G Ramachandran at Ramapuram here and paid floral tributes to his portrait and garlanded a statue of the popular leader installed there. She was accompanied by Dhinakaran. Sasikala earlier underwent her sentence in the Rs 66.65 crore disproportionate assets case at the Parapana Agrahara central prison in Bengaluru since February, 2017 and was set free on January 27. However, she remained at the Government Victoria hospital, where she had been admitted after testing positive for Covid-19 while under judicial custody. She was discharged from the hospital on January 31 after which she stayed at a resort, about 35 km from Bengaluru. Meanwhile, Dhinakaran told reporters that all efforts to 'retrieve' the AIADMK will continue. Further, "we are strong (determined) that DMK should not come to power and will take all efforts in this direction," he said. Asked if AMMK and AIADMK would join hands to keep the DMK at bay, Dhinakaran said, "as far as I am concerned, AMMK was started in March 2018 to retrieve AIADMK and give Amma's rule." "I have been saying this ever since. Our aim is to retrieve the AIADMK and when that will happen is in people's hands. I am confident that will happen," he added. He also questioned DMK chief M K Stalin's assertion that a fresh probe by an enquiry commission will be launched into the death of Jayalalithaa if the party comes to power, and quoted a Tamil saying to suggest it was not a genuine concern. He also charged the DMK with making baseless allegations against Sasikala on this issue. The AMMK leader said Stalin had raked up the matter during the 2017 RK Nagar by-poll, which Dhinakaran won, following the death of Jayalalithaa who then represented the city segment in the Assembly. To a question, he said his aunt Sasikala may contest elections, though she may have served a prison term in a corruption case. "There is time. She may not be able to contest under the present conditions but there are options available in the law... can approach court successfully," he added. He was a "positive thinker" and therefore he believes Sasikala could face the polls, Dhinakaran said. He also declined to respond to a question if the BJP was involved in a possible AIADMK and AMMK tie-up, saying it was 'speculation.' Pointing out at Sasikala's court case against her expulsion by the AIADMK led by O Panneerselvam and K Palaniswami, he said she will continue with her "legal struggle." He recalled when Jayalalithaa was the party General Secretary, she had all the authority in the top post to summon General Council and make appointments, and claimed nobody else could do so. After Jayalalithaa's death in December 2016, Sasikala was elected interim general secretary of the AIADMK and also its Legislature Party Leader later, paving the way for her elevation as chief minister, but she had to serve the jail term after the Supreme Court restored the lower court award. The AIADMK suffered a split with Panneerselvam, now deputy chief minister, and chief minister Palaniswami heading two factions, but they later merged the groups and the general council of the combined party expelled Sasikala in September, 2017 along with Dhinakaran and others. Asked if his aunt would 'summon' the General Council of the AIADMK now, Dhinakaran said only she can answer that.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-reaches-chennai-from-bengaluru-after-23-hour-road-trip-949254.html
09-02-2021||South||AIADMK expels 7 functionaries for alleged anti-party activities||The ruling AIADMK on Monday announced the removal of seven of its office bearers including a district deputy secretary for alleged anti-party activities. Though party's coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator K Palaniswami did not specify the reason that prompted the action against the seven, they were suspected to have joined in welcoming expelled AIADMK leader V K Sasikala upon her return to Tamil Nadu after serving a jail term at the Parapana Agrahara central prison in Bengaluru. The seven, from Tiruvallur and Krishnagiri districts, were being removed from all posts, including primary membership, for going against party principles and bringing disrepute to it, the two leaders said in an AIADMK statement. They warned party workers to not to have any truck with them. Palaniswami is Tamil Nadi Chief Minister and Panneerselvam his deputy. Earlier, Sasikala returned to Tamil Nadu to a grand reception, days after completing her jail term in Bengaluru in the Rs 66.6 crore disproportionate assets case, amid indications of a confrontation with the ruling party. She underwent her sentence at the Parapana Agrahara central prison since February 2017 and was set free on January 27 but underwent treatment for COVID-19 at a hospital in Bengaluru. Her nephew T T V Dhinakaran had earlier in the day said many AIADMK workers had turned up to welcome her on her return, even as she travelled in the car of a ruling party functionary for some distance due to some issue with her vehicle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-expels-7-functionaries-for-alleged-anti-party-activities-949284.html
09-02-2021||South||Supreme Court to hear Andhra government's plea against HC order staying SIT probe into Amaravati land deals||The Supreme Court Tuesday said it would hear on March 5 a plea filed by the Andhra Pradesh government challenging the high court order which stayed SIT probe into alleged irregularities in land deals in Amaravati Capital Region during the previous TDP regime of N Chandrababu Naidu. The apex court said it would also hear on March 5 the separate petition filed by the state government against another high court order in a matter which relates to alleged illegal land transactions during shifting of the state capital to Amaravati. These petitions came up for hearing before a bench comprising Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy. The Andhra Pradesh High Court on September 16 last year had granted a stay on the actions of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy-led government to conduct a comprehensive probe into various irregularities, particularly the land deals in the Amaravati Capital Region. The top court had on November 5 agreed to hear the state’s plea challenging the high court order and had sought responses including from two Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders -- Varla Ramaiah and Alapati Rajendra Prasad, a former minister -- on whose petitions the high court had stayed the probe initiated by the SIT. When the plea against the high court’s September 16 last year order came up for hearing on Tuesday, the top court granted last opportunity to the respondents to file their replies within two weeks and said that rejoinder be filed within one week thereafter. Separately, the Andhra Pradesh government has also moved the apex court against the September 15 last year order of the state high court which had restrained the media from publishing news regarding an FIR lodged in connection with alleged irregularities in land transactions in Amaravati. The top court had on November 25 last year stayed the high court direction restraining the media from publishing news regarding the FIR. The apex court had also said that the high court shall not decide till January last week the pending matter which relates to the alleged illegal land transactions during shifting of the state capital to Amaravati. During the hearing in the apex court earlier, the counsel appearing for Andhra Pradesh government had said that the high court had erred in staying the operation of SIT as it was a policy decision to look into the alleged irregularities committed in the land deals in Amaravati after state’s bifurcation into Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. The Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government had constituted the 10-member SIT, headed by a Deputy Inspector General of Police- rank IPS officer, to conduct a comprehensive investigation into various alleged irregularities, particularly the land deals in the Amaravati Capital Region, during the previous Chandrababu Naidu regime. The report of a Cabinet Sub-Committee on the procedural, legal and financial irregularities and fraudulent transactions concerned with various projects, including the issues related to land in the CRDA region will form the basis for the SIT probe, the government had said. Challenging the state governments order, the TDP leaders had contended before the high court that constitution of SIT was "arbitrary, illegal, without jurisdiction and unconstitutional" and consequently sought that it be set aside.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/supreme-court-to-hear-andhra-governments-plea-against-hc-order-staying-sit-probe-into-amaravati-land-deals-949324.html
09-02-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan's sister hints at floating new political outfit in Telangana||Y S Sharmila, sister of Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy, on Tuesday held talks with her late father's sympathisers here, triggering speculations of her possible political entry in Telangana. Sharmila's father and late Y S Rajasekhara Reddy, widely known as YSR, was the Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh from 2004 to 2009. The Congress leader died in a chopper crash in September 2009. There have been rumours doing rounds on social media for the past few days that Sharmila plans to start a political party in Telangana state without her brother's intervention. She is believed to be in touch with some prominent political leaders, who were closely associated with late Rajasekhara Reddy, eliciting their suggestions and opinion on bringing "Rajanna Rajyam" (Rajasekhara Reddy's regime) in Telangana. "I want to understand the ground realities and to take their suggestions and the information they have.. I called people from Nalgonda district. This is just a connection (with them). The meeting will be held with people from every district, she told media before the meeting. Sharmila however did not directly respond when asked if she would launch a political party. "There is no Rajanna Rajyam now. Why should it not come?" she asked. To a query, she said, "Jagan Mohan Reddy is doing his job in AP and I will do mine in Telangana." Sharmila and her mother Vijayamma had vigorously campaigned for the YSR Congress party during the general elections in 2019. However, after Jagan's YSRC clinched a landslide victory and he took over the reins of AP, Sharmila was not seen much in public. A senior legislator of YSR Congress party from Andhra Pradesh on condition of anonymity told PTI that she harbours political ambitions, but, it is not clear now as to where these developments (meetings and discussions) would finally lead to. Sharmila met sympathisers of Rajasekhara Reddy from the united Nalgonda district at the family's residence at Lotus Pond here. Though the outcome of the discussions was not officially revealed, several participants said she sought to know about the present political situation in the district. Several banners with portraits of Sharmila, Rajasekhar Reddy were erected at the residence. Jagan's image was conspicuously missing in the banners and flex boards. A YSR Congress worker from Utnoor in Adilabad said he strongly wants Sharmila to float a party in order to bring "Rajanna Rajyam" (Rajasekhar Reddy's regime) in Telangana also. Though YSRC party has its presence in Telangana, it did not contest in the last general elections. Sharmila undertook a 'Padayatra' when Jagan was imprisoned in connection with a quid pro quo case in 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-jagans-sister-hints-at-floating-new-political-outfit-in-telangana-949332.html
09-02-2021||South||Backdoor appointments turn into a major political issue in Kerala||Allegations of backdoor appointments are snowballing into a major political row in Kerala with unemployed job seekers taking to streets with violent demonstrations and the opposition parties cashing in on it. Opposition party Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) alleged that around three lakh backdoor appointments were made during the term of the current CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. The UDF also announced that once it comes to power, a law would be introduced to curb backdoor appointments bypassing the State Public Service Commission. Hundreds of candidates in various rank lists of the state Public Service Commission (PSC) have been staging violent stirs across the state alleging that instead of making recruitment from the rank lists the government was making backdoor appointments of persons of their interest. The government's decision to regularise 114 employees at Centre for Development of Imaging Technology and allegations of rampant backdoor appointments in various other government institutions further fuelled the stirs. Two candidates made self-immolation bids in front of the Secretariat on Monday, while more of them joined the stir on Tuesday. They allege that the government departments were not reporting vacancies to the PSC in time and the appointments are getting delayed. While the government decided to extend the validity of existing rank lists by six more months considering the Covid-19 scenario, the concerns remain as candidates say that only 10 to 15% candidates were recruited from many lists even after three years. The resentment among the youth over the backdoor appointments even reflected in an interactive session organised by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan with students at major universities in Kerala. A student at MG University openly conveyed to Vijayan the concerns over rampant backdoor appointments affecting the chances of meritorious candidates getting government jobs. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan clarified that only those serving in various government institutions on a temporary basis for a long time were being regularised on humanitarian grounds. He added that recruitment to those institutions was not being made through PSC and those in the rank lists would not lose a chance due to regularising the contract employees. He said over 1.5 lakh candidates were recruited by the PSC during his term. Adding salt to the injury, an audio conversation, purported to be that of a woman accused in several cheating cases, Saritha S Nair, had surfaced. She is heard saying that she was recruiting candidates to various state government institutions and the CPM-led Left Democratic Front was obliged to her as she helped them politically.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/backdoor-appointments-turn-into-a-major-political-issue-in-kerala-949389.html
09-02-2021||South||Agitation called in Wayanad against Centre for rejecting Kerala's proposal||Public organisations and political parties have called for agitation in Wayanad against the Centre for rejecting Kerala government's proposal over a notification on eco-sensitive zones, Loktantrik Janata Dal MP MV Shreyams Kumar said in a special mention in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Areas around Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary were declared as eco-sensitive zones in a draft notification recently released by the Environment Ministry. According to the notification, most of the activities going on at present are banned in an area of 118.59 sq km which is termed as eco-sensitive, Kumar said. The Kerala government had given a proposal to the Centre excluding most of the human settlements in the notification for the eco-sensitive area. "Instead of approving the proposal, the same draft notification has been returned now. The people in the area are agitated and worried about losing their settlements. Many public organisations and political parties have called for large scale agitations in Wayanad," Kumar said. The sanctuary covered in the notification is rich in biodiversity and is a habitat of elephants and tigers. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has also sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for amendment in the notification. Kumar said the area covered in the notification includes thickly-populated human settlements and towns, even a municipal town like Sultan Batheri. "I understand that there is a move to enforce eco-sensitive zones to other wildlife sanctuaries also in Kerala. Areas around wildlife in Kerala are different from other wildlife areas in the country. Human inhabitation around the forests have developed into large cultivations and thickly-populated small towns," Kumar said. He appealed to the Environment Minister to re-examine the norms for eco-sensitive zones and amend the notification by excluding the human settlements from the eco-sensitive zone around the wildlife sanctuaries. "I am for the protection of the environment and wildlife. At the same time, we have to think about human life. There should be an outlook accommodating the co-existence of the wildlife and human settlements," Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/agitation-called-in-wayanad-against-centre-for-rejecting-keralas-proposal-949419.html
09-02-2021||South||Despite brother's objections, AP CM Jagan's sister Sharmila to chart her own political course in Telangana||Y S Sharmila, daughter of late Y S Rajasekhara Reddy, has made her independent political aspirations clear as she met with supporters at her residence in Hyderabad on Tuesday, to chalk out her plan of action. Sharmila's venture has created ripples in the political sphere of both the Telugu states as she indicated that her involvement would be in Telangana, away from Andhra Pradesh where her elder brother YS Jaganmohan Reddy is the Chief Minister. “The need for Rajanna rajyam (a popular reference to YSR's tenure) is apparent in Telangana. Are farmers, students and other sections happy in Telangana?” Sharmila sought to know while interacting briefly with the media, following her first meeting with supporters from the Nalgonda region. A series of such meetings are planned with people from other Telangana areas. “We have not registered the party yet; shall inform you when the time comes,” she said in response to a question. Y S Rajasekhara Reddy, popularly known as YSR, was the Chief Minister of united Andhra Pradesh from 2004 to 2009, till his death in a chopper crash. His untimely death is thought to have allowed political developments culminating in the formation of Telangana in 2014. Jagan, then a Congress MP from Kadapa, broke away from the party a year after his father's death and successfully inherited YSR's popularity in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. However, after 2014, Jagan confined his political ambitions to the truncated state and following a gruelling 3,648-kilometre padayatra succeeded in becoming AP CM in 2019. Unlike Chandrababu Naidu's TDP, the YSRCP has kept away from the Telangana elections. In such a scenario, Sharmila returning to Telangana politics has baffled many. “Raavali Sharmila; Kaavali Sharmila,” declared placards held by a group of women, who gathered outside her palatial residence in the swish Lotus Pond avenue of Banjara Hills. The slogan in Telugu is a copy of Jagan's 2019 election campaign theme - “Raavali Jagan; Kaavali Jagan,” which translates to “Jagan be the CM; We adore Jagan.” However, there is nothing at the meeting venue to suggest that Sharmila's Telangana expedition has her brother's approval. A huge poster put up hailing Sharmila with her picture superimposed on YSR's image and Telangana map outline has no mention of Jagan. Sharmila too skirted questions on the matter. “Did he (Jagan) tell you that he is not supporting me? He is my elder brother. I believe I have his blessings,” Sharmila told reporters. As the Telugu news channels went live from Lotus Pond, in Amaravati, a key YSRCP leader admitted that the brother-sister held divergent views on the now apparent new political outfit in Telangana. “We are aware of Sharmila's political thoughts for some time now. When the topic of YSRCP's expansion came up, Jagan opined that it would do more damage than good. But now, Sharmila, as evident today, is exploring the plans to set up a new party there,” YSRCP general secretary Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said. “Jagan said no (to Telangana) keeping AP's interests in mind... but Sharmila said she will try there. This cannot be seen as personal hostility between the two. This is a difference of opinion over public matters,” Sajjala, a top party strategist and also the adviser to the government further said. Sharmila had played a major role in taking her brother headed YSRCP into the people with her padayatra Maro-Prajaprasthanam in 2012-13, when Jagan was in jail for over a year in the Disproportionate Assets cases. While some TRS leaders termed Sharmila's project a family drama, others asserted that such parties “would fail before the strong leadership of K Chandrasekhar Rao in Telangana.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/despite-brothers-objections-ap-cm-jagans-sister-sharmila-to-chart-her-own-political-course-in-telangana-949449.html
09-02-2021||State||BJP govt to hike reservation for STs: Sriramulu||Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu announced that the BJP-led government would increase reservation for the Scheduled Tribe community from 3% to 7.5%.  He was speaking at the Valmiki Fair organised by Valmiki Gurupeetha at Rajanahalli in Harihar taluk on Tuesday. Sriramulu also said many other communities have been fighting for reservation benefits in the state and people of the Valmiki Nayaka community must have patience. But the demand would be met without fail.  He also pointed out that there is no unity among leaders of the community, which is hampering its progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-govt-to-hike-reservation-for-sts-sriramulu-949265.html
09-02-2021||State||ESI hospital to come up at Narasapura: Centre||Union Minister for Labour and Employment Santosh Kumar Gangwar on Tuesday said that the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) gave in-principle approval for setting up of a 100 bedded ESI hospital at Narsapura, Kolar. The ESIC took the decision to set up a hospital after getting a proposal from the Karnataka government, Gangwar informed Lok Sabha in a written reply. He was replying to a question from Kolar MP S Muniswamy, who asked whether the Government has any plan to establish an ESI Hospital in Kurki village, Narasapur Hobli, Kolar Taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/esi-hospital-to-come-up-at-narasapura-centre-949369.html
09-02-2021||State||Apple Inc contractor Wistron says its Karnataka operations to resume soon||Shut since December following violence owing to labour unrest at its Karnataka facility, Wistron, Taiwanese contract manufacturer for Apple Inc, said on Tuesday its operations here will start soon, as the state government asserted it was ready to extend all cooperation. "We are looking forward to restarting our operations and welcoming back team members," David Shen, CEO Wistron Smart Devices, said in a statement. He said since the violent incident at their Narasapura facility in Kolar district in December last year, the company has been working hard on improving across the board to raise standards and fix the issues. "All employees have been promptly and fully paid, and we implemented new hiring and payroll systems to ensure everyone is paid correctly and provided the correct documentation going forward," Shen added. The company official said Wistron will be delivering enhanced training programmes for all workers. According to him, the management has put in a place a new system for workers to get information and raise any concerns they may have, anonymously. While thanking the employees for their patience and support, Shen said the firm has worked through corrective actions. Karnataka Labour Minister A Shivaram Hebbar told PTI company officials were willing to start their operations from February 15. "There may be delay of a day or two in resuming their operations but they are serious about it," Hebbar said. He assured the company that the Karnataka government was ready to extend all cooperation to ensure that the manufacturing facility starts. "It is not just about Wistron but our support is to everyone who is willing to set up an industry in Karnataka," Hebbar added. Over 4,000 employees on contract went on a rampage over non-payment of their wages. The company had sacked its vice president overseeing its business in India, as it admitted that some workers were not paid correctly or on time, and offered an apology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/apple-inc-contractor-wistron-says-its-karnataka-operations-to-resume-soon-949372.html
09-02-2021||State||Rampant sand mining caused floods in Malaprabha basin: Report||An expert report last month has revealed that indiscriminate sand mining in the catchment area and the consequent flattening of the river bed was directly responsible for the August 2019 floods in the Malaprabha basin. Despite the warning, the sand mining – many illegal extractions is also going on - continues unabated in the Malaprabha river basin in Bagalkot, the home district of Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani. Sudhir Sajjan, a technical assistant to Managing Director of Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigam Limited (KBJNL), after studying the changes in the Malaprabha river basin, a major tributary of River Krishna, in his report titled ‘The flood phenomena at the Malaprabha basin’ has mentioned: “It is undoubtedly the spurt in the mining activity in the catchment area, which is the root cause for recurring floods in the river.” This was a study sanctioned by KBJNL. But, in Bagalkot district, the authorities concerned seem to have ignored the expert’s warning and have let indiscriminate mining go on unabated. Fayaz, District Mines and Geology officer at Bagalkot denied that there is illegal sand mining in the district. When asked about Sudhir Sajjan’s findings, Fayaz told DH: “The department is not aware of any such report given to the KBJNL. The department this year has given sanctions to 39 sand points. The rumours about illegal sand mining are baseless.” Farmlands turn mines Sand extraction from riverbed has now turned into a major business attracting those from the district and from parts of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Many farmers of the district – Bagalkot is crisscrossed by Krishna and Malaprabha rivers - these days prefer extracting sand from their land or leasing their lands for hefty sums.   Badami, Jalihaal, Hungund, Rabkavi, Banahatti, Jamkhandi, Ilkal, Bilagi and Mudhol taluks, on the banks of Malaprabha and Ghataprabha, have a rich deposit of high-quality sand. The demand for sand from these areas is high and as a result, farmers prefer sand mining to farm.  The region is said to have several illegal sand points as against 35 to 40 legal points sanctioned every year by the Mines & Geology Department. Revenue loss to govt Mindless extraction of sand has inflicted irreparable damage to nature. Thanks to illegal mining, the government is also losing revenue. The government now gets around Rs 1 crore as royalty from these mines every month but it will go up substantially if illegal mines are regularised, say locals. A contractor on condition of anonymity admitted that without illegal mining, it would be difficult to sustain in the business. “After paying bribes, what remains from the earnings is paltry. Hence, illegal mining and over-loading of vehicles are inevitable to remain in business,” he said. Now that Murugesh Nirani, the minister for mines and geology hails from this district, activists and environmentalists hope that there will be a brake on the illegal mining activities in the district. Will the minister be able to contain this menace? Environmentalists are not hopeful but say it is an opportunity for Nirani to prove them wrong. Despite repeated attempts by DH, the minister was not available for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rampant-sand-mining-caused-floods-in-malaprabha-basin-report-949480.html
09-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Basavaraj Horatti elected Karnataka Council Chairperson amid uproar||JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti was elected as the new Chairperson of the Karnataka Legislative Council on Tuesday amid furore from Congress leaders.  The election for the post took place even as Congress leaders staged a protest in the Well of the House, against the passing of the Prevention of Cow Slaughter Bill. Congress argued that the Bill was passed in an "undemocratic" manner overlooking their demand for the division of votes.  Notwithstanding their protest, the election was announced. Even though Congress had nominated Naseer Ahmed as a contestant, the party leaders refused to take part in the election process. As a result, the House declared Horatti as "unanimously elected".  Horatti was escorted to the Chairperson's seat and he took charge to his new post amidst a din. Congress leaders continued to stand in the Well of the House throughout the proceedings.  Horatti is a seven-time MLC, consecutively elected from Teachers' Constituency (West) since 1980. He also served as the Science and Technology, and Rural Development minister in the Congress and JD(S) coalition government in 2004. Later, in the 2006 BJP-JD(S) coalition, he held the Primary and Secondary Education, and Law and Parliamentary Affairs portfolios. He was nominated as pro-tem Chairperson of the Council for a brief period, during the Congress-JD(S) coalition in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/basavaraj-horatti-elected-karnataka-council-chairperson-amid-uproar-949257.html
09-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM B S Yediyurappa to present Karnataka Budget for FY 22 likely in first week of March ||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that he is likely to present the state Budget for the year 2021-22 in the first week of March.  Speaking to the media at Rajanahalli in Harihar taluk on Tuesday, he said has already directed the concerned officials to prepare the Budget. He will make efforts to mobilise the resources from all sectors including IT (Information Technology) and BT (Biotechnology). The state's revenue, which was hit badly due to the Covid -19 pandemic, has improved in the last three months. He is set to present budget considering the financial state of Karnataka. He was participating in the Valmiki Fair organised by Maharshi Valmiki Gurupeetha. The community demanded the government increase reservation for the community to 7.5%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-present-karnataka-budget-for-fy-22-likely-in-first-week-of-march-949270.html
09-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Increase in excise revenue not due to liquor sale in Karnataka: K Gopalaiah||The increase in this year’s excise revenue (over that of last year) is not a reflection of the liquor sales in the state, according to Excise Minister K Gopalaiah. The sales, in fact, have come down this time. According to Gopalaiah, 482.70 lakh boxes of Indian Made Liquor were sold between April 2020 and February 7, 2021. It was lesser than the sales recorded during the same period last year, during which 515.99 lakh boxes were sold. Beer sales nosedived during the current fiscal, recording a negative growth of 25.03%. While the Excise department had sold 245.93 lakh boxes of beer during the said period last year, it sold 184.35 lakh boxes this year. However, an increase in excise duty ensured that the revenue generated by the department was Rs 610 cr more than last year, despite negative growth in terms of sales. Gopalaiah said that the government will provide each Excise district office with four weapons, as a safety measure during raids conducted by officials. In each of the offices, deputy commissioner (Excise), circle inspector, sub-inspector and deputy superintendents will be provided weapons, he said. Between July to December 2020, he said that the department had conducted 37,950 raids and 19,406 cases were registered. As many as 12,239 people were arrested, while 928 vehicles were seized along with the large quantity of illicit liquor. To a question on the meeting with bar owners, Gopalaiah said that they had sought a revision of commission on liquor sales in bars, from the present 10% to 20%. On demands by wine stores to permit the consumption of liquor on their premises, he said any such move would require an amendment to Excise licence rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/increase-in-excise-revenue-not-due-to-liquor-sale-in-karnataka-k-gopalaiah-949471.html
09-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||MLC for four decades, Horatti will now monitor Upper House||From disciplining the school as a physical education teacher four decades ago, seven-time JD(S) MLC Basavaraj Horatti will now monitor the Legislative Council as its chairperson.  The senior JD(S) leader started his career as PE teacher at Lamington High School in Hubballi in 1975. Having taken part in activism for teachers’ rights, he was first elected as an MLC from the Teachers’ constituency (West) in 1980.  Ever since he has been consecutively elected as an MLC from the constituency for 41 years. Horatti has also served as a minister. He was the Science and Technology and Rural Development minister in the Congress and the JD(S) coalition government in 2004. Later, in the 2006 BJP-JD(S) coalition, he held the Primary and Secondary Education, and Law and Parliamentary Affairs portfolios. He was nominated as pro-tem chairperson of the Council for a brief period, during the Congress-JD(S) coalition, in 2018.  Speaking on the occasion, Horatti recalled how former chief minister Gundu Rao had encouraged him to join politics. Speaking to media persons later, he said that he will make an effort to bring in reforms in the manner in which the Legislative Council was conducted, from the very next session. “Of late, I am unhappy with the proceedings in the House,” he said. He will conduct a meeting with all the floor leaders and will ensure that the rules of the House are followed, he added. “Be it when the House commences or the Question Hour, I will ensure that the schedule is maintained,” he assured. The state government spends anywhere between Rs 25,000 and Rs 4 lakh per question, for ensuring replies to the questions raised in the Council. The time spent on questions must ensure justice to the public at large, he added. The senior JD(S) leader is believed to have an amicable relationship among members of all parties. Upon him taking charge, several ruling party leaders and JD(S) MLCs called him an “undisputed leader” when it came to teachers’ constituency. “He is so committed to addressing the problems faced by teachers that he is an undisputed leader. When we seek votes from our well wishers, they tell us that they will vote for BJP in any other election, but will vote only for Horatti when it comes to teachers’ constituency polls,” Medium and Large Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mlc-for-four-decades-horatti-will-now-monitor-upper-house-949473.html
09-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt allows temples to hold regular car festivals||Almost a year after banning special puja, cars festivals and mass gatherings of devotees at temples across the state due to Covid-19 pandemic, the state government on Tuesday ordered holding of religious fairs, festivals, car festivals and special puja services in a regular manner at all the temples. However, the government directed the temples to hold ‘remedial rituals’ as per the sacred scriptures for missing out the car festivals, fairs for a year before resuming the regular worship and rituals. The latest order by the Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowments Department (Muzrai) has come ahead of the ensuing summer season during which several prominent temples of Karnataka hold annual car festivals, religious fairs marked with a large-scale gathering of devotees. Further, the department has directed the temples that the holding of large-scale festivals will be subject to conditions laid down by the deputy commissioners of the jurisdictional districts, the state and the central government. Attributing its decision to allow temples to hold the regular festivals, annual fairs, distribution of Prasada and serving of food, the department said, “The annual chariot (car)  festivals and special fairs in most temples of Karnataka start from the month of February. There has been an intense demand from the devotees and the temples to hold such annual fairs and chariot festivals. Preventing such religious events would hurt the sentiments of the public and devotees. Hence, subject to conditions put forth by the District (Deputy) Commissioners, state and central government, all regular services at temples can be held in the usual way.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-allows-temples-to-hold-regular-car-festivals-949476.html
09-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NICE road commuters in long queue fume over lack of FASTag||About eight years after the introduction of FASTag, the electronic toll collection is yet to come to NICE Road, forcing thousands of commuters to wait in a long queue at the toll booths and engage in cash transactions during the pandemic. More than 10 lakh commuters take NICE Road every day. The peak hours see long lines of vehicles waiting at the toll plaza where a collection of the toll by cash is leading to delays. Many commuters have repeatedly urged the authorities to introduce FASTag to put an end to unnecessary delays. However, the legal dispute between the state government and the authorities of the Nandi Infrastructure Corridor Enterprises (NICE) Limited is said to have delayed the implementation of the radio-frequency based toll payment system. Sources said that NICE has spent about Rs 38 crore for installing the physical infrastructure and procured the equipment as well as the software required to introduce FASTag on the 51-km long road.  "All the systems are in place. They were installed more than a year ago. However, since it is a private road, NICE requires an endorsement from the state government to begin collecting toll through FASTag," the source said. A spokesperson for NICE confirmed the issue and said, "We have requested for endorsement from the PWD which, unfortunately, is pending with the department.” The Indian Highway Management Company Limited (IHCML), which implements and monitors FASTag, will provide a link to the electronic gateway of NICE after getting a letter from the Public Works Department (PWD), the government’s nodal agency in the matter, stating that the NICE road is a state project. Sources said the PWD was reluctant to provide an endorsement as it fears that such a letter would in effect also endorse the toll collection. Over the last few years, the state governments under different regimes have tried to regulate the toll fee unsuccessfully. As the matter is pending in the court, officials do not want to "score a self goal" by endorsing the road and its toll. Meanwhile, the NICE has written to the government to provide a limited endorsement where the PWD can stress in the letter that it was not supporting the toll fee or any other matter pending in the court.  An official told DH that the trust gap could be fixed in an amicable way but the decision has to be taken at the level of chief secretary. "The PWD is only a facilitating nodal agency. All decisions are taken by the chief secretary,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nice-road-commuters-in-long-queue-fume-over-lack-of-fastag-949478.html
09-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Software crash, OTP delays hit property registrations on Kaveri portal||Repeated software crashes, delay in receiving One-Time-Password (OTP) for property registration, slow bandwidth at sub-registrar offices and old IT infrastructure are among the reasons severely hampering property registrations using Kaveri services across the state. These problems have forced the Department of Stamps and Registrations to roll back the compulsory online registration of properties it had introduced in three sub-registrar offices in 2020. Due to the shortcomings, there has been a demand to ensure an alternative system for registering properties during emergencies, especially for the benefit of senior citizens. According to elected representatives, regular problems with the Kaveri software have increased hardships of several people looking to register properties. Speaking to DH, Basavangudi MLA LA Ravi Subramanya said that the registration problems have become a regular issue. “Recently, the software had completely shut down for two-three days, inconveniencing common people. They are made to return to sub-registrar offices three or four times, for a process that could be completed in a day,” he said. Subramanya said that he was informed by officials of the department of a recurring software problem, that has compromised process of property registration. “Nobody is demanding them to shut down online registration, which saves a lot of time when the system works well. But, in case of emergencies, when the software does not respond for days on a go, the government should introduce some alternatives,” he said, adding that the problem should not become permanent. A senior sub-registrar of the department said that officials are forced to face the wrath of common man, as software crashes were being witnessed every month. “The department introduced an OTP system for registration of measure as a security measure to prevent duplication in the registration of properties. The feature has now become a bug, as OTPs are not generated on time forcing people to wait long hours for registration,” the sub-registrar said, blaming slow bandwidth offered at sub-registrar offices as one of the causes of theproblem. K P Mohan Raj, Inspector General of Registration and Commissioner of Stamps, said that any issues, related to the software, were being addressed at the earliest. “Kaveri software is old. Whenever a problem arises, it is resolved quickly,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/software-crash-otp-delays-hit-property-registrations-on-kaveri-portal-949481.html
09-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 366 new cases, two deaths||Karnataka reported 366 fresh Covid-19 cases and two related deaths, taking the infection count to 9,43,212 and death toll to 12,241 on Tuesday. The day also saw 513 patients being discharged after recovery, leaving 5,785 active cases. The recoveries have reached 9,25,167. As many as 143 patients are in intensive care units of various hospitals. Bengaluru Urban had 195 cases, Dakshina Kannada 29, and Bengaluru Rural 20. A total of 1,76,25,719 samples have been tested out of which 60,485 were tested on Tuesday alone. As many as 22,623 health workers and frontline workers were vaccinated on Tuesday, day 25, taking the total vaccinated to 4,41,642 health workers and frontline workers - which is 40.70% coverage. Bengaluru vaccinated 2,147 health workers and 1,718 frontline workers on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-366-new-cases-two-deaths-949484.html
09-02-2021||West||Gas tanker overturns in Thane; traffic hit, no casualty||A tanker carrying a flammable gas overturned on a road in Maharashtra's Thane city, disrupting traffic in the area for a couple of hours, a civic official said on Tuesday. The accident took place around 11.15 pm on Monday on Ghodbunder Road, but no casualty was reported, he said. The tanker carrying propane gas was on way from Jamnagar in Gujarat to Nagothane in Maharashtra's Raigad district when it overturned near Gaimukh octroi post here, Thane civic body's regional disaster management cell (RDMC) chief Santosh Kadam said. There was no gas leakage from the vehicle, but traffic movement on Ghodbunder Road, the city's main arterial road, was affected for a couple of hours, he said. Local firemen, police, RDMC and other officials rushed to the spot. The tanker was moved to the roadside after about two hours following which normal traffic movement was restored on the road, the official said. "No one was injured in the accident," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gas-tanker-overturns-in-thane-traffic-hit-no-casualty-949234.html
09-02-2021||West||Police check bank, trading accounts of Navy sailor burnt alive in Palghar||As cops piece together and reconstruct the life of Indian Navy sailor Suraj Kumar Dubey – who was allegedly burnt to death by three unidentified men – the Palghar police dived deeper into his financial details scanning the bank and trading accounts. A Palghar police team has secured the footage from the Chennai Airport which is being analysed in detail. Initial investigations have revealed that Dubey, a 27-year-old Leading Seaman, who was attached to INS Agrani, a leadership training establishment in Coimbatore, has taken a loan to the tune of Rs 22 lakh from various sources. “We are looking at each and every entry in his bank savings account passbook and Demat account...initial investigations reveal that he invested in shares and stocks,” Palghar police officials said. Cracking the case has become a major challenge for the Palghar police in view of the fact that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is already under fire from the opposition BJP because of last April’s mob lynching of two sadhus and their driver. Dubey was found in the Vavji-Vajlipada jungle in Gholwad by locals on February 5 from where he was shifted to a hospital at Dahanu and then to INHS Asvini, the naval command hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. However, before he passed away, he had given a dying declaration. Palghar district’s superintendent of police Dattatray Shinde is personally overseeing the investigation and has formed 10 teams of 100 officers and personnel to crack the case. The Palghar police, however, are still unclear of the route that the abductors took from Chennai to Dahanu in Palghar, nearly 1,500 km. The police are also investigating the mystery behind 13 calls he got from a particular number repeatedly before his Raipur-Hyderabad-Chennai flight on  January 30-31. The CCTV footage that the Palgar police got from the Chennai Airport, has revealed him moving in the airport, which contradicts that he was kidnapped soon after he landed there. “We are making in-depth investigations,” police said, adding that the help of the Indian Navy is also being taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/police-check-bank-trading-accounts-of-navy-sailor-burnt-alive-in-palghar-949245.html
09-02-2021||West||Fire breaks out at chemical factory in Navi Mumbai||A fire broke out at a chemical factory in Taloja area of Navi Mumbai, according to ANI.  Fire tenders have rushed to the spot. Further details awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-at-chemical-factory-in-navi-mumbai-949267.html
09-02-2021||West||Woman who returned to India a fortnight ago after spending 17 years in Pakistani jail dies||Can there be a bigger tragedy than this? 65-year-old Hasina Begum, who spent 17 long years in a Pakistani jail and returned to her hometown in Aurangabad district a fortnight ago, passed away on Tuesday. On her return on 26 January, coinciding with India's Republic Day, she was accorded a grand welcome by her relatives and friends. She passed away from a heart attack. “This is really sad. Hasina Begum, who returned from Pakistan's prison after 17 years on 26th January, passed away,” veteran peace activist Jatin Desai said. Hasina Begum had suffered several tragedies in her life. She was married to one Dilshad Ahmed Shaikh of Saharanpur, Uttar Pradesh who died while she was in a Pakistani jail. In 2004 she went alone to Pakistan by train to meet her husband’s relatives living in Lahore. However, after reaching there, she lost or misplaced her passport. To make matters worse, she could not trace any relatives of her husband. She was arrested by the Pakistan police on charges of spying and put in jail. Nearly a year ago, the Aurangabad Police, through the Ministry of External Affairs, sent a report to Pakistan confirming that Hasina Begum was resident of Rashidpura under the jurisdiction of City Chowk police station. She was released subsequently.   On her return here, she found that a land that she brought two decades ago, had been encroached.  She even approached authorities for help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-who-returned-to-india-a-fortnight-ago-after-spending-17-years-in-pakistani-jail-dies-949426.html
