10-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||BJP leader apologises for his remarks in Garadi||BJP district unit Vice President Jagadish Adhikari, who had issued derogatory statements against Koti Chennaya, visited Bhootarajagudde Dharmarasu Daiva, Kukkunanthaya, Kodamanithaya, Brahma Baidarkala Garadi at Kellaputhige and apologised by offering ‘Tappu Kanike’ (offering in money to mend mistake). “I have tendered an apology by visiting Koti Chennaya Garadi and offered ‘Tappu Kanike’, thereby decided to end the episode. I will also visit the house of Senior Congress leader Janardhana Poojary and apologise to him. Further, I will visit Kudroli and Gejjegiri Kshetra and will offer Tappu Kanike even there,” said the BJP leader. Soon after Adhikari’s remarks went viral on social media, people cutting across political parties raised objections and sought an apology.  Congress leader Prathibha Kulai had stirred a controversy by announcing a bounty of Rs 1 lakh who anyone who succeed in blackening the face of Jagadish Adikari for making derogatory statements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bjp-leader-apologises-for-his-remarks-in-garadi-949514.html
10-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Second phase of Covid-19 vaccination: Poor response in Dakshina Kannada||The second phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive launched on Monday for frontline workers from revenue, Rural development and panchayat raj, police and ULBs, received poor response in Dakshina Kannada district. A total of 8,546 frontline beneficiaries from four departments were identified to be covered under the phase 2 drive. However, only 1,211 (14.17%) have received the shots in two days. On Day Two of the drive, 32.8% frontline workers from four government departments received the jab. The health department had planned to vaccinate 1,954 frontline beneficiaries on Tuesday, but only 641 turned up to receive the shots. On the Day One, on Monday, 570 (20.72%) out of 2,750 frontline workers had received the jab. The health department is planning to extend the vaccination drive for the frontline workers by one more day. On the other hand, in the first phase of vaccination drive, for healthcare workers, a total of  25,182 out of 52,381 beneficiaries had received the vaccine since January 16. The district had achieved 48.07% success in phase one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/second-phase-of-covid-19-vaccination-poor-response-in-dakshina-kannada-949517.html
10-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||289 birds identified in Bandipur bird census||In all, 289 types of birds were identified during the three-day bird census held at Bandipur National Park limits from February 5 to 7. Around 81 volunteers, along with the Forest department personnel, took part enthusiastically in identifying the birds and documenting it. Several rare birds like Bar-headed geese, Crested treeswift, Northern pintail, Stork-billed kingfisher, Black-capped blue kingfisher, Verditer flycatcher and many others were identified. According to sources, for the first time, a Great Hornbill has been spotted at Bandipur forest. Besides, two more rare birds were also spotted. Bandipur project director S R Natesh said that Dr Salim Ali had identified 134 birds during the bird census in 1939. Later, 179 birds were identified in 1974 and 225 birds in 1977. "In 1998, 123 birds were identified," he said. "The bird census conducted for 2020-21 has identified 289 birds," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/289-birds-identified-in-bandipur-bird-census-949635.html
10-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three students sustain minor injuries as portion of classroom ceiling collapse||Three students of century-old Maharaja's College in the city sustained injuries after a part of the ceiling of the classroom fell on them on Wednesday. Yuashwanth, Saleem and  Vishal of Criminology department, sustained injuries and undergoing treatment in a private hospital.  According to Yashwanth, the incident took place at 11.30 am when the students were writing a test. As many as 25 students were inside the classroom. Maharaja's College is a constituent institute of the University of Mysore. UoM Registrar and college principal visited the classroom and assured of taking adequate measures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-students-sustain-minor-injuries-as-portion-of-classroom-ceiling-collapse-949655.html
10-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||ASI unearths Jain temple in Hassan district||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) has unearthed an ancient temple of Hoysala era in Hassan district recently, an ASI official said on Wednesday. Presumably, a Jain temple, the ancient structure with a grand platform carrying intricate carvings unique to the Hoysala era, was found at Shantinatha Basadi near Halebidu in Belur taluk, the officer added. The discovery is significant because it shows that the Hoysala rulers had patronised Jainism as well. The excavation was carried out on January 20 by a team led by Dr G Maheshwari, Regional Director of ASI (Southern Region). "It was a mound measuring 30 metres by 20 metres. We have dug out the plinth of the temple and discovered many artefacts and sculptures from the site. It seems to be a Jain temple," Shivkant Bajpai, the Superintending Archaeologist of ASI, Bengaluru Circle told PTI. According to him, it could just be a beginning and there might exist some bigger temples nearby. The ASI had been receiving reports of artefacts found around Halebidu, which already has a magnificent temple from the Hoysala period. Among the artefacts discovered were the sculptures of a Jain Upasaka measuring two feet in height. Hoysala dynasty, which ruled parts of the state from the 12th to 14th century, had patronised all sects of the prevailing time. The Hoysala rulers built the Chennakeshava temple for Vaishnavites in Belur and Kedareshwara (Shiva) temple for Shivaites at Halebidu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/asi-unearths-jain-temple-in-hassan-district-949725.html
10-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police open fire on offender as he tries to flee||The police opened fire on an accused who attacked them while trying to escape near Handanahalli gate, which comes under Bilikere police limits. Bilikere SI Jayaprakash opened fire on Jayanth as he attacked Head Constable and a constable in a bid to escape from the police. According to the police, all three persons are undergoing treatment in a private hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-open-fire-on-offender-as-he-tries-to-flee-949788.html
10-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three tigers sighted at K Gudi safari range||Tourists on a safari at Biligiri Ranganatha Temple (BRT) Tiger reserve were lucky to sight three tigers at a time near K Gudi safari range on Tuesday evening. Video clippings of the three tigers walking on the safari route have gone viral on social media. The tigers were sighted near Tiger Tank, near Anekere. According to the Forest department personnel, it is very rare to sight tigers at K Gudi safari area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-tigers-sighted-at-k-gudi-safari-range-949791.html
10-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||e-autorickshaws gaining momentum in Heritage City||With the electric-vehicle revolution gaining ground in India, tier II cities, including Mysuru, are picking up with energy efficient electric autorickshaws, which have started plying on city roads. Mahadev of Hinkal has introduced e-autorickshaw in the heritage city of Mysuru. The autorickshaw with a green board has evoked a good response from the public, mainly youngsters. The e-autorickshaw not only helps in reducing pollution, but is also liked for its smooth run. Electric Vehicles (EV), especially two-wheelers, entered Mysuru city a couple of years ago. However, it did not become popular among the public, who had a lot of doubts on their efficiency, maintenance and also charging options. But, with Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation Limited (Cesc) launching the first EV charging station of Mysuru region in Vijayanagar, Mysuru, recently, the public are now interested in purchasing electric vehicles, that are economical and also eco-friendly. Speaking to DH, Mahadev said that he worked as a cab driver for many years for travel agencies. “After the Covid-19 pandemic broke out, there were not much demand for cabs. It was a difficult phase. Besides, maintaining a car was difficult, with the hike in price of petrol and diesel. Everything changed after I attended a demo by the auto company, that was introducing Mahindra Treo, a three-wheeler that runs on electric charging,” he said. “Cesc has offered free charging for the first three months. But, I get it done at home, as the vehicle comes with an advanced lithium-ion battery. It is cost- effective, compared to petrol and diesel vehicles. I am also happy to switch on to an eco-friendly vehicle,” he said. K Swamy, sales executive of the company in Hinkal, said that the on-road price of the vehicle is Rs 3.70 lakh and the buyer gets a government subsidy of Rs 70,000. “Once it is charged for three hours, the auto-rickshaw can travel for 130 km, with four passengers (including the driver) at a speed of 50 km per hour. Besides, while other autorickshaws are not allowed to travel for more than 10 km outside the city, e-vehicle can travel across the country,” he said. There is a good response and many enquiries for e-rickshaws. The people can soon see four more electric autos on the roads. The battery has 10 years life, and the company gives three year warranty or on 80,000 km, he said. Anand, a resident of Vijayanagar said that the government had said that all new vehicles will be electric by 2030, as part of the country’s efforts to reduce dependence on imported fossil fuels and to prevent air pollution. The response for electric two-wheelers, autorickshaws, and electric cars shows that the people have accepted e-vehicles. But, there is a need for more charging stations, he opined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/e-autorickshaws-gaining-momentum-in-heritage-city-949804.html
10-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||DC seeks people's support to curb plastic menace||Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri has sought people’s support to curb the plastic menace. The DC was addressing a gathering, after inaugurating an awareness programme about alternatives for plastics, organised by Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), at Devaraja Market here, on Wednesday. "Mysuru is a clean city and it should be plastic-free, as early as possible. Disposing of waste plastic is a challenge. Despite policies against the use of banned plastic items, people are not following the rules. Single use plastics are banned. But, the implementation needs to be done effectively. Due to the outbreak of Covid-19, no strict measures like raids were taken out. Citizens must stop using banned plastic on their own. The plastic will last for 1,000 years and it is said that plastic is more dangerous than nuclear and people should be aware of the adverse affects of plastic," she said. The DC said, "The products made out of plastic, by recycling them, have been displayed. It is our duty to create awareness among the citizens about the effect of plastic. Meanwhile, people should be cautious and should not use plastic in their houses." The DC said that Mysuru would emerge as the cleanest city again, with more citizens' participation in 'Swachh Survekshan 2021', the sixth edition of the annual cleanliness survey. “We will be on top, if more people participate in the survey, by giving their feedback. The city is famed as ‘Cultural Capital’. It also emerged as cleanest city. Now, we want to retain the tag and the MCC is making all efforts in this regard,” she said. Humorist Krishnegowda, also brand ambassador for Swachh Mysuru, said, "Plastic, which was a solution for many problems, has turned into a problem now. Plastic will not be a problem, if we, humans, use it responsibly. Use of plastic minimised the use of metal. But, now, plastic has turned into challenge, as we used them irresponsibly.” MCC Health Officer Dr D G Nagaraju said that Mysuru had emerged as the Cleanest City in 2014-15 and ranked top among the cities with a population between 3 lakh and 10 lakh in 2020. He called the people to participate in a large number in 2021 survey. The MCC is working with organisations and institutions to reuse plastic. People’s participation and cooperation is much required for it, he said. Mysuru Makkala Koota and Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheswara school students performed a street-play to create awareness against the use of plastic. The authorities also distributed cloth bags to the vendors at Devaraja Market.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dc-seeks-peoples-support-to-curb-plastic-menace-949805.html
10-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bandipur: 289 types of birds identified during census||In all, 289 types of birds were identified during the three-day bird census in Bandipur National Park limits in Gundlupet taluk, Chamarajanagar district, from February 5 to 7. According to a press release by Bandipur Project Director S R Natesh, 81 volunteers, along with the Forest department personnel took part in the census, by identifying the birds, photographing them and documenting. Several rare birds like bar headed geese, crested treeswift, northern pintail, stork billed kingfisher, black capped blue king fisher, temminck's stint, bonellis eagle, black napped monarch, lesser yellow napped wood pecker and verditer fly catcher were spotted. For the first time, a great horn bill was spotted in Bandipur forest. Besides, two more rare birds that were not included in the list of Karnataka's bird census - lesser fish eagle and tawny bellied babbler, were spotted. The bird census was conducted in Bandipur after a gap of 20 years. Dr Salim Ali had identified 134 birds during the bird census in 1939. Later, 179 birds were identified in 1974 and wildlife experts Kripakar-Senani had identified 225 birds in 1977 census. In 1998, 123 birds were identified by Amin Ahmed and K Ekantappa. The bird census, conducted for 2020-21, now has identified 289 birds, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bandipur-289-types-of-birds-identified-during-census-949806.html
10-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||SI opens fire at offender for attack on constable||The police opened fire at an offender for attacking police personnel in a bid to escape, near Handanahalli Gate in Hunsur taluk, late on Tuesday. Bilikere police sub-inspector Jayaprakash opened fire at Jayanth V Gowda, 23, of Mandya town. Jayanth attacked Head Constable Ravi and constable B R Ravi, in a bid to escape from them. Thus, the SI opened fire at him as self-defence. Jayanth and two others, Vignesh, 24, of Chiranahalli in Mandya, and Deepak, 23, of Ramakrishna Nagar in Mysuru, had attacked a KSRTC bus driver near Bolanahalli, under Bilikere police station limits, on January 21. Following the incident, the trio had fled. Thus, the police had formed a team to nab them. The police arrested them at Molakalmuru in Chitradurga district and were bringing them to Bilikere Police station, when Jayanth tried to attack the policemen. According to Superintendent of Police C B Ryshyanth, SI Jayaprakash opened fire at the suspect in self-defence. Though the SI fired two rounds in the air, the suspect continued to attack the police personnel with a wooden log. Thus, the SI had to open fire at Jayanth. During the interrogation, the suspect has revealed a murder case. Jayanth and Vignesh, along with Sagar and Prajwal, have killed one Anush Joy over personal enmity at a lodge in Mandya. They disposed the body near the old bridge near River Cauvery at Srirangapatna in Mandya district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/si-opens-fire-at-offender-for-attack-on-constable-949807.html
10-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ban on mining: Lokayukta DySP inspects Bebi Betta||Lokayukta DySP Mallik on Wednesday visited the mining areas and stone-crushing units at Bebi Betta in Pandavapura taluk to check whether the ban orders on mining had been implemented. The Mandya district administration has banned mining activities in Bebi Betta and surrounding areas. Speaking to reporters, Mallik said the inspection was to ascertain whether mining has come to a halt completely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ban-on-mining-lokayukta-dysp-inspects-bebi-betta-949814.html
10-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Government will do whatever possible under law for better reservations, says Yediyurappa||Amid demands from various communities in the state for better reservation, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday said that his government would do whatever was possible within the ambit of the law and the Constitution. "We will put in honest efforts to do whatever is possible within the ambit of the Constitution and law. What has been done in other states in the country, I can do it here," he told reporters here in response to a question. The Chief Minister said the matter was being discussed and after consulting legal experts, the Advocate General and other important people, the government would try to do whatever was possible. There have been demands to revise the reservation for the Panchamasali Lingayat, Kuruba and Valmiki communities. While the Panchamasali sect are asking for Category 2A status, the Kurubas are agitating for the Scheduled Tribe tag. The Valmiki community, too, has been demanding that the reservation for ST be hiked from 3 per cent to 7.5 per cent. Pontiffs of these politically influential communities are leading the agitation, pushing the Yediyurappa-led government to a difficult spot. Kudalasangama Panchamasali Mutt pontiff Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami, who is spearheading the Category 2A stir, is leading a padayatra to Bengaluru to press for their demand. Yediyurappa recently ordered the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes to prepare a report on including the Panchamasali sub-sect under Category 2A. The Kurubas too had recently organised a padayatra, led by Kaginele Kanakaguru Peeta seer Niranjanandapuri Swami, from Kaginele to Bengaluru and had organised a mammoth rally on Sunday near here, demanding the ST tag. They are currently OBCs in Karnataka. Meanwhile, Maharshi Valmiki Gurupeetha Seer Prasannananda Swami has warned that he would go on an indefinite fast if the hike in reservation was not announced within a month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/government-will-do-whatever-possible-under-law-for-better-reservations-says-yediyurappa-949686.html
10-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) chief Deve Gowda says party won't contest bypolls||JD(S) patriarch H D Deve Gowda on Wednesday said his party will not contest by-elections for Belgaum Lok Sabha segment, and Basavakalyan, Sindagi and Maski Assembly seats. The by-poll schedule is yet to be announced by the Election Commission. "JD(S) will not field its candidates for bypolls to Belgaum Lok Sabha and Basavakalyan, Sindgi and Maski Assembly seats. We don't have money to fight these elections," Gowda was quoted as saying to reporters by his office in a release. The former Prime Minister said he will completely involve himself towards organizing or building the party for 2023 assembly polls. "... I will put all my efforts to save and build the regional party, with the support of leaders and workers," he said. While bypolls to Belgaum Lok Sabha and Basavakalyan Assembly seats are necessitated following the death of Union Minister Suresh Angadi and MLA B Narayan Rao respectively due to Covid-19 in September last year, Maski seat fell vacant following the disqualification of MLA Prathapagouda Patil. Patil had won the Maski assembly seat in 2018 from Congress and is now with the BJP. Sindagi MLA and senior JD(S) leader M C Managuli's death last month, due to age-related ailments, has necessitated the bypolls there. With an aim to win these seats, the ruling BJP and opposition Congress have already begun the process of shortlisting the candidates, party sources said. Noting that BJP will face a setback in elections to four states this year, Gowda said according to him the saffron party will not get much seats in Tamil Nadu, and lauded the "courage" of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. "Despite getting less votes, Mamata may retain power... the whole BJP team is camping in West Bengal. Legislators and Ministers quitting the party may cause a setback to TMC to an extent, but Mamata Banerjee will become CM (of West Bengal) for the third time," he added. The terms of the legislative assemblies of the four states-Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal, Assam, and the Union Territory of Puducherry end on different dates in May and June and the elections are likely to take place in April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-chief-deve-gowda-says-party-wont-contest-bypolls-949695.html
10-02-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru Police arrest man in double-murder case||Mysuru city police arrested a man in connection with a double-murder case late on Tuesday. Police arrested Swamy alias Meese Swamy. Swamy and three others had allegedly killed Kiran and Kishan in connection with a property row at Ele Thota area on Sunday.  While the two accused were arrested late on Sunday, police took Swamy into custody late on Tuesday. The police are searching for another accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-police-arrest-man-in-double-murder-case-949581.html
10-02-2021||National||India, China hold talks on UNSC agenda; first engagement after stand-off started||India and China on Tuesday held bilateral consultation on issues related to the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) – the first such bilateral engagement after the relations between the two nations hit a new low over the military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. Senior diplomats of India and China discussed a wide range of issues on the UNSC agenda during the virtual meeting. China is one of the five permanent members of the Security Council, while India commenced its eighth two-year term as a non-permanent member of the most powerful organ of the UN on January 1. The Indian delegation briefed the Chinese side on India’s priorities during its UNSC tenure. Both sides agreed to continue their engagement on key issues on the UNSC agenda, according to a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs. The diplomats of India and China, as well as the military commanders of the two nations, have been holding virtual meetings to resolve the stand-off. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh also had meetings with their counterparts in the Chinese Government. But all other engagements remained suspended ever since the stand-off started in late April and early May last year. The virtual meeting between the diplomats of the two nations on the UNSC agenda was thus the India-China bilateral engagement on an issue not related to border stand-off. China has been shielding terrorists based in Pakistan and responsible for attacks in India from UNSC sanctions. China also supported Pakistan’s bids to bring back the issue of Jammu and Kashmir on the agenda of the UNSC, ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Deli stripped the erstwhile state of its special status and reorganized it into two separate Union Territories in August 2019. Prakash Gupta, Joint Secretary (UN Political) at the Ministry of External Affairs, led the delegation from India. China’s delegation was led by Yang Tao, Director General of the Department of International Organizations and Conferences at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the communist country’s government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-hold-talks-on-unsc-agenda-first-engagement-after-stand-off-started-949495.html
10-02-2021||National||YouTube removes Punjabi songs related to farmers' protest||YouTube has removed a couple of Punjabi songs related to the farmers’ protest from its platform, following the government order.  Some of the songs including Ailaan by Kanwar Grewal have been removed.  YouTube displays a message stating, “This content is not available on this country domain due to a legal complaint from the government.” However, some users have uploaded the video on YouTube via other channels as well. Last week, the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has issued notice to Twitter and asked it to remove over 1,400 accounts believed to be Kalistan and Pro-Pakistan handlers. The government said these accounts were used to provoke farmers and stoke violence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youtube-removes-punjabi-songs-related-to-farmers-protest-949496.html
10-02-2021||National||US is closely monitoring India-China border disputes: State Dept||The United States is closely monitoring border disputes between India and China and backs their peaceful resolution through direct dialogue, the State Department said on Tuesday, while stressing that it stands with allies and partners like India. "We note the ongoing talks between the governments of India and China," State Department spokesman Ned Price told a news briefing. "We continue to support direct dialogue and a peaceful resolution of those border disputes," he said and added: "We are concerned by Beijing's pattern of ongoing attempts to intimidate its neighbours. As always, we'll stand with friends, we'll stand with partners, we'll stand with allies." India and China have been locked in a military standoff over their disputed mountainous border and Indian public opinion has hardened against Beijing after soldiers were killed in a clash there. Price spoke after a call earlier in the day between Secretary of State Antony Blinken and India's Foreign Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar. The State Department said that the call's purpose was "to reaffirm the strength of the US-India partnership" and issues of mutual concern, including Myanmar. Myanmar's military overthrew the newly elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi on Feb. 1 and detained her and other politicians from her National League for Democracy (NLD). The two also discussed cooperation across the Indo-Pacific, the statement said, adding that they looked forward to expanded regional cooperation, including through the Quad, an informal grouping of the United States, India, Japan and Australia seen as a way to push back against China's growing assertiveness. New US President Joe Biden and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi agreed in a telephone call on Monday to strengthen Indo-Pacific security through the Quad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-is-closely-monitoring-india-china-border-disputes-state-dept-949503.html
10-02-2021||National||Govt asks people to register as cyber crime volunteers to check unlawful online content||In a bid to keep an eye on the cyber world in a "coordinated and comprehensive manner", the government has asked common people to register as cybercrime volunteers to help check posts against the sovereignty of the nation, on child and women abuse and attempts to disturb the law and order situation. The project known as Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) is an initiative of the Union Ministry. It was started in militancy-hit Jammu and Kashmir last week where the police issued a circular asking citizens to register themselves as volunteers. The volunteers are asked to keep an eye on posts which are against the sovereignty and integrity of India, against the defence of India, against the security of the State, against friendly relations with foreign States, content aimed at disturbing public order, disturbing communal harmony and child sex abuse material. A spokesperson of Jammu and Kashmir police said that any Indian citizen can get associated with this programme by registering in any of three categories of cyber volunteers -- Cyber Volunteer Unlawful Content Flagger, Cyber Awareness Promoter and Cyber Expert. While the first category will help identify illegal and unlawful online content like child pornography, rape, gang rape, terrorism, radicalisation, anti-national activities etc, the second category will help create awareness about cybercrime among citizens, including vulnerable groups like women, children, the elderly, rural population etc. Cyber Expert category volunteer will help deal with specific domains of cybercrime, forensics, network forensics, malware analysis, memory analysis and cryptography. While there is no prior verification required for the first category, a background verification of volunteers of other two categories will be done as per the norms of Know Your Customers (KYC) by the respective state governments and union territories. The volunteers are required to furnish personal particulars like full name, father's name, mobile number, email address, residential address. Once the registration process is complete, the details of the volunteers would be accessible to the Union Territory Inspector General of Police (crime branch) who is the nodal officer for cybercrime. The I4C is an idea conceived to fight against cybercrime in a coordinated and comprehensive manner. "One of the important objectives of I4C is to create an ecosystem that brings together academia, industry, public and government in prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of cybercrimes," a document of the Home Ministry said. This programme also envisages bringing together citizens with a passion to serve the nation on a single platform and contribute in the fight against cybercrime in the country. The Home Ministry document made it clear that the programme is "purely volunteer" with no monetary benefits and a volunteer shall not use it for any commercial gain. The volunteers are barred from issuing any public statement about their association with this program and are also "strictly prohibited" from using the name of Ministry of Home Affairs or claim to have an association with the ministry on any social media or public platform. While asking volunteers to read Article 19 of the Constitution which deals with freedom of expression, the Home Ministry said that they shall maintain strict confidentiality of task assigned or carried out by them as a part of this program, and any violations would lead to their re-registration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-asks-people-to-register-as-cyber-crime-volunteers-to-check-unlawful-online-content-949535.html
10-02-2021||National||DH Toon | Cyber volunteers: New govt programme for jobs||In a bid to keep an eye on the cyber world in a "coordinated and comprehensive manner", the government has asked common people to register as cybercrime volunteers to help check posts against the sovereignty of the nation, on child and women abuse and attempts to disturb the law and order situation. The project known as Indian Cyber Crime Coordination Centre (I4C) is an initiative of the Union Ministry. It was started in militancy-hit Jammu and Kashmir last week where the police issued a circular asking citizens to register themselves as volunteers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-cyber-volunteers-new-govt-programme-for-jobs-949538.html
10-02-2021||National||Fuel prices hiked; petrol, diesel prices touch new highs||Petrol and diesel prices on Wednesday scaled new highs in the country as rates were hiked for the second day in a row. Petrol price was hiked by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 25 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The increase took petrol price to an all-time high of Rs 87.60 a litre in Delhi and to Rs 94.12 in Mumbai. Diesel rates rose to Rs 77.73 per litre in the national capital and to an all-time high of Rs 84.63 in Mumbai. Rates vary from state to state depending on the local incidence of taxation (VAT) and freight. Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan in Rajya Sabha said the government is not considering a reduction in excise duty to cool rates from their record highs. Rates have risen as international oil prices crossed $61 per barrel for the first time in more than a year on improving demand outlook amid the global rollout of COVID-19 vaccines, he said on Wednesday. Central and state taxes make up for over 61 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and about 56 per cent of diesel. Fuel rates had gone up by 30 paise per litre each on Tuesday. So far this year, prices have risen by Rs 3.89 per litre in case of petrol and by Rs 3.86 on diesel. Last week, Mukesh Kumar Surana, head of India's third-largest fuel retailer Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) had said that oil companies have little handle to control retail prices. Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL) Director (Finance) N Vijayagopal on Tuesday had voiced a similar opinion. Relief to consumers can come from a cut in government taxes, they said. Retail petrol rates have risen by Rs 18.01 per litre since mid-March 2020 after the government raised taxes by a record margin to mop up gains arising from fall in international oil prices. Diesel rates have gone up by Rs 15.44.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-prices-hiked-petrol-diesel-prices-touch-new-highs-949539.html
10-02-2021||National||India sees 11,067 new Covid-19 cases, 94 deaths||India's tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 1,08,58,371 with 11,067 new infections, while fresh fatalities remained below 100 for the fifth consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday.    The death toll increased to 1,55,252 with 94 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.    The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,05,61,608 pushing the national Covid-19 recovery rate to 97.27 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent.   The total Covid-19 active cases remained below 2 lakh. There are 1,41,511 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.30 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,33,24,655 samples have been tested up to February 9 with 7,36,903 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 94 new fatalities include 35 from Maharashtra, 19 from Kerala, 8 from Punjab and 6 from West Bengal. A total of 1,55,252 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,360 from Maharashtra followed by 12,391 from Tamil Nadu, 12,241 from Karnataka, 10,882 from Delhi, 10,215 from West Bengal,  8,691 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,160 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-11067-new-covid-19-cases-94-deaths-949564.html
10-02-2021||National||Uttarakhand disaster: Drones and more deployed to locate workers trapped in tunnel, 174 still missing||Using drones and remote-sensing equipment, rescue teams intensified efforts on Wednesday to reach the 25-35 men trapped in a sludge-choked tunnel since the Uttarakhand glacier disaster three days ago and more than 170 remained missing, hopes of finding them alive fading with every passing hour. The multi-agency rescue operation at the NTPC hydel project site has been going on uninterrupted since Sunday, when a possible glacier break in the upper reaches of the Himalayas triggered an avalanche and floods in the Alaknanda river system, with no breakthrough in sight, officials said. So far, 32 bodies have been recovered from different places in the disaster-hit areas of Chamoli district. Eight bodies have been identified and 174 people are still missing, the State Emergency Control Centre in Dehradun said. The missing people include those working at NTPC’s 480 MW Tapovan-Vishnugad project and the 13.2 MW Rishiganga Hydel Project and villagers whose homes were washed away as a wall of water came hurtling down mountainsides. A focal point of the rescue work has been efforts to penetrate through tonnes of silt, sludge and debris to get to the 25-35 people, who were at work inside the 1,500 metre tunnel at Tapovan when the waters came rushing in. "All strategies at the moment are focussed on rescuing those trapped inside the tunnel with the help of all the resources at our disposal, including drones and remote-sensing equipment," Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Nilesh Anand Bharne, Uttarakhand Police chief spokesperson, told PTI at Tapovan. Drilling through the debris has become more difficult with the silt inside the tunnel drying up and getting harder, he said. Rescue teams have so far managed to progress 80 metres inside the tunnel and have to make their way through tonnes of debris for at least 100 metres more to reach those trapped inside, the DIG added. The complicated design of the tunnel is making the task even more difficult, prompting the rescue teams to consult NTPC officials. More than 600 Army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) personnel are engaged in the search-and-rescue operations. Several measures, including drilling holes to take oxygen to the men inside the tunnel, are also being contemplated, added project consultant A K Shrivastava. The multi-agency group of rescuers flew a camera-equipped drone inside the Tapovan tunnel on Tuesday but could not pinpoint the location of survivors or the way forward due to darkness, a senior National Disaster Response Force officer said. "We are still hopeful. The teams will continue making attempts, clearing the slush to enter deeper into the tunnel and locate the trapped," he said. As rescuers said they were "hoping against hope" to reach the workers at the soonest, outside the tunnel, family members of those inside waited with bated breath to hear news about their loved ones. Officials on the ground and those monitoring the rescue from Delhi told PTI the continuous accumulation of slush and silt inside the tunnel is the biggest hurdle for rescuers. "Heavy machines have removed more slush from the tunnel the whole night. A joint team of ITBP, NDRF, SDRF and sister agencies entered the tunnel this morning... more slush and water coming from inside the tunnel is making the way ahead difficult," ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said in the national capital. The ITBP has deployed a team of about 450 personnel apart from those from the NDRF, state disaster response force and the Army. When contacted, Uttarakhand Director General of Police Ashok Kumar said all possible efforts will be made to save the lives of those trapped inside the tunnel. The villages that lost road connectivity in the wake of  the calamity are Raini Palli, Pang, Lata, Suraithota, Suki, Bhalgaon, Tolma, Fagrasu, Long Segdi, Gahar, Bhangyul, Juwagwad and Jugju. Relief is being distributed by helicopters among villagers cut off due to the washing away of a bridge in the avalanche at Malari. The total population of these villages is around 2,500, officials said on Tuesday. On Tuesday, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat undertook an aerial survey of the affected areas, visited the ITBP hospital in Joshimath, about 295 km from Dehradun, and met the 12 workers who were rescued from a small tunnel in Tapovan on Sunday evening. "The event happened in a hanging glacier, adjacent to Raunthi glacier, which originates from Raunthi/Mrigudhani peak (6,063 metres above sea level)," Kalachand Sain, director of the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, said. A hanging glacier is a body of ice that breaks off abruptly at the edge of a precipice or steep slope. The observations also suggest that rock mass weakened over a period of time due to freezing and thawing of snow. This must have led to the creation of a "weak zone", triggering its collapse, which resulted in the formation of a temporary dam that eventually breached, causing the floods.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-disaster-drones-and-more-deployed-to-locate-workers-trapped-in-tunnel-174-still-missing-949587.html
10-02-2021||National||Uttarakhand glacier disaster: Time running out for workers trapped in Tapovan tunnel||Time was running out to save dozens of people trapped inside a tunnel three days after a devastating flash flood likely caused by a glacier burst in Uttarakhand, officials said Wednesday. More than 170 people were still missing after a barrage of water and debris hurtled with terrifying speed and power down a valley on Sunday morning, sweeping away bridges and roads and hitting two hydroelectric plants. Thirty-two bodies have been found so far, officials said on Wednesday. It may take days for more bodies to be recovered under the tonnes of rocks and other debris and the thick blanket of grey mud. Twenty-five of the bodies were yet to be identified. Many of the victims are poor workers from hundreds of miles away in other parts of India whose whereabouts at the time of the disaster may not be known. The main focus of the massive rescue operation, under way day and night since Sunday, is a tunnel near a severely damaged hydroelectric plant that was under construction at Tapovan in Uttarakhand state. Workers there have been battling their way through hundreds of tonnes of sludge, boulders and other obstacles to try and reach 34 people who rescuers hope are alive in air pockets. "As time passes, the chances of finding them are reducing. But miracles do happen," Piyoosh Rautela, a senior state disaster relief official told AFP. "There's only so much that one can do. We can't push in multiple bulldozers together. We are working round the clock -- man, machinery we are all working round the clock. But the amount of debris is so much that it's going to take a while to remove all that," he said. Vivek Pandey, a spokesman for the border police told the Times of India that if the 34 are alive, the biggest concern is hypothermia, "which can be fatal in such conditions". Outside the tunnel, there were medical teams on standby with oxygen cylinders and stretchers, as well as anxious relatives. Shuhil Dhiman, 47, said that his brother-in-law Praveen Diwan, a private contractor and father of three, had driven into the tunnel on Sunday morning with three others when the flood hit. "We don't know what happened to him. We went near the tunnel but there are tonnes of slush coming out. The tunnel has a sharp slope from the opening and I think water and slush has gone deep inside," Shuhil Dhiman told AFP. "I am hoping against hope," he said. "The authorities are doing their best but the situation is beyond anyone's ability." The disaster has been blamed on rapidly melting glaciers in the Himalayan region caused by global warming. Building activity for dams, the dredging of riverbeds for sand and the clearing of trees for new roads -- some to beef up defence on the Chinese border -- are other factors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-glacier-disaster-time-running-out-for-workers-trapped-in-tapovan-tunnel-949590.html
10-02-2021||National||Supreme Court stays dismantling of decommissioned aircraft carrier INS Viraat||The Supreme Court on Wednesday stayed dismantling of aircraft carrier INS Viraat following its decommissioning by Indian Navy.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian passed an interim order to the Union government on a plea by the Mumbai-based private firm Envitech Marine Consultants Private Ltd. The petitioner firm contended it wanted to preserve the ship as a maritime museum. It offered to buy the ship for about Rs 100 crore, which it claimed has been ordered for dismantling for just Rs 38 crore. INS Viraat, the aircraft carrier, was decommissioned in 2017 after 30 years service to Indian Navy. It was subsequently sold to a ship breaking company as scrap for dismantling at Alang in Gujarat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-stays-dismantling-of-decommissioned-aircraft-carrier-ins-viraat-949607.html
10-02-2021||National||No civilian aware of move to abrogate Article 370: govt to RS||The government on Wednesday denied that civilians, including a journalist, were privy to information related to the abrogation of Article 370, which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir. The Central government got the approval of Parliament on August 5, 2019 for the abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir into two union territories. “No sir,” Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy told the Rajya Sabha when asked whether civilians, including a journalist, were privy to knowledge about the abrogation of Article 370 prior to the information being shared with Parliament on August 5, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-civilian-aware-of-move-to-abrogate-article-370-govt-to-rs-949615.html
10-02-2021||National||Karnataka registered most sedition cases in 2019||Ninety-three cases of sedition were registered across India in 2019, with Karnataka topping the list with 22 cases, the Ministry of Home Affairs informed Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. This was disclosed in a written reply by Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy. Ninety-six people were arrested on charges of sedition in 2019 while only two persons, who were named in a single case, were convicted. Twenty-nine people, named in 29 cases, were acquitted. In Karnataka, 18 people were arrested in 22 cases while there was no conviction or acquittal in any of the cases that were in courts. A total of 11 sedition cases were registered in Jammu and Kashmir where 16 people were arrested. As many as 10 sedition cases were filed in Uttar Pradesh, in which nine people were arrested, he said. Asked whether any step has been taken to strengthen the sedition law (Section 124A of the IPC), the minister said that the "amendment of laws is an ongoing process".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnataka-registered-most-sedition-cases-in-2019-949621.html
10-02-2021||National||SC declines man's plea for protocol on disposal of mortal remains||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to consider a Delhi resident's plea for a direction to the Centre and States to put in place a mortal remains disposal protocol in the country. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy said the court declined to consider this petition as the issue was subject to a Suo Motu matter related to the treatment of Covid-19 patients and disposal of bodies. The deceased mother of the man, G Manohar, was cremated by somebody else contrary to her faith, due to a mix-up by hospital authorities during the Covid-19 pandemic. The other man had to perform the last rites twice. Manohar has approached the court to avoid such 'disastrous and irreversible events'. In a writ petition, he asked the court to ensure that no one is subject to the 'most harrowing experience that he underwent'.  He said the right to life included the right to dignity and dignity in death under Article 21 of the Constitution.  He contended it was his mother’s right to be buried according to Christian rites and rituals as she had lived and died as the wife of a Christian. She was, however, cremated by somebody else due to confusion at the hospital where she was admitted.  "It has become a common feature in many states in the country that dead bodies are managed without any proper protocols which have led to many such incidents in the country," his plea said. On September 14, 2020, the petitioner's mother collapsed in the bathroom. She was rushed to a hospital where she underwent Covid-19 tests, which were negative. But she was soon declared dead. The family requested the hospital morgue to store the body as relatives were flying down for the last rites. The next day, when the petitioner went to the hospital, he was shown the body of another woman.  When the petitioner and family insisted to ascertain the fate of his mother's body, it turned out that one Puneet Kohli was given her body. On being called, Kohli identified his mother's body. He said since his mother had died of Covid-19 related complications, the hospital authorities did not allow him to see the body. It was hurriedly taken to the Punjabi Bagh Crematorium and cremated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-declines-mans-plea-for-protocol-on-disposal-of-mortal-remains-949629.html
10-02-2021||National||18 Indian sailors stuck in China to return on Feb 14: Mandaviya||Eighteen Indian sailors stuck in China will return to India on February 14, union minister Mansukh Mandaviya said on Wednesday. The stuck crew will sign off from Japan on Wednesday and will be reunited with their families on reaching India. "Our 18 stranded seafarers of MV Anastasia stuck in China are coming to India. The crew will sign off from Japan today and will reach India on February 14,” Ports Shipping and Waterways Minister Mandaviya told PTI. The Minister said they will be reunited with their families soon. Mandaviya appreciated the efforts of Indian embassy in China and the Mediterranean Ship Company for arranging the repatriation. Cargo vessel MV Anastasia was stuck off the coast of China since September 2020, an official said. Earlier, as many as 23 seafarers of Ship MV Jag Anand were stuck in China had reached India on January 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/18-indian-sailors-stuck-in-china-to-return-on-feb-14-mandaviya-949634.html
10-02-2021||National||Covid-19: Less than 5,000 active cases in 33 states, UTs||Active Covid-19 cases in the country have dropped to 1.41 lakh comprising just 1.30 per cent of the total infections, while 33 states and UTs have reported less than 5000 active cases in a span of 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli currently have zero active cases. A total of 11,067 new daily cases have been recorded in a span of 24 hours whereas 13,087 patients have recovered during the same period. It has led to a net decline of 2,114 cases from the total active caseload, the ministry highlighted. Kerala and Maharashtra account for 71 per cent of the total active cases of the country, the ministry said. Nineteen states and UTs have not reported any death in a span of 24 hours. These are Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, J&K (UT), Jharkhand, Puducherry, Manipur, Nagaland, Lakshadweep, Meghalaya, Sikkim, A&N Islands, Ladakh (UT), Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura and Daman and Diu and Dadar and Nagar Haveli. India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,05,61,608. Till February 10, 8 AM, more than 66 lakh beneficiaries have been inoculated under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise. The total cumulative vaccination coverage of 66,11,561 includes 56,10,134 healthcare workers and 10,01,427 frontline workers. A total of 1,34,746 sessions have been conducted so far. The final figures for the vaccination coverage for Day 25 (9th February) of the country-wide exercise include 3,52,553 beneficiaries across 7,990 sessions. The number of beneficiaries being vaccinated every day is following a consistent upward slope. The ministry said 81.68 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 6  states. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 6,475 newly recovered cases. A total of 2,554 people have recovered in Maharashtra in a span of 24 hours followed by 513 in Karnataka. The ministry said that 83.31 per cent of the daily new cases are from 6 states. Kerala reported the highest daily new cases at 5,214. It is followed by Maharashtra with 2,515, while Tamil Nadu has reported 469 new cases. A total of 94 fatalities have been recorded in a day. Six states account for 80.85 per cent of the daily deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (35). Kerala follows with 19 daily deaths and Punjab has reported 8 casualties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-less-than-5000-active-cases-in-33-states-uts-949649.html
10-02-2021||National||4-day work week, strike notice: Key things in new labour codes||The Government is set to form rules on the four proposed labour codes. The new rules are likely to bring radical changes in the way India works, some of them include a four-day workweek, free medical check-up and online government portal for workers in the unorganised sector.  Under the Labour Ministry, about 44 central labour laws will be converted into four broad codes  --  Code on Wages, Industrial Relations, Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions (OSH) and Social Security Codes. Here are key things to know about the new norms:  1. The employer may be enabled to introduce a four-day work week, but the 48 hours of work a week continues to stay. Thus a 12-hour workday will force the employer to provide three paid leaves a week.  2. Union Labour Secretary Apurva Chandra said on Monday that the new norms were being introduced to keep up with the changes in the work culture and allow flexibility. 3. The Centre has also proposed free medical check-ups for workers through Employees State Insurance Corporation.  4. According to the new norms, companies with less than 300 workers won't require government permission to sack employees or to shut down the plant.  5. It also mandates the employees to provide 60 days’ strike notice. 6. The government aims to create an online portal for the workers in the unorganised sector, gig workers, platform workers and migrants who move to work. 7. The portal will aid these workers, who are often not considered employees, in areas of health, housing, skill, insurance, credit and food schemes for such workers.  8. They will also be provided with an incentive for one year for accidental and disability cover under the Pradhan Mantri Suraksha Bima Yojana (PMSBY). 9. Government has also kickstarted four new surveys of for Migrant workers, Domestic workers, Employment generated by Professionals and Transport Sector. 10. The Labour Bureau will also commission the All India Establishment based Employment Survey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-day-work-week-strike-notice-key-things-in-new-labour-codes-949650.html
10-02-2021||National||Skin-to-skin contact verdict: SC sends notice to Bombay HC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued a notice to the Maharashtra government on a plea by the National Commission for Women (NCW) against the Bombay High Court verdict which ruled that groping a minor without "skin-to-skin contact" cannot be termed as sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.  The top court had on January 27 stayed the judgement saying that it was “unprecedented” and was likely to set a “dangerous precedent”.  On Wednesday, a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde sought a response from the Maharashtra government and the accused on a fresh petition filed by the NCW.  The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, asked senior advocate Geeta Luthra, appearing for NCW, as to why it should entertain a separate plea when the top court has already stayed the high court verdict and the accused is in jail. Luthra, referring to the provision of the NCW Act, said the statute provides that the commission should move the court for correction if any such issues come up. The Maharashtra government also filed a separate plea in the matter.  Other petitioners, Youth Bar Association of India and Bharatiya Stree Shakti, withdrew their pleas against the verdict of the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court.  In its plea, the NCW has said that if such a “perverse interpretation of physical contact is allowed, it will adversely impact the basic rights of women, who are victims of sexual offences in the society and will undermine the beneficial statutory safeguards prescribed under various legislations aimed at protecting the interest of women.” Notably, the Supreme Court Collegium headed by Chief Justice reportedly withdrew its recommendation for making Justice Pushpa V Ganediwala, who passed the verdict, as a permanent judge of the Bombay High Court following her two controversial judgements in child sexual offence cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/skin-to-skin-contact-verdict-sc-sends-notice-to-bombay-hc-949651.html
10-02-2021||National||Migrant workers returning, getting work: Santosh Kumar Gangwar||Around one crore migrant workers went back to their home states during the Covid-19 pandemic but most of them have now returned and are getting employment, Labour and Employment Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said on Wednesday in Rajya Sabha. "As per the information gathered, around one crore labourers returned to their home states from their workplace States. But, now most of them have gone back to work and are getting placement," he said during Question Hour. The minister was answering to a supplementary question asked by senior SP leader Ram Gopal Yadav who wanted to know how many labourers in the unorganised sector lost jobs during the coronavirus pandemic following closure of factories. Noting that there are 10 crore labourers in the organised sector and 40 crore in the unorganised sector, Gangwar said the government is making efforts and running programmes to shift the workforce employed in the unorganised sector to organised sector. "Employment generation coupled with improving employability is the priority of the government," he said in a written reply to a starred question. The government has taken various steps for generating employment in the country, the minister said. The measures include encouraging various projects involving substantial investment and increasing public expenditure on schemes like Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP), Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Grameen Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY), Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana-National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM) and Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY). "The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (Mahatma Gandhi NREGS), is a demand driven wage employment programme. A rural household, adult members of which agree to unskilled manual work, is entitled for hundred days of wage employment," Gangwar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/migrant-workers-returning-getting-work-santosh-kumar-gangwar-949653.html
10-02-2021||National||Laxity found in ensuring safety by SAIL at Bhilai plant: CAG report||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) has pulled up SAIL for "laxity" in ensuring safety measures which led to the blast at the company's Bhilai Steel Plant (BSP) in 2018, in which 14 people had lost their lives. On October 9, 2018, an explosion occurred at around 10:30 am in a gas pipeline connected to the coke oven section of the plant in Bhilai town. In a report, CAG said it has audited all records relating to safety policy and environment management of SAIL for the period 2014-19. The CAG report further noted that there were less number of safety officers posted in its plants than the statutory requirement during the period. The report was done to assess the compliance to stipulated Act/ Rules/ Regulations and Standard Operating Practices (SOP) and whether social responsibilities related to environmental and pollution control, safety standards and application of the best industrial practices were followed, the CAG report released on Tuesday said. "It was noted that the SAIL Safety Organisation did not develop any plan or frame timeline to implement its recommendations. Rupture in pipelines in pump houses at BSP led to fall in water pressure and Blast Furnace Gas spread into Pump House causing the death of six persons. "Laxity in taking safety measures and unsafe practice of doing De-Blanking jobs of CO Gas Line on charged pipelines caused an accident at BSP where 14 people died," the CAG report said. SAIL has five integrated steel plants in Odisha, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. CO2 emission in SAIL plants was higher than international standards, the report said adding that the average specific energy consumption in SAIL was more than the world average as well as that of Tata Steel and Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd (RINL).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/laxity-found-in-ensuring-safety-by-sail-at-bhilai-plant-cag-report-949657.html
10-02-2021||National||MJ Akbar vs Ramani defamation case: Hearing adjourned till Feb 17||A Delhi Court Wednesday deferred for February 17 its verdict in M J Akbar's criminal defamation complaint against journalist Priya Ramani for her allegations of sexual harassment against him. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey said the written submissions were submitted late. The court had on February 1 reserved the judgment after Akbar as well as Ramani completed their arguments. Ramani had made an allegation of sexual misconduct against Akbar in the wake of #MeToo movement in 2018. Akbar had filed the complaint against Ramani on October 15, 2018, for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct decades ago when he was a journalist. He resigned as Union minister on October 17, 2018. He has denied all the allegations of sexual harassment against the women who came forward during #MeToo campaign against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mj-akbar-vs-ramani-defamation-case-hearing-adjourned-till-feb-17-949659.html
10-02-2021||National||Inter-faith marriage: HC orders registration under police cover||The Gujarat High Court has directed that a woman intending to marry a man from a different religion be escorted by police from Junagadh to Ahmedabad for the registration of their marriage here after her parents opposed her decision to tie the knot with him. On February 8, a division bench of Justices Sonia Gokani and Sangeeta K Vishen heard the woman, who is undergoing police training in the state's Junagadh district, through video conference. After the woman expressed her willingness to marry the Muslim man, the court, while hearing a habeas corpus plea moved by the man, directed to register their marriage here under the Special Marriage Act on February 9, when the one- month notice period for the same lapsed. When contacted for further details about the marriage, the petitioner's lawyer said the court has kept the matter for further hearing on February 12. The court directed that the woman be brought in a police vehicle accompanied by a woman cop and an official of the district legal services authority. The woman had taken a transfer from a police training centre in Ahmedabad to Junagadh after her parents objected to her decision to marry the Muslim man. The court directed that a police woman accompany her in a special vehicle from Junagadh to Ahmedabad, a distance of around 300 km, along with an employee of the district legal services authority. The deputy commissioner of police, zone 2, of Ahmedabad shall provide necessary protection to the couple during the process of registration of marriage, the HC said. It also wanted to know as to why the woman was precluded from having any communication through cell phone while undergoing training at Junagadh, when the same is permitted to others during post training hours. The court directed the assistant public prosecutor to ascertain the same. The order came after the woman told the HC via video conference from Junagadh district court that she is undergoing police training there after taking a transfer from Karanj in Ahmedabad. The woman said she is keen to marry the petitioner, but is facing opposition from her family and community. She also narrated how she was one day called at the Karanj police station at 8 pm with the petitioner and was allowed to go around 3 am the next day. The woman chose for a transfer to Junagadh after feeling there was no other option, as she desires to continue with her service, she told the court. The woman is at present undergoing training at the police training centre in Junagadh. During the hearing, she requested the court to permit her to travel to Ahmedabad on February 9, since it was the last day to register their marriage under the Special Marriage Act. The court in its order noted the petitioner has ensured that as per the woman's wishes, she will be able to continue her training after marriage, and his family will not pose any hindrance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inter-faith-marriage-hc-orders-registration-under-police-cover-949662.html
10-02-2021||National||Oppn parties in Rajya Sabha oppose bill to develop major ports||Various opposition parties, including the TMC, SP, RJD, DMK, AAP, CPI(M) and CPI, raised strong objections in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday to a bill for developing the major ports in the country and alleged that it is aimed at privatising the ports and diluting the powers of the states on land use. However, the BJD, JD(U), YSRCP supported the Major Port Authorities Bill, 2020, saying it is a welcome move to expand the port development infrastructure. Opposing the bill, Sukhendu Sekhar Ray of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) said there is nothing in it as it follows the Singapore model of corporatisation. "This is the first stage of corporatisation and the next step in the offing is privatisation. Parliament is being taken for a ride.... I strongly oppose this bill on behalf of the TMC," he said, participating in the debate on the bill. Ray said the recommendations of the Standing Committee in this regard have not been taken into consideration. He said according to the bill, a state government will have no authority in either the sale of land or change of land use, even though the land belongs to the state. "The powers of the state government have been diluted as it has no say on land," Ray said, adding that the land should go back to the state or the profits from its sale proceeds should go to it. P Wilson of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) alleged that the bill has only been brought to serve the interests of private players and reduce the state governments' say in the development of ports. On a provision in the bill that says the port's master plan will overtake the state's master plan, he said, "the master plan has been hijacked". Wilson also sought that technical members be given a place in the running of ports. He also alleged that the bill will lead to the mushrooming of private ports, which will come up like "bus stands", and this will affect the flora and fauna of the area. Banda Prakash of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) urged the government not to privatise ports as it is putting even the profit-making Shipping Corporation of India up "on sale". "I request the government to withdraw its stand of selling the ports of the country," he said. Opposing the bill, Ram Gopal Yadav of the Samajwadi Party (SP) alleged that the government is trying to sell the assets of the country and this is the intention of the bill. He cited the example of the Varanasi airport, where an amount of Rs 800 crore was invested for its development and it is now being sold to private players. "Please do not put the country's assets to be sold to private players for peanuts," he said. Elamaran Kareem of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) alleged that the bill proposes to convert the port authority into a corporate entity and the assets of the ports will be sold off to private players. "The bill aims to convert the port authority into a corporate entity and this is only an interim arrangement as the aim ultimately is to privatise them," he said. Kareem also alleged that "the national safety and security is under threat through this bill" and said there should be no compromise on such issues. Ram Chandra Prasad Singh of the Janata Dal (United) supported the bill but demanded that the states should have a representative in the Port Authority. He also demanded that the land-locked states be given land to develop their own ports and a policy in this regard formed. Supporting the bill, Subhash Chandra Singh of the Biju Janata Dal (BJD) called for utilisation of the CSR funds for the creation of an infrastructure in the ports and around and asked where these funds have gone. He cited the example of the Paradip port in this regard. Ayodhya Rami Reddy of the YSRCP welcomed the bill, saying it will help create the infrastructure needed to expand the ports. It would also help develop the major and minor ports in the country, he said, while hailing the proposal for integrated development around the ports. Manoj Jha of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Binoy Viswam of the Communist Party of India (CPI) and Narain Dass Gupta of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) also opposed the bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oppn-parties-in-rajya-sabha-oppose-bill-to-develop-major-ports-949670.html
10-02-2021||National||International passenger traffic fell by 90.56% in March-Dec 2020: Govt||International passenger traffic fell by 90.56 per cent to 18.55 lakh in March-December period of 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic as compared to the corresponding period of 2019, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Wednesday. Moreover, domestic passenger traffic fell to 3.77 crore in March-December period of 2020 from 11.99 crore in the corresponding period of 2019, the minister said. Scheduled international passenger traffic continues to remain suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating since July 2020 under air bubble arrangements formed with various countries. "Revenues of major Indian scheduled carriers fell from Rs. 46,711 crore during April-September 2019 to about Rs. 11,810 crore during April-September 2020. Their full time and contractual employment which was 74,887 as on 31 March 2020 fell to 67,906 as on 30 September 2020," Puri told Rajya Sabha in a written reply to a question. "Domestic passenger traffic fell from 11,99,45,632 during March-December 2019 to 3,77,79,592 during March-December 2020, while international passenger traffic fell from 1,96,64,179 to 18,55,033," he added. Domestic passenger traffic was suspended in India from March 25, 2020, to May 24, 2020, due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. Currently, the Indian carriers are permitted to operate not more than 80 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/international-passenger-traffic-fell-by-9056-in-march-dec-2020-govt-949673.html
10-02-2021||National||High Court monitoring CBI probe into Hathras case as directed by SC: Govt to Rajya Sabha||The Centre informed Parliament on Wednesday that the Allahabad High Court is monitoring the CBI probe into the rape-and-murder case of a 19-year-old woman in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh as directed by the Supreme Court. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the apex court had observed that since the Uttar Pradesh police was divested of the probe and the central agency is carrying out the investigation, there would be no room for apprehensions at this stage. He said the investigation into the Hathras rape-and-murder case has been transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on the recommendation of the state government through a gazette notification of October 10, 2020. Reddy said according to the available information, the Supreme Court, in its order on October 27, 2020, had observed that the petitioners had prayed that the Union of India and the authorities concerned be ordered to conduct a fair probe and if the need arises, by transferring the case to the CBI, or a special investigation team (SIT) be formed to investigate the matter and that it was also prayed that a sitting or retired Supreme Court or high court judge be appointed to look into the matter. Reddy said the Supreme Court observed that it would be appropriate for the high court to proceed to monitor the probe in the manner in which it would desire and that the CBI shall report to the high court in the manner as would be directed by the high court through its orders from time to time. "Further, they also expressed the view that it would be appropriate for the investigating agency to complete the investigation and in any event, since the local police has been divested of the investigation and the CBI is carrying out the investigation, there would be no room for apprehensions at this stage," he said. The 19-year-old woman was allegedly raped and seriously injured by four men at Hathras in September last year and she died at a Delhi hospital two weeks later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-court-monitoring-cbi-probe-into-hathras-case-as-directed-by-sc-govt-to-rajya-sabha-949676.html
10-02-2021||National||Over 66,000 manual scavengers identified across country||As many as 66,692 manual scavengers, including 37,379 in Uttar Pradesh, have been identified across the country, the government said on Wednesday. In a written reply in Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale said 340 people have died while cleaning sewers and tanks in the last five years. Out of the 340 deaths, full compensation has been paid to 217 and partial compensation has been paid to 47, according to the data shared by Athawale. According to the data, a total of 66,692 manual scavengers have been identified across the country. The highest number of manual scavengers have been identified in UP at 37,379 followed by 7,378 in Maharashtra, 6,170 in Uttarakhand and 4,295 in Assam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-66000-manual-scavengers-identified-across-country-949679.html
10-02-2021||National||Deadline for completion of Mangalore airport expansion set for March: Puri||Deadline for completion of expansion works of Mangalore Airport is March 2021, Union Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri informed Rajya Sabha, said on Wednesday. Replying to K C Ramamurthy's question, the minister said that the Airports Authority of India (AAI) had taken up the work of parallel taxi track - II and expansion of aerobridges at Mangalore airport in Karnataka at an estimated cost of about Rs 98 crore and Rs 95 crore, respectively. At present, the physical progress of the work of construction of parallel taxi track - II is about 88% and that of expansion of aerobridges is about 65%, Puri said. However, the airport has been handed over to Public Private Partnership Operator on October 31, 2020. The momentum of the work was slowed down due to the outbreak of Covid-19 and incessant rains. The projected date of completion for the project is March 2021, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deadline-for-completion-of-mangalore-airport-expansion-set-for-march-puri-949685.html
10-02-2021||National||Parliament likely to adjourn a day early on Friday||Parliament is likely to adjourn on Friday, a day ahead of schedule after concluding the debate on Budget, sources said on Wednesday. Initially, the House was to adjourn on February 15 but it was advanced to February 13, a Saturday. MPs would have to return to attend Parliament for a single day after spending time in their constituencies on the weekend if the House assembled on February 15, which is Monday. Following a suggestion for early adjournment, floor leaders of Rajya Sabha have agreed to adjourn the first leg of the Budget session on Friday. Sources said Lok Sabha is likely to follow suit. The second leg of the Budget Session is to start on March 8 and end on April 8. A decision was taken earlier to sit on Saturday to conclude the business. However, on Tuesday evening, the idea to adjourn the House on Friday was mooted as there was not much business except for the debate on Budget. Rajya Sabha has already passed two Bills after clearing the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address. However, Lok Sabha was lagging in business as the Opposition had disrupted the House for four days demanding a separate discussion on farmers issue. The Motion of Thanks could be taken up for discussion on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-likely-to-adjourn-a-day-early-on-friday-949694.html
10-02-2021||National||Tussle between Centre and Twitter continues||Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad refused Twitter's request for a meeting even as the microblogging platform claimed that it has blocked 500 accounts of the 1400 handles which the government asked. The US-based social media company rejected government's order to block some handles, mostly belonging to civil society activists, politicians and media claiming that blocking "accounts would violate their fundamental right to free expression" guaranteed under country's law. The government had issued a notice to Twitter asking it to block 1400 accounts claiming that they were provoking ongoing farmers protests. But, in a blog post, Twitter mentioned that it will not block all accounts which the government has instructed it to before a dialogue. The Centre took to made-in-India micro-blogging website, Koo to respond to Twitter over the ongoing tussle. The Minister's office asked Twitter to approach the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) officials. Now MeitY Secretary Ajay Prakash Sawhney is likely to lead the talks with the social media giant. Sawhney will meet Twitter’s Vice President of Global Public Policy through a video conference this week. "Upon the request of Twitter seeking a meeting with the Govt., the Secretary IT was to engage with senior management of Twitter. In this light a blog post published prior to this engagement is unusual. Govt. will share its response soon,": MeitY shared on Twitter’s Indian rival Koo. Same also tweeted by the Ministry in Twitter handle as well. The government shared the information on Koo platform, which can be seen as a message to Twitter that India has an alternative ready. Twitter emphasised that it will continue to advocate freedom of expression of its users and that it is “actively exploring options under Indian law — both for Twitter and for the accounts that have been impacted”. Seeking to clarify its stance, Twitter said it had taken steps to reduce the visibility of the hashtags containing harmful content that included prohibiting them from trending on Twitter and appearing as recommended Search terms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tussle-between-centre-and-twitter-continues-949711.html
10-02-2021||National||Chinese, Indian border troops begin disengagement along Line of Actual Control||Nine months after the beginning of the biggest Sino-Indian border crisis since the 1962 war, troops from India and China have started “simultaneous and systematic disengagement” at the Pangong lake area in eastern Ladakh. “The Chinese and Indian frontline troops at the southern and northern bank of the Pangong Tso start synchronised and organised disengagement from February 10,” Senior Colonel Wu Qian, spokesperson for the Chinese Ministry of National Defense said in a written statement in Beijing on Wednesday. “This move is in accordance with the consensus reached by both sides at the 9th round of China-India Corps Commander Level Meeting,” the statement said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will make a statement in both Houses of the Parliament on Thursday regarding the ‘present situation in eastern Ladakh’, a Defence Ministry spokesperson said. Neither the Ministry of External Affairs nor the Ministry of Defence have reacted to the Chinese statement so far. The breakthrough came a fortnight after the last Corps Commander level meeting between the Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army. Going by the official account the meeting between senior military commanders was “positive, practical and constructive” in which the two sides “agreed to push for an early disengagement of the frontline troops.” Indian officials, however, are cautious and remain guarded because of the huge amount of trust deficit that exists between the two armies. Twice in the past, the PLA commanders agreed on disengagement but backtracked later. One such incident led to the Galwan valley clash when Indian troops went to the spot to verify the Chinese claims of disengagement. The brutal clash led to the death of 20 Indian soldiers and an unspecified number of PLA troops. Subsequently, a second agreement for disengagement was reached between the two sides, but the PLA didn’t honour that either. While the troops were pulled out from the Galwan area, there was no reduction at another friction zone. In the third disengagement attempt being tried now, armoured elements from both sides are being withdrawn in accordance with a plan that was agreed upon by the two countries in November but was not implemented. There would be no thinning of the troops from the dominating heights. In a separate statement, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin said that according to the consensus reached at the Chinese and Indian Foreign Ministers' meeting in Moscow and the 9th round of commander-level talks between the two sides, the frontline troops of the Chinese and Indian militaries began to conduct simultaneous and planned disengagement in the Pangong Lake area on February 10. "We hope the Indian side will work with China to meet each other halfway, strictly implement the consensus reached between the two sides and ensure the smooth implementation of the disengagement process," Wang said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-indian-border-troops-begin-disengagement-along-line-of-actual-control-949715.html
10-02-2021||National||Twitter restricts certain accounts within India after govt order, suspends over 500 accounts||Twitter on Wednesday said it has suspended over 500 accounts, and blocked access to several others within India as it partly acceded to a government order to curb the spread of misinformation and inflammatory content around farmers' protests. Twitter, in a blog post, said it has not blocked accounts consisting of "news media entities, journalists, activists and politicians" as doing so "would violate their fundamental right to free expression" guaranteed under the country's law. The government, however, termed as “unusual” Twitter's move to publish the blogpost before slated talks with the IT Secretary on the issue, as sought by the US company. “Upon the request of Twitter seeking a meeting with the government, the Secretary IT was to engage with senior management of Twitter. In this light, a blog post published prior to this engagement is unusual,” IT Ministry said in its response on Koo, a homegrown social networking platform. The government will share its response soon, the post on Koo said. Koo is being touted as the homegrown contender to Twitter. The blogpost by Twitter on Wednesday morning had the microblogging platform emphasising it will continue to advocate for the right of free expression of its users and that it is "actively exploring options under Indian law - both for Twitter and for the accounts that have been impacted". The development comes in the backdrop of the government - on February 4 - ordering Twitter to take down 1,178 accounts with links to Pakistan and Khalistan supporters that were spreading misinformation and provocative content related to farmers' protest. In all, Twitter has taken action against over 1,000 accounts - 500 as sought by the government and an equal number that were found by the company engaging in platform manipulation and spam. The government had late last month sought blocking of 257 tweets and handles in connection with the agitation by farmers over the new pro-market agricultural laws. Twitter complied, only to restore the accounts hours later. This led to the government issuing a non-compliance notice and a warning of stringent penalties and potential jail terms. Seeking to clarify its stance, Twitter - in its blog post on Wednesday - said it had taken steps to reduce the visibility of the hashtags containing harmful content that included prohibiting them from trending on Twitter and appearing as recommended Search terms. It has "withheld a portion of the accounts identified in the blocking orders" within India, making them accessible only outside the country. Stating that it has informed the IT Ministry (MeitY) of its enforcement action, Twitter said it has taken a range of enforcement actions against over 500 accounts escalated across all MeitY orders - including permanent suspension in certain cases for violation of its rules. "...Today, we have withheld a portion of the accounts identified in the blocking orders under our Country Withheld Content policy within India only. These accounts continue to be available outside of India," Twitter said. It, however, did not provide details of the handles against whom action had been taken. Twitter argued that it has not taken any action on accounts that consist of news media entities, journalists, activists, and politicians as it does “not believe that the actions we have been directed to take are consistent with Indian law, and, in keeping with our principles of defending protected speech and freedom of expression”. It contended that doing so would violate the fundamental right to free expression under Indian law. "We remain committed to safeguarding the health of the conversation occurring on Twitter, and strongly believe that the Tweets should flow," it said. Emphasising that transparency is the foundation for promoting healthy public conversation on the platform and earning trust, Twitter said it is critical that people understand its approach to content moderation and how it engages with governments globally. "The values that underpin the Open Internet and free expression are increasingly under threat around the world... Twitter exists to empower voices to be heard, and we continue to make improvements to our service so that everyone - no matter their views or perspective - feels safe participating in the public conversation," Twitter said. Twitter said, following the reports of violence in New Delhi in recent weeks, it wanted to share a granular update on its proactive efforts it took to enforce its rules. Starting January 26, Twitter said its global team took action "judiciously and impartially" on content, Trends, Tweets, and accounts that were in violation of its rules and took action on "hundreds of accounts" that violated its rules on "inciting violence, abuse, wishes of harm, and threats that could trigger the risk of offline harm". Actions taken included preventing certain terms from appearing in the Trends section and suspension of more than 500 accounts that were engaging in clear examples of platform manipulation and spam. Apart from its enforcement under the Twitter Rules, the company said it had been served with several separate blocking orders by MeitY under Section 69A of the IT Act. "Out of these, two were emergency blocking orders that we temporarily complied with, but subsequently restored access to the content in a manner that we believe was consistent with Indian law," it said. Twitter further pointed out that after this was communicated to MeitY, it was served with a non-compliance notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-restricts-certain-accounts-within-india-after-govt-order-suspends-over-500-accounts-949731.html
10-02-2021||National||Heart ailment not covered under Disability Act, says Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Wednesday said that a heart ailment is not covered within the definition of disability, which can allow one to claim compensation for it. The top court dismissed an appeal against a Patna High Court judgment which upheld the order of Shipping Corporation of India rejecting a seaman's claim for disability compensation.  Nawal Kishore Sharma, a former seaman claimed disability compensation on account of being retired permanently after he developed a heart ailment.   A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Dinesh Maheshwari and Hrishikesh Roy said it would hesitate to import words, which the legislature chose not to, in the definition of disability.  Sharma contended that his heart ailment should be understood as a disability under the Disability Act and consequential benefits be accorded to him.  The court said in the present case that no material was produced to correlate the appellant’s impaired heart function with the nine-month engagement in the ship. The bench said that in the absence of any connecting link between the job and the medical condition, there can't be disability compensation.    The apex court also noted that no linkage between the on-ship duty and the appellant’s medical condition could be established.  The 1995 Act was replaced by the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, “a person with disabilities” was defined under Section 2(s) as a person with long term physical, mental, intellectual, or sensory impairment which prevent his full and effective participation in society. Section 2 (zc) defines “specified disability” as those mentioned in the Schedule to the 2016 Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heart-ailment-not-covered-under-disability-act-says-supreme-court-949734.html
10-02-2021||National||Farmers announce fresh protest plan; to remember Pulwama martyrs on Feb 14||Farmers' union on Wednesday announced an intensification in their agitation against the contentious farm laws by organising a series of programmes, including throwing open toll plazas in Rajasthan and organising candlelight marches across India in honour of soldiers martyred in the 2019 Pulwama attack. The announcement of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the organisation spearheading the agitation against three contentious farm laws, came soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi finished his reply to the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address in Lok Sabha where he gave no indication of repealing the controversial laws. Farmers' leader Darshan Pal said SKM discussed the various programmes between February 12 and February 18. On February 12, Pal said, all road toll plazas in Rajasthan will be made toll free. On February 14, candle marches and other programmes will be organised to remember the "sacrifice of martyred soldiers in Pulwama attack". On February 14, 2019, terrorists drove an explosive-laden SUV into a convoy of CRPF personnel killing 40 personnel. Farmers will also organise a solidarity show on February 16 on the occasion of birth anniversary of Sir Chhoturam. On February 18, the SKM also called for a 'rail roko' agitation across the country from 12 pm to 4 pm. On Monday, after the Rajya Sabha passed the motion of thanks, the SKM said that Prime Minister Modi has insulted the farmers, adding that they are proud to be 'aandolan jeevi' as it was agitations that liberated India from colonial rule. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday reiterated his government's support to the farmers while speaking in the Lok Sabha. He said neither any agriculture 'mandi' (market) has shut down after the three laws were enacted nor has the MSP stopped, rather the MSP has only increased which no one can deny. Meanwhile, Congress slammed the BJP for having corporate interests as a priority. Senior leader Kapil Sibal said in Parliament on Wednesday, "Our farmers are not demanding much. The corporates are demanding exemptions, demanding cuts in taxes. You provide all relaxations what the corporates ask you. You are giving the maximum to corporates when the farmers' demands are minimum."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-announce-fresh-protest-plan-to-remember-pulwama-martyrs-on-feb-14-949745.html
10-02-2021||National||No civilian, journalist aware of move to revoke Article 370 in J&K: Govt in Rajya Sabha||The Centre on Wednesday denied that civilians, including a journalist, knew about the revoking of special status to Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 prior to the information being shared with Parliament. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) was responding to Congress MP Syed Nasir Hussain, who asked if civilians, not employees of the Centre and a journalist,  were privy to knowledge about the abrogation of Article 370 before the Parliament on August 5, 2019. To this, Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy responded, "No, Sir." Hussain also sought reasons for providing such information to civilians, if done, which Reddy denied. A controversy had erupted after WhatApp chats between Republic TV Chief Editor Arnab Goswami and former Broadcast Audience Research Council of India (BARC) CEO Partho Dasgupta were leaked in which the former appeared to give information about certain decisions and actions the government would be taking. The contents of WhatsApp chats had triggered a controversy with the Opposition parties accusing the government of leaking sensitive information to people who are close to them. One of the chats, part of a supplementary chargesheet filed in the TRP fraud case by Mumbai Police, had referred to plans of the government acting "big" against Pakistan after the Pulwama terror strike. Three days after the chat, the Indian forces had conducted a surgical strike on certain terror hotspots in Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-civilian-journalist-aware-of-move-to-revoke-article-370-in-jk-govt-in-rajya-sabha-949747.html
10-02-2021||National||Voting on Ports Bill in RS; Govt wins 84-44 but after Opposition accuses it of selling assets||Parliament witnessed voting on a Bill for the first time since the Covid-19 protocol was imposed with Opposition MPs pressing for division on the passage of Major Ports Authority Bill that seeks to provide greater autonomy in decision-making to 12 major ports in the country and professionalise their governance. The Bill was passed with 84 votes in its favour and 44 against it. CPI(M) floor leader Elamaram Kareem demanded a voting through ballots following which Deputy Chairman Harivansh called for lobbies to be cleared for initiating the process. As social distancing norms were put in place due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the MPs were spread out in Rajya Sabha chambers, galleries and Lok Sabha chambers. The electronic voting system was also not in place and the MPs were asked to vote through ballots. All eyes were glued to the House as the demand for division came up as Deputy Chairman Harivansh put the motion for passing the bill before the House. During the Monsoon Session on September 20 last year, Rajya Sabha had witnessed unruly scenes during the passage of two of the three contentious farm bills with the Opposition then accusing the government of not allowing a division of votes. The incident had led to the suspension of eight Opposition MPs. However, the voting on this Bill went incident free. Even as Opposition parties, including Congress, TMC, SP, RJD, DMK, CPI(M) and CPI, accused the government paving the way privatising ports and diluting the powers of the states on land use, Union Minister Mansukh Mandaviya sought to allay fears claiming that it seeks to provide autonomy and boost their decision-making powers in order to compete with private ports. Mandaviya strongly defended the Bill and strongly rejected allegations that it was intended to benefit big corporate houses while emphasising that it would turn these ports into world-class ports and enable their boards to take decisions on their own. "Would a patriot oppose this bill? This bill is not for privatisation of ports.... The bill has nothing to do with privatisation. Former finance minister Arun Jaitley and former shipping minister Nitin Gadkari had also specified that there will not be privatisation of ports.... The bill is not to sell ports," he said. The BJD, JD(U) and YSRCP supported the Bill. CPI(M)'s Kareem alleged that the government is seeking to convert the Port authority into a corporate entity and the assets of the ports will be sold off to private players. Samajwadi Party floor leader Ram Gopal Yadav also accused the government of trying to sell the assets of the country. P Wilson of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) alleged that the bill has only been brought to serve the interests of private players and will lead to the mushrooming of private ports. CPI's Binoy Viswam said a "patriotic" Indian can only oppose the Bill as the government was paving the way to allow a particular company to get hold of ports. "Already airports are going to them...Our land will become the land of (that company)," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/voting-on-ports-bill-in-rs-govt-wins-84-44-but-after-opposition-accuses-it-of-selling-assets-949762.html
10-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Over 170 still missing after Uttarakhand disaster||In your evening news brief, From The Newsroom, Over 170 still missing after Uttarakhand disaster; China says its and Indian troops at the border began to "disengage simultaneously" and Prime Minister Narendra Modi allays apprehensions on the farm laws.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of February 10, 2021: ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Using drones and remote-sensing equipment, rescue teams intensified efforts on Wednesday to reach the 25-35 men trapped in a sludge-choked tunnel since the Uttarakhand glacier disaster three days ago and more than 170 remained missing, hopes of finding them alive fading with every passing hour. The multi-agency rescue operation at the NTPC hydel project site has been going on uninterrupted since Sunday, when a possible glacier break in the upper reaches of the Himalayas triggered an avalanche and floods in the Alaknanda river system, with no breakthrough in sight, officials said. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Chinese and Indian frontline troops at the border began to "disengage simultaneously" from Wednesday, Chinese defence ministry said. The disengagement happened at the north and south shore of Pangong Tso lake, ministry spokesman Wu Qian said on Weibo, China's Twitter-like social media. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the central government and the Parliament have great respect for the farmers who are voicing their views on the three farm bills and that is why top most ministers have been talking to them. Replying in Lok Sabha to the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President's address to the joint sitting of Parliament, Modi again allayed apprehensions on the farm laws, saying neither any agriculture 'mandi' (market) has shut down after the three laws were enacted nor has the MSP stopped, rather the MSP has only increased which no one can deny. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-over-170-still-missing-after-uttarakhand-disaster-949766.html
10-02-2021||National||Such divided party can do no good: PM Modi slams Congress||Taking dig at the Congress party, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday called it is a "divided and confused" party. Attacking Congress for its stand on farm law, the PM said, "The condition of the Congress party, a very old party which ruled the country for about six decades, has now become such that its Rajya Sabha unit moves in one direction while the Lok Sabha unit moves in another direction." The PM was replying in Lok Sabha to the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President''s address to the joint sitting of Parliament. When the PM tried to defend the farm laws, Congress MPs, including Rahul Gandhi, disrupted PM Modi's speech and eventually walked out of the Lok Sabha. Such a "divided" and "confused" party can neither do any good for itself nor can it think of any solution to the country's problems, Modi said. "Nothing can be more unfortunate than this. The Congress is also there in Rajya Sabha, their senior leaders are there, they debate with a lot of enthusiasm and express their views. On the other hand, there is the other section of the Congress (in Lok Sabha).... time will tell," the Prime Minister said. Perturbed when Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury tried to interrupt, the Prime Minister asked him to stay silent. He said, “Adhir Ranjan ji, ab zyada ho raha hai. I respect you”. On a humorous note, PM Modi said, “You (Chowdhury) will get more publicity than Trinamool Congress in West Bengal. Don't worry...This doesn't look good, why are you doing this?” The PM also hit out at opposition saying, those who are disrupting the House are doing so as per a well-planned strategy. They are unable to digest that people are seeing the truth, Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/such-divided-party-can-do-no-good-pm-modi-slams-congress-949768.html
10-02-2021||National||Forced to walkout in LS as PM did not say anything to satisfy concerns over farm laws: Congress||After its members walked out of Lok Sabha during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech, the Congress on Wednesday said its leaders were forced to do so as the PM did not say anything to satisfy its concerns over the farm laws. "We thought the prime minister will talk about some important steps for the welfare of the farmers. Over 206 farmers have lost their lives, but the prime minister is not willing to say anything about it," Congress' leader in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury told reporters outside Parliament. As the prime minister defended the three farm laws during his reply to the debate on the motion of thanks to the President for his address, the opposition members including Chowdhury repeatedly disrupted his speech. The PM alleged that the uproar and attempts at disruption were part of a well-planned strategy to ensure that truth doesn't come out in the open. He said that the new laws only offer an "option" to farmers and the existing systems will stay, so there was no reason to oppose them. He said reforms are needed in every sphere for the progress of society. PM Modi said that the Congress and other parties have failed to pinpoint the provisions which they find problematic, following which the Congress members raised slogans demanding the repeal of the laws and walked out of the House. "He was talking about what his government has done for farmers and in that he also said the farm laws would benefit some people... But I said why are you bringing a law which is not beneficial for all. You say all is well, if that is so, what is the need to bring the laws," Chowdhury said. He is the prime minister of all, and all farmers want that these farm laws to be withdrawn, the Congress leader said. "Six letters -- REPEAL. You have already said it can be suspended for 18 months, so if you can suspend it for 18 months, why can't it be withdrawn," he asked. The Congress leader said the laws should be withdrawn and new ones should be brought only after thorough consultation with the farmers. "We don't just oppose for the sake of it, we oppose as we cannot see farmers in such a state. What kind of country are you building where nails are put on the ground, barbed wires are put near protest sites," he said, criticising the government. "We believed that the prime minister will take note of what we are saying and will say something to satisfy our concerns (on the farm laws), but nothing of that sort happened, so we were forced to walk out," he said. As the Congress members, including Rahul Gandhi, were leaving the House midway in his speech, PM Modi took a dig at the opposition party. "The condition of the Congress party, a very old party which ruled the country for about six decades, has now become such that its Rajya Sabha unit moves in one direction while the Lok Sabha unit moves in another direction," Modi said. Such a "divided" and "confused" party can neither do any good for itself nor can it think of any solution to the country's problems, the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/forced-to-walkout-in-ls-as-pm-did-not-say-anything-to-satisfy-concerns-over-farm-laws-congress-949771.html
10-02-2021||National||Reduction in pulses imports resulting in saving of Rs 15,000 cr annually: Govt||India's pulses production has increased significantly in the last few years, leading to a reduction in imports and an annual saving of Rs 15,000 crore in foreign exchange to the country, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said. Addressing a conference organised by Indian Institute of Pulses Research (IPPR) on World Pulses Day, the minister said the country is moving towards becoming self-sufficient in pulses production. The output has increased to 240 lakh tonnes from 140 lakh tonnes in the last six years because of efforts made by farmers and scientists as well as the government's initiative, he said. Stating that pulses demand is estimated to reach 320 lakh tonnes by 2050, Tomar said there is a need to shift focus on increasing the production to meet rising demand. "The dependence on pulses imports has come down and the country is saving Rs 15,000 crore annually," he said. Tomar also highlighted that the government has increased the minimum support price (MSP) of pulses significantly and is also procuring the foodgrain. He said the government has taken various steps to double farmers' income, including crop insurance scheme, Rs 1 lakh crore agri-infrastructure fund and PM-Kisan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reduction-in-pulses-imports-resulting-in-saving-of-rs-15000-cr-annually-govt-949773.html
10-02-2021||National||Ishrat Jahan Encounter: CBI writes to Gujarat govt seeking permission to prosecute IGP Singhal, others||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has moved an application to Gujarat government seeking permission to prosecute Inspector General of Police G L Singhal, retired Deputy Superintendent of Police Tarun Barot and an Assistant Sub-Inspector Anaju Chaudhary in Ishrat Jahan encounter case.  The development comes after a special CBI court asked the central probe agency whether it wanted to seek the permission or not. The CBI chose, despite its repeated stand in the past that there was no need for sanction since the accused policemen are involved in conspiracy and murder, to approach the state government for sanction.  In criminal cases, prior sanction of prosecution under section 197 of code of criminal procedure (CrPC) is required in case of government servants. Special public prosecutor, CBI, RC Kodekar informed the special judge on Saturday during a hearing that the agency has filed the application and is awaiting a response. The next hearing will be held in March.  Earlier, retired IPS officer D G Vanzara and ex Superintendent of Police N K Amin were discharged on similar circumstances. The CBI court had rejected their discharge pleas and asked the CBI to clear its stand whether it wanted to seek permission or not. CBI wrote to the state for permission which was denied based on which the special court discharged the duo in May 2019.  The government had stated that the CBI case was "malicious and vexatious prosecution" and the officers (Vanzara and Amin) needed to be protected in "larger public interest." Before Vanzara and Amin, ex Director General of Police PP Pandey had been discharged on several grounds including the absence of sanction.  Their discharge orders have attained finality since the CBI refused to challenge them in high court. CBI submitted in writing before the special court that it would not challenge any of the discharge orders. The victims' family members have also left the fate of the case in the hands of the court. Ishrat Jahan's mother wrote to the court  Singhal, Barot and Chaudhary are the only accused policemen facing the case. Another accused retired Deputy Superintendent of Police J G Parmar passed away last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ishrat-jahan-encounter-cbi-writes-to-gujarat-govt-seeking-permission-to-prosecute-igp-singhal-others-949780.html
10-02-2021||National||SC notice to Centre, others on plea seeking repeal of provisions criminalising begging||The Supreme Court Wednesday asked the Centre and some states to respond to a plea which has sought direction to repeal the provisions criminalising begging saying it leaves people with "unreasonable choice" of committing crime or starving. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy issued notices and sought replies from the Centre as also Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana and Bihar on the plea which claimed that sections of the statutes criminalising begging is violative of Constitutional rights. “Issue notice returnable in six weeks,” the bench said, while hearing the petition filed by Meerut resident Vishal Pathak. The plea, filed through advocate H K Chaturvedi, has referred to the August 2018 verdict of the Delhi High Court which had decriminalised begging in the national capital and said that provisions of the Bombay Prevention of Begging Act, 1959 which treats begging as an offence cannot sustain constitutional scrutiny. “The provisions of the statutes criminalising the act of begging puts people in a situation to make an unreasonable choice between committing a crime or not committing one and starving, which goes against the very spirit of the Constitution and violates Article 21 i.e. Right to Life,” the plea filed in the top court said. Referring to the Census 2011, the plea said the total number of beggars in India is 4,13,670 and the number has increased from the last Census. It said that government has the mandate to provide social security for everyone and ensure that all have basic facilities as embedded in Directives Principles of State Policy in the Constitution. “However, the presence of beggars is evidence that the states have failed to provide these basic facilities to all its citizens, thus instead of working on its failure and examining what made people beg, criminalising the act of beggary is irrational and against the approach of a socialist nation as embedded in preamble of our Constitution,” the plea said. It said that a person, who is compelled to beg, cannot be faulted for his actions in such compelling circumstances. “Furthermore, by enforcing such legislations, state is simply failing in its duty to provide a decent life to its citizens and adds insult to injury by arresting, detaining and if necessary, imprisoning such persons who beg in search for essentials of bare survival which is even below sustenance,” it said. The plea claimed that ‘The Abolition of Begging and Rehabilitation of Beggars Bill 2018’ was introduced in the Lok Sabha but “till date this bill is not passed and is wedged in length parliamentary procedures which has resulted in thousands of poor face more hardships because of present arbitrary statutes”. The petition has sought directions to declare as “illegal and void” all provisions, except some sections, of the Bombay Prevention of Begging Act, 1959, Punjab Prevention of Beggary Act, 1971, Haryana Prevention of Begging Act, 1971 and Bihar Prevention of Begging Act 1951. It has also sought to declare all other similar Acts prevailing in any part of the country as illegal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-others-on-plea-seeking-repeal-of-provisions-criminalising-begging-949784.html
10-02-2021||National||Rajnath Singh to address Rajya Sabha on Feb 10 on eastern Ladakh situation||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to make a statement regarding "Present situation in Eastern Ladakh" in Rajya Sabha at 10:30 am on Thursday. A similar statement in Lok Sabha later in the evening. More details awaited...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-to-address-rajya-sabha-on-feb-10-on-eastern-ladakh-situation-949786.html
10-02-2021||National||Indian Navy undertaking mega exercise in Indian Ocean Region||The Indian Navy is carrying out a mega war game involving almost all operational assets like warships, submarines and aircraft over a vast geographical expanse in the Indian Ocean Region to test the force's combat readiness in a complex multi-dimensional scenario, officials said on Wednesday, The biennial 'Theatre Level Operational Readiness Exercise (TROPEX)' aims to validate the Navy's offensive as well as defence capabilities and safeguard national interests in the maritime domain besides promoting peace and stability in the Indian Ocean, they said. "Indian Navy's largest war game, the biennial TROPEX 21, which commenced in early January is currently underway with participation of all operational units of Indian Navy including ships, submarines, aircraft as well as units of the Indian Army, Indian Air Force and Coast Guard," the Navy said. It said the exercise will culminate by the third week of February. The exercise is taking place at a time China has been making increasing forays into the Indian Ocean region as part of its offensive military manoeuvre.   "The exercise is being conducted over a vast geographical expanse in the Indian Ocean Region including its adjunct waters and is aimed at testing combat readiness of the Navy in a complex multi-dimensional scenario set in the context of the current geo-strategic environment," the Navy said in a statement. It said the conduct of TROPEX is being overseen by the Naval headquarters with participation from all three commands of the Indian Navy and the tri-services command at Port Blair. "TROPEX is being progressed over distinct phases that also test the Navy's transition from peacetime to hostilities," the Navy said. As part of the first phase of the exercise, the Indian Navy along with other stakeholders held a two-day mega drill in January covering the country's 7,516 km coastline and exclusive economic zone. The 'Sea Vigil' exercise from January 12-13 was billed as India's largest coastal defence drill and it was aimed at validating the coastal defence setup which was revamped after the 26/11 terror attack. "Valuable lessons emerging from the exercise are being incorporated in the existing procedures to further fine-tune the coastal defence architecture of the country," the Navy said. "Exercise Sea Vigil was followed by a large-scale tri-service joint amphibious exercise AMPHEX-21, which was conducted in the Andaman and Nicobar group of Islands from January 21-25," it said. The amphibious exercise was aimed at validating India's capabilities to safeguard the territorial integrity of its island territories and enhance operational synergy and joint warfighting capabilities amongst the three services, the Navy said. "The weapon workup phase of TROPEX, which concluded recently, witnessed multiple 'on-target' ordnance deliveries including missiles, torpedoes and rockets from frontline warships, aircraft and submarines and demonstrated the lethal firepower of the Indian Navy," the Navy said. It said the 'weapon workout' phase also reaffirmed the Navy's capability to carry out long-range maritime strikes in the Indian Ocean Region, a capability that is central to meeting operational challenges and ensuring safe seas and secure coasts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-undertaking-mega-exercise-in-indian-ocean-region-949789.html
10-02-2021||National||EC has not shared any electoral roll data with NATGRID: Law Minister tells Lok Sabha||The Election Commission has not shared any electoral roll data with the National Intelligence Grid (NATGRID), Lok Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Responding to a question on whether the Election Commission (EC) has shared electoral rolls data along with photos with agencies under the Ministry of Home Affairs, such as NATGRID, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad replied in the negative. "The commission has stated that it has not shared any electoral roll data with NATGRID," the minister said in a written reply. He also said that the poll panel has informed that the electoral roll database is shared with departments of the central government or state governments as and when requests are received from them for specific purposes. Citing the EC, Prasad said election commissions of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra use electoral roll data of assembly constituencies for preparing their electoral roll for local body and panchayat elections. Manipur, Mizoram Nagaland, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Tripura, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, Delhi, Lakshadweep and Puducherry are also among those who use roll data for the purpose, he said. The EC conducts Lok Sabha and assembly polls while state election commissions hold local body polls in their respective states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-has-not-shared-any-electoral-roll-data-with-natgrid-law-minister-tells-lok-sabha-949798.html
10-02-2021||National Politics||'Frustrated and bored,' Congress leader Hardik Patel awaits 'work' from party||Nearly six months after he was elevated as Gujarat Congress' Working President, 27-year-old Hardik Patel, the face of biggest Patidar agitation in the state in recent history, is getting "bored" and "frustrated" as he is yet to get any responsibility or work from the party. He said that it is "frustrating" that he is not able to contribute much to the party he joined in 2017, the year that Congress came any closer in dethroning the BJP in Gujarat. Since then, the Congress has been struggling to keep its team intact with scores of its MLAs jumping the ship to BJP. In a conversation with DH on Tuesday afternoon at Prasangam party plot, S G Highway in Ahmedabad, where he meets visitors these days, he said, "It's nice that I got the post, but I am getting really bored as I am yet to get any responsibility from the party. I am not a leader who likes to run the party by sitting in the office. I am andolanjivi (a term coined by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday for protesters) and would like my party to give me a chance to do that again, hit streets, mobilize people and fight for justice."  Hardik said this when asked if he regretted joining the Congress. He added, "I have always liked the party of Jawarharlal Nehru, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, Indira Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi. The only thing sad or regrettable is that I have been given the responsibility of Working President but I am yet to get any work. I need to work. Give me any work...make me run anywhere...tell me to take out 1000 km padayatra. I will do that but give me work. The only regret I have is that I should get an opportunity to fulfil the responsibility I have been bestowed on. What would be the worth of this designation if I don't get the chance to prove it." Saying that he himself is the product of an "andolan" (movement), Hardik said, "We can't run the party by sitting in the office. Do we want to talk to 10 people or a lakh? My problem is that I am sitting alone with no work. I get bored and mad." According to party insiders, Hardik Patel is facing issues with many leaders-both seniors and juniors, who felt "disappointed" after he was promoted to his current post. "There are NSUI leaders and senior party members who still have not accepted him as their leader," said a Congress leader. It is widely believed that Congress is going to lose in the local body polls and its performance in the rural areas will also be affected largely due to its inaction. When asked about it Hardik responded, "We are still strong in rural areas but we do need to think over and work a lot in winning the trust of urban citizens. People don't like BJP but they always ask us (Congress) what we are doing. They have lots of hope from the opposition. I think we need to get more aggressive in our fight, such as hitting the streets, ready to be beaten up by lathi-danda (sticks), go to jail for justice etc. Only if we hit streets, can we replicate it in the Assembly."   When asked what is stopping the party from doing this, he said, "There is no dearth of leadership. We have a lot of them but we need to be decisive and aggressive. How much can the BJP beat us? We will have to bear it. Be it Gandhi, Sardar or Nehru, they were all jailed and only then did we get our freedom. Not for power but for service if we fight, we will get the result."  He also mentioned how he is facing 32 criminal cases including two cases of sedition. "I still can't leave Gujarat and cannot enter a district due to court cases," he quipped referring to criminal cases in which his bail conditions prohibit his movement outside the state boundary. Since 2016, he has been prohibited from entering Mehsana district, the epicentre of Patidar agitation he led back in 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/frustrated-and-bored-congress-leader-hardik-patel-awaits-work-from-party-949556.html
10-02-2021||National Politics||Farm stir: Twitter starts blocking accounts flagged by govt, over 700 handles deactivated||Days after the government issued notice to Twitter ordering it to remove over 1,400 accounts related farmers' protests, Twitter officials will meet the Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) today to discuss the issue. The meeting comes after IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad refused to meet Twitter India officials. Twitter earlier said it has sought a formal dialogue with the IT Minister., over Sources said that Twitter has started acting on the government notice and has blocked around 700 accounts. Twitter took a range of enforcement actions — including permanent suspension in certain cases — against more than 500 accounts escalated across all MeitY orders for clear violations of Twitter’s rules. Withheld a portion of the accounts identified in the blocking orders, the US-based microblogging platform said. The Centre is also unhappy with Twitter for delaying in blocking accounts flagged by the government. The government and Twitter are at loggerheads after the government asked Twitter to remove over 1,400 accounts for spreading misinformation and provocative content on farmers agitation for the past 10 days. According to the government, these accounts were handled by Kalistan and pro-Pakisthan handlers and used to provoke protesting farmers. Though initially, Twitter blocked around 250 accounts, it later restored those accounts. However, objecting to the unilateral restoration, the Ministry Electronics and Information Technology issued notice to Twitter and warned to take penal action if it failed to block "provocative” Twitter hashtags such as "#ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide" and dozens of accounts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farm-stir-twitter-starts-blocking-accounts-flagged-by-govt-over-700-handles-deactivated-949572.html
10-02-2021||National Politics||Budget debate starts first in Rajya Sabha instead of Lok Sabha||The Rajya Sabha began the discussion on budget on Wednesday, making it the sixth time in Parliamentary history that the Upper House started the debate before the Lok Sabha. Earlier on five occasions — in 1955, 1959, 1963, 1965 and 2002 — the discussion on the Budget commenced first in the Rajya Sabha. Usually the Lower House starts the debate on the Budget first. However, this time due to disruption in Lok Sabha last week over the farmers' issue, the debate on Motion of Thanks to the President's Address could not be concluded on Friday, as scheduled. The Rajya Sabha started the discussion at around 1 pm with senior Congress MP Kapil Sibal initiating the debate and aimed shots at the government accusing it of  having no heart for the poor but helping crony capitalists. BJP MP and former Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi countered Sibal, saying that it was the first time in 23 years that the Sensex boomed on a Budget day. The Lok Sabha adopted the Motion of Thanks only on Wednesday evening after Prime Minister Narendra Modi's reply following which it took up the Budget debate. Earlier in the day, the government and Opposition also reached a consensus over increasing the time for debate from 10 hours to 12:30 hours. During Zero Hour in the House, Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh requested Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to increase time for discussion on budget from 10 hours to at least 12 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/budget-debate-starts-first-in-rajya-sabha-instead-of-lok-sabha-949575.html
10-02-2021||National Politics||Congress will scrap farm laws if voted to power, says Priyanka Gandhi||Attacking the Centre over the new farm laws, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra told a rally in western Uttar Pradesh that if voted to power her party would scrap them. At a “kisan panchayat” organised by the party in Saharanpur, the Congress general secretary accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other BJP leaders of “insulting” farmers who are protesting against the laws. "The three laws are demonic. If voted to power, the Congress will scrap these laws," he said. She said the party's fight will continue till the laws are scrapped. The rally is the first in a series of such farmers' meetings planned the party in western Uttar Pradesh, a year before the assembly elections in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-will-scrap-farm-laws-if-voted-to-power-says-priyanka-gandhi-949701.html
10-02-2021||National Politics||Why is fuel cheaper in Sita's Nepal, Ravan's Lanka, SP MP asks in Rajya Sabha||An Opposition MP in the Rajya Sabha on Monday asked why prices of petrol and diesel were lower in neighbouring countries such as Nepal and Sri Lanka. “Petrol is cheaper in Mother Sita’s land Nepal and Ravana’s land Lanka. When will the government reduce petrol, diesel prices in the land of Ram?” Samajwadi Party MP Vishambhar Prasad Nishad asked Union Minister for Petroleum Dharmendra Pradhan in the Rajya Sabha. Comparing fuel prices of neighbouring countries with prices in India has been a common theme on social media. Petrol and diesel prices on Wednesday scaled new highs in the country as rates were hiked for the second day in a row. Petrol price was hiked by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 25 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The increase took petrol price to an all-time high of Rs 87.60 a litre in Delhi and to Rs 94.12 in Mumbai. Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan in Rajya Sabha said the government is not considering a reduction in excise duty to cool rates from their record highs. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-is-fuel-cheaper-in-sitas-nepal-ravans-lanka-sp-mp-asks-in-rajya-sabha-949707.html
10-02-2021||National Politics||Farmers' demand not wrong, Centre should accept it: Maharashtra Deputy CM Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Wednesday said the demands raised by farmers during their ongoing protest near Delhi are not wrong or unreasonable, and asked the Centre to accept the same. Reacting to Prime Minister Narendra Modi getting emotional on Tuesday while recollecting his association with Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, Pawar told reporters here that he will feel satisfied if the same sentiments are visible in the case of farmers also. Thousands of farmers have been agitating for more two months near the national capital, demanding a repeal of the Centre's three new farm laws. "The demand raised by farmers is not wrong, it is not unreasonable. It is the sentiment of a farmer that he gets proper compensation in return of his hard work. It is his right. The Centre should accept that just demand," Pawar said. A way has to be found to resolve the deadlock (over the agriculture laws), the NCP leader said. "He (Modi) became emotional while remembering old times (of association with Azad)...Will feel satisfied if the same emotions are visible in the case of farmers too," said Pawar, who is also the finance minister of Maharashtra. The prime minister broke down several times in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday while recollecting his close association with Ghulam Nabi Azad, whose term in the Upper House of Parliament is coming to an end next week. Pawar said 14 rounds of discussions between the Centre and farmers' representatives have turned out to be inconclusive. "A way out has to be found. It is also our demand (that a way out is found)," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-demand-not-wrong-centre-should-accept-it-maharashtra-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-949709.html
10-02-2021||National Politics||Govt, Parliament have great respect for farmers, says PM in Lok Sabha||Taking a dig at Opposition parties for their stand on farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the central government and the Parliament have great respect for the farmers who are voicing their views on the three farm bills.  Replying in Lok Sabha to the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President''s address to the joint sitting of Parliament, Modi again allayed apprehensions on the farm laws, saying neither any agriculture ''mandi'' (market) has shut down after the three laws were enacted nor has the MSP stopped, rather the MSP has only increased which no one can deny. "This House, our government and we all respect farmers who are voicing their views on the farm bills. This is the reason why topmost ministers of the government are constantly talking to them," he said.  "After the laws relating to agriculture were passed by Parliament, no ''mandi'' has shut. Likewise, MSP has remained. Procurement on MSP has remained. These facts can't be ignored," he said. When Opposition parties tried to disrupt his speech, the PM said those who are disrupting the House are doing so as per a well-planned strategy as they are unable to digest that people can see the truth. "Through their games, the trust of the people can never be won," he said, amidst protests by the opposition members.  As Modi tried to defend his government stand on farm bills, the Congress walked out of Lok Sabha.  Modi said India has managed the Covid-19 pandemic successfully despite adverse predictions and the country has now become a ray of hope for the world. "Predictions were made India cannot survive as a nation, but people of our country proved them wrong and we are now a ray of hope for the world," he said. Complimenting health care and frontline workers for their relentless work during the pandemic, the prime minister said the way India has managed the coronavirus crisis is a turning point and the world has seen its success.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-parliament-have-great-respect-for-farmers-says-pm-in-lok-sabha-949710.html
10-02-2021||National Politics||Protesting farmers demanding 'minimum' support price unlike maximum by corporates: Cong||The Opposition on Wednesday targeted the government during the discussion on Budget in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday with Congress's Kapil Sibal claiming that the government is promoting crony capitalists and one is seeing the "footprints of one big boy" in every sector while ignoring the "mann ki baat" of farmers. The ruling BJP countered the Opposition with its MP and former Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi saying that free food grains and free cylinders supplied by the Narendra Modi government were not going to corporates like Adani, Tatas or Birlas and it was commendable that no new tax was imposed though there was a 23% drop in revenue collection due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The debate was taken up after the Major Ports Authority Bill was passed in the Upper House and Sibal opened the innings for the Opposition. Sibal accused the government of "having no heart for the poor" and promoting an "oligarchic economic system" in which crony capitalism is thriving. "There are 4-5 big boys. One boy is everywhere -- coal, airports, rail, gas. I see his footprints everywhere. If you fly in his aircraft, you will have to give the airport to him. The Niti Aayog opposed it, the Ministry of Finance opposed it," Sibal without taking the name of the corporate. On farmers, he said they were demanding minimum support prices for their produce. "You are not listening to their 'mann ki baat'. You always talk about your 'mann ki baat'...Our farmers are not demanding much. The corporates are demanding exemptions, demanding cuts in taxes. You provide all relaxations what the corporates ask you. You are giving the maximum to corporates when the farmers' demands are minimum," he said. He also said that since the government has been maintaining that farmers would get more than MSP from private traders under the new laws hence it should not have a problem in giving a legal backing to MSP. Sibal also claimed that the Budget was "jugglery of data" and the government was "perpetuating a rigged economic system". Referring to the announcement of schemes for poll-bound states, he said the ruling party claims that they do not do vote-bank politics. "You are playing vote bank politics in budget and off budget, you are playing note-bank politics," he added. Countering Sibal's allegation of favouring corporates, Sushil Modi said the NDA government has provided free food grains for the poor during the lockdown. "Did Adani get free gas cylinders? Did Tatas and Birlas get free food grains?" Modi shot back. He said the Budget lays the foundation for a strong and self-reliant India. Hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the timely lockdown, he said it prevented the loss of lives. It was commendable that despite a 23% drop in revenue collection due to Covid-19, the government did not impose any new tax. "When developed countries like the United States were facing challenges to extend direct financial assistance to their people, India undertook one of the largest direct fund transfer schemes benefitting large sections of people," he said adding that the budget will boost reforms in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/protesting-farmers-demanding-minimum-support-price-unlike-maximum-by-corporates-cong-949727.html
10-02-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha passes motion to thank President for his address, opposition stage walkout||Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed by a voice vote the motion to thank the President for his address to both Houses of Parliament. Soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi replied to the debate on the Motion of Thanks, Speaker Om Birla put all amendments moved by the opposition members for vote. The amendments were rejected by a voice vote. The Congress walked out of the House in protest during the Prime Minister's speech, while the DMK and the TMC too walked out later, saying they were not satisfied with Modi's reply. The members of the three parties were not present when the motion to thank President Ram Nath Kovind was passed in the Lower House.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-passes-motion-to-thank-president-for-his-address-opposition-stage-walkout-949737.html
10-02-2021||National Politics||Republic Day violence: Dead farmer’s kin move HC for court monitored SIT probe||The family of a 25-year-old man, who died after his tractor overturned at Central Delhi’s ITO during the protesting farmers' tractor parade on the Republic Day, moved the Delhi High Court on Wednesday seeking a court-monitored SIT probe into the incident. The petition, which is likely to be listed for hearing on Thursday, is filed by deceased Navreet Singh’s grandfather who has sought enforcement of his right to fair investigation and justice as well as the right to know the truth about his grandson’s death. According to the police, the man had died as his tractor overturned at ITO where many farmers participating in the parade had reached from the Ghazipur border after taking a detour from the pre-agreed route for the march. The police had claimed that the man was driving the tractor and he came under the vehicle as it overturned. However, the petition said that as per eye-witness accounts reported in the media, Navreet was driving his tractor past the Andhra Education Society in New Delhi, and he was allegedly shot by policemen, due to which he lost control of his tractor which thereafter collided with some barricades and overturned. The plea, filed through advocates Vrinda Grover, Soutik Banerjee, Mannat Tipnis and Devika Tulsiani, sought for a court-appointed and court-monitored Special Investigation Team (SIT) comprising police officers with a demonstrably impeccable record of professional integrity, honesty and efficiency, to carry out a time-bound investigation into the death of the petitioner Hardeep Singh’s grandson Navreet Singh. It also sought a direction that the SIT shall file periodic status reports before the court to ensure a time-bound court-monitored investigation. “The petitioner’s grandson was lying in a critically injured condition under the overturned tractor, however, despite the presence of a large number of police men including senior police officials in the vicinity, no attempts were made by Delhi Police to provide immediate critical medical intervention to save the life of the petitioner’s grandson. “Instead, the Delhi Police resorted to tear gas shelling to prevent other protestors from reaching the site where the tractor lay with the petitioner’s grandson’s body underneath. No efforts were made by the Delhi Police to cordon off the site of the incident and to collect time-sensitive material evidence from the site, which was allowed to be erased and destroyed,” the petition claimed. It alleged that no steps, as mandated under the Code of Criminal Procedure, were taken by the police after the unnatural death of Navreet to carry out inquest proceedings. “In the face of such apathy and hostility by the Delhi Police, the body of the petitioner’s grandson was recovered by other farmers and later handed over to the petitioner’s family, who took the body to their native place in Rampur, Uttar Pradesh,” it said. The plea said that the entire incident was captured by multiple CCTV cameras installed in the vicinity, however, the police cited technical difficulties and did not facilitate the farmers in viewing the CCTV footage. It said the victim’s post mortem was conducted the next day at the District Hospital in Rampur but the video or x-ray reports were not shared with the family. It said the medical/ forensic experts who have reviewed the description of injuries in the post mortem report have independently made statements, reported by various media houses, opining that the injuries are consistent with firearm/gunshot wounds and that the said injuries could not have resulted from the tractor overturning, as has been repeatedly asserted and announced by the Delhi Police. “The haste with which the Delhi Police has made public statements declaring the incident to be an accident, as well as registered FIRs against senior journalists who have pursued the possibility of Navreet Singh’s death having resulted from a firearm injury, inspires no confidence in the petitioner that the Delhi Police would conduct a fair and honest investigation into the death/murder of his grandson,” it claimed. The petition has arrayed Home Department of Delhi government, SHO of IP Estate police station here, SHO of Bilaspur police station in UP and Chief Medical Officer of District Hospital at Rampur as parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/republic-day-violence-dead-farmer-s-kin-move-hc-for-court-monitored-sit-probe-949761.html
10-02-2021||National Politics||Agitating farmers not for change in power at Centre but solution to their issues: Tikait||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday asserted that the agitating farmers were not aiming at any change in power at the Centre but a solution to their problems as he said many of their leaders will tour different parts of the country to spread the movement. Tikait, who had earlier said that police should have shot those who unfurled flags at Red Fort during the tractor rally on Republic Day, defended the act saying it was not treason and youths were being framed. Addressing the protesting farmers at Singhu border, he said that the agitation against the farm laws will stretch till the Centre addresses their issues. "We do not aim change in power (at the Centre). The government should do its work. We want it to repeal the farm laws and ensure law on MSP," he said. Tikait said that the agitation will be long drawn and continue till government starts talks with farmer leaders. "The government should hold the talks. Our committee is ready to talk. Solutions will be found through dialogue and the matter will be resolved." Citing the Red Fort incident, Tikait said that the youths were being framed for unfurling religious flag. "What sections are imposed for unfurling flags at a non-permissible place? Impose those sections, lodge the case. Kaun sa deshdroh ka kaam kar diya? (it was not an act of treason)," said the farmer leader. He alleged the Red Fort incident was a "conspiracy" by the government to distract the agitation and lower the farmers' morale. Tikait also asserted that the unity of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the farmer unions protesting against the contentious farm laws, was intact and warned the government not to be in any illusion. "Who says Samyukt Kisan Morcha will split. Neither our joint stage will divide nor the Morcha will split. Our stage will be here at Singhu and its leaders will be our heads," he said. The agitation will expand with holding of big meetings across the country and associating 40 lakh tractors with it, he said, adding the farmer leaders will tour different states to spread the movement.  "Do not worry, we will win. The farmers in the country are watching you and the 300 km area around Delhi. We will visit each village in the country, hold big meetings and associate 40 lakh tractors with the agitation," he said. Tikait said that the farmers agitation was for ensuring that foodgrain reaches the needy and not locked up in the coffers of the corporates. The farm laws will not only destroy the peasantry and farming, it will also wipe out small traders and common man in the country, he claimed. He reiterated that the agitation was completely "non political" and will not give space to any politician to advance his or her vested interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/agitating-farmers-not-for-change-in-power-at-centre-but-solution-to-their-issues-tikait-949763.html
10-02-2021||National Politics||Modi's heart beats only for billionaires: Priyanka||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday launched a scathing attack on prime minister Narendra Modi for calling the agitating farmers 'terrorists'' and said that his heart ''beats only for the billionaires''. ''The Prime Minister is not true to his words.....his heart beats only for the billionaires,'' Priyanka said while addressing a 'mahapanchayat' of the farmers at Saharanpur, about 500 kilometres from Lucknow. ''The sons of the farmers are martyred at the borders....the farmers help the country become self-dependent but the PM is humiliating them,'' she said. The Congress leader sought to know from Modi where his ''billionaire friends'' were, when the people were walking home on foot? She also said that the prime minister did not fulfil his promise to pay Rs 15 thousand crore toward payment of cane arrears with interest. ''PM can earmark Rs. 20 thousand crore for the new Parliament building but he does not have money for the farmers,'' she said. Stating that her party stood with the farmers on the new farm bills, she said that the new law would ''open doors for hoarding''. ''The billionaire businessmen will decide the rates of the crops not the farmers,'' she added. Priyanka said that the 'mandis' would become dumping grounds for the big traders and the MSP (minimum support price) would be abolished. The Congress leader said that her party was with the farmers and asked them not to back down. Earlier Priyanka paid obeisance at the famous Shakambhari Devi Temple near Saharanpur. She was there for around half an hour. She was seen carrying beads of 'rudraksha' (considered to be a sacred seed by the Hindus).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modis-heart-beats-only-for-billionaires-priyanka-949790.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||Man involved in killing of constable in UP’s Kasganj gunned down in encounter||The brother of a liquor mafia kingpin whose associates had allegedly killed a police constable and injured a sub-inspector was gunned down in an encounter here early on Wednesday, an official said. "Elkar and others were surrounded by a police team on the banks of Kali river and in the exchange of fire, he was injured. He was taken to a CHC in Sidhpur where he died," Superintendent of Police, Kasganj, Manoj Sonkar said. Elkar, a resident of Nagla Dhimar village in the Sidhpura area here, was earlier booked under the Excise Act and was involved in spurious liquor trade with brother Moti Dhimar and others, police said. Sonkar said Elkar's accomplices managed to escape during the encounter and police are on the lookout to trace them. A constable was beaten to death and a sub-inspector seriously injured when a police team went to Nagla Dheemar village to serve a warrant to liquor mafia kingpin Dhimar Tuesday evening. Dhimar and his associates caught them and severely thrashed them, resulting in the death of constable Devendra, District Magistrate Chandraprakash Singh had said. Sub-inspector Ashok Kumar, who was injured in the attack, is undergoing treatment at a hospital, he added. Following the incident, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had directed officials to take stern action against the culprits under the National Security Act. He announced an ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh to the kin of the deceased constable and a job to a family member. He has asked for proper treatment of the injured policeman, a government spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-involved-in-killing-of-constable-in-up-s-kasganj-gunned-down-in-encounter-949565.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||Man wanted in Red Fort violence arrested from Punjab||A man wanted in connection with the violence at the Red Fort on Republic Day was arrested by Delhi Police from Punjab, officials said on Wednesday. Iqbal Singh, carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his arrest, was nabbed from Hoshiarpur in Punjab on Tuesday night by the northern range of Delhi Police’s Special Cell, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said. On Monday, the Special Cell had arrested actor-activist Deep Sidhu, a "prominent player" behind the violence at the Red Fort. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new agriculture laws had clashed with the police during their tractor parade on January 26. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and a flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled on Independence Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-wanted-in-red-fort-violence-arrested-from-punjab-949584.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||Two killed in clash between Congress, Akali workers in Punjab's Moga||Two persons were killed while as many sustained minor injuries following a clash between Congress and Akali workers campaigning for civic polls in Punjab's Moga district, police said on Wednesday. The incident took place on Tuesday night when workers of both the parties came face to face in ward number 9 of Moga district, said police. Both the factions first had heated arguments over some issue which later led to a clash. Akali workers, who were campaigning for the February 14 municipal polls, alleged that Congress activists ran their vehicles over them when they tried to flee. One person died on the spot while another succumbed to injuries in a hospital in Ludhiana, said police. A case under relevant sections including 302 (murder) of the IPC was registered against Narinderpal Singh Sidhu, husband of Congress candidate from ward number 9, and six others, said police. Three persons including Sidhu have been arrested, said police adding that two vehicles had also been impounded. Elections to eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in the state will be held on February 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-killed-in-clash-between-congress-akali-workers-in-punjabs-moga-949609.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||JKNPP president resigns from party membership||In a setback to the Jammu and Kashmir National Panthers Party (JKNPP), its president and former legislator Balwant Singh Mankotia on Wednesday announced his resignation from the basic membership of the party. Mankotia, a two-time former MLA from Udhampur constituency, was on February 6 re-elected as party president, a post which he is holding for the past over one decade. "With a heavy heart, I announce my resignation from all posts and responsibilities in the party and also from the basic membership of the party," Mankotia said in a video message on his Facebook page. The JKNPP leader said unavoidable circumstances forced him to take this decision in haste and without consulting colleagues and workers, indicating that he is resigning because of a power tussle within the extended family.    "Had I not resigned, there was a possibility of the family matter becoming public. I appeal JKNPP founder and patron Bhim Singh that Harsh Dev Singh (JKNPP chairman) is capable and has interest. He should be given full responsibility of the party," he said. Bhim Singh is the uncle of Mankotia and Harsh Dev Singh is his cousin brother. He asked his supporters to attend the scheduled meeting in Udhampur on Thursday and said the meeting would decide his future course of action.  JKNPP Working Committee was constituted after its electoral process was completed by February 9 under the chairmanship of Returning Officer, P K Ganju in presence of Bhim Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jknpp-president-resigns-from-party-membership-949616.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||General discussion on Budget 2021 kickstarts in Rajya Sabha||A general discussion on the Union Budget 2021 kickstarted in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday.  It is only the sixth time in Parliamentary history that the Upper House is starting the debate on Budget first instead of the Lok Sabha. Earlier on five occasions -- in 1955, 1959, 1963, 1965 and 2002 -- the discussion on the Budget commenced first in the Rajya Sabha.   More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/general-discussion-on-budget-2021-kickstarts-in-rajya-sabha-949619.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||NIA didn't summon farmers protesting in Delhi: MHA in Rajya Sabha||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Wednesday told the Rajya Sabha that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) did not send any summons to farmers who are participating in the ongoing farmers' protest in Delhi.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-didnt-summon-farmers-protesting-in-delhi-mha-in-rajya-sabha-949628.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||Nursery admissions in Delhi to begin from February 18||Nursery admissions in Delhi will begin from February 18, the Directorate of Education (DoE) announced on Wednesday. “The application process will begin on February 18 and the first list is expected on March 20. The entire process will conclude on March 31,” Yogesh Pal Singh, Assistant Director of Education, said. Usually, nursery admissions in around 1,700 schools in the national capital begin in the last week of November. The DoE releases guidelines and schools are asked to furnish required information, following which the application process is rolled out in December. However, there has been no development on it in 2020. Delhi government officials had in December said that a proposal to scrap nursery admissions is being considered as the schools have been closed for nine months due to Covid-19 and will remain closed till a vaccine is available. A whole year of online learning for small children seems unviable, they had said. But school principals had opposed this idea. However, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia last month had ruled out scrapping nursery admissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nursery-admissions-in-delhi-to-begin-from-february-18-949638.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand glacier disaster: Drones, remote-sensing equipment being used to locate those trapped in Tapovan tunnel||Rescue efforts by multi-agency security personnel were intensified on Wednesday with the help of drones and remote-sensing equipment to locate those trapped inside the Tapovan tunnel, which is chock-a-block with tonnes of debris. "All strategies at the moment are focussed on rescuing those trapped inside the tunnel with the help of all the resources at our disposal, including drones and remote-sensing equipment," Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Nilesh Anand Bharne, the Chief Spokesperson of the Uttarakhand police, told PTI on the spot. Around 25-35 people, who were at work inside the tunnel at the time the glacier disaster struck in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Sunday, are trapped inside it. The rescue teams have so far progressed to 80 metres inside the tunnel and have to make their way through tonnes of debris for at least 100 metres more to reach those trapped inside, the DIG said. Drilling through the debris has become more difficult with the silt inside the tunnel drying up and getting harder, Bharne said. So far, 32 bodies have been recovered from different places in the avalanche-hit areas of Chamoli, of which eight have been identified, while 174 people are still missing, the State Emergency Control Centre in Dehradun said. More than 600 Army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) personnel are engaged in the search-and-rescue operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-glacier-disaster-drones-remote-sensing-equipment-being-used-to-locate-those-trapped-in-tapovan-tunnel-949643.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||Over 2,400 missing girls from MP rescued in Jan 2021: Police||Madhya Pradesh police have rescued 2,444 minor girls last month under a campaign to trace missing and abducted girls, an official said on Wednesday. A total of 3,122 cases of missing and abducted girls were pending at the end of the last month, he said. "'Operation Muskan' was carried out in January in which 2,444 missing and abducted girls were rescued from Madhya Pradesh and outside the state," the official from the MP police headquarters here said. Those rescued included 175 minors from Indore, 144 from Sagar, 115 from Dhar, 107 from Rewa and 102 girls from Chhatarpur in Madhya Pradesh, he said. Under the campaign, about 82 per cent of the missing or abducted girls were found in MP and the remaining were traced to various other states. According to the official, 141 girls were rescued from Punjab, eight from Telangana, six from Kerala, five from Jammu and Kashmir, four from West Bengal, three each from Karnataka and the Union Territory of Daman, and one from Assam. Some of the girls were also found in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, he said. The progress of proceedings in each case of kidnapping is reviewed every three days, the official added. In a meeting last month, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan instructed the officials concerned to inform parents of the abducted children about the progress and status of investigation into such cases. Chouhan had said parents of abducted children will get an 'Adhikar Patra' (authority letter), containing information about the action taken by police towards tracing the child. The chief minister also said that various crimes against women have come down by 15 to 50 per cent in Madhya Pradesh since March 2020. Last year, a total of 3,337 kidnapped and missing minor girls were rescued in three different campaigns in the state, the police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-2400-missing-girls-from-mp-rescued-in-jan-2021-police-949652.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||Goa Speaker to consider disqualification plea on February 26, Supreme Court informed||The Supreme Court on Wednesday was informed that the Goa Assembly Speaker would consider on February 26 disqualification petitions against 10 Congress MLAs who switched over to the BJP in 2019. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted before a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde that the matter related to disqualification petition has been kept for hearing by the Speaker on February 26. He said the Speaker would submit a report after deciding the disqualification petition. The court adjourned the matter, recording in its order that the Speaker has listed the disqualification petitions for "disposal" on February 26. Mehta, however, clarified that the matter has been kept for hearing, not disposal.  To this, the bench said, "We are standing off for now only if the disqualification petitions are kept for disposal. We need not hold our hands because they have been kept for hearing. We are saying 'disposal' in the order." Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar had approached the top court for a direction to the Speaker to decide upon the disqualification of 10 party MLAs who joined the BJP.  The plea for their disqualification under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution (anti-defection law) has been pending since August 2019. The top court in June 2020 issued notice to the Speaker and the state government on Chodankar's petition. Out of 15 Congress MLAs, 10 had formed a separate group and joined the BJP, taking the tally of the ruling party in 40-member Assembly to 27. Some of the defectors were rewarded with a ministerial berth in the Pramod Sawant-led government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/goa-speaker-to-consider-disqualification-plea-on-february-26-supreme-court-informed-949665.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||Cop beaten to death in Uttar Pradesh; inspector critically injured||Alleged members of a liquor mafia killed a police constable and critically wounded an inspector in Uttar Pradesh's Kasganj district, about 350 kilometres from here. One of the accused was later gunned down in an encounter with the police. According to police sources, two cops, identified as Inspector Ashok Kumar Singh and constable Devendra Mumar, had gone to paste an attachment notice on a liquor shop at Nagla Bangar village in the district on Tuesday evening, when they were confronted by the accused persons. Sources said that the liquor trader, identified as Moti and goons associated with him and overpowered the two cops and tied them to a tree. They were thrashed by Moti and his accomplices and were later dumped in the fields a few hundred metres away. The service revolver of the inspector was also taken away by them. The two cops were found lying in a pool of blood by a police team, which reached the spot after receiving information, sources said adding that they were rushed to the hospital, where Devendra succumbed to injuries a little later. The condition of the inspector was stated to be critical. During a massive search operation launched by the police, one of the accused persons, identified as Elkar, was gunned down in an encounter with the cops late in the night. Moti, the main accused, however, managed to escape, sources said. Earlier, a police inspector was brutally hacked to death by a mob of alleged saffron activists over a cow slaughter incident in Bulandshahar district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cop-beaten-to-death-in-uttar-pradesh-inspector-critically-injured-949678.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||Homosexuality no ground for dismissal from service rules Allahabad high court||In a significant decision, the Allahabad High Court ruled that homosexuality cannot be the ground for dismissal from service. The ruling of the court came after a petition was filed by a homeguard challenging his dismissal from service based on his sexual orientation. Justice Sunita Agarwal, while setting aside the order of dismissal and ordering reinstatement of the sacked homeguard, said that display of affection among the members of the LGBT community towards their partners could not be held wrong until it disturbed public order and was indecent. The court cited the judgement of the supreme court in Navtej Singh Johar vs Union of India and said that the dismissal order was a violation of the observations of the apex court in the judgement. The supreme court had observed in the judgement that the sexual orientation of an individual was his/her own choice and to treat it as an offence would amount to violation of his Right to Privacy. The home guard was sacked in June 2019 by the commandant, home guards, Bulandshahar, after a video, which allegedly showed him showing 'affection' toward his male partner. The commandant had said in the dismissal order that the home guard had been sacked for indulging in immoral sexual acts. While ordering the home guard's reinstatement, the court also directed the government to pay all his dues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/homosexuality-no-ground-for-dismissal-from-service-rules-allahabad-high-court-949687.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand floods: Kin of missing protest at Rishiganga power project site||The families of workers missing from the Rishiganga hydel project site created a ruckus here on Wednesday accusing the authorities of not carrying out the rescue operations properly after the sudden flood in the Alaknanda river system wreaked havoc. The kin of around 40 missing workers engaged in a heated argument with the authorities of the project for two hours, alleging lack of urgency in the rescue work. "It is four days since the tragedy occurred but all the focus is on restoring connectivity. Rescuing the missing people does not seem to be the priority," alleged a man from Punjab, whose brother Jugal worked at the Rishiganga hydel project. "Jugal's phone rings when his number is dialed," he said. Rishiganga project manager Kamal Chauhan, who had to face the wrath of the families, said his help was not being taken by the administration to locate the missing. The death toll in the disaster was 32 as on Tuesday with six more bodies being recovered during the day, officials had said as multiple agencies raced against time to reach the workers trapped inside a tunnel at the power project site and 174 people remained missing. The missing people include those working at NTPC's 480-MW Tapovan-Vishnugad project and the 13.2-MW Rishiganga Hydel Project and villagers whose homes nearby were washed away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-floods-kin-of-missing-protest-at-rishiganga-power-project-site-949716.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||Dalai Lama writes to Uttarakhand chief minister, offers sympathy, support to people||Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama has written to Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, expressing his condolences to the families of the people killed in a glacier disaster in Chamoli district of the state. A glacier burst at Joshimath on Sunday triggered an avalanche and a deluge in the Alaknanda river system that wreaked havoc and washed away hydroelectric stations. The death toll was 32 as on Tuesday with multiple agencies racing against time to reach 25-35 workers trapped inside a tunnel at the power project site and 174 people are missing. "I offer my condolences to those who have lost loved ones, and pray for them. I also pray for the safety and well-being of those who are still missing. I understand that both the central and the state governments are engaged in rescue work and are doing their utmost to provide relief to people affected by this calamity," the letter read. "As a gesture of solidarity with the people of Uttarakhand, I have asked the Dalai Lama Trust to make a donation towards the relief and rescue efforts," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dalai-lama-writes-to-uttarakhand-chief-minister-offers-sympathy-support-to-people-949724.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||Nitish leaves for Delhi, to hold talks with PM Modi||A day after expanding his Cabinet, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday left for New Delhi, where he is likely to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This will be the first meeting between the two leaders following the much-delayed Cabinet expansion in Bihar. However, their meeting will be a significant one as Nitish may seek proportional representation of the JD (U) in the Union Cabinet. Notably, Nitish had refused JD (U)’s participation in the Narendra Modi Government just hours before the latter took oath for the second time in May 2019. Nitish was then miffed with the offer of token representation of the JD (U) in the Union Cabinet with just one minister being asked to join the Government, although the JD (U) had won 16 of the 17 Lok Sabha seats it contested. However, much water has flown since 2019. In fact, Nitish has been consistently weakened following JD (U)’s dismal performance in the November 2020 Bihar Assembly poll. His ‘big brother’ approach too has been put on the back-burner after the BJP insisted on two Deputy Chief Ministers, besides more ministers from the BJP compared to the JD (U) and the key portfolios. At present, the Nitish Government has 16 BJP members as ministers while 13 from the JD (U) and one each from smaller outfits like HAM and the VIP. It is against this backdrop that Nitish would now like the JD (U) to join the Union Cabinet so that the regional outfit of Bihar could expand its base and keep its MPs in good humour. “Nitish Ji may ask for proportional representation of the JD (U) in the Modi Government. If it fructifies, then the JD (U) may stake claim for two Cabinet and one Minister of State (MoS) berth in the Union Government,” said a ruling party source, on the condition of anonymity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nitish-leaves-for-delhi-to-hold-talks-with-pm-modi-949728.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||Red Fort incident: Delhi court sends man to 7-day police custody||A Delhi court Wednesday sent a man, arrested from Punjab, to 7-day police custody in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day during farmers' tractor parade against the Centre's three new farm laws. Iqbal Singh, carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his arrest, was nabbed from Hoshiarpur by the Delhi Police’s Special Cell and brought to the national capital today. He was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Poorva Mehra who sent him for custodial interrogation after the police said his interrogation was required to confront him with several videos and identify other accused persons. The police sought his custody for 10 days saying Singh was allegedly one of the main conspirators of the violence and there was a need to establish where his funding was coming from. The investigating officer said Singh's alleged link to actor-activist Deep Sidhu, who was arrested on Tuesday in the case, needed to be ascertained. Police alleged the events leading to the violence were allegedly well planned and not a random occurrence. “There are hundreds of videos. We need to confront him with all these. We need to find out who are the people who came with him and who are they affiliated with. He was one of the main instigators. This was a conspiracy,” the police alleged. The investigating officer alleged that Singh did a live video for over an hour on a news channel in which he can be seen instigating the crowd to violence. “We need to go to Punjab and look into his news channel. We need to establish where his funding is coming from. He (Singh) told us during interrogation that he ran that news channel on which there was a live video for 1.15 hr,” IO alleged. Singh, however, claimed he did not go to Red Fort to cause violence and whatever he did or said was in the heat of the moment. “I did not come to cause violence. I reached Red Fort just like that and had not planned to go there. When I reached emotions flared up. Whatever I did is on my live video. I did not instigate anyone,” he claimed. The police had announced a cash reward of Rs 50,000 for information leading to Singh's arrest. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new agriculture laws had clashed with the police during their tractor parade on January 26. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protestor died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/red-fort-incident-delhi-court-sends-man-to-7-day-police-custody-949742.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||Rescuers racing against time to reach out to trapped workers||Rescue workers were racing against time on Wednesday to reach out to 37 workers trapped in a tunnel since Sunday when a landslide-triggered avalanche swept away two hydel power projects. Rescue teams comprising personnel from the ITBP, the Army, NDRF and SDRF flew drones into a tunnel of the under-construction hydel project of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) on the Dhauliganga river in the Himalayan mountain ranges. “We will not lose hope and keep on trying till the workers are found,” a senior Army officer told DH on the rescue efforts being carried out on the banks of the Dhauliganga river which has turned muddy after Sunday’s landslide. He said the workers are trapped about 180 meters deep in the 1800 meter-long tunnel, being built to house turbines of the run-of-the-river power project. “We have been able to reach a depth of 120 meters,” the Army officer said as excavators moved in and out of the tunnel removing slush and depositing it near the riverbed. The Army officer said they have not lost hopes as humans are known to survive up to six days in such conditions. A multi-agency meeting was held to review the rescue and relief strategy at the disaster sites on Wednesday. “I can tell you that we will continue our efforts till any length of time... for whatever time it takes to reach the logical conclusion and find the workers,” PTI quoted ITBP Director General Surjeet Singh Deswal as saying. Medical teams were camping near the rescue site with oxygen cylinders and stretchers even as anxious relatives thronged to look for their loved ones. Thirty-four bodies have been found so far, officials said adding that anywhere between 175-204 persons are missing since the disaster struck. Once known for its clear gushing waters, the river Dhauliganga has been bringing in slush since Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rescuers-racing-against-time-to-reach-out-to-trapped-workers-949760.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||U'khand: 2 listed as missing return home safely after being stranded in Chamoli||Two persons who were listed as missing in the avalanche and flash floods in Uttarakhand returned to their homes safely on Wednesday after being stranded in different areas of Chamoli district following the calamity three days ago, officials said. Suraj Singh from Chamoli in Uttarakhand and Rashid from Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh returned to their homes on Wednesday, Additional District Information Officer, Chamoli, Ravindra Negi said. Singh and Rashid were among those missing after the calamity, as per official records. The duo were stranded while they were returning to their villages, the officials said. Rescue teams intensified efforts on Wednesday to reach the 25-35 men trapped in a sludge-choked tunnel since the glacier disaster three days ago in the district and more than 170 remain missing. So far, 32 bodies have been recovered from different places in the disaster-hit areas of Chamoli district, the State Emergency Control Centre in Dehradun said. The missing people include those working at NTPC’s 480 MW Tapovan-Vishnugad project and the 13.2 MW Rishiganga Hydel Project and villagers whose homes were washed away as a wall of water came hurtling down mountainsides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ukhand-2-listed-as-missing-return-home-safely-after-being-stranded-in-chamoli-949778.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||Two youths, including minor, booked under UP anti-conversion law||Two youths, including a minor, were booked in separate cases under provisions of the Uttar Pradesh anti-conversion law apart from charges of rape on Wednesday in Nawabganj area here, police said. The FIRs were registered against the accused under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance. In the first case, the accused minor, who is a Class 12 student, has been admitted to a hospital in Bareilly and will be sent to a juvenile home after being discharged, SP (Dehat) Raj Kumar said. He said the minor youth had taken away a 15-year-old girl from the same village to Jaipur and promised to marry her. The girl, who studies in Class 9 and belongs to another community, was fooled as the boy had given her another name once she reached Rajasthan's capital, he said quoting the complaint given by the victim's father. When the girl objected to the 'nikaah' ceremony, she was held hostage, raped and later left outside her village by the youth who escaped from the place, the police officer said. When the FIR was lodged and the police started searching for him, the youth reached a private hospital and got himself admitted there, the SP further said. After reuniting with her family in Bareilly, the girl was sent for a medical examination that confirmed she was raped, he said. In another similar case, Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan said a youth from the same Nawabganj police station area had eloped with a Class 10 student to Bhilwara in Rajasthan on February 2. The youth asked her to convert before marriage and was raped upon refusal, according to the complaint by the girl's father. The Bhilwara police in Rajasthan arrested the youth on suspicion of possessing a country-made weapon when he was caught. After he was interrogated, it came to light that he had eloped with the girl and Bareilly police was informed. He is currently lodged in Bhilwara jail and the Bareilly has booked him under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance in UP aside from rape charges based on the complaint by the girl's father.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-youths-including-minor-booked-under-up-anti-conversion-law-949800.html
10-02-2021||North and Central||Breach of sub-glacial lake may have caused Uttarakhand floods||The Uttarakhand killer flood may have started with a massive ice avalanche triggering a landslide downstream and release of 1.6 million cubic metres of water stored in subglacial lakes, according to the scientists, who are putting together the missing pieces of a jigsaw puzzle on what triggered such a massive flash flood in the Himalayas in the middle of winter. While researchers from Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Dehradun found the evidence of how a massive avalanche began at an altitude of 5,600 mt and came crashing down, veteran glaciologist Anil Kulkarni at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru used modelling studies to propose the existence of subglacial lakes, which probably were breached by the impact. The assessment by Kulkarni and his colleagues at the Divecha Centre for Climate Change at the IISc suggests that the event may have begun with a massive ice avalanche. It led to a snow avalanche or landslide downstream resulting in the release of 1.6 million cubic mt water stored in one such lake in the Raunthi glacier. “Subglacial lakes are common phenomena in glaciology. For the water to come out, the glacier need not be broken as there are existing channels below the glacier through which water can come out,” Kulkarni told DH. The IISc study can also explain the rapid melting of snow and ice accumulated by the series of the avalanches. The amount of latent heat released by such a huge volume of water could aid in melting the ice, which already gathered friction energy after coming downhill. While satellite images had identified the avalanche as the trigger, scientists at the WIHG picked up evidence from the spot in the last three days to establish the chain of events. "There was a hanging glacier perched on a huge rock mass, which got snapped in the natural process. The glacier ice mass and the rocks rolled down through a steep gradient of 30-40 degrees gathering strength. It came to Rounthi streamer, which is fed by the glacier and then progressed downhill along with the debris,” Kalachand Sain, WIHG director told DH. Raunthi glacier is in the catchment area of Rishi Ganga river, which witnessed the killer flood that swept away two hydropower plants. The scientific opinion, however, differs on the source of such a large volume of water. While Sain did not rule out what Kulkarni proposed, he suggested that the subglacial lake under Raunthi glacier could be one of the sources along with water from the ice melt as well as water in the ice melt and water in the moraine dam lake, if there is one. "Source of water is a key question on which we need a thorough investigation. Such an investigation is necessary to assess risk from a flash flood as the region has many glaciers with subglacial lakes,” Kulkarni said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/breach-of-sub-glacial-lake-may-have-caused-uttarakhand-floods-949802.html
10-02-2021||South||Kerala High Court protects Sunny Leone from arrest in fraud case||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday restrained the Kerala police from arresting actor Sunny Leone and two others in connection with a cheating case. The Crime Branch unit of Kerala Police earlier registered the case against Leone in a petition filed by a Kerala-based programme coordinator R Shiyaz alleging that Leone cheated by cancelling a programme after collecting advance remuneration in 2018-2019. Her husband Daniel Weber and employee Sunil Rajani were also arraigned and Leone's statement was recorded the other day. Considering the anticipatory bail petition of Leone and others, the HC also allowed the police to take Leone's statement by serving notice. While Leone maintained that the organisers changed the programme schedule at least five times over the last three years, the complainant alleged that Leone changed the schedule after accepting a payment of Rs. 29 lakh and he suffered huge losses. Leone was also learnt to have said that she was still  willing to participate in the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-high-court-protects-sunny-leone-from-arrest-in-fraud-case-949589.html
10-02-2021||South||Non-Hindu tahsildar in Thiruvananthapuram transferred; govt denies religion bias||A Revenue Department official in Kerala's capital Thiruvananthapuram has been shifted allegedly since he was not a Hindu as the official holding the post need to take part in the annual festival of the Sree Padmanabhaswami Temple. Certain Hindu outfits had raised objection against the posting of a non-Hindu to the Thiruvananthapuram tahsildar post, following which the replacement was made. The incident is likely to cause embarrassment to the CPM-led Left Democratic Front government in Kerala as the Opposition parties were already questioning the progressive stature of the Pinarayi Vijayan government over the Sabarimala women entry issue. K Ansar, who was posted as tahsildar of Thiruvananthapuram a few days back, was replaced with K Suresh, who was recently posted as tahsildar of Neyyatinkara on the suburbs of Thiruvananthapuram. Kerala Land Revenue Commissioner, who issued the posting orders, told DH that the changes were only routine ones and the interpretations that it was due to protest by certain Hindu outfits have no basis. However, sources in the Revenue Department, as well as those associated with the temple, said that it used to be an unwritten norm that only Hindus, that too upper-caste Hindus, would be posted as Thiruvananthapuram tahsildar and village officer of the nearby Vanchiyoor village office. The practice has been followed from the time of erstwhile Travancore kingdom as these two officials are involved in the ‘Aarat’ procession and festival of the Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple.  Revenue Department sources said that in case the Thiruvananthapuram tahsildar happens to be a non-Hindu, the tahsildar in charge of land records in Thiruvananthapuram used to perform the temple duty. But now both tahsildars happened to be non-Hindus, which could have happened due to an oversight. The Hindu Aikya Vedi had raised objections against the posting of non-Hindu officials as tahsildars of Thiruvananthapuram and even called for strong demonstrations unless the decision was revoked. Close on the heels of that, Suresh was posted as Thiruvananthapuram tahsildar replacing Ansar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/non-hindu-tahsildar-in-thiruvananthapuram-transferred-govt-denies-religion-bias-949654.html
10-02-2021||South||Youth who made bomb hoax call to Tamil Nadu CM's house detained||A youth was on Wednesday detained in nearby Tirupur for making a hoax bomb threat call to the residence of Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami in Salem district on Wednesday. According to police, the CM's house received a call claiming that a bomb was planted there, early this morning. Immediately, a bomb squad along with sniffer dogs carried out searches for nearly two hours, which proved that the call was a hoax, they said. The call was traced to a youth from Tirupur, whose identity is yet to be revealed, and interrogation was on, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/youth-who-made-bomb-hoax-call-to-tamil-nadu-cms-house-detained-949700.html
10-02-2021||South||Kerala CM justifies regularising temporary employees||While allegations of backdoor appointments are snowballing into a major political row in Kerala, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan justified his government’s decision to regularise scores of temporary employees citing humanitarian reasons. Vijayan also alleged that the previous Congress government in Kerala regulairsed 5,910 temporary employees without following any norms, while his government regularised only those who were serving on temporary basis for ten years and more continuously. This was done on humanitarian considerations, he said. Referring to the ongoing stir by candidates included in various rank lists of the Kerala Public Service Commission alleging delay in recruitment, he said that in normal case only 20 percent of the candidates in each rank list would get recruitment as five times of the total vacancies were being notified. He also alleged that the opposition political parties were trying to politicise the stir by candidates by misleading them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-justifies-regularising-temporary-employees-949785.html
10-02-2021||South||GHMC Mayor polls on February 11: BJP says it will field candidates||A day before the GHMC mayor and deputy mayor elections, the BJP has stated that it would field its candidates for the two top posts of the Hyderabad civic body. On Thursday, the ward members elected in the December first week polls would take their oath and later chose the mayor and deputy mayor. The TRS has 56, BJP 47 (excluding one member who died), AIMIM – 44, Congress – 2 councillors in the 150 ward Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation council. With no party gaining a clear majority, the votes of 44 ex-officio members i.e., MPs, MLAs etc., would become crucial. 32 of these members are from the TRS; AIMIM has 10 and BJP 2. While the quorum required for holding mayoral elections is 97, contesting parties need to gain a simple majority. “Regardless of the outcome, we will field our candidates for both the posts. The overall difference between the votes gained by the TRS and us is only a few thousand. If AIMIM would be in fray or not is not our concern. The TRS-AMIMM are anyway friends,” said Ramchander Rao, senior T-BJP leader. The term of the GHMC council is till February 10. However, elections were held two months in advance, which the BJP and other opposition parties had then alleged “is to favor the ruling the TRS.” The municipal polls saw an unprecedented canvassing with the BJP involving its national leaders like Amit Shah and Yogi Adityanath. The TRS taunted the saffron party for the same and municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao dubbed the polls as “a gully vs Delhi, Gujarati rule fight.” The short but intense 10-day campaign also witnessed blistering electioneering, with Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay vowing to launch “surgical strikes” in the old city to flush out the illegally staying Rohingyas, Bangladeshis etc. In a startling result, the TRS was reduced to 56 seats from the 99 seats that it had won in 2016. Analysts believe the TRS still has better chances to gain the mayor's seat, depending on the attendance in the house on Thursday. Mayor post, this time around, is reserved for women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ghmc-mayor-polls-on-february-11-bjp-says-it-will-field-candidates-949792.html
10-02-2021||South||Fashion Gold scam: Manjeswar IUML MLA gets bail in all 142 cheating cases||Indian Union Muslim League leader and MLA of Manjeswar M C Kamaruddin has got bail in all 142 cases against him in connection with cheating investors in the jewellery business headed by him. Kamaruddin was arrested by the police in November last and was under remand for around three months. He got bail in some of the the cases in January and got in the pending six cases on Wednesday, paving the way for his release. Kamaruddin was the chairman of the Fashion Gold jewellery business. Managing director of the firm Pookoya Thangal, who is also an IUML leader, is still absconding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fashion-gold-scam-manjeswar-iuml-mla-gets-bail-in-all-142-cheating-cases-949793.html
10-02-2021||South||KCR lashes out at Congress, seeks votes for Narajuna Sagar bypoll||Seeking votes for TRS in the soon to be held Nagarjuna Sagar bypoll, Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao on Wednesday lashed out at the Congress, saying that the grand old party had ignored development during its tenure in the state. He, however, spared the BJP, which otherwise was always under his attack. Speaking in a public meeting at Haliya about 135 km from here, Rao said he would not seek votes in the next Assembly elections (in 2023) if the promised irrigation projects were not completed in the next one and half years. Nagarjuna Sagar will be going for the bypoll as sitting TRS legislator Nomula Narsimhaiah died in December last. "Rs 2500 crore worth lift irrigation schemes will be taken up in the district. If we don't complete these projects, we will not seek votes in the next elections. We will work hard to complete all the projects in one and half years, Rao said. Blaming Congress for the backwardness of Nalgonda district, Rao said if his Government takes up projects, the opposition party levels allegations that there are kickbacks. Rao sought to know whether the Nagarjuna Sagar Project, which was constructed during the Congress regime, was taken up for kickbacks. He said Rs 1,000 crore would be allotted in the coming Budget for the welfare of Dalits under the "CM Dalit Empowerment Fund" and he would personally monitor it. Rao lost his cool when some people at the meeting allegedly tried to distract it by showing some papers and ordered the police to take them out. "There are several dogs like you. Police... take them out. Take papers..whatever they want to give...They are just a handful (in the meeting). If we are determined, there will not be any trace of you. You will become dust," an annoyed KCR said. He quoted a Telugu proverb which says that 'new beggars' (someone who has taken up the profession now) have no time sense and likened the BJP to them. KCR said if any party has an opinion they also could convene meetings and convey what they wanted to the people. But it was not good to disturb meetings of other parties "So don't resort to senseless activities. If you have anything to say you also hold a public meeting. People will decide. Coming to meetings of other parties and disturbing them is not good culture. None will appreciate it and in the coming days people will teach you a lesson. I am warning their leader to be careful. There is a limit to our patience. If you cross the limits, we know what to do," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kcr-lashes-out-at-congress-seeks-votes-for-narajuna-sagar-bypoll-949794.html
10-02-2021||South||Kerala CPM leader alleges Rahul and Priyanka of maintaining soft Hindutva line||Kerala CPM secretary-in-charge A Vijayaraghavan on Wednesday alleged that Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi were maintaining a soft Hindutva line and the Congress in Kerala was trying to expand its relationship with the BJP. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Vijayaraghavan said that the Congress leaders in Kerala were not criticising the BJP over key issues affecting the nation and were instead trying to attack the left-front government in Kerala along with the BJP as national leaders of the party were maintaining a soft Hindutva line. While Rahul Gandhi commenced his election campaigns in Gujarat and Rajasthan by conducting poojas in temples, Priyanka was competing with BJP over Hindutva symbols, said Vijayaraghavan. The CPM leader's statement came at a time when the Congress was pressurising the left-front government in Kerala to clarify their stand on the Sabarimala women entry issue - on whether they were in favour of allowing women of all ages to the temple or were for protecting the faiths and beliefs. The Congress even came up with a draft bill for protecting the faiths and beliefs and assured to implement it once they come to power in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cpm-leader-alleges-rahul-and-priyanka-of-maintaining-soft-hindutva-line-949797.html
10-02-2021||South||Vatal Nagaraj's group stages demonstration at Thalavadi, demands for it to be made part of Karnataka||Kannada Chaluvali Vatal Paksha leader Vattal Nagaraj along with several other outfits on Wednesday staged a demonstration demanding that Thalavadi in this district and parts of Nilgiris district bordering Karnataka be annexed with neighbouring state. The protest was held on the Karnataka side, about 200 meters from the border, police said. Fringe groups in Karnataka had last month damaged sign and name boards of the Tamil Nadu government in Tamil and English on the state's border, claiming that Thalavadi 'belonged' to their state. Police pickets have been posted in Thalavadi area since then to prevent recurrence of such incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vatal-nagarajs-group-stages-demonstration-at-thalavadi-demands-for-it-to-be-made-part-of-karnataka-949801.html
10-02-2021||State||1,218 cases booked under COTPA in Dakshina Kannada||Dakshina Kannada Tobacco Control Cell has collected a total fine of Rs 1,95,150 for violating various sections of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003 (COTPA) Act, since April 2016. As many as 1,218 cases have been booked so far in the district. A total of 169 cases have been booked from April 2020 to January 2021 and a fine of Rs 23,500 has been collected. As many as 615 cases were booked and a fine of Rs 79,800 was collected from April 2019 to March 2020, said officials from the Cell. Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer R Selvamani said that there was a need to sensitise society on reducing the usage of tobacco and about its ill-effects. He was speaking during a workshop on National Tobacco Control Programme and The COTPA Act. Selvamani said the enforcement of the ban on the sale of tobacco products within a radius of 100 yards of educational institutions should be strictly implemented to ensure that school and college students do not fall prey to the use of tobacco products. Earlier, smoking cigarettes was considered a heroic deed. However, owing to the awareness, people have realised the ill-effects. Even branding of petty shops by tobacco products company has been checked after the COTPA Act was implemented. The farmers are also supported to cultivate alternative crops for tobacco in the country to reduce the use of tobacco, he said. The coordination of all departments is required for the effective implementation of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, 2003 (COTPA) Act. Dr Jagannath from the Department of Public Health, Nitte (Deemed to be University) said tobacco consumption was a gateway to other habits. Only awareness will help to reduce the prevalence of tobacco in India. Smokeless tobacco is as dangerous as smoking tobacco. There is a need to make public places smoke-free areas. The prevalence of smoking in public places is still high in the country. People should raise an alarm and create awareness on the COTPA, which prohibits smoking in public places. The implementation of COTPA should become a social movement in India, he added. Dr Hanumantharayappa, Advisor of National Tobacco Control Programme, District Surveillance Officer Dr Jagadish and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/1218-cases-booked-under-cotpa-in-dakshina-kannada-949523.html
10-02-2021||State||NIFAA to hold 1,500 blood donation camps across India, collect 90,000 units of blood||The National Integrated Forum of Artists and Activists (NIFAA) started an international blood and plasma donation awareness campaign ‘Samvedna’ and is set to conduct 1,500 blood donation camps across the country and collect 90,000 units of blood on the 90th martyrdom day of Shaheed Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, Sukhdev, on March 23. The NIFAA in association with Yenepoya Deemed to be University, Mangalore University, Nitte Deemed to be University, Indian Red Cross Society of Dakshina Kannada and Mangalore Association of Blood Donors will be part of the drive in Dakshina Kannada, Pritpal Singh Pannu, Chairman of NIFAA told media persons. The Covid-19 scare has hit the blood banks in Mangaluru that drying up due to non-availability of donors. As per the statistics of the National Aids Control Organization, India requires 1.4 crore units of blood every year. There is a shortage of 20 lakh units of blood. Though 65 to 70 crore people are eligible to donate blood in the country, only 65 lakh people do so. There is a lack of awareness among people on blood donation, the NIFAA Chairman felt. He added that 1,100 blood donation camps have already been registered for March 23 and the drive to register more camps to reach 1,500-milestone in is progress. Each blood donor who participates in the camp is to be given a certificate of appreciation with a digital signature of personalities such as singer Kailash Kher, actor Sonu Sood, Randeep Hooda, Author Shiv Kehra. The campaign will also be included in the Guinness Book of World Records which will give it a global outreach. Thereafter, all organisations will be given a link to get an official certificate of participation from Guinness Book of World Records. Launched as a nation-wide blood donation campaign, ‘Samvedna’ has also received support from Non-Resident Indians and it would also be organised in the United States, Canada, UK, Australia, New Zealand, Mauritius, UAE and Fiji. Chairman Pannu said a dedicated website and mobile app would be launched as a part of the campaign. List of all blood donors of India would be available on both options and anyone in need of blood would be able to find out a volunteer donor by searching the city and blood group in the app, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nifaa-to-hold-1500-blood-donation-camps-across-india-collect-90000-units-of-blood-949554.html
10-02-2021||State||Covid-19: Suttur 'Jatra Mahotsava' limited to one day||The annual 'Jatra Mahotsava' celebrations in Suttur village began on the banks of Kapila River in Nanjangud taluk of Mysuru in a curtailed manner today. The festival -- held in honour of 11th-century pontiff Sri Shivarathreeshwara -- has been limited to a one-day event owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. Since early morning on February 10, thousands of devotees have thronged the village to attend the festival. In previous years, the 'Mahotsava' was held for a period of six days with lakhs of people from various parts of Karnataka attending it. However, this year, it has been limited to 'puja' and other rituals. In addition, folk artistes and students will be performing at the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-suttur-jatra-mahotsava-limited-to-one-day-949618.html
10-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||IIHR portal sows seeds of veggie revolution in Northeast||Seeds produced by farmers in and around Bengaluru and processed at Bengaluru’s Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR), Hessaraghatta in the Arkavathi catchment area, have paved way for large-scale vegetable cultivation in the seven Northeast states. Helping farmers in the remote Northeastern states take up vegetable farming in harsh agro-climatic conditions, IIHR’s Seed Portal (seed.iihr.res.in) — an online platform that delivers quality seed materials at the farmers’ doorsteps — has made horticulture in the hilly terrain profitable. The high-quality germination guaranteed seeds under the brand name ‘Arka’ are most sought after. Launched during the Covid-19 lockdown, the seed portal has already sold Rs 60 lakh worth seeds of over 60 different varieties of 20 vegetables and an equal number of flowers. Dr M R Dinesh, Director, IIHR, told DH that the institute annually sells about 20 tonnes of seeds and plans to scale it up to 40 to 50 tonnes. “While farmers from 26 states have been buying seeds from us, Northeastern states have been the largest buyers of vegetable seeds due to the large-scale organic cultivation of vegetables in the region.” Elaborating, Dr Dinesh said, “Arka seeds are disease-resistant and exhibit a high tolerance to varied agro-climatic conditions. We have entered into an agreement with farmers in and around Bengaluru to buy seeds. The seeds are tested and  processed by scientists before being passed on to farmers.” S Thippeswamy, chief technical officer at IIHR, said, “Around 33,000 farmers have registered on the portal. Of these, about 30 to 35% are from the Northeast.” Scientists said there has been a demand for varieties of tomato, onion, capsicum, chilli and creepers. “Around 80 kg of seeds of Arka Prasanna ridge gourd were sold in less than five hours. People from anywhere in India can order on SBI’s Yono app which is linked to the portal,” he said. The portal is a big hit among urban gardeners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/iihr-portal-sows-seeds-of-veggie-revolution-in-northeast-949498.html
10-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Exclusive hostel for Kalyana Karnataka students in Bengaluru||The state government will set up a residential hostel exclusively for students of Kalyana Karnataka region in Bengaluru’s HSR Layout. The hostel will come up at a cost of Rs 60 crore and the proposal will be tabled in the next Cabinet meeting, said K C Narayanagowda, the minister for planning, monitoring and statistics and sports.  “We will get the proposal approved in the Cabinet meeting and begin the tender process immediately,” the minister said. A decision to this effect was taken in a review meeting of the Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board on Wednesday. The minister also raised concern about unutilised funds in the Board. In 2021-21, Rs 1131 crore was allocated. However, of the 4,016 works approved, only 2,177 have been completed till now, he said, asking the officials to expedite projects. The meeting also decided to seek Rs 2,000 crore funding for the Board in the upcoming budget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/exclusive-hostel-for-kalyana-karnataka-students-in-bengaluru-949813.html
10-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||415 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka reported 415 fresh Covid-19 cases and three related deaths, taking the number of infection cases to 9,43,627 and the death toll to 12,244 on Wednesday. The day also saw 322 patients being discharged after recovery, leaving 5,875 active cases. The recoveries have reached 9,25,489. As many as 141 patients are in the Intensive Care Units of the various hospitals. While Bangalore Urban district reported 208 cases, Mysuru reported 45. Belagavi and Tumakuru districts reported 17 cases each. A total of 1,76,91,918 samples have been tested, out of which 66,199 were tested on Wednesday alone. Vaccination As many as 18,746 health workers and frontline workers were vaccinated on Day 26 on Wednesday, taking the total vaccinated (people) to 4,60,388 health workers and frontline workers which is 41.7% coverage in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/415-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths-in-karnataka-949815.html
10-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||‘Donations for Ram Mandir work have crossed Rs 1K crore’||Pejawar Mutt pontiff and trustee of Sri Ram Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust Sri Vishwaprasanna Theertha said that the donations received for the construction of the Ram Mandir had crossed Rs 1,000 crore.  The seer told reporters here on Wednesday that donors from various strata of society had come forward to donate money for the noble cause of constructing the Ram Mandir. “The aim is not just to construct the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, but to develop India as a Rama Rajya, the land of peace and harmony. We travelled all over Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. The devotees have extended wholehearted support,” he said. He said, not just Hindus but people, belonging to all religions, had contributed for the Ram Mandir construction. Currently, the excavation work at the site in Ayodhya was underway, he added. The seer said that the drive to collect the money for the Ram Mandir by the trust was launched on January 15 and would continue till February 27.  On the caste-based reservation system, the seer said the reservation should support the people who are economically weak. It should not be a caste-based reservation, he said.  On the farmers’ protest, the seer stressed that the farmers should hold talks as they are invited by the government. The protest should not intend to harm the integrity of the country, he felt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/donations-for-ram-mandir-work-have-crossed-rs-1k-crore-949816.html
10-02-2021||West||4 injured in fire at cylinder godown in Mumbai's Andheri||Four persons were injured after a major fire broke out in a cylinder godown at Yari Road in Versova in Andheri area on Tuesday. Eight fire tenders and seven jumbo water tankers have been rushed to the spot. The fire broke out at 0940 hours, Mumbai fire brigade officials said. Eye-witnesses reported cylinder blasts and fire from the site. The four injured persons have been rushed to the Dr RN Cooper Hospital at Vile Parle. They have been identified as Rakesh Kadu (30), Laxman Kumvat (24), Manjit Khan (20) and Mukesh Kumvat (30). The Mumbai police and fire brigade are investigating the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/4-injured-in-fire-at-cylinder-godown-in-mumbais-andheri-949599.html
10-02-2021||West||SC notice to Maha govt on plea claiming Avni was not man-eater||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued a notice to the Maharashtra government on a plea claiming that tigress Avni, shot dead by a civilian hunter at Ralegaon in November 2018, was not a man-eater. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde and comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian decided to examine a petition by activist Sangeeta Dogra. The petitioner claimed that human remains were not found in the autopsy of the animal. The court, therefore, asked if it meant the hunters were illegally rewarded for killing her. There were celebrations after death. The court sought a response from the Maharashtra government and its forest authorities on Dogra's petition. Avni, the tigress, was said to have killed 13 villagers. She was shot dead near Borati village in Yavatmal in November 2018 by a team of Forest Department officials and civilian hunter Asgar Ali. The incident triggered outrage among wildlife activists, who alleged that no efforts were made to tranquillise Avni and called it “murder in cold blood”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sc-notice-to-maha-govt-on-plea-claiming-avni-was-not-man-eater-949624.html
10-02-2021||West||'Illegal' merger of flats: Kangana to seek regularisation from BMC||Actor Kangana Ranaut told the Bombay High Court on Wednesday that she would file a regularisation application before the Mumbai civic body in connection with alleged irregularities at her residential flats in suburban Khar. Ranaut's counsel Birendra Saraf sought to withdraw the appeal filed by the actor against a civil court's December 2020 order dismissing her suit challenging notices issued by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) for illegally merging three flats in a suburban building. Justice Prithviraj Chavan permitted Ranaut to withdraw the appeal and said no coercive action shall be taken by the civic body until the application for regularisation is heard and decided, and for two weeks thereafter. "The appellant (Ranaut) is permitted to apply for regularisation before the MCGM within a period of four weeks," Justice Chavan said. The corporation shall decide the same expeditiously and in accordance with law, the court said. "In case of any adverse order against the appellant, no coercive action shall be taken thereafter by the BMC to enable the appellant to file appeal," the court said. The MCGM is also known as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The city civic body in March 2018 had issued a notice to Ranaut for alleged illegal merger of three flats owned by her in Orchid Breeze building in suburban Khar. The Dindoshi civil court dismissed her suit against the notice in December last year, following which she moved the high court. The civil court, while dismissing the suit, had noted there was "grave violation of the sanctioned plan" while amalgamating the three flats. Ranaut's petition said since she bought the flats in 2013, she had not made any structural changes. She had carried out only "certain cosmetic changes", said the appeal filed through advocates Aseem Naphade, Monisha Bhangale and Prasanna Bhangale. Last year, the civic body had initiated demolition of alleged unauthorised construction at Ranaut's bungalow in Pali Hill area here. The HC later held the municipal corporation's action as illegal and malicious.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/illegal-merger-of-flats-kangana-to-seek-regularisation-from-bmc-949660.html
10-02-2021||West||Maharashtra Speaker’s election to be crucial for MVA||Maharashtra’s political scene is hotting up with the Opposition BJP going on action mode after the resignation of Speaker Nana Patole, who has taken over as the state Congress President. The Budget Session of the Maharashtra legislature is days away – and for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government – it is a test of sorts for political unity. Maharashtra has a unique tradition of Opposition and Treasury benches unanimously nominating the Speaker, however, the BJP now has kept it open-ended. “The Maharashtra Legislative Assembly has a tradition of nominating the Speaker by consensus. However, this government does not talk to Opposition...so we have decided to meet our allies and then take a call,” Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said. Last week, the Congress replaced Balasaheb Thorat as MPCC President with Nana Patole, who resigned as Speaker to get into the party job. According to the November 2019 formula agreed upon by Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, they would hold the post of Chief Minister, Deputy Chief Minister and Speaker, respectively. NCP supremo Sharad Pawar was of the opinion that the new Congress state unit chief could have been appointed at the end of the Budget Session so that such a situation could have been avoided. The Shiv Sena’s opinion came through an editorial in Saamana, which said, “Things are going smoothly for the MVA government, but there was no need to disturb the arrangements. Surely MVA enjoys a majority in the Assembly, but why give BJP a chance to play tricks?” Congress legislators Sangram Thopte, Suresh Warpudkar and Amin Patel are the frontrunners for the Speaker’s post, however, it would be a combined decision of the three ruling parties. After the resignation, Patole has said that the ruling MVA has a strength of 170, sufficient to defeat the BJP in case the Speaker has to be elected. The strength of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly is 288. During the trust vote, the MVA secured 169 votes. The three parties together have 154 MLAs – and have the support of smaller parties and independent members. The BJP has 105 MLAs and has the support of 10 to 12 others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-speaker-s-election-to-be-crucial-for-mva-949720.html
10-02-2021||West||BJP finalises candidates for Gujarat local body polls||The BJP has finalised candidates for February 28 polls to local bodies in Gujarat including 81 municipalities, state unit president C R Paatil said on Wednesday. The state BJP's parliamentary board has finalised 8,474 candidates for polls to 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats, he told reporters. "After a detailed discussion, the parliamentary board has finalised 8,474 candidates. The list has been sent to district unit presidents for announcement. All candidates will file their nominations on February 12," said Paatil. The candidates finalised by the party include 980 for district panchayat polls, 4,774 for taluka panchayats and 2,720 candidates for municipality polls. There were 20 probable candidates to choose from for each seat, he said, adding that some deserving workers may not have got tickets and he apologises to all those who did not get ticket. The last day for filing nomination is February 13. Candidates for polls to six municipal corporations on February 21 have already been announced. The BJP had earlier said it will not give tickets to party leaders' relatives. Also, those who are above 60 years of age or those who have completed three terms as councilors would not be fielded, it had said. Paatil said these criteria were applied while finalizing candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-finalises-candidates-for-gujarat-local-body-polls-949775.html
10-02-2021||West||Koregaon Bhima Case | Evidence planted on Rona Wilson’s laptop: Report||More than three years after the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima incident, an independent investigation by a United States digital forensics firm has found that the incriminating letters that are part of the evidence were actually planted on the laptop of one of the accused Rona Wilson. The investigation was undertaken by Massachusetts-based Arsenal Consulting after Wilson’s defence team approached them. Delhi-based Wilson is the public relations secretary of the Committee for Release of Political Prisoners and is currently in jail. The case was initially investigated by the Pune Police, however, now it has been taken over by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). According to the charge-sheet, Wilson’s laptop contained a letter that reveals a plot to assassinate Prime Minister Narendra Modi and overthrow the elected government in the country. The executive summary of the report dated 8 February 2021, states: “Arsenal’s analysis in the case has revealed that Rona Wilson’s computer was compromised for just over 22 months. The attacker responsible for compromising Wilson’s computer had extensive resources (including time) and it is obvious that their primary goals were surveillance and incriminating document delivery.” It further states that Arsenal has connected the same attacker to a significant malware infrastructure which has been deployed over the course of approximately four years to not only attack and compromise Wilson’s computer for 22 months, but to an attack of his co-defendants in the Bhima Koregaon case and defendants in other high-profile Indian cases as well. “It should be noted that this is one of the most serious cases involving evidence tampering that Arsenal has ever encountered, based on various metrics which include the vast timespan between the delivery of the first and last incriminating documents,” it said. In a brief statement on Twitter, Arsenal President Mark Spencer said: “My team had worked relentlessly on the massive volume of electronic data provided to us in the Bhima Koregaon case, and I believe we have set an extremely high bar for the practice of digital forensics in future. There have been times during my team’s analysis that I have been in awe of their ability to succeed where others failed.” Detailing the compromise, the report states that Wilson’s computer was compromised on 13 June 2016 after a series of suspicious emails with someone using Varavara Rao’s email account. When Wilson’s counsel Sudeep Pasbola was contacted by DH, he said: “I don’t have the document with me....I cannot comment.” However, Wilson has submitted a plea seeking charges to be dropped on the basis of this report through a different lawyer. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition and ex-Chief Devendra Fadnavis said: “I don’t know about this (document)....but as far as the case against ‘urban Naxals’ (in the Koregaon Bhima case) we have clinching evidence. Twice the Supreme Court has rejected bail (to accused)...I cannot speak further as the case is sub-judice.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/koregaon-bhima-case-evidence-planted-on-rona-wilson-s-laptop-report-949783.html
