11-02-2021||Comment||Journalism in India: Don’t shoot the messenger||The political environment for free and independent journalism has always been challenging in India, and even more so during the ongoing socio-political crisis. The shrinking liberty of free journalism is due to unwarranted government repression, and it reflects in the fact that India dropped down two positions on the World Press Freedom Index, standing at 142 out of 180 countries, faring worse than Afghanistan. The Centre for Protection of Journalists’ 2020 Global Impunity Index lowers India’s rank to 12th position. The climate for journalism is worrying as India continues to transform into one of the most dangerous places to be a journalist. The State-backed repression on investigative journalism exhibits a brazen attack on freedom of speech in the country, making it hit rock-bottom. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting dismissed the World Press Freedom Index as “an attempt to put India in a bad picture,” even as it restrained broadcast by channels critical of the government on the Delhi riots of last year Reporters sans Frontiers calls the situation in India “alarming” and attributes the drop in position to an organised strategy of curbing dissent. The arrests of independent journalists Mandeep Punia and Siddique Kappan are examples of the government’s heavy-handedness on the fourth pillar of democracy. While one was detained while covering the farmers’ protest near Delhi, the other was imprisoned even as he was heading to Hathras, UP, to report on the recent gang-rape there. The recent spate of FIRs against six journalists, including the editors of India Today Group and Caravan magazine is another attempt to constrain critical voices. The year 2020 witnessed widespread attacks on journalists, ranging from physical assault to false criminalisation, threats and intimidation. Journalist Neha Dixit has faced stalking, threats of rape and murder and an attempt to break into her house recently. Two senior journalists were arrested in Manipur under the draconian Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, sending a signal that the acquisition and transmission of information facilitating critical scrutiny are no longer  permissible. Amidst the nationwide lockdown, journalists, regarded as “essential workers”, were subjected to excessive State-force, making it impossible for uncomfortable reports to reach the public. At least 55 journalists faced reprisals for reporting on Covid-19 and the troubles people faced due to the sudden lockdown decision. Sedition charges World Press Freedom Day 2020 was themed “Journalism without Fear or Favour”. In India, fearless journalism is met with mobilisation of domestic laws to restrict and repress media independence. The government uses draconian laws, the penal code’s sedition provisions, the criminal defamation law, and laws dealing with hate speech against those who step out of the government’s line. Section 124A of IPC, a colonial-era law used to silence nationalists then, is now commonly misused to crush civil dissent. The law’s validity was challenged and upheld, limiting its use to words that tend to create disorder or disturbance of public peace through violence. The judicial precedents make a clear distinction between disloyalty to the government established by law and strong criticism of government measures or acts. The judges were optimistic that the guidelines would keep its misuse in check, but it is being used rampantly. Last year, the editor of an online Gujarati news portal was booked for sedition for publishing an article that suggested that the Gujarat chief minister could be replaced for failing to manage the Covid-19 situation. Article 14’s database reveals a rise in the number of sedition cases since 2014 -- a 28% increase on average in the cases filed each year during the Modi regime compared to the previous administration’s yearly average. Statistics highlight the rising number of sedition cases during and immediately after protests, indicating a clampdown on free public discussion. The State has successfully created a climate of fear amongst the media despite constitutionally available safeguards. Judicial precedents The High Court of Uttarakhand in 2019 quashed an FIR filed against a journalist and remarked that criticism of the government and public functionaries is not sedition and is necessary for the strengthening of democracy. The judge noted that “in a democracy, dissent is always respected; if it is suppressed under sedition laws, perhaps, it would be an attempt to make  democracy weak.” The apex court considers freedom of the press as a foundation of all democracies. Courts have also expressed anguish over the muzzling of journalists, saying that if journalists’ voices were stifled, no one would be able to stop India from becoming a Nazi State. Despite this, there is evident reluctance to granting bail on sedition charges. India has an international obligation to respect and protect journalists and condemn the violence against journalists under the Human Rights Council’s 2016 resolution. The paradox is that Indian officials publicly put down its media by calling them “bazaaru” and “presstitutes”. The member-states are responsible for preventing arbitrary detention, killings, threats and harassment against the journalists by ensuring accountability through impartial investigations. The United Nations’ Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists recommends national legislation on safeguarding journalists. The Convention on the Protection of Journalists has failed to materialise. India does not have comprehensive legislation to protect the country’s journalists. The Maharashtra government introduced Media Persons and Media Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property) Act, 2017, while the Chhattisgarh Protection of Media Persons Act is in the final draft form. However, doubts arise over these legislations’ implementation when journalists are exposed to State-sponsored sanctions. The Journalists’ Association of Assam (JAA) and the National Union of Journalists of India (NUJI) have demanded a Journalist Protection Act to ensure journalists’ safety, highlighting that seven media houses and 837 journalists have been attacked in the last 12 years. However, the question is whether, in India’s currently polarised social and political climate, a new law will make a difference. (Ritika Goyal is a legal researcher with the Columbia Global Freedom of Expression Project; Shrutika Pandey is a Litigation Assistant with Human Rights Defenders Alert, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/journalism-in-india-don-t-shoot-the-messenger-949844.html
11-02-2021||Comment||Thinking about the next war||Military strategists have always been caught short in their predictions on the nature of warfare, especially when disruptive technologies have, down the ages, changed its course without any forewarning. One only has to see the impact of gunpowder, firearms, the railway, telegraph, aeroplane, and now nuclear weapons, digital networks and space to understand the magnitude of the task. However, the demands of national security leave little choice but to crystal gaze so that planners can optimise their nation’s statecraft even if their predictions fall short.   Contrary to the perception that the probability of conflict was receding, the reality has been quite the opposite. Military burdens are growing, demanding newer proficiencies -- in kinetic combat, in emerging domains, in precision, intelligence, military IoT (Internet of Things), algorithmic warfare, multi-domain operations, even as legacy challenges, such as unsettled borders and cross-border terrorism, remain. A dynamic congruence A realistic evaluation of military futures will largely depend upon two critical factors -- the likely trends and trajectories of geopolitical contestations, and estimation of critical breakthrough technologies. After a brief hiatus post-Cold War, geopolitics is well and truly back and has got particularly accentuated in the post-pandemic world. Also, at no other time in human history have technologies had such a game-changing impact on warfighting as we are witnessing now. These two factors can be intersected to arrive at a grounded projection for the future.   Advances in blockchain technology will transfer the advantage in cyber warfare from offence to defence and in quantum computing, there are a host of applications; 3D/4D printing, cyber blockchain, Augmented Reality/Virtual Real, autonomous systems, directed energy platforms, rail guns and hypersonic missiles all are no longer confined to the realm of science fiction.    Geopolitical Contestations The foremost contest in the years to come will be between the US and China in terms of preserving, circumscribing or expanding their respective rights to explore and exploit the globe. Such a titanic contest will not be without its subtexts in diplomacy, trade and economy in terms of access to microchips, rare earth, other minerals, foodstuffs and their flows, and partnerships and countervailing coalitions. This will incite, and at times exacerbate, similar contests in the regional context too -- Iran-Saudi Arabia, Iran-Israel, China-Japan and closer home, India-China are prime examples. Political warfare will also grow in salience, which is after all the logical application of Clausewitzian doctrine, albeit applied in times of peace, employing comprehensive national power – the economy, soft power, trade, public diplomacy, deep fakes and innovative imaging ideas, etc. We see it being waged relentlessly in Russia and Iran, where crippling sanctions are devastating those economies and quality of life.   In the Asian context, the completion gets intense where two consequential powers – the world’s No 1 and No 3 economies in purchasing power terms -- are growing in close proximity, in the absence of historical buffers. Of course, a modus vivendi between the two can be sought and is desired, but there is also a growing risk of their geostrategic spaces intersecting, if not clashing.     The geostrategic spaces between China and India will inevitably intersect due to the unsettled nature of our borders, the salience of ‘unification of territories’ in the Chinese worldview, and the inexorable logic of balance of power politics -- allowing for only one regional hegemon and the need to diminish the closest peer competitor. China’s comprehensive strategic makeover has many shades and layers. India now has a superpower on its northern borders whose economic growth and military power have been matched by the scale and depth of its ambitions. China’s military modernisation has been both perspicacious and deep, and it is in the process of the transition from industrial-era warfighting to digital-era sophistication and capacities. Civil-Military Fusion   Nations like India that continue to abide by the age-old concept of civil-military relations –the two operating in their distinct silos -- will tend to trail in the strategic military competition.  In China, the civil and military domains have fused completely to complement each other’s growth. There are simply no silos. The PLA-led Huawei’s push towards 5G is a prominent example. PLA teams have been embedded in mega AI projects in major Chinese cities. (facial recognition, autonomous cars). The experiences so gained translate naturally into military applications in PLA combat outfits. Some years ago, the Chinese PLA identified and sponsored the education of a talented Chinese scientist, Jian Wei Pan, in Austria’s Heidelburg University, under the mentorship of Prof Anton Zellinger, an acknowledged expert in Quantum Science. In natural consequence, Jain Wei Pan, on his return, designed China’s and the world’s first Quantum Satellite and is now working on the Quantum Radar. In the not-too-distant future, India may be faced with the real prospect of a ‘strategic squeeze’. The PLA Navy is already our maritime neighbour in the Indian Ocean Region, with a potent Eastern Maritime Flank, as also a fast-developing Western Maritime Flank (Gwadar and Djibouti). Facing up to the future Apart from the technologies, India will have to usher in a novel culture, an enabling ecosystem, and an agile bureaucracy to run it. China publicly acknowledges that the long-drawn processes of democracies provide its own autocratic system with an edge in the global competition for supremacy. It is not that India is not acting; a considerable amount of work is on in professional military education, disruptive technologies, talent management, massive outreach to academia and start-ups. There is a greater connect between foreign and defence policies. We do need, however, to enhance the rapidity and scale of our responses. The creation of the Chief of Defence Staff and the Department of Military Affairs is a beginning. In our long-term strategising, we will also need to answer some critical questions. Will strategic autonomy suffice, or do we need to build greater military heft into various partnerships/countervailing coalitions? What should be the right balance between the maritime and continental emphasis in our force structuring? We also need to usher in unfettered Civil-Military fusion. To enable cross-pollination of the best talents, we need the finest Indian minds by moving beyond government spaces and the traditional areas of recruitment, by creating an agile bureaucracy and a defence ecosystem of innovation and enterprise. (The writer is Chief Information Officer, Synergia Foundation, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/thinking-about-the-next-war-950211.html
11-02-2021||First Edit||Protests very essence of democracy||Protest is a bad word in the dictionary of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while it should be the life-breath of the body politic of a functioning democracy. It is life-breath because it is derived from the right to free speech and expression, the right to make choices, and the right to disagree with the government or any authority, organisation or even individual. The protest comes out of disagreement, which sustains democracy, and a person who vilifies and mocks protests and protesters is not a democrat by conviction, by words, and in practice. Modi’s denigration of protesters as ‘andolan jeevi’ and parasites in a speech in Parliament was a nasty cut. He was talking about the farmers’ protest and he offered to resolve the issue through dialogue. But at the same time, he pejoratively described the protesters as ‘andolan jeevi’, an expression which as much insults as it hurts.  It is not just the farmers but everyone, from any walk of life, who protests for a cause that is called out and slighted by the word that Modi used. It is not a word that just has a meaning but a tone, too, combining criticism, ridicule, intolerance and even contempt. It is ironic that a democratically elected Prime Minister calls critics and protesters by such names in Parliament. He himself came to power when the people voted in protest against another government and other parties, and this is how democracy works and societies move forward. He and his party have staged protests, and when he denies that right to others and calls them names, his own adherence to democracy sounds sham and dishonest. When Prime Minister delegitimises protests, he delegitimises himself, and when he laughs at critics and dissenters, he laughs at democracy itself.  Modi has reviled protesters in the past, too. When there were widespread protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), he made the snide remark that the protesters could be identified by their clothes. Protests are not to be judged by the clothes, turbans or the creed of those who stage them. They don’t challenge democracy but strengthen it; it is the attack on them that weakens democracy. What the Prime Minister says the stormtroopers do with sticks and the police turn into nails and barricades. It becomes the sea of malice and abuse rippling through social media. Modi said India is the “mother of democracies’’ with great democratic traditions, culture and heritage. But these traditions have never denounced protests as wrong and harmful, but have encouraged argumentation, opposition and criticism, and thrived on them. When there is no respect for protests, there is no dialogue with protesters, and democracy without dialogue is a dead letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/protests-very-essence-of-democracy-949842.html
11-02-2021||First Edit||One more attack on federalism||The Modi government’s move to amend the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) Act to vest the Lieutenant-Governor (L-G) with greater powers to control the elected government is wrong and will have a negative and undesirable impact on the relations between the Centre and the city government. These relations have seen friction and even confrontation whenever governments from different political parties ruled at the Centre and in the city. But a Supreme Court ruling in July 2018 brought about a fair division of powers between the L-G and the Delhi government and it has been followed since then. Under this, the central government has control over the police, law and order and land and the Delhi government is free to undertake the day-to-day administration without taking approval from the L-G for decisions in its delineated area. The proposed amendment will upset this division of powers.     The amendment will make it mandatory for the state government to send legislative proposals for the L-G’s opinion 15 days in advance, and administrative proposals seven days ahead. The L-G is an appointee of the central government and will go by the Centre’s wishes and will. This provision will, in effect, tie the hands of the Delhi government even on routine administrative matters. The L-G’s office is an unelected position and there is no logic in making an elected government kowtow to an unelected authority. The city government is accountable to the people and it cannot be subordinated to an external centre of power which is itself controlled by another authority. The provision for securing the L-G’s approval even for matters of everyday administration will cause delays. If experience is a guide, the L-G will be obstructionist and that will paralyse governance and lead to conflict and confrontation.  The need for such an amendment is not clear. The stated reasons are better governance and reducing potential conflicts, but the amendment will have the opposite effect. The real reason can only be political as the central government might want to show the AAP government of Arvind Kejriwal, which got re-elected with an overwhelming majority last year, that it will control the affairs in the national capital. The AAP will not accept this. This may mean a return to the past confrontationist times which saw hostile exchanges between the L-G and the government and even a dharna by Arvind Kejriwal outside Parliament. It is also against the federal spirit to seek to curtail the powers of state governments and will further confirm the image of the Modi government as one that does not respect federalism. The move is certain to be opposed by other Opposition-ruled states, too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/one-more-attack-on-federalism-950207.html
11-02-2021||In Perspective||Time to rejuvenate Indian Regional Jet||The bi-annual Aero India show has served its purpose amidst Covid-19 constraints. Huge orders for the procurement of indigenous military aircraft and helicopters have brought cheer to HAL. These could help dust-off other shelved aircraft proposals of the DRDO, NAL and HAL. While India has been successful in developing the capability to build military aircraft and helicopters, it has a poor record on building its own civil aircraft. Prof. Roddam Narasimha’s dream of building an indigenous ‘regional jet’ through an autonomous ‘Aircraft Commission’, akin to the Space Commission and Atomic Energy Commission, has remained unfulfilled for more than three decades. During his tenure at NAL, Narasimha did manage to get sanction for building a light transport aircraft, the primate of a large civil aircraft. Around the year 2005, the Tatas were keen on co-developing a 120-seater regional transport aircraft with the Brazilian Embraer. The bureaucratic hurdles quickly shattered this dream. In 2008, two proposals for the indigenous development of 60/70-seater aircraft, one each from HAL and NAL, made the rounds, literally from pillar to post, in the civil aviation ministry. The designer of the LCA ‘Tejas’, Kota Harinarayana, consolidated both these requirements and submitted a common proposal to the ministry. At this juncture, the Ministry of Defence entered the fray and pushed the project to be shelved, expressing fears over HAL being exposed to civil projects. In the meanwhile, the 14-seater multirole transport aircraft Saras was tasting its initial successes at NAL. However, this morale booster was short-lived. A fatal crash of a prototype in 2009 sealed its fate.  By 2010, the government-appointed former ISRO chairman G Madhavan Nair to conduct a feasibility study for an indigenous 90-seater civilian plane. The reason for choosing a space scientist who had never worked in any aircraft project to do this job was obvious. ISRO had many successes in its space missions, compared to the lacklustre performances of HAL, NAL and DRDO.  Nair, with the assistance of veterans of aeronautics including Kota Harinarayana, drew up a roadmap to develop an Indian Regional Jet (IRJ) aircraft. The committee estimated investment of Rs 5,000 crore, with an expectation of a prototype flying in five years. This optimistic time frame was drawn up by the HAL designers who had earlier created a record of flying a prototype of the Intermediate Jet Trainer (IJT) aircraft within two years from its drawing board stage.  The designers of the Light Combat Aircraft programme from DRDO also joined the IRJ team. By this time, NAL had shut down the Saras project and its designers were relocated to the IRJ project.  While the IRJ was awaiting approval from the government, Nair had to quit the team in 2015. The alleged Antrix-Devas spectrum scam had tarnished the image of the former chief of ISRO. He was barred from taking up any assignment with the government. Many anticipated that NAL would take the lead in the IRJ programme during this period.  But the then Director General of CSIR, Samir Brahmachari, felt that aircraft development was not part of NAL’s role. Thus, the dream of developing an IRJ was nipped in the bud.  In September 2019, the government approved a Saras Mk.2 aircraft development project. This 19-seater aircraft is expected to meet the demands of IAF, BSF, Coast Guard and Home Ministry (for VIP movement). Saras Mk.2 is expected to be a game-changer for the ambitious Ude Desh ka Aam Nagarik (UDAN) scheme of the government as well. Under this programme, the government is planning to acquire 50-60 aircraft by 2023. India has a legacy of 80 years in aircraft-building, mostly on license from foreign manufacturers. The huge infrastructure and human resources of HAL, NAL, DRDO and the private sector could have judiciously been utilised to build an IRJ by this time. However, the lack of synergy between these agencies and the interference by the ministries of civil aviation and defence (and IAF) have made the IRJ a non-starter.  A 2018 survey by Boeing had estimated a total requirement of 2,000 narrow-bodied aircraft for India in the next 20 years. However, in the post-Covid-19 era, the aviation business has experienced a major setback. Conservatively, we can trim the requirement to half the original estimate. Entering the civil aircraft domain has its own advantages. While it fulfills the astronomical domestic demand, it would also support the establishment of MRO (maintenance, repair and overhaul) facilities for other manufacturers. Back in 2017, Embraer had shown interest to create such an MRO facility at Begumpet in collaboration with Air India to cater to its South-East Asian customers. Missing the bus, is an adage used to signify lost opportunities, but in the context of civil aviation, India has really missed boarding the aircraft so far. That should change.    (The writer is a former DRDO scientist and a former DGM with HAL who has worked on Tejas, Intermediate Jet Aircraft, Kaveri engine and other national projects)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/time-to-rejuvenate-indian-regional-jet-949845.html
11-02-2021||In Perspective||Internet suspension in Haryana uncalled for||The internet has been suspended in parts of Haryana since January 26, though the number of districts coming under this suspension keeps changing by the day. At one point of time, as many as 17 of the state’s 22 districts were facing suspension of 2G, 3G, 4G, CDMA, GPRS and bulk SMS service.   The suspension of the internet is not a trivial measure and its sudden imposition has serious disruptive effects on the lives of citizens and their livelihood, education, etc., especially in a time of the Covid-19 pandemic. The internet suspension has affected all small and large businesses, the banking system -- as a large section of the population now uses internet banking or makes payments via different apps using mobile phones, as well as the online classes of students. A whole lot of other activities are also affected such as online booking of hotel rooms, rail, air and cinema tickets, online food ordering and delivery services, taxi services, online shopping, exchange of official/personal information and documents through e-mails, WhatsApp messaging and other applications. Many arms of the government and State, including the courts, were working online through video conferencing mode, a necessity imposed by the pandemic. In view of this, the suspension of internet services is draconian, indeed comparable to the impact that the suspension of electricity supply has on our lives. Internet services have been suspended by the Haryana government in exercise of the power conferred by the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules, 2017. The Supreme Court had the occasion to examine these Rules in Anuradha Bhasin vs Union of India. The top court, while examining the issue in light of Article 19 of the Constitution, recognised the freedom of speech and expression and freedom of trade and commerce through the medium of the internet to be a constitutional right. In the judgement, the court also examined Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, which deals with circumstances under which suspension orders may be passed. The principle which emerges from the Supreme Court judgement is that the first step for the government is to see whether a situation of ‘Public Emergency’ or issue of public safety has arisen and thereafter the government may pass an order of suspension of internet service after recording its satisfaction that it is necessary or expedient to do so in the interest of (i) sovereignty and integrity of India (ii) the security of the State (iii) friendly relations with foreign States (iv) Public Order or (v) to prevent incitement to committing an offence.  ‘Public Emergency’ has not been defined in the Act and has to be understood in the context of the above five situations envisaged in Section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act. Out of these five situations envisaged, the only situation which can be said to be relevant in the context of Haryana is ‘Public Order’ which seems to have prompted the Haryana government to pass the order to suspend internet. It has been held in a number of Supreme Court judgements that ‘Public Order’ is not a mere law and order situation but a far graver issue. For that matter, a lot has happened in Punjab, from rail roko to causing damage to towers of mobile companies but the situation was brought under control and internet services were never suspended. Due to an unfortunate turn of events, the national capital was the epicentre of disturbance on January 26, but even there, the internet was suspended only for a short period and then the service was restored, except at the sites where the protests are going on. In the aftermath of January 26, the farmers began to mobilise on an even larger scale than before in Western Uttar Pradesh, but even there, internet services were not suspended. By comparison, barring one or two incidents, the situation in Haryana has remained normal. The action of the Haryana government in imposing the suspension and extending it on day-to-day basis seems to be an attempt to keep a check on the movement of farmers and to stop the exchange of information in order to stifle the farmers’ protest. The sudden unannounced suspension flies directly in the face of Digital India mission. This kind of arbitrary suspension of internet stretching over many days weakens the mission. There is certainly not a situation of threat to ‘Public Order’ in Haryana. The suspension of the internet by Haryana government appears to be an arbitrary exercise of power and seems to have been passed with a view to causing an obstruction in the exercise of the farmers’ democratic right, in the process impinging on the constitutional rights of the larger population also. (The writer is a practising advocate in the Punjab & Haryana High Court)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/internet-suspension-in-haryana-uncalled-for-950210.html
11-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka student seeks 5-day leave for Valentine's Day, letter goes viral||A letter written by a student to his college principal seeking a five-day leave on account of Valentine's Day has gone viral on social media. The letter, allegedly written on February 9  by S Shivaraju, a II year B Com student, is addressed to the Principal of Mahadeshwara First Grade College in Kollegal, requesting five days of leave on account of 'Valentine's Day'. The letter has the seal of the principal and also his signature attested in green ink. The letter says, "In an effort to avoid harassment by the girls, in the wake of lovers' day celebrated across the country, I request the principal to give me five days leave (14.02.2021)." When contacted, college Principal Seeganayaka said, "I am not aware of such a leave letter. I have seen the letter on the social media. It has the college seal and my signature has been forged. The issue would be taken seriously and the letter would be verified."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-student-seeks-5-day-leave-for-valentines-day-letter-goes-viral-950115.html
11-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||11 held for ragging in Karnataka college||Eleven nursing and physiotherapy students were arrested on Thursday for their alleged involvement in ragging in a private college here, police said. All the arrested were natives of Kerala and had allegedly ragged five freshers from their state by assaulting them, city police commissioner N Shashi Kumar told reporters here. The students who were harassed approached the college management, which in turn filed a police complaint. "After interrogating 18 students in this connection, we have arrested 11 students," he said, adding they had been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the state education act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/11-held-for-ragging-in-karnataka-college-950157.html
11-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||30 acres of forest destroyed in fire in Mandya district||Several acres of forest were destroyed in a fire at Basavanakallu Betta in Nagamangala taluk on Wednesday. According to the forest department, it was the handiwork of the miscreants, who have intentionally set fire to the forest, at P Neralakere, Tuppadamadu, Padavalapattana areas in the taluk. The fire that was spotted near Kanana Brahma temple on Wednesday afternoon could not be brought under control. The fire spread to around 30 acres and the department personnel finally controlled it from spreading by night. The forest department personnel alleged that the locals have been doing it intentionally and the incident was the fourth in the last week. The fire was doused immediately earlier, but it took more time on Wednesday due to heavy breeze and the fire spread fast destroying vegetation at around 30 acres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/30-acres-of-forest-destroyed-in-fire-in-mandya-district-950178.html
11-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Schools in flood-hit districts get a new lease of life||Thanks to the initiative of PES Education Society University, Bengaluru, run by M R Doreswamy, seven government schools and two Anganwadi centres which suffered extensive damages in the flood-hit Bagalkot and Belagavi districts, have got a new lease of life. Academic activities in these schools were being conducted in makeshift sheds till then. In Bagalkot district, 11 classrooms of a government school at Ontigodi village and 7 classrooms of a government school at B K Budni village in Mudhol taluk, 6 classrooms of government higher primary school at Karlakoppa village in Badami taluk have now been renovated handed and over to the Department of Public Instruction. Four government schools in the educational district of Chikodi in Belagavi division, which includes 5 classrooms each, belonging to KPS government higher primary school at Hasare Thota in Nilaji village of Raibag taluk and government primary school of Peral Thota, Nadi Ingalgaon village, three classrooms of government higher primary school of Theerth village and 8 classrooms of the government school in Mahishawadagi village, all in Athani taluk, are being reconstructed and will be handed over to the DPI by March. Civil division head of PES University Dr S V Venkatesh told DH that Rs 50 lakh had been spent for each school.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/schools-in-flood-hit-districts-get-a-new-lease-of-life-950185.html
11-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||HINDA convention gains momentum in Mysuru||The Congress party appears to be preparing for ‘HINDA’ convention, under the leadership of former chief minister Siddaramaiah. The leaders of Scheduled Caste (SC) and backward classes are of the opinion that agitation and conventions are inevitable to protect the values of Indian Constitution. The leaders, under the guidance of former minister Dr H C Mahadevappa, are preparing for the convention and also making efforts to unite writers, activists and thinkers. According to sources, Siddaramaiah, who met Mahadevappa at his residence in Bengaluru on Wednesday discussed about organising the convention. However, Siddaramaiah has not spoken about the convention in public. Speaking to DH, Mahadevappa said, “A movement is needed to strengthen the Constitution. Like-minded people need to raise voice together. Siddaramaiah and myself had discussed about this long ago.” “It is not necessary to organise AHINDA or HINDA convention to raise voice against injustice. But, our followers are insisting me and Siddaramaiah to lead the convention,” he said. BJP MLC A H Vishwanath condemned Siddaramaiah and asked his contributions towards minorities and Kurubas. “He should not organise AHINDA or any other convention whenever he wants. The voters are intelligent and observe all developments,” he criticised. "Siddaramaiah is upset over the success of the convention organised to demand ST status for Kurubas. Thus, he is playing a new game," he said. "AHINDA has played a major role in Siddaramaiah’s success. AHINDA came to his rescue when he was expelled from JD(S). But, he has failed to contribute towards AHINDA during his term as chief minister," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hinda-convention-gains-momentum-in-mysuru-950188.html
11-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Utilise Atmanirbhar scheme to promote industries: C C Patil||Minister for Small Scale Industries, Information and Public Relations C C Patil, on Thursday urged the officials of District Industries Centres (DIC) to utilise schemes under Atmanirbhar Bharat to promote small-scale industries. In a meeting with the officials of DIC here, the minister said, "There are provisions to get funds for the promotion of industries under Atmanirbhar Bharat. I will hold discussions with the authorities concerned in Delhi." The district has a good scope for small-scale industries and the officials must take measures to develop industrial areas as per the requirement. Many small and medium scale industries, which are supplying raw materials to major industries in Mysuru, are functioning at rented buildings. The officials must make arrangements to help them set-up their own buildings, he said. The minister directed the officials to conduct programmes to attract youths to set-up business. "In case you find any hurdles, please approach me," he said. DIC Joint Director Lingaraju, Information and Public Relations Deputy Director Vinod Chandra, Assistant Director Raju, Industries and Commerce Deputy Director Meghala and others were present. Earlier in the day, the minister visited Chamundeshwari temple atop the Chamundi Hill and paid obeisance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/utilise-atmanirbhar-scheme-to-promote-industries-c-c-patil-950189.html
11-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru to witness series of mass marriages under Saptapadi scheme||The district administration is gearing up to a series of mass marriages under Karnataka Saptapadi Vivah Yojana, a mass marriage scheme, introduced by the state government. The first mass marriage programme is scheduled to be held at Chamundeshwari Temple atop Chamundi Hill in Mysuru on March 15. The state government has directed to conduct mass marriages between March and July. The next mass marriage programme will be held on April 22 in Nanjangud, on May 13 at Mudukutore, June 17 at Chamundi Hill and on July 7 in Nanjangud. In order to pouplarise the scheme, it has been decided to display boards containing information about the scheme at the prominent temples of the district. According to Additional Deputy Commissioner B S Manjunathswamy, Saptapadi will get started in March. More publicity will be given to the scheme as it benefits poor and economically backward people. The temples are directed to display boards. In addition, the boards will also be displayed at office of the Deputy Commissioner, Assistant Commissioner, Tahsildars, among the other places. It has to be noted that in February 2020,  the district administration launched ‘Saptapadi Ratha’, a vehicle, in an effort to popularise `Saptapadi' scheme. The vehicle had moved throughout the district campaigning for mass marriage and highlighting the scheme. The brides and grooms willing to get married under the mass marriage scheme should register their names at respective taluk offices. The beneficiaries must submit personal details along with the documents during registration, he said. An officer said, "The marriage will take place only if the parents of both the bride and the groom are present during the ceremony. The age of the bride must be 18 years or above and the groom must be 21 years or above. The scheme is applicable only for marriages in Hindu religion." Couples entering wedlock will be given benefits worth Rs 55,000, including an 8-gram gold thali (mangalsutra), Rs 10,000 for the bride and Rs 5,000 for the bridegroom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-to-witness-series-of-mass-marriages-under-saptapadi-scheme-950190.html
11-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt fails to implement Assadi committee report, tribal families suffer||Even after seven years of recommendations by a committee on rehabilitation of Tribal families of Nagarahole, the state government is yet to implement them. With this, the government has also violated Karnataka High Court order. The three-member committee, headed by professor Muzaffar Assadi, in its report submitted in 2014, had identified 3,418 families, who were evicted from Nagarahole in the 1970s. The committee had submitted a final report in 2014 and had made 34 recommendations, including rehabilitation with agriculture lands and other basic facilities. In 1999, Development through Education (DEED), a organisation working for tribals, had filed a public interest litigation before the Karnataka High Court, seeking rehabilitation for the evicted tribals. Thus, the committee was formed in 2004, to conduct a study. The committee submitted an interim report in 2006 and the government accepted it. However, the court directed the government to implement the final recommendations within two months of the report. S Sreekanth, director of DEED, said, “We have written a letter to Chief Justice of Karnataka High Court and Governor to look into the matter. We have urged them to give directives to the government to take immediate measures. It needs Rs 400 crore and nearly 10,500 acres of lands for rehabilitation.” According to Sreekanth, more than 5,000 families were affected. But, only 3,418 families are identified by the committee. Now, these 3,418 families are residing on the fringes of Nagarahole forest in Hunsur, HD Kote and Periyapatna taluks of Mysuru district and Virajpet taluk in Kodagu district. The government is at fault, contempt of court, and the affected families are suffering. According to the report, HD Kote taluk was the worst affected in terms of displacement. "The highest number of displaced tribal population is in HD Kote, with 5,832 persons, 50.41% of the total displaced tribals. Hunsur taluk witnessed the second highest in terms of tribal displacement with 4,095 persons. Around 35.39% of total displacement is from Hunsur, while Virajpet taluk witnessed the least with 1,614 persons' displacement, which amounts to 14.18%. Out of the total displacement, only 20.54% tribal families owned lands. Out of 3,418 evicted families, a total of 838 families own small pieces of lands," the report states. The committee recommended fertile lands; training in farming, dairy and animal husbandry; for the victims. It also recommended strengthening of Ashrama Schools, for educational empowerment. However, an officer, who wished to maintain anonymity, said, “We are ready to implement the recommendations of the committee. But, we are waiting for the directions from the government. The Revenue department has issued small pieces of land to a few families.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-fails-to-implement-assadi-committee-report-tribal-families-suffer-950192.html
11-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Jain monument of Hoysala period unearthed||A distinctive Hoysala style monument was discovered during the excavation conducted by the Archaeological Survey of India, at Bastihalli, the popular Jain pilgrim site in Halebid, Hassan district. The excavation work is being conducted since the last 10 days. In an effort not to damage the sculptures dating back to centuries, the department is using only small equipment for digging the site. A distinctive foundation with Jain sculptures was discovered at the site. The excavations are photographed, documented and later taken out of the soil. Experts are regularly visiting the site of excavation. A 18-ft tall Thirthankara's statue was discovered at the site, around 40 years ago, which has been conserved at the museum in Halebid. The place, where the statue was discovered is referred as Shravanappana gundi, by the locals. Historian Vasanth Kumar said, "If the place is excavated fully, there are possibilities of finding five to seven Jain temples. It is also said that there was a Jain Mutt on the premises. Hence, the place should be totally excavated."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jain-monument-of-hoysala-period-unearthed-950193.html
11-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Solve farmers' woes within framework of India, says Shivarajkumar||Kannada actor Shivarajkumar on Wednesday said that the farmers’ problems should be resolved within the ‘framework of India’. He told reporters here, “It is the duty of the government to address the farmers’ problems. Those in power will do that. The authorities concerned should pay attention to the issue. The farmers’ problems should be resolved within the framework of India.”  The hat-trick hero maintained that it would be appropriate to speak on the farmers’ issues if one was an expert on the subject. “There is a government and the agriculture minister to address such issues,” he said. He said that the government was responsible for all matters. What difference would it make if the actors spoke in favour of the farmers? Those in the film industry were unable to address their own problems, he remarked. “We extend support to all. Every individual supports others. It becomes a mere projection if I declare that I extend support to such protests. It is totally different to express support for a problem only after thoroughly understanding it,” the actor added. Shivarajkumar said that nothing was in the hands of the actors. “I would have given it in the writing if it were in our hands to resolve the issue. If it is true that the farmers’ problems will be addressed by the Indian film industry by staging protests, then there won’t be an issue. Reality should be understood,” he stated. Commenting on high-profile persons taking to Twitter expressing opinions against and in favour of the ongoing farmers’ protest, he said that social media was being used widely. It had become a type of game. Problems would be fixed if the usage of social media was reduced, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/solve-farmers-woes-within-framework-of-india-says-shivarajkumar-949820.html
11-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Dividing Kuruba community agenda of BJP, RSS: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah has said that dividing the Kuruba community in the name of reservation was the agenda of BJP and RSS.  Speaking to media persons here on Thursday, he said, The BJP is in the power at the Centre and the state.  Instead of prevailing upon the BJP-led Union and state government to get a reservation for the Kuruba community, Minister K S Eshwarappa is agitating against his own government. This clearly exposes his motive, he chided.   Siddaramaiah said that he would not politicise the reservation issue. "Once the  Kulashastra study is completed, we can demand the Scheduled Tribes tag for the Kuruba community. However, rallies and conventions are not needed at this point of time," he added. Replying to a query on the JD(S) not contesting the upcoming bypolls, Siddaramaiah said, "The JD(S) has no strong base in north Karnataka. This apart, it wants to give its share of votes to BJP. Hence, the regional outfit is not contesting the bypolls," he said. "The Congress is all set to contest the bypolls to Belgaum Lok Sabha, Basavakalayan, Maski, and Sindgi Assembly constituencies. The names of candidates will be announced soon after the announcement of bypolls by the Election Commission," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dividing-kuruba-community-agenda-of-bjp-rss-siddaramaiah-950196.html
11-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Quota quandary: BS Yediyurappa wants Panchamasali report soon||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is said to have “personally” urged the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes to expedite the submission of a report on giving Category 2A reservation for the Panchamasali sub-sect of the Lingayat community. According to sources, Yediyurappa spoke with Commission chairperson Jayaprakash Hegde on this. Last week, Yediyurappa referred the matter to the Commission after facing backlash when he announced in the Legislative Assembly that he could do nothing on the demand to include the Panchamasalis under Category 2A. The Panchamasalis are the numerically-stronger Lingayats.  It is said that Yediyurappa is wary of a massive rally the Panchamasali leaders have planned in Bengaluru on February 21 to press for their demand on Category 2A reservation. He is looking to defuse the situation by getting the report ready and taking the necessary next steps.  Lingayats are seen as the BJP’s core support base. Upsetting the sub-sects may cause a split in the community, which could be disadvantageous to the BJP. Yediyurappa himself is a Lingayat but from the Ganiga sub-sect.  Currently, all Veerashaiva-Lingayats come under Category 3B that has a 5% reservation. Under Category 2A, the Panchamasalis will get 15% reservation.  Apparently, on Wednesday night, Panchamasali leaders from across party lines held a meeting to discuss the upcoming rally. The BJP members are not keen on holding the rally inside Bengaluru, suggesting BIEC on Tumakuru Road as the venue. Those from the Congress and JD(S) want it at Palace Grounds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/quota-quandary-bs-yediyurappa-wants-panchamasali-report-soon-950197.html
11-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah disturbed after Kurubas’ meet, says KSE||"Do I need to react to drunkards' complaint against the chief minister with high command?" This is how Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa reacted to the question on  BJP MLAs' complaint with the high command that the chief minister is ignoring legislators of his own party, during an interaction with media persons, here on Thursday. He said some people have said that the chief minister is giving more grants to the constituencies represented by Congress and JD(S). He did not like to react to it. Referring to Congress leader Siddaramaiah's remark on Kurubas' agitation for ST status, Eshwarappa said there is a difference between his action and words. "Siddaramaiah has stated that Kurubas should have staged the agitation after the completion of an ethnographic study on the issue. If it is right, he could have shared it with the seer earlier. He is disturbed after seeing people's participation in Kuruba community convention in Bengaluru, Eshwarappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-disturbed-after-kurubas-meet-says-kse-950199.html
11-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Madhu Bangarappa likely to join Congress||JD(S) leader and Soraba former MLA Madhu Bangarappa is likely to join Congress soon. His reported meeting with KPCC president D K Shivakumar on Thursday has set off speculations about him being in talks with the Congress leaders to join the party. Speculations are rife for a while about him quitting the regional party. Madhu Bangarappa, a Youth Janata Dal leader, had recently indicated that he would join Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/madhu-bangarappa-likely-to-join-congress-950205.html
11-02-2021||National||Poor sanitation, autoimmunity kept India's Covid deaths low: Study||India’s low levels of sanitation and autoimmunity are the reasons for the country’s relatively less than expected death toll due to Covid-19, according to scientists. As per the set of data from the John Hopkins University, India has the second-highest number of Covid-19 cases in the world (1.08 crore cases), but only the fourth-highest number of fatalities worldwide, (1.5 lakh fatalities, behind the United States, Brazil and Mexico). As puzzling as this disconnected rankings may be, scientists who conducted a Covid-19 mortality study with data from 106 countries told DH that the death rate worldwide is associated with the demographic character of countries and the prevalence of autoimmunity. Dr Shekar C Mande, Director General, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), who is the corresponding author of the study which was published in the journal Current Science, explained that from the outset it was clear that countries with a higher human development index or higher GDP than lower and middle-income countries were registering more Covid-19 deaths than the lower and middle-income countries. “The supposition could have been that countries with high human development index have a larger ageing population who are generally more susceptible to Covid-19 while countries with lower GDP have younger populations. But that is only one explanation,” Dr Mande said. He said the research team began to take into consideration all publicly available data on demography, the prevalence of communicable and non-communicable diseases, BCG vaccination status and sanitation parameters. They realised the deaths were linked to autoimmunity and by extension, sanitation levels. One important data parameter was cataloguing how many people in a sample population developed a hyperimmune response or a cytokine storm response to the disease. “Most people who die of Covid-19 do so because of this hyper-immune reaction and not because of the virus itself. When we looked at this kind of reaction across different countries, what we found was a higher prevalence in developed or higher GDP countries than low GDP countries,” Dr Mande said. At the same time, disease profiles showed a prevalence of communicable diseases like tuberculosis, dengue, cholera and malaria in low and middle-income countries, and negligible numbers from high GDP countries. “This is because these diseases are usually related to hygiene, and they do not exist in high GDP countries because of a higher hygiene stance,” Dr Mande said. “In contrast, the top-tier countries showed higher levels of asthma and age-related illnesses such as Alzheimer's which is reflecting their aging population and because these people have not been exposed to any pathogens from childhood. Therefore, when any new pathogen comes, their immune system reacts in a hyper manner.” The research team also explored whether BCG vaccines contributed to the lower death rate, but found no correlation between the two.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/poor-sanitation-autoimmunity-kept-indias-covid-deaths-low-study-949817.html
11-02-2021||National||Centre takes to Koo as tussle with Twitter continues||The showdown between the Centre and Twitter continued on Wednesday, with Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad turning down the microblogging platform’s request for a meeting with him. The US-based company, meanwhile, claimed it has blocked 500 of the 1,400 handles the government had asked it to take down. The Centre had claimed that they were being used to incite people over the farmers’ protests. The social media giant, however, refused to block certain handles — mostly of activists, politicians and media.  The company’s decision not to fully comply with the order (which was announced in a blog) did not go down well with the government, which soon took to ‘Koo’ — touted as India’s alternative to Twitter.  "Upon the request of Twitter seeking a meeting with the government, Secretary IT was to engage with its senior management. In this light, a blog post published prior to the engagement is unusual. The government will share its response soon," the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) posted on Koo.  Earlier on Wednesday, Twitter India officials had tried to reach out to Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad for a dialogue, but his office directed them to MeitY officials. Now, MeitY Secretary Ajay Prakash Sawhney is likely to lead the talks. He will meet Twitter’s Vice President of Global Public Policy through a video conference this week. By choosing Koo to respond, the government appears to send a message that if the US-based firm doesn't fall in line, it has a desi alternative ready. Earlier, Twitter emphasised that it will continue to advocate for the right of free expression of its users and that it is “actively exploring options under Indian law — both for Twitter and for the accounts that have been impacted”. Seeking to clarify its stance, Twitter said it had taken steps to reduce the visibility of hashtags containing harmful content.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-takes-to-koo-as-tussle-with-twitter-continues-949828.html
11-02-2021||National||Trudeau calls Modi for vaccines, raises protest by farmers issue again||Even as he called up his counterpart in New Delhi, Narendra Modi, to request for Covid-19 vaccines, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau once again raised the issue of protest by farmers against the new agricultural laws in India. Trudeau on Wednesday called up Modi to request for Covid-19 vaccines from India. The Prime Minister assured his counterpart in Ottawa that India would do its best to support vaccination efforts in Canada, just as it had already done for many other countries. The Canadian Prime Minister, however, once again raised the issue of the protests by farmers in India and stressed on upholding democratic principles and the importance of resolving issues through dialogue, according to a statement released by his office in Ottawa. “Was happy to receive a call from my friend @JustinTrudeau. Assured him that India would do its best to facilitate supplies of COVID vaccines sought by Canada,” Modi posted on Twitter, adding: “We also agreed to continue collaborating on other important issues like Climate Change and the global economic recovery.” A press release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office in New Delhi quoted Trudeau telling Modi that if the world managed to conquer Covid-19, it would be significant because of India's tremendous pharmaceutical capacity. He was also quoted lauding Modi’s “leadership in sharing this capacity with the world”. The press release issued in New Delhi, however, had no mention of discussion between the two Prime Ministers on the protests by the farmers in India. Trudeau had in early December expressed concerns over protests by thousands of farmers in India, subtly nudging the Modi government in New Delhi to resolve the issue through dialogue. Not only Trudeau, but Sikh ministers in the Canadian Government – Defence Minister Harjit Singh Sajjan, Minister for Innovation, Science and Industry Navdeep Singh Bains and Minister for Diversity and Inclusion Bardish Chagger – had also tweeted comments on police action against the farmers agitating against the new agricultural laws introduced by the Modi government in India. They all had expressed concern and stressed the importance of allowing protests in democracies. New Delhi had strongly reacted to the statement by the Prime Minister of Canada, calling it “unwarranted”. Ottawa’s envoy to New Delhi, Nadir Patel, was summoned to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), where senior officials served him a démarche, conveying that the comments made by Prime Minister and other ministers of the Canadian government on the protest by farmers “constitute an unacceptable interference in internal affairs” of India. Modi and Trudeau, however, reiterated on Wednesday the common perspective shared by India and Canada on many important geopolitical issues. They agreed to continue the close collaboration between both the countries in fighting global challenges like climate change and the economic impacts of the pandemic. “The two leaders agreed to work together on access to vaccines. The leaders also recognised the need for continued global coordination to respond to the pandemic and to promote recovery,” the office of Canadian Prime Minister stated. “The two Prime Ministers reaffirmed their common interests in a free and open Indo-Pacific, and the importance of working together on global challenges such as climate change, strengthening global trade, and reinforcing the rules-based international order.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trudeau-calls-modi-for-vaccines-raises-protest-by-farmers-issue-again-949863.html
11-02-2021||National||India to not lower guard till China pulls back troops from all face-off points||India will not lower its guard along its disputed boundary with China till the communist country’s People’s Liberation Army will withdraw front-line troops from all the face-off points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. Though the two sides have started withdrawing troops from the northern and the southern banks of the Pangong Tso (lake), the military stand-off India and China have been engaged in for the past 10 months would not be over until the disengagement process would be completed in all the face-off points along the de facto boundary between the two nations. “It might take some time before we could say that it was really behind us,” a source aware of New Delhi’s engagement with Beijing to resolve the stand-off told the DH on Wednesday. “Till then, we have to maintain a high level of preparedness for any eventuality.” The disengagement of troops by the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA on the two banks of Pangong Tso would be followed by verification by the two sides. Similar processes would be followed for withdrawal of soldiers by both sides in other areas along the LAC, like Depsang Y and Gogra Post, in the coming days, said the source. New Delhi has made it clear to Beijing that peace and tranquillity could be restored in India-China border areas only when the Chinese PLA would withdraw troops both from the forward positions along the LAC as well as from the “depth areas”. New Delhi has been alleging that the stand-off started as China in late April and early May 2019 sought to change the status quo in the border areas by deploying a large number of troops along the LAC. China thus violated the 1993 and 1996 agreement it had inked with India. The agreements required both sides to refrain from amassing large numbers of troops in the border areas, to strictly abide by and respect the LAC and to avoid taking any unilateral action to alter it. “We have been maintaining during negotiations that China must respect the agreements it had signed with India,” said another source. “(The) Government will continue discussions with the Chinese side to achieve the objective of disengagement from all friction points and restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China Border Areas at an early date,” V Muraleedharan, Minister of State for External Affairs, informed the Lok Sabha in a written reply to a question on Wednesday. Though India and China had agreed upon a roadmap for a mutual withdrawal of front-line troops from the face-off scenes along the LAC in early July, the process had come to a halt within a fortnight, with the Chinese PLA declining to completely pull back soldiers from several “points of friction” along the LAC. It was only after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and External Affairs Minister S Jaishanakar had separate meetings with their counterparts in the Chinese Government in Moscow in September 2019, the diplomats and the senior military commanders restarted talks to end the impasse. The Chinese PLA late last year proposed a moratorium on patrolling between Finger 3 and Finger 8 on the northern bank of Pangong Tso. The Indian Army had reservations about it. The relations between New Delhi and Beijing hit a new low over the 10-month-long stand-off, particularly after the violent clash in Galwan Valley on June 15. The Indian Army lost 20 of its soldiers in the clash. The PLA too suffered casualties, but never made public the number of its soldiers, who were injured or killed in the clash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-not-lower-guard-till-china-pulls-back-troops-from-all-face-off-points-949865.html
11-02-2021||National||PM Modi will do what is good for the country: Tejasvi Surya||As the Modi government is expected to bring a Bill on cryptocurrencies, BJP MP Tejasvi Surya on Wednesday taking a stand on cryptocurrency policy in India said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will do what is good for the country. "Modi Govt has been the most tech savvy Govt in independent India. We are among best in the world at using tech for good governance," he tweeted. Modi Govt has been the most tech savvy Govt in independent India. We are among best in the world at using tech for good governance. Minister of State For Finance Anurag Thakur had told Rajya Sabha that the existing cryptocurrency laws are inadequate to deal with issues concerning them. Thakur said regulatory bodies like RBI and Sebi do not have any legal framework to directly regulate cryptocurrencies as they are not currencies, assets, securities or commodities issued by identifiable users. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-will-do-what-is-good-for-the-country-tejasvi-surya-949870.html
11-02-2021||National||DH Toon | All PSUs on sale, leaving govt lot of leisure||Ministry of Home Affairs has sought 'cyber volunteers' to check objectionable content online including what it terms anti-national material.  The move has received flak saying the move is another attempt at muzzling free speech in the country. India has also dropped two positions in World Press Freedom Index, at 142 out of 180 countries, below worn-torn Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-all-psus-on-sale-leaving-govt-lot-of-leisure-949872.html
11-02-2021||National||Comply with laws in India, take strong action against campaigns aimed at creating unrest: Govt to Twitter||Expressing displeasure over delay in blocking accounts flagged by the government, Ministry of Electronics & IT Secretary Ajay Sawhney, told Twitter officials that it must follow the law of the land. The Secretary held a virtual interaction with Twitter officials on Thursday night. He took this opportunity to remind the microblogging platform that India's constitution and laws are supreme in the country. It is expected that responsible entities not only reaffirm but remain committed to compliance to the law of land, Sawhney said, according to sources. Earlier, Twitter had sought a meeting with the government after receiving the Ministry's notice to block over 1400 accounts. Twitter claimed that it has blocked 500 of those accounts and refused to block accounts of civil rights activists and media citing freedom of speech. "Twitter is free to formulate its own rules and guidelines like any other business entity does, but Indian laws which are enacted by the Parliament of India must be followed irrespective of Twitter’s own rules and guidelines," the government told Twitter during a meeting. Misuse of Twitter for the execution of campaigns designed to create disharmony and unrest in India is unacceptable, the Ministry said, adding that it must take strong action against such things through compliance with the applicable law of the land. The government expressed its disappointment to Twitter leadership about the manner in which Twitter has unwillingly, grudgingly and with great delay, complied with the substantial parts of the order. Slamming the delay by the platform in complying with government orders on taking down provocative content around farmers' stir, the IT Secretary also expressed dissatisfaction over Twitter's "differential treatment" in case of the US Capitol Hill siege, where it had taken prompt action. "Secretary reminded Twitter about the action taken by Twitter during the Capitol Hill episode in the USA and compared that with the disturbance in Red Fort in India and its aftermath. He expressed dissatisfaction over Twitter's differential treatment in the two incidents," the IT Ministry said in a statement. The government questioned the manner in which Twitter "officially allows fake, unverified, anonymous and automated bot accounts to be operated on its platform" and said it raises doubts about its commitment to transparency and healthy conversation on the platform. Twitter was represented by Monique Meche, Vice President Global Public Policy and Jim Baker, Deputy General Counsel and Vice President Legal. The "deep sense of disappointment" at seeing Twitter "side not with 'freedom of expression' but rather with those who seek to abuse such freedom and provoke disturbance to public order" was conveyed to the company, the statement added.  The Secretary also flagged the issue around a 'toolkit' that was shared on its platform amid the farmers' protest, and said the chain of events had made it evident that a strong social media campaign was planned in a foreign country around the agitation.  Twitter representatives were reminded that while the government values freedom of speech and expression and takes criticism in its stride, such freedom is "not absolute" and subject to reasonable restrictions under the Constitution. The Secretary emphasised that India remains investor-friendly with a conducive business environment and open Internet. The Secretary took up the issue of the 'farmer genocide' hashtag with the executives and expressed strong displeasure on the way Twitter had acted after an emergency order was issued to remove the hashtag and content related to that.  "Spreading misinformation using an incendiary and baseless hashtag referring to 'farmer genocide' at a time when such irresponsible content can provoke and inflame the situation is neither journalistic freedom nor freedom of expression as envisaged under Article 19 of the Constitution of India," the statement said.  (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/comply-with-laws-in-india-take-strong-action-against-campaigns-aimed-at-creating-unrest-govt-to-twitter-949876.html
11-02-2021||National||Ashok Gehlot targets PM Modi over farmers' issues, says govt must give up stubborn stand||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the farmers' issues, saying the government should give up its stubborn stand. “In democracy, voters can be stubborn but not the government. Whatever is happening today is unfortunate,” Gehlot said while addressing the Congress Legislature Party meeting at his residence here on Wednesday night. He condemned Modi for his 'andolanjivi' (professional protesters) remark. “It is the duty of the ruling dispensation to respect the opposition but look at what the Modi government is doing. They talk about Congress-free India. PM uses words like andolanjivi in parliament,” he said. A government can reverse its decision in the larger interest of the people but the prime minister is adamant on not addressing the farmers' issues. A strategy for the state assembly's budget session, which began on Wednesday with the Governor's address, was discussed during the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashok-gehlot-targets-pm-modi-over-farmers-issues-says-govt-must-give-up-stubborn-stand-949883.html
11-02-2021||National||Road to fighting climate change is through climate justice: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the road to fighting climate change is through climate justice and called for giving developing countries enough space to grow. Addressing the World Sustainable Development Summit (WSDS), Modi said two things will define how the progress journey of humanity will unfold in the times to come -- "health of our people and health of our planet, both of which are interlinked". "The road to fighting climate change is through climate justice. At the root of climate justice is the principle of being large-hearted. Climate justice is also about thinking about the bigger and long-term picture," he said. The remarks at the Summit, which brings together a wide range of experts to discuss ways to mitigate climate change, come amid a continuing tug of war between developed and developing countries on who needs to do more to save the environment by reducing emissions. Noting that the sad reality is that environmental changes and natural disasters impact the poor the most, Modi said climate justice is inspired by a vision of trusteeship where growth comes with greater compassion for the poorest. "Climate justice also means giving the developing countries enough space to grow. When each and every one of us understand our individual and collective duties, climate justice will be achieved," he said. Asserting that India's intent is supported by concrete action, Modi said the country, powered by spirited public efforts, is on track to exceed its commitments and targets set at the Paris Climate Change Conference in 2015. "We committed to reduce the emissions intensity of GDP by 33-35 per cent from 2005 levels. You'll be happy to know that a drop of 24 per cent of emission intensity has already been achieved," he said. Modi also said that India is making steady progress on its commitment to land degradation neutrality. "We're well on track to setting up 450 GW of renewable energy generating capacity by 2030," the prime minister said. Highlighting the impact of his government's schemes in combating climate change, Modi said the Jal Jeevan Mission has connected over 34 million households with tap connections in just about 18 months. "The destination we seek is a greener planet. Our culture's deep respect for forest and green cover is translating into outstanding results," he said. "I'd like to draw attention to two aspects - togetherness and innovation. Sustainable development will only be achieved by collective efforts," he asserted. The Prime Minister said that sustainable development is incomplete without equitable access. "In this direction too, India has made good progress. In March 2019, India achieved nearly 100 per cent electrification. This was done through sustainable technologies and innovative models. He highlighted that through the Ujala programme, 367 million LED bulbs became a part of people's lives," Modi said. This reduced over 38 million tonnes carbon dioxide per year, he said, adding that through the PM Ujjwala Yojna more than 80 million households below poverty line have access to clean cooking fuel. "We are working to increase the share of natural gas in India's energy basket from six per cent to 15 per cent,” he said. The prime minister pointed out that often discussions on sustainability become too focused on green energy but green energy is only the means. "Our mission to achieve sustainable development also includes special attention towards animal protection," Modi said. He shared that in the last five to seven years, the population of lions, tigers, leopards and Gangetic river dolphin has gone up. Regarding innovation, Modi said that there are many start-ups working on renewable energy, environment-friendly technology and more. "As policy makers, we should support as many of these efforts. The energy of our youth will certainly lead to outstanding results," he said. The prime minister specifically mentioned about disaster management capabilities. He said that this requires focus on human resource development and technology. As part of the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure, “we are working in this direction”, Modi said. He assured that India is ready to do whatever possible to further sustainable development. "Our human centric approach could be a force multiplier for global good," the prime minister said. The WSDS is the annual flagship event of The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI). Instituted in 2001, the summit series has marked 20 years in its journey of making 'sustainable development' a globally shared goal. The theme of the three-day-long summit this year is ‘Redefining our common future: Safe and secure environment for all’. The virtual inaugural session was attended by Mohamed Irfaan Ali, President of the Cooperative Republic of Guyana, James Marape, Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea, Mohamed Nasheed, Speaker of the People's Majlis, Republic of Maldives and Amina J Mohammed, Deputy Secretary-General, United Nations, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/road-to-fighting-climate-change-is-through-climate-justice-pm-modi-949884.html
11-02-2021||National||'Andolanjivis' hijacked 'sacred' farmers' protest: PM Modi||Repeating his "andolanjivi" attack against those instigating the ongoing farmers' protests, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said 'andolanjivi' hijack 'sacred' farmers' protests. 'Kisan Andolan' is sacred, but when 'andolanjivis' hijack it and show pictures of those jailed for terrorism, what purpose does it serve," the Prime Minister said in Lok Sabha during his reply to the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President''s address to the joint sitting of Parliament. "Attacking mobile towers, attack highways toll plazas and preventing toll collection will serve a purpose?," the PM said. "It is important for the country to differentiate between 'Andolanjeevis' and 'Andolankari'," he said. "I consider 'Kisan Andolan' to be holy. But, when 'Andolanjeevis' hijack 'Pavitra Andolans'," he said. Earlier, PM Modi had used the term 'andolanjeevi' first during his speech in Rajya Sabha. On Monday, PM Modi had said, "We are familiar with the words shramjeevi and buddhijeevi? But a new "breed" of agitators called "andolanjivi" has emerged in the country, who cannot live without an agitation and the nation should guard against them." The PM's remarks have evoked strong reactions from the opposition parties and the farmer unions, who accused him of insulting the movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andolanjivis-hijacked-sacred-farmers-protest-pm-modi-949885.html
11-02-2021||National||Rahul, Priyanka advocates of soft Hindutva: CPI(M) leader||LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan lashed out at the Congress on Wednesday, alleging that Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra were "advocates of soft Hindutva" and embrace religious symbols in their political activities. Vijayaraghavan said the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) was raising "baseless allegations" against the Left Front and the government, accusing it of joining hands with the BJP to create issues in the state. "If we follow the press meets and statements issued by the UDF leaders, it is clear that they are silent on the BJP," the CPI(M) Kerala state secretary incharge said at a press conference in Thiruvananthapuram. "The approach of the UDF shows that it has a soft stand on BJP. This is in tune with the central leadership of the Congress party. Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi are advocates of soft Hindutva," Vijayaraghavan said. "They embrace religious symbols in their political activities. They are unable to fight the communal agenda of the BJP that is being implemented in the country," he added. The Left leader pointed out that Rahul Gandhi began his election campaign in Rajasthan and Gujarat after taking part in rituals and Priyanka Gandhi was "competing with the BJP by using the symbols of BJP". Vijayaraghavan said the state leadership of the Congress was following the footsteps of their central leaders and were spreading "false news" against the state government, which he said had a massive support of the people. "Currently, the petrol prices have reached Rs 90 and nowhere in the world the fuel prices are this expensive," he said. "Even in the Indian subcontinent, other countries are selling petrol for around Rs 40. However, the Congress or the UDF have not uttered a single word in this regard."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-priyanka-advocates-of-soft-hindutva-cpim-leader-949890.html
11-02-2021||National||Farmers still agitating because Modi govt has failed to give 'alternative' to farm laws: SKM||Farmers are still agitating because ministers of the Modi government have failed to present any "alternative" to the three new agri laws, the Samuykta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 41 farmer unions, said on Wednesday. The SKM is leading the protest against the three central farm laws at several border points of Delhi. On Prime Minister Narendra Modi's address in Lok Sabha, SKM leader Darshan Pal said that union leaders have only been raising the "genuine" issues of the farmers. "The agitation has been continuing because the ministers of the Modi government have not been able to come up with any solid alternative to the new laws or the MSP (minimum support price), despite 11 rounds of talks," Pal said in a video message. It is "absolutely clear" that the new laws will finish government mandis (wholesale markets) and private mandis where big corporates will sell and buy will have a monopoly, he claimed. "What is the problem and your (prime minister's) objection if both the mandis remain," Pal said referring to one of the new farm laws of the Centre. He said that the prime minister termed those protesting against the farm laws as  'andolanjivis' (professional protesters), and that they raised different issues and "misguided" the farmers. "The truth is thate we are struggling on genuine issues of farmers for the past six months and have not raised any issue or demand beyond it," said the SKM leader. Pal said that the farmers and people of the country should not be taken in by the prime minister's speech in Lok Sabha and continue to strengthen the agitation against farm laws. "I want to say to the farmers and the people to understand what Modi said in Parliament and not be taken in by his statements about the leaders of the farmers' agitation," he said. Prime Minister Modi said in the Lok Sabha that the government and Parliament have great respect for farmers who are voicing their views on the three farm bills, and made it clear that those who want to continue with the old agriculture marketing system can continue doing so. Replying in Lok Sabha to the discussion on the motion of thanks to the President's address to the joint sitting of Parliament, Modi staunchly defended the three contentious farms laws and attacked the opposition for "misleading" farmers. Seeking to allay apprehensions on the farm laws, Modi said neither any agriculture 'mandi' (market) has shut down after the three laws were enacted nor has the MSP stopped, rather the MSP has only increased which no one can deny. The prime minister also said the government has offered to discuss clause by clause of the three farm laws and if there are any shortcomings it was ready to make changes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-still-agitating-because-modi-govt-has-failed-to-give-alternative-to-farm-laws-skm-949902.html
11-02-2021||National||India reports 12,923 new Covid-19 cases, 108 deaths||India's Covid-19 tally has climbed to 1,08,71,294 with 12,923 fresh cases reported in a day, while the number of recoveries has surged to 1,05,73,372, the health ministry said on Thursday. The death toll in the country due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,55,360 with 108 more people succumbing to it, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,05,73,372, which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.26 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The country currently has 1,42,562 active Covid-19 cases, which account for only 1.31 per cent of its total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 20,40,23,840 samples have so far been tested in the country for Covid-19, including 6,99,185 on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-12923-new-covid-19-cases-108-deaths-949906.html
11-02-2021||National||Centre vs Twitter: All you need to know about the rift||Amid the ongoing farmers' protests against the Centre's three farm laws, the government and Twitter have been engaged in a tussle about the 'freedom of expression' on the microblogging site. This has also brought into light India's alternative for Twitter, the Koo app, with prominent Union Ministers joining it to send messages to Twitter. Here is all you need to know about the rift: 1. Following the unrest in New Delhi after the farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day, Twitter had suspended 550 accounts flagged by the government, most of them belonging to Khalistan supporters. It had also taken down handles of some news organisations like Caravan India.  2. A hashtag #ModiPlanningFarmerGenocide emerged on Twitter. The government asked the website to take it down and suspend accounts using it. But Twitter later restored the handles citing "insufficient justification" to continue the suspensions.  3. The Centre issued a notice to Twitter for unilaterally reinstating some accounts despite government orders. It also threatened penal action against the website if it did not comply. The government said Twitter "cannot sit as an appellate authority". 4.  On February 8, the government issued a fresh notice to Twitter directing it to block 1,178 accounts linked to farmers' protest, saying that these were Khalistani supporters and backed by Pakistan. The Centre reiterated that Twitter was refusing to follow the government's repeated orders. 5. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (Meity) were upset with Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey as he liked some tweets in support of Rihanna when she tweeted about the farmers' protests. 6. Twitter said that it is seeking a formal dialogue with the government over their issues. Admitting that it has received a notice from the government, a Twitter spokesperson said, "We continue to be engaged with the government of India from a position of respect and have reached out to the Honourable Minister, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology for a formal dialogue." 7. Twitter has so far deactivated around 700 handles from the ones the Centre had asked it to block. Twitter took a range of enforcement actions — including permanent suspension in certain cases — against more than 500 accounts escalated across all MeitY orders for clear violations of Twitter’s rules. 8. Twitter on Wednesday said it withheld some of the accounts flagged by the Indian government for blocking "within India only", but has not blocked handles of civil society activists, politicians and media as "it would violate their fundamental right to free expression" guaranteed under country's law. Seeking to clarify its stance, Twitter - in a blog post - said it had taken steps to reduce the visibility of the hashtags containing harmful content. 9. Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad turned down the microblogging platform’s request for a meeting with him on February 10. Twitter India officials had tried to reach out to Prasad for a dialogue, but his office directed them to MeitY officials. Now, MeitY Secretary Ajay Prakash Sawhney is likely to lead the talks. The ministry chose the Indian Twitter-like platform Koo to respond to this. 10. Ministry of Electronics & IT Secretary Ajay Sawhney on Wednesday asked Twitter to follow India's laws irrespective of its own rules, expressing "strong displeasure" over Twitter's delay in taking prompt action against accounts and hashtags spreading misinformation and provocative content around the farmers' stir. The Secretary held a virtual interaction with Twitter officials on Thursday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-vs-twitter-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-rift-949915.html
11-02-2021||National||Thankful to PM for those words: Ghulam Nabi Azad recalls Modi's emotional speech on his farewell||Earlier this week, senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad retired from the Rajya Sabha after over 40 years of parliamentary service, and many in the House, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, bade him a teary farewell. PM Modi, in his speech in the Rajya Sabha, had recounted a terror attack on some Gujarati pilgrims in 2005 in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and how the then chief minister of the state was the first one to call him about the incident. With tears rolling down his cheeks, Modi said Azad had cried on the call while informing him about the horrific attack. Azad later went to the airport when the bodies were sent back and kept in touch till the plane landed in Gujarat, he added. Azad retold the incident, "It was about a terror attack when many Gujaratis were killed in J&K and the way I was weeping then. That is what had moved Modiji then also. He must have felt that I don’t differentiate between the people of Gujarat or people of Kashmir. I felt similar pain for them all. I think he recalled that and became emotional. I equally became emotional. I remember when I went to see off the Gujarati brothers and sisters, especially children were crying and asking where their father was. There I had broken down. And the Gujarati media showed it for days together and naturally Modi as CM saw this." During his speech bidding farewell to the senior Congress leader, PM Modi had said it would be difficult for anyone to fill the shoes of Azad as he cared not only about his political affiliation but also about the country and the House. "I worry that after Azad, whosoever will take over from him will have to fill very big boots because he cared not only about his party but about the country as well as the House. This is not a small thing, this a big thing." "Power comes and goes but (only a few know) how to digest it...therefore like a friend, I respect him on the basis of the things he has done over these years," Modi said while wiping his tears and saluting Azad. Reminiscing about their long association, Modi said that as chief ministers of Jammu and Kashmir and Gujarat, both of them kept in touch with each other. Modi said he believes that Azad's concern for his country won't let him sit and whatever responsibilities he takes in the future would be beneficial for the nation. "At a personal level, I would request him to not believe that he is not in the House. My door is always open for all of you. I will always expect and value your inputs," he said. "I will not let you become weak," the prime minister told Azad as he closed his comments.  Leader after leader had praised Azad with Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu describing him as a role model who will be missed by him the most.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/thankful-to-pm-for-those-words-ghulam-nabi-azad-recalls-modis-emotional-speech-on-his-farewell-949922.html
11-02-2021||National||Farm Stir: Ravi Shankar Prasad slams Twitter over 'double standards'||In a veiled attack on Twitter, Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad slams the "micro-blogging platform" for displaying "double standards" in their handling of the farmers' protests. Prasad's comments come at a time when the Centre and the social media platform are in a tug of war over the suspension of accounts that the BJP government had flagged for spreading misinformation and provocative content around the farmers' stir. On Wednesday, the IT Ministry made it clear that the company must comply with the country's laws irrespective of the platform's own rules. The minister, in reply to a question in Rajya Sabha, suggested that Twitter had taken action when US Capitol was "ransacked" in Washington DC. He claimed the platform was displaying "double standards." The government has expressed "strong displeasure" over Twitter's delay in taking prompt action against accounts and hashtags flagged by it. Twitter has suspended over 500 accounts and blocked access to several others within India while refusing to block accounts of "news media entities, journalists, activists and politicians" citing the need to uphold freedom of expression.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-stir-ravi-shankar-prasad-slams-twitter-over-double-standards-949924.html
11-02-2021||National||India agrees with China for moratorium on patrolling on North Bank of Pangong Tso||India has finally agreed with China for a temporary moratorium on patrolling on the northern bank of Pangong Tso, notwithstanding concerns among its military strategists over implications of such a deal. An element of the deal that New Delhi and Beijing have clinched for withdrawal of troops from the face-off points on the banks of Pangong Tso is the “temporary moratorium” on “military activities” by both Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on the North Bank, “including patrolling to the traditional areas”, according to the statement Defence Minister Rajnath Singh made in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. The spurs of the mountain range on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso jut towards the lake like the fingers of the palm, with the Finger 1 at the western end and the Finger 8 at the eastern end. The Indian Army earlier regularly sent soldiers from its permanent base at the Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 for patrolling all the way up to Finger 8. But it had to suspend patrolling after its troops had a scuffle with the Chinese PLA soldiers near Finger 4 in the first week of May 2020. The PLA later built bunkers and observation posts and deployed additional troops in the area – thus denying access to the Indian Army to its earlier patrolling limit at Finger 8, which also marked the LAC as perceived by New Delhi.  China, however, claims that the LAC, after cutting through the lake, goes through the Finger 4. The scuffle between Indian and Chinese soldiers on the northern bank of Pangong Tso was among the flashpoints that triggered the stand-off, which brought the relations between the two neighbouring nations to a new low over the past 10 months. Beijing’s demand for a moratorium on patrolling on the northern bank of Pangong Tso has been a sticking point in its negotiation with New Delhi for the past several months, as a section of the Indian Army’s top brass had reservation about accepting the proposal put forward by the Chinese PLA. Sources in New Delhi said that a section of India’s military strategists had been sceptical about China’s proposal as they had feared that the communist country would later use the moratorium on patrolling to buttress its claim on the entire stretch from Finger 4 to Finger 8.  Some of them had also argued that if New Delhi accepted Beijing’s proposal, it would be tantamount to giving in to the aggressive moves made by China to unilaterally change the status quo in the area and to occupy the territory of India, sources told the DH. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government, however, finally gave its nod for the “temporary moratorium” on patrolling – apparently in order to clear the way for disengagement of troops and resolving the stand-off, beginning with Pangong Tso.   Singh said in the Rajya Sabha that the patrolling on the northern bank of Pangong Tso would be resumed only when both sides would reach an agreement in diplomatic and military talks that would be held subsequently.   The moratorium on patrolling will result in a buffer zone between Finger 3 and Finger 8 on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso (lake), just like the one created in Galwan Valley where the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had disengaged a few days after the violent face-off on June 20 last year. Eminent strategic affairs analyst, Brahma Chellaney, called the deal New Delhi and Beijing had agreed upon for disengagement of troops on the banks of Pangong Tso as a “win-win” for China. He pointed out in a tweet that China had been asking India to agree to a disengagement deal that would only be limited to both banks of the lake, not other face-off points on the LAC.  He also added that the Buffer Zone created as a result of the moratorium on patrolling between Fingers 3 and 8 included not only disputed areas but also a swath of undisputed territory of India. “India is retreating further back in its own territory, to its post between Fingers 2 and 3,” he posted on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-agrees-with-china-for-moratorium-on-patrolling-on-north-bank-of-pangong-tso-949940.html
11-02-2021||National||Sex CD case: SC impleads Chhattisgarh govt as party in CBI plea for transfer of trial||The Supreme Court Thursday impleaded Chhattisgarh government as party in the CBI plea seeking transfer of trial in the alleged sex CD case, in which Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel is an accused, outside the state. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy allowed the application filed by co-accused Kailash Murarka saying that since several allegations have been made against the Chhattisgarh government, it will be appropriate if it is impleaded as a party in the case. During the hearing, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for CBI, said he has no objection if the state is made party in the case. Senior advocate AM Singhvi and advocate Sumeer Sodhi, appearing for the state government, accepted the notice for impleadment in the matter. Senior advocate ANS Nadkarni, appearing for Murarka, said they want Chhattisgarh government to be impleaded as party because there are several allegations against it and it would be better if the state replies to those averments. The bench allowed the application of impleadment and posted the matter for further hearing on March 5. On January 18, the CBI had alleged in the top court that some of the witnesses in the case are being threatened and one of the accused is an influential person, the Chief Minister of the state. CBI had said that some of the witnesses are from Delhi, some from Bombay and some from other places and it would be better the case is transferred to one place outside the state. The top court had also taken up a plea filed by one Rasjeet Singh Khanuja, who claimed to be a witness in the CBI case, and said that he has been booked by the state government in some other case related to abetment to suicide. He also sought transfer of his case pertaining to abetment to suicide to the CBI. The state had opposed the plea of Khanuja and said that his plea filed under Article 32 of the Constitution needs to be dismissed. On October 21, 2019, the top court had stayed the criminal trial in the alleged sex CD case involving Baghel as an accused and sought his response on CBI's plea to transfer the matter out of the state. The CBI has contended that it was seeking transfer of the case out of Chhattisgarh as two prosecution witnesses have complained to the probe agency that they have been threatened. It has said that for the sake of fair trial, the CBI has filed the plea seeking transfer of the case out of the state as the accused is now the Chief Minister and there are chances of the witnesses getting coerced. The CBI had registered a case in 2017 against Baghel, then Chhattisgarh Congress president, on a complaint that he had allegedly tried to frame the then state PWD minister and BJP leader Rajesh Munat in the fake sex CD case. Munat, the then Chhattisgarh PWD Minister in the Raman Singh cabinet and a BJP leader, had filed a complaint against Baghel and senior journalist Vinod Verma for allegedly tarnishing his image through a "fake" sex CD. In 2017, Chhattisgarh police had swooped down on journalist Verma's house in Ghaziabad and had picked him up for conspiring with Baghel to allegedly tarnish the image of the BJP leader. The then state BJP government had transferred the case to the CBI which has filed the charge-sheet in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sex-cd-case-sc-impleads-chhattisgarh-govt-as-party-in-cbi-plea-for-transfer-of-trial-949980.html
11-02-2021||National||Covid-19: India fastest in world to vaccinate over 70 lakh in 26 days||India has become the fastest country in the world to achieve over 70 lakh vaccinations against Covid-19 in only 26 days, while it took 27 days for the US and 48 days for the UK to reach the same figures, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. The ministry also highlighted that 17 states and UTs have not reported any deaths in the last 24 hours.    Till February, 11, 8 AM, more than 70 lakh beneficiaries have been administered shots under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise. The total cumulative vaccination coverage of 70,17,114 includes 57,05,228 healthcare workers (HCWs) and 13,11,886 frontline workers (FLWs), the ministry said. A total of 1,43,056 sessions have been conducted so far. The ministry said 4,05,349 beneficiaries (HCWs- 94,890 and FLWs- 3,10,459) were vaccinated on Day-26 ( February 10) across 8,308 sessions. "The number of beneficiaries being vaccinated every day has shown a progressive increase. "Thirteen states and UTs have vaccinated over 65 per cent of the registered healthcare workers (HCWs). Bihar leads with over 79 per cent of the registered HCWs vaccinated," the ministry said. Seven states and UTs have reported less than 40 per cent vaccinations of the registered healthcare workers (HCWs). Puducherry has recorded the lowest vaccination performance of 17.5 per cent, it stated. The ministry said 17 states and UTs have not reported any deaths in the last 24 hours.  These are Telangana, Gujarat, Assam, Haryana, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Lakshadweep, Ladakh (UT), Sikkim, Manipur, Mizoram, Andman and Nicobar Islands, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Daman and Diu and Dadar and Nagar Haveli. The country has recorded 1,42,562 active cases in a span of 24 hours. The total active cases of the country now comprise merely 1.31 per cent of the total infections. "India's active cases per million population (104) is amongst the lowest in the world," the ministry underlined. A total of 12,923 new confirmed cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours in the country and 11,764 new recoveries were registered in the same period. The National Recovery Rate (97.26 per cent) continues to be one of the highest globally, the ministry underscored. The total recovered cases have surged to 1,05,73,372.  "The gap between active cases and recovered cases is continuously increasing and stands at 1,04,30,810," the ministry said. It said 83.20 per cent of the newly recovered cases of Covid-19 are recorded in 6 states. Kerala has contributed the highest number to the newly recovered cases (5,745), followed by Maharashtra (2,421) and Gujarat (495). Further, 85.11 per cent of the new cases are from six states. Kerala has reported the highest daily new cases at 5,980. It is followed by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu with 3,451and 479 new cases, respectively. The ministry said 108 case fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours. Seven states account for 79.63 per cent of these. Maharashtra reported the maximum casualties at 30. It is followed by Kerala with 18 new daily deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-fastest-in-world-to-vaccinate-over-70-lakh-in-26-days-949983.html
11-02-2021||National||SC refuses to entertain plea seeking prevention of sale of fake Covid-19 vaccines||The Supreme Court Thursday refused to entertain a plea seeking direction to the Centre for framing "strict" guidelines to prevent any chance of sale of fake coronavirus vaccines in the country. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said that though it understood the "motivation" behind filing of the PIL, it cannot pass general directions.  "We understand your motivation but you file a concrete case. We cannot pass general directions. We are not the legislature," the bench told lawyer Vishal Tiwari who filed the plea in his personal capacity.   "If you (lawyer) want to persue this issue, you make out a case with concrete facts. We will allow you to withdraw with liberty to file it afresh," the bench said in the hearing conducted through video-conferencing.  Tiwari then decided to withdraw the plea which was filed before the roll out of vaccines and had referred to the statement of Secretary General of INTERPOL to the effect that criminal organizations have been planning to infiltrate or disrupt supply chains. The plea had said the INTERPOL official also issued a global alert to law enforcement agencies of 194 member countries warning them to prepare for organized crime networks targeting Covid-19 vaccines, both physically and online. "Issue writ...directions to the respondent (Centre) to issue strict guidelines and regulations under Disaster Management Act or under any other law by constituting a special committee to prevent the chances of fake and counterfeit Corona vaccine selling/circulating and advertising by any organization, company, online Apps," it had said. It had also sought directions for the government agencies to run awareness programme for safety of citizens against the danger of fake corona vaccine.   "Direct the Respondent (Centre) enact a strict law against the criminal act committed by selling or circulating the counterfeit corona vaccine by any organization or Individual," it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-entertain-plea-seeking-prevention-of-sale-of-fake-covid-19-vaccines-949984.html
11-02-2021||National||Supreme Court asks Centre to frame guidelines for scribes in competitive exams ||The Supreme Court on Thursday held that a person's cramp can be considered as disability entitling him or her to take scribes to write competitive examinations including the prestigious Civil Services examinations conducted by the UPSC. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud directed the Centre to frame guidelines and norms within three months to protect the rights of disabled students to appear in all competitive examinations. The court passed its judgement on a civil appeal filed by Vikas Kumar against the UPSC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-asks-centre-to-frame-guidelines-for-scribes-in-competitive-exams-949988.html
11-02-2021||National||Bata India Q3 profit falls 78% to Rs 26.41 crore||Leading footwear brand Bata India has reported 77.66 per cent decline in its consolidated net profit to Rs 26.41 crore for the quarter ended December 2020, on account of lower revenue from operations. The company had net profit of Rs 118.26 crore in the year-ago period. Revenue from operations of the company stood at Rs 615.62 crore for the quarter under consideration, down 25.90 per cent, against Rs 830.82 crore for the same period year ago, Bata India said in a filing to BSE. Bata India said owing to the various customer-centric measures adopted in the wake of Covid-19, the company has been successful in getting back on its recovery path, with improvement in sales through its retail outlets and e-commerce platforms, and hyperlocal digital channels. "In terms of portfolio-mix, the formals (including school business) and fashion categories continued to be subdued as expected due to prevailing market conditions, the casual, fitness and essentials categories bounced back leading to company's overall volume reaching 88 per cent of pre-Covid levels," the company added. Sandeep Kataria, CEO Bata Brand said owing to decline in Covid-19 cases and vaccine rollout, the overall market sentiment is improving significantly. "Backed by good festive sales and our targeted consumer outreach, our sales have recovered to 74 per cent of pre-Covid levels. While we focused on reviving sales, we also kept focus on cost-savings measures across our network and enhancing productivity. “Overall, we're encouraged by the increasing momentum during the December quarter and we continue to launch new ways to serve our customers better, offering them greater convenience and flexibility. All these measures have enabled us to revitalise the business and soon we expect to get into the thrive phase of our recovery plan," he added. Shares of Bata India were trading 4.18 per cent lower at Rs 1,503.95 apiece on BSE.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bata-india-q3-profit-falls-78-to-rs-2641-crore-949989.html
11-02-2021||National||Reserve list of UPSC's civil services exam is not waiting list, says Union Minister Jitendra Singh||The reserve list released by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) after the declaration of civil services examination is not the waiting list but a routine procedure, Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said on Thursday. The examination is conducted by the UPSC annually to select officers of the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and Indian Police Service (IPS), among others. "Reserve list is not the waiting list. It is a routine procedure," Singh told PTI. He said this arrangement of issuing the reserve list was started in 2003. "At one point of time there was a writ petition in the Supreme Court questioning this arrangement. The apex court had upheld it in a judgement of 2010," the minister said. For eventually declaring the result of the civil services examination (CSE) after conclusion of the examination process and recommending candidates for appointment to various services, the UPSC takes into account the total number of vacancies in all categories, he said in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. "In the first instance, the result is declared by the Commission after reducing it by the number of candidates belonging to the various categories who acquire the merit at or above the fixed general qualifying standard without availing themselves of any concession or relaxation in the eligibility or selection criteria," Singh said. Since CSE-2002, along with the candidates recommended in the first instance, the Commission further maintains a confidential consolidated reserve list that includes candidates from general and reserved categories ranking in order of merit below the last recommended candidate under each category, he said. "After allocation of services to the candidates recommended in the first instance, more candidates are subsequently recommended from the consolidated reserve list by the UPSC, as per the requisition in this regard sent from the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT)," the minister said. The process, as applicable since CSE-2002 and as described above, has been followed incase of the CSE-2019 also, he said. In the first instance, the result of this examination was declared on August 4 last year for 829 successful candidates, Singh said. Subsequently on January 4 this year, pursuant to receipt of the requisition from the DoPT, the UPSC released a further list of 89 more candidates recommended from the consolidated reserve list, as per the relevant provisions of the CSE rules, 2019, he said. The minister was asked "whether it is a fact that the result of the civil services examination, 2019, was released twice", among other questions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reserve-list-of-upscs-civil-services-exam-is-not-waiting-list-says-union-minister-jitendra-singh-949994.html
11-02-2021||National||We value consensus, don't believe in political untouchability: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted on Thursday that the BJP does not believe in political untouchability and values consensus in running the country, as he noted that his government has bestowed state honours on even the ruling party's political rivals to acknowledge their service to the nation. Addressing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs at an event to mark the 53rd death anniversary of Deendayal Upadhyay, a party ideologue who had founded its progenitor Jana Sangh, Modi said the saffron party always puts "rashtraneeti" above "rajneeti" and gives respect to even its political rivals. In this context, he said the current government has honoured former president and Congress stalwart Pranab Mukherjee with Bharat Ratna and noted that Padma awards were given to former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi and former Nagaland chief minister S C Jamir, both from the grand old party. Modi noted that he had said in Parliament that a government may run with majority but the nation runs with consensus. He also cited his government's tributes to national icons like Subhas Chandra Bose, B R Ambedkar and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, and observed that any other dispensation would not have done it. Upadhyay's ideals of "antyodya" (empowering the most downtrodden) and integral humanism are the inspiration behind the government's welfare works and the "Aatmanirbhar Bharat" (self-reliant India) programme to boost the economy, the prime minister said, adding that India has followed the principle of "nation first" in its external policy as well, without being influenced by any pressure. He urged the BJP units across the country to undertake 75 works for social welfare as the country approaches its 75th year of independence. Modi also suggested to the party MPs and other leaders to make a list of products they use in their daily lives and see if they can get rid of foreign stuff and instead, use their Indian alternatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-value-consensus-dont-believe-in-political-untouchability-pm-949998.html
11-02-2021||National||340 non-performing officers prematurely retired between July 2014 and 2020: Govt||A total of 340 non-performing officers were prematurely retired by the government in the past six years, Parliament was informed on Thursday. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said, "As per the information/data provided by different ministries/ departments/cadre controlling authorities, provisions of FR 56(J)/similar rules have been invoked against 171 Group A central government officers, including All India Services officers, and 169 Group B officers of different ministries/departments during the period from July 2014 to December 2020." The rules have provisions to retire a government employee in public interest, prematurely for being allegedly corrupt and non-performing, among others. As on March 1, 2018, the sanctioned strength of civilian regular employees under the central government is 38,02,779 and 31,18,956 employees are in position, he said. "Vacancies in the central government are caused due to retirement, resignation, death, promotion, and the posts falling vacant are required to be filled as per the recruitment rules by the concerned ministries/departments/organisation," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/340-non-performing-officers-prematurely-retired-between-july-2014-and-2020-govt-950001.html
11-02-2021||National||BCI rules against one-year LLM course to operate from 2022-23, SC told||The Bar Council of India on Thursday told the Supreme Court that the decision to abolish the one-year LLM course shall come into force from the academic year 2022-23.  The Consortium of National Law Universities, led by senior advocate A M Singhvi, which challenged the validity of the BCI rules, expressed its satisfaction at the BCI chairman's statement. It also submitted before a bench, presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde, that no urgent order was required in their appeal to the BCI's decision. The bench, also comprising Justices A S A Bobde and V Ramasubramanian, recorded submission made on behalf of the BCI chairman Manan Kumar Mishra and adjourned the matter for four weeks. Earlier, the Consortium sought status quo in the matter, saying it had already received 5,000 applications for a one-year LLM course advertised in January this year.  The BCI rules, declared in January this year, mandated that the LLM degree has to be of two-year duration. The Consortium contended that the LLM degree course comes under the UGC regulations and the BCI had power under the Advocates Act to regulate the LLB degree only. It also pointed out that one year LLM degree was an international norm across the Universities the world over.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bci-rules-against-one-year-llm-course-to-operate-from-2022-23-sc-told-950007.html
11-02-2021||National||AIIMS medical experts suggest for online voting in SCBA elections||Medical experts of AIIMS, New Delhi, have suggested the Supreme Court that the annual elections for its Bar Association to be conducted through online mode, as a large gathering could lead to the probability of the spread of Covid-19. "In view of the probability of spread of Covid-19 in a large congregation, and feasibility of the election to be conducted on secure online platform, it is desirable that the election are done on online platform only," Dr Arti Kapil, Department of Microbiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) said in a letter to the SC. The AIIMS advisory could put a question mark on a possible move to start physical hearings in the Supreme Court in March. Dr Arti, a member of the expert committee of AIIMS, sent the letter to the Supreme Court on February 10. The opinion was given in reference to a letter from the Additional Registrar Supreme Court, to the Director, AIIMS. A team of AIIMS experts had visited the Supreme Court premises to discuss the matter with lawyers and officers. The annual polls for office-bearers of the SC Bar Association are scheduled to be held on February 27. Separately, a large number of lawyers had written letters to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) to restart the physical hearings saying they were facing a lot of difficulties, including financial ones. Hearing the Maratha quota matter, the Supreme Court on February 5 said there is likelihood of resumption of physical hearing in the top court from March. The top court has been conducting the hearing through virtual mode since March last year due to Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiims-medical-experts-suggest-for-online-voting-in-scba-elections-950011.html
11-02-2021||National||76 CBI cases against politicians since 2015, two cases quashed: Centre in Rajya Sabha||The CBI has registered 76 regular cases against politicians since 2015 while two cases against leaders were quashed during this period, the government informed Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. The highest number of cases against politicians were registered in 2015 when 20 cases were registered followed by 15 each in 2016 and 2017. Six each case were registered in 2018 and 2020, the year 2019 saw 14 cases. Not a single case against politicians have been filed by the CBI this year till January 31, Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said in a written reply to questions raised by Congress MP Syed Nasir Hussain. One each case against politicians was quashed by courts in 2015 and 2017. He also said 588 cases were pending investigation with the CBI as on December 31, 2020, as against 711 in December 2019. For the reasons for the pending cases, he said the CBI is dealing with "complex and voluminous cases", which at times, pertain to "very old transactions or incidents" and many of them involve investigation spread over several states. Also, cases also remain pending for considerable time for want of expert opinion, execution reports of Letter Rogatories, Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty (MLAT) that are sent for collecting evidence as well as for investigation in the foreign countries. "The recent Covid-19 pandemic situation has also adversely affected the pace of investigation of cases, despite CBI making all-out efforts to dispose of these cases on priority," Singh said. The Minister also said 1,374 out of 7,273 posts in the CBI remained vacant as on December 31 last year. The highest vacancies were in the executive ranks where there were 829 unfilled posts (5,000 posts and 4,171 actual strength, Singh said in response to a question raised by LJD's M V Shreyams Kumar. To another question by Sukhram Singh Yadav (SP), Chhaya Verma (Congress) and Vishambhar Prasad Nishad (SP), he said seven officers belonging to the Indian Administrative Services (IAS) have been arrested for corruption during the last three years. An IPS officer, who has been suspended, in Uttar Pradesh, has been found involved in a criminal case. Responding to AIADMK's A Vijayakumar's query, the Minister also said 171 Group-A officers and 169 Group-B officers were prematurely retired by the government invoking  FR 56 (j) provision. Singh also informed BJD's Sasmit Patra that there are 1,510 vacancies in IAS and 908 in IPS as on December last year. Karnataka had 65 vacancies in IAS and 37 in IPS||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/76-cbi-cases-against-politicians-since-2015-two-cases-quashed-centre-in-rajya-sabha-950026.html
11-02-2021||National||Andhra transgressed Odisha territory to announce Panchayat polls: Odisha seeks contempt action in SC||The Odisha government has approached the Supreme Court seeking contempt action against the Andhra Pradesh top officers for "willfully violating" a 1968 status quo order by declaring Panchayat polls in three villages of Koraput district and claiming those as part of Vizianagaram district. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the Odisha government mentioned the matter before a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde for urgent hearing. The top court decided to consider the application on Friday. The application filed by advocate Sibo Sankar Mishra contended that the conduct of the Andhra government's officers, including the Chief Secretary and the State Election Commissioner, has been shocking in view of directions by this court which has been punctually observed by all concerned since February 2, 1968. "The state has been administering continuously the three Kotiya group of villages apart from electing representatives for local bodies, Assembly and Parliamentary constituencies. Therefore, the attempt to conduct the election in newly self-named three villages pertaining to the territory of petitioner state is nothing but willful attempt to sabotage dictum of this court," it said. The notification for Panchayat polls was issued on March 5, 2020, but it was kept secret and Sarpanch and Gram Panchayat members were elected unopposed in two villages and one village was to see a contest and the nomination centre has been kept at 20 km away at Vizianagaram district, it said. The Andhra Pradesh had willfully and deliberately violated the Supreme Court order of December 2, 1968, and the judgment of March 30, 2006, by transgressing into Odisha’s territory, it claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-transgressed-odisha-territory-to-announce-panchayat-polls-odisha-seeks-contempt-action-in-sc-950029.html
11-02-2021||National||Mutual and reciprocal steps: Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on disengagement pact with China||Announcing the contours of India-China troop pullout plans in eastern Ladakh, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday informed the Parliament that the Chinese People’s Liberation Army soldiers would move east of Finger 8 on the northern bank of the Pangong lake while Indian Army men would stay at their permanent base near Finger 3 on the same side of the turquoise blue water body that straddles the disputed border between the two countries. A contentious 10 km stretch between Finger 3 and Finger 8 – patrolled by the Indian troops since 1962 war – will be a no-patrol zone for the time being as India and China agreed upon a “temporary moratorium on military activities by both sides in the north bank including patrolling to the traditional areas.” The fingers refer to mountain spurs on the northern banks of the boomerang-shaped Pangong Tso, through which the Line of Actual Control between India and China passes. Traditionally India patrolled up to Finger 8, but last summer Indian troops were stopped in their tracks at Finger 4 by the PLA soldiers triggering a nine month long stand-off and precipitating the worst Sino-Indian border crisis since 1962. Patrolling in the contentious zone would resume only when both sides reach an agreement in diplomatic and military talks that would be held subsequently, the Defence Minister said, asserting that India didn’t concede anything at the mutually agreed disengagement plan. “The implementation of this agreement has started Wednesday in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake. It will substantially restore the situation that existed prior to the commencement of the standoff last year.” The disengagement process began a fortnight after the ninth round of the Corps Commander level meeting between the Indian Army and the PLA, in which the two sides agreed on lowering the heat by pulling back troops and weapons. As per the agreement, the Chinese side will keep its troop presence in the north bank area to the east of Finger 8. Reciprocally, the Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3. Similar action would be taken in the South Bank area by both sides. There would be no thinning at the tactical heights as well as other friction points. These are mutual and reciprocal steps and any structures that had been built by both sides since April 2020 in the north and south bank area will be removed and landforms will be restored. Within 48 hours of completing the disengagement, senior-level military commanders from the two countries would meet to decide on the next course of action. Singh admitted that there were still some outstanding issues with regard to deployment and patrolling at some other points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh, which would be the focus of further discussions with the Chinese side. While the minister didn’t identify the area, Army sources said that the reference was to the Depsang plains near Daulat Beg Oldie airfield, when traditional Indian patrolling routes were blocked by the PLA troops even before last year’s flare-up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mutual-and-reciprocal-steps-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-on-disengagement-pact-with-china-950048.html
11-02-2021||National||Prevent BJP from coming to power, let Bengal live in peace: Mamata Banerjee||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged people not to allow the BJP to come to power in West Bengal and let the state live in peace. Banerjee, also the Trinamool Congress supremo, claimed that her party will continue to rule the state. "Let Bengal live in peace. The BJP should not be allowed to come to power in the state. I appeal to all to protect the honour of Bengal," she said at an event in Kolkata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prevent-bjp-from-coming-to-power-let-bengal-live-in-peace-mamata-banerjee-950056.html
11-02-2021||National||26,121 Indian websites hacked in 2020: Dhotre||Over 26,100 Indian websites were hacked during 2020, compared to 24,768 websites attacked in the previous year, Parliament was informed on Thursday. As per the information reported to and tracked by Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), a total number of 17,560; 24,768 and 26,121 Indian websites were hacked during the year 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively, Minister of State for Communications and IT Sanjay Dhotre said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha. "There have been attempts from time to time to launch cyber attacks on Indian cyberspace," he added. Dhotre said it has been observed that attackers are compromising computer systems located in different parts of the world and use masquerading techniques and hidden servers to hide the identity of actual systems from which the attacks are being launched. "According to the logs analysed and made available to CERT-In, the Internet Protocol (IP) addresses of the computers from where the attacks appear to be originated belong to various countries including Algeria, Brazil, China, France, Indonesia, Netherlands, North Korea, Pakistan, Russia, Serbia, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, USA, Vietnam etc," the minister said. Dhotre noted that CERT-In devises response measures in coordination with its counterpart agencies in foreign countries for resolution of incidents involving systems outside the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/26121-indian-websites-hacked-in-2020-dhotre-950061.html
11-02-2021||National||No return of ballot papers in Maharashtra: Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday expressed complete faith in electronic voting machines (EVMs) and asserted the state government does not want the use of ballot papers in polls. In the past, several non-BJP parties, including the Congress and the NCP, have raised doubts over the reliability of EVMs, claiming they are prone to manipulation. Interacting with the media here, Pawar, a senior NCP leader, said EVMs work fine, but they become target of criticism from losing sides in elections. Before resigning recently as Maharashtra Assembly speaker, Nana Patole, now state Congress president, had asked the legislature to frame a law to give voters the option of using ballot papers besides EVMs in local governing bodies and Assembly polls. Patole, as the speaker, had issued the instruction during a meeting held earlier this month after complaints about alleged EVM tampering in polls. When asked about Patole's instruction, Pawar said, "Each individual can have a different view. They think that way and I have said what I feel (about the use of EVMs)." Speaking about the government's official stand on the issue, Pawar said the MVA dispensation, in which the Shiv Sena and the Congress are the other two constituents, "absolutely does not" want the use of ballot papers. The senior NCP leader noted the Congress formed governments in Rajasthan (in 2018) and Punjab (2017) even when EVMs were used in the Assembly polls held in the two states. "Everything is fine with people in any party if they get majority. But they start alleging that EVMs were managed if they get routed...EVMs are working fine. Work becomes paperless. What I can say, I have complete faith in EVMs," Pawar said. Asked about media reports of a recent forensic study by a US-based firm which claimed that key evidence was "planted" on computer of an activist arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, Pawar said he does not have information about it. The deputy chief minister, however, said the stance of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is that no innocent person should be troubled in any case. Action will be taken against the guilty, if any, as per the law and the Constitution, he said. The chief minister and key people in the government will take a decision on whether an SIT needs to be formed to probe into the allegation of evidence planting, Pawar said. The deputy chief minister trashed speculation about the BJP and the NCP getting closer after Union Home Minister Amit Shah's visit to the Konkan region, a Shiv Sena stronghold, on Sunday. "There is absolutely no truth in it," Pawar added. "it is a new information that has come to me from the media. We will check if something of that sort has happened. We will take decisions after doing so (examining the information)," Pawar said sarcastically. The NCP leader said no one should pay attention to such discussions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-return-of-ballot-papers-in-maharashtra-ajit-pawar-950068.html
11-02-2021||National||BJP values consensus, doesn't believe in political untouchability: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday asserted that the BJP does not believe in political untouchability and values consensus in politics, as he noted that his government has bestowed state honours on even the ruling party's political rivals to acknowledge their service to the nation. Addressing Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs at an event here to mark the 53rd death anniversary of Deendayal Upadhyay, a party ideologue who had founded its progenitor Jana Sangh, Modi said the saffron party always puts "rashtraneeti" above "rajneeti" and gives respect to even its political rivals. In this context, he said the current government has honoured former president and Congress stalwart Pranab Mukherjee with Bharat Ratna and noted that Padma awards were given to former Assam chief minister Tarun Gogoi and former Nagaland chief minister S C Jamir, both from the grand old party. Modi noted that he had said in Parliament in 2014 that a government may run with majority but the nation runs with consensus. "We value consensus in politics. When I arrived here in 2014, I had said the government may run with majority but the country runs with consensus. We are not here merely to run the government but to take the country forward," he said. He also cited his government's tributes to national icons like Subhas Chandra Bose, B R Ambedkar and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, and observed that any other dispensation might not have done it. He called upon the party leaders to have more people from different sections of society join it. The BJP should expand as far as the country's borders go, he said. Upadhyay's ideals of "antyodya" (empowering the most downtrodden) and integral humanism are the inspiration behind the government's welfare works and the "Aatmanirbhar Bharat" (self-reliant India) programme to boost the economy, the prime minister said, adding that India has followed the principle of "nation first" in its external policy as well, without being influenced by any pressure. He urged BJP units across the country to undertake 75 works for social welfare as the country approaches its 75th year of independence. Modi also suggested to the party MPs and other leaders to make a list of products they use in their daily lives and see if they can get rid of foreign stuff and instead, use their Indian alternatives. He said the BJP-led governments at the Centre have taken many steps that party leaders and the coming generations would be proud of and cited decisions like creation of three new states by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee dispensation and granting 10 per cent reservation to the general category poor as measures considered politically difficult but executed amicably. The BJP accords importance to its workers and not dynasties and that's why, he said, more and more people are backing the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-values-consensus-doesnt-believe-in-political-untouchability-pm-narendra-modi-950070.html
11-02-2021||National||Opposition force Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi to cut short speech||A united opposition on Thursday forced Assam Governor Jagdish Mukhi to cut short his speech on the opening day of the budget session by moving to the well of the House and displaying placards over various issues. After reading for just three minutes of his 94-page speech, Mukhi had to jump to the last paragraph as an unrelenting opposition, comprising Congress and AIUDF, continued to disrupt his address to the house. The vote on accounts for 2021-22 will be presented in the assembly on Friday. The assembly session is of three days. The moment Mukhi started reading about the good governance of the BJP-led coalition, adopting fair, effective, transparent and accountable policies with zero tolerance towards corruption, the opposition members stood in protest. The Congress and AIUDF MLAs displayed placards on various issues and trooped into well of the house. With the governor continuing with his speech, the MLAs kept shouting slogans to draw Mukhi's attention. After the governor left the house, Speaker Hitendra Nath Goswami informed that the speech was considered to be read. Goswami invited all the members of the house to the customary tea party after departure of the governor, but the Congress and the AIUDF boycotted it due to stripping of the position of the Leader of the Opposition from senior Congress MLA Debabrata Saikia. With the assembly elections approaching, hostility between the rivals is increasing which was seen during the governor's address. Opposition Congress, AIUDF, CPI, CPI (M), CPI (ML) and Anchalik Gana Morcha have formed a Grand Alliance in Assam to take on ruling BJP in the polls to 126-member assembly expected in March-April this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-force-assam-governor-jagdish-mukhi-to-cut-short-speech-950080.html
11-02-2021||National||IT Kharagpur's AI study finds 20% of India has toxic levels of arsenic in groundwater||Almost 20 per cent of India's total land area has toxic levels of arsenic in its groundwater, exposing more than 250 million people across the country to the poisonous element, says a new IIT Kharagpur study which used artificial intelligence (AI)-based prediction modelling. According to the researchers, the findings suggest a much greater extent of the high arsenic zones and total population exposed than already known from arsenic sampling exercises and reports by various governmental and non-governmental organisations. The research, published in the journal Science of the Total Environment, indicates the need for much more rigorous sampling of arsenic levels across India than what exists. Arsenic is highly toxic in its inorganic form, with long-term exposure to the element from drinking-water and food potentially causing cancer and skin lesions, among other disorders, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO). The current study noted that these high arsenic areas are mostly located along the Indus-Ganga-Brahmaputra river basin and in pockets in Peninsular India. It said the states of Punjab (92 per cent), Bihar (70 per cent), West Bengal (69 per cent), Assam (48 per cent), Haryana (43 per cent), Uttar Pradesh (28 per cent), and Gujarat (24 per cent) show the highest areal extent of elevated groundwater arsenic zones. These are followed by sporadic occurrences in the states of Madhya Pradesh (9 per cent), Karnataka (8 per cent), Odisha (4 per cent), Maharashtra (1 per cent), and south-eastern part of Jammu & Kashmir (1 per cent), the researchers said. Apart from these, all other states are found to have negligible or mostly no arsenic hazard, they added. "A total of more than 250 million people are estimated to be exposed to high arsenic in India," said Abhijit Mukherjee, Associate Professor at the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur, West Bengal. "Our study indicates a strong influence of irrigational abstraction (of groundwater) and regional geology on arsenic distribution patterns within India," Mukherjee, the lead author of the study, told PTI. In the study, the scientists used advanced AI to model the occurrence of arsenic above its national permissible limit of 10 microgrammes per litre (μg/L) in the groundwater across India based on the various geologic, hydrogeologic and anthropogenic factors that have been known to control the groundwater arsenic distribution in the aquifers. Mukherjee said the study is the first integrated report on the field-sampled arsenic distribution patterns along with an arsenic prediction model using advanced AI across India. The researchers, including co-authors Soumyajt Sarkar and Madhumita Chakraborty, said they chose AI techniques to model the groundwater arsenic hazard across India since they suspected that a large part of arsenic-contaminated areas in India is still not sufficiently sampled. Therefore, they said, field-based analysis of arsenic distribution might yield a much lower arsenic hazard scenario across the country. "AI is being increasingly used in various domains of research for its exceptional computing power and ability to handle complex data, over traditional statistical models," Mukherjee said. "For this study we have used an advanced AI model, namely Random Forest, which has been proven to be the most efficient in predicting groundwater arsenic in one of our previous studies," he said. The researchers said they used 27 lakh field measurements of the goverment's Jal Jeevan Mission, and believe the results will help the mission in providing clean drinking water to households. The researchers said India has been identified to be one of the worst affected countries by arsenic in groundwater, with a number of local to intermediate-scale studies confirming the contamination in West Bengal, Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Punjab and Haryana. At present, over 80 per cent of the drinking water in India is sourced to groundwater and previous studies estimated about 90 million groundwater-dependent population in India is at risk of arsenic poisoning through direct and indirect consumption of arsenic-contaminated shallow tubewell waters, they said. Numerous studies in the past have tried to understand the patterns of occurrence of such arsenic-contaminated groundwater across India. However, the researchers said most of these studies are local-scaled and field-based, and are mostly limited to the Ganges river basin. They believe the findings from such studies will not be applicable for the rest of India. "Our AI model predicts pervasive arsenic contamination in major parts of the Himalayan mega-river Indus-Ganges-Brahmaputra basins, however it also occurs in several more-localised pockets, mostly related to ancient tectonic zones, igneous provinces, aquifers in modern delta and known sulphide mineralised mining regions," said Mukherjee. The scientists said the model suggested arsenic-hazard potential in yet-undetected areas, adding that it is helpful in predicting hotspots in areas with limited measurements. According to the researchers, the outcome of the study is particularly important for policymakers and administrators as this knowledge can provide a vital input in identifying safe drinking water sources in arsenic affected areas of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-kharagpurs-ai-study-finds-20-of-india-has-toxic-levels-of-arsenic-in-groundwater-950081.html
11-02-2021||National||Airlines permitted to fly only 80% of pre-Covid flights till March-end: Centre||The cap on the number of domestic flights that Indian airlines are permitted to operate will remain at 80 per cent of their pre-Covid levels till March 31 or till the summer schedule begins, said the Civil Aviation Ministry on Thursday. The ministry had set the 80 per cent limit on December 3, 2020, without specifying till what date it would remain in place. The summer schedule begins at the end of March for all the airlines. Aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) approves both the schedules - summer and winter - of all the airlines. "As per the prevailing situation of Covid-19, the central government...directs the order dated December 3, 2020, shall remain in force till 2359 hrs on March 31, 2021 or till the date of commencement of summer schedule 2021, whichever is earlier or until further orders," the ministry's order said. The ministry had resumed scheduled domestic passenger services from May 25, 2020, after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus lockdown. However, the airlines were allowed to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. On June 26, this was increased to 45 per cent and on September 2, it was further increased to 60 per cent. On November 11, it was increased to 70 per cent. On December, it was increased to 80 per cent. Scheduled international passenger traffic continues to remain suspended in India since March 23, 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating since July 2020 under air bubble arrangements formed with various countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/airlines-permitted-to-fly-only-80-of-pre-covid-flights-till-march-end-centre-950083.html
11-02-2021||National||Air travel becomes expensive: Centre raises limits on domestic airfares by 10-30%||Passengers will have to shell out more money for air travel from now as the Civil Aviation Ministry on Thursday increased the lower and upper limits on domestic airfares by 10 to 30 per cent. These new limits would remain "in force up to March 31, 2021, or until further orders", the ministry said its order on Thursday. While announcing the resumption of scheduled domestic flights on May 21 last year, the ministry had placed limits on airfares through seven bands classified on the basis of flight duration. The first such band consists of flights that are of less than 40 minutes duration. The lower limit for the first band was increased on Thursday from Rs 2,000 to Rs 2,200. The upper limit in this band was set at Rs 7,800, which was Rs 6,000 earlier. The subsequent bands are for flights with durations of 40-60 minutes, 60-90 minutes, 90-120 minutes, 120-150 minutes, 150-180 minutes and 180-210 minutes. The fresh lower and upper limits set by the ministry for these bands on Thursday were: Rs 2,800 - Rs 9,800; Rs 3,300 – Rs 11,700; Rs 3,900 – Rs 13,000; Rs 5,000 – Rs 16,900; Rs 6,100 – Rs 20,400; Rs 7,200 – Rs 24,200, respectively. Till date, the lower and upper limits for these bands were: Rs 2,500 - Rs 7,500; Rs 3,000 - Rs 9,000; Rs 3,500 - Rs 10,000; Rs 4,500 - Rs 13,000; Rs 5,500 - Rs 15,700 and Rs 6,500 - Rs 18,600, respectively. Aviation regulator DGCA had said on May 21 last year that each airline would sell at least 40 per cent of its tickets on a flight at prices less than the midpoint between the lower limit and upper limit. Domestic passenger services resumed on May 25 after nearly two months of suspension to combat the coronavirus outbreak. Along with the limits on airfares, the government had asked the airlines to operate not more than 33 per cent of their pre-COVID domestic flights. On June 26, the cap was increased to 45 per cent. This was gradually increased to 80 per cent. The ministry said on Thursday that the 80 per cent limit would remain in place till March-end. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic. All Indian carriers last year took cost-cutting measures such as pay cuts, leave without pay and firing of employees in order to conserve cash. Scheduled international passenger traffic continues to remain suspended in India since March 23, 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating since July 2020 under air bubble arrangements formed with various countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-travel-becomes-expensive-centre-raises-limits-on-domestic-airfares-by-10-30-950087.html
11-02-2021||National||IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad praises Koo — India's alternative to Twitter||In an apparent message to Twitter,  IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday appreciated Koo, a homegrown alternative to Twitter in Parliament. "Koo is a made-in-India app that has become a toast for success today and we should be proud of it. It is a matter of pride for me that Indians are heading so many multi-technology companies. Let us salute the extraordinary courage of our start-ups," Prasad said during the Question Hour in Rajya Sabha.  The government and Twitter have been in a tussle for the past 10 days over blocking of Twitter accounts related to farmers protest. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology on Wednesday used Koo to post message express its displeasure over a Twitter blog post. For the past few days, many Union Ministers and government departments have opened their accounts on Koo. Several BJP leaders openly called on Indians to support Koo to counter Twitter. Koo, which is one of the winners in the 'Social category' of the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge', has witnessed a 10-fold surge in its downloads in the past two days. Koo is an app like Twitter which was launched 10 months ago. The app was developed by Aparameya Radhakrishna and Mayank Bidawatka. The app is available in several languages, including Hindi, Telugu, Kannada, Bengali, Tamil, Malayalam, Gujarati, Marathi, Punjabi, Odiya and Assamese. The NDA government upset with Twitter after the popular social media platform refused to follow a government order to block some accounts belonging to civil society activists. Commenting on the government's commitment to free speech and individual freedom, Prasad told Parliament, "This government is led by leaders who have fought for the freedom of individuals, freedom of media, independence of the judiciary." "This includes our Prime Minister, you, Rajnath Singh ji, Prakash Javadekar and also me. Our commitment to freedom of media is complete and total. But we are equally concerned about the security and sovereignty of India," Prasad told Rajya Sabha chairperson Venkaiah Naidu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-minister-ravi-shankar-prasad-praises-koo-indias-alternative-to-twitter-950088.html
11-02-2021||National||PM Modi to inaugurate Maritime India Summit 2021 on March 2; 24 nations to participate||Around 20,000 delegates from 24 countries will be participating in the 2nd edition of the Maritime India Summit (MIS) scheduled to be held virtually from March 2 to March 4.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate the Maritime India Summit 2021, which will also showcase over 400 projects, on March 2. The event is being organised by the Ministry of Ports, Shipping and Waterways (MoPSW) jointly with the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) as the industrial partner and EY as the knowledge partner. "The Maritime India Summit (MIS) is going to provide a powerful platform for international collaboration and bring in partner countries for mutual exchange of knowledge and opportunities," Union Minister of Ports, Shipping and Waterways Mansukh Mandaviya told the media here. Due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the entire summit will be held on the virtual platform with registration for visitors and exhibitors starting today. The event will provide a unique platform which will see physical and virtual presence of prominent shipping and transport ministers and dignitaries from across the world. Maritime states of India will participate in the summit through dedicated sessions. The summit will also include an exclusive CEOs’ forum and various thematic/breakout sessions, the Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-maritime-india-summit-2021-on-march-2-24-nations-to-participate-950090.html
11-02-2021||National||No proposal to relax UGC-NET requirement for lecturership posts in varsities, colleges: Edu Min||The Ministry of Education has ruled out any proposal to relax the requirement of UGC-NET exam for lecturership posts in government as well as private colleges. Union Minister of Education Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' made the statement in response to a written question in Rajya Sabha. "The University Grants Commission (UGC) has informed that there is no proposal at present to relax the UGC NET exam for lecturership posts," Nishank said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-proposal-to-relax-ugc-net-requirement-for-lecturership-posts-in-varsities-colleges-edu-min-950091.html
11-02-2021||National||Gadkari to launch India's first CNG tractor on Feb 12||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari will on Friday launch India's first CNG tractor that could save about Rs 1 lakh annually on fuel costs, the government said on Thursday. The tractor has been converted to CNG from diesel. "India's first-ever diesel tractor, converted to CNG, will be formally launched by Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari tomorrow (Friday)," the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a statement. It added that the conversion, carried out jointly by Rawmatt Techno Solutions & Tomasetto Achille India, will help farmers increase their income by lowering costs and help in creating job opportunities in rural India. Union Ministers Dharmendra Pradhan, Narendra Singh Tomar, Parshottam Rupala and V K Singh will also be present at the launch. "The most important benefit for the farmer will be to save more than Rs 1 lakh annually on fuel costs, which will help them improve their livelihood," the statement said. Listing the important benefits of conversion to CNG, it said that apart from being a clean fuel that has the lowest content of carbon and other pollutants. It is economical also as it has zero lead and is non-corrosive, non-dilutive and non-contaminating, which helps in increasing the life of the engine, and requires less regular maintenance, the ministry added. It is cheaper also as CNG prices are far more consistent than fluctuating petrol prices; also the average mileage of CNG vehicles is better than that of diesel/petrol driven vehicles, the statement said. The statement added that it is safer as CNG tanks come with a tight seal, which reduces the possibility of explosion while refuelling or in the event of a spill. "It is the future, as at present, around 12 million vehicles are already powered by natural gas throughout the world and more companies and municipalities are joining the CNG movement every day," the statement said. Explaining specific benefits of converting tractors to CNG to farmers, the statement said test reports indicate that the retrofitted tractor produces more power/equal in comparison to diesel-run engine. "Overall emissions are reduced by 70 per cent as compared to diesel. It will help farmers save up to 50 per cent on the fuel cost as the current diesel prices are Rs.77.43 per litre, whereas CNG is only Rs 42 per kg," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gadkari-to-launch-indias-first-cng-tractor-on-feb-12-950096.html
11-02-2021||National||India protested strongly to Sri Lanka over death of fishermen in vessel collision||India has strongly protested to Sri Lanka over the death of four Indian fishermen following a collision between their vessel and a Lankan naval craft last month, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Thursday. Replying to questions in the Rajya Sabha, the minister also said no Indian fishermen were in Sri Lanka's custody presently. On January 18 this year, four fishermen lost their lives following a collision between their vessel and a Sri Lankan naval craft. "We have very, very strongly protested to the Sri Lankans on this matter. In response to that, they have instituted an inquiry. We are awaiting the results of the inquiry. But, I wish to assure...that we will take a very strong view on this matter," he said. A strong protest in regard to the incident was conveyed by the Indian High Commissioner to the Sri Lankan Foreign Minister. A strong demarche was also made to the Sri Lankan Acting High Commissioner in New Delhi. Jaishankar also told the House that "right now, there are no Indian fishermen in the custody of Sri Lanka". There were nine till recently and they have been released. "As of now, there are 62 Indian boats which we are trying to get released from Sri Lankan custody," he said. Previously, there were 173 boats, out of which 36 were salvageable. "So, the auction procedures for the unsalvageable boats are currently under discussion. Our endeavour would be, whatever can be returned, we will get them returned and whatever can be salvaged, we will expedite the salvage," the minister added. He also said the government attaches the highest priority to the safety and security of Indian fishermen. As soon as reports of apprehension of Indian fishermen are received, the government, through diplomatic channels, takes up the matter with the government of Sri Lanka, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-protested-strongly-to-sri-lanka-over-death-of-fishermen-in-vessel-collision-950101.html
11-02-2021||National||No decision on exempting IITs from faculty reservation: Government||The government has not taken any decision yet on a panel's recommendations that the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) should be exempted from reservations in faculty appointments, the Parliament was informed on Thursday. The committee submitted its report last June and it was circulated to all the ministries concerned and their comments have been received, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha. "The government has not yet taken a decision on the recommendations of the committee," Nishank said. An eight-member committee comprising IIT directors was asked to suggest measures on effective implementation of reservation policies not only in recruitment, but also for admissions. In a report submitted to the government in June, the panel said that the IITs should be exempted from reservations because they were "institutes of national importance and are involved in research". The committee had also noted that the expectations on the faculty from the IITs were very high due to the quality and standards of education, and rather than specific quotas, diversity issues should be addressed through outreach campaigns and targeted recruitment of faculty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-decision-on-exempting-iits-from-faculty-reservation-government-950102.html
11-02-2021||National||Indians spend highest average time on smartphones; country second globally in broadband usage: Nokia report||Average time spent by Indians on smartphones is the highest in the world and the duration for watching short videos is likely to rise 4-fold by 2025, telecom gear maker firm Nokia said in a report on Thursday. The annual report - Mobile Broadband India Traffic Index, (Mbit) 2021 - found that India ranked second in the world in terms of broadband usage on mobile phones after Finland, and the data traffic in the country has increased around 60 times over the last five years, which is also highest globally. "In the last five years, we have grown 63 times in terms of data growth that has happened. It is phenomenal. It is a record. I don't think any country, any region, any market can beat this record of how data have been consumed in the last five years," Nokia chief marketing officer Amit Marwah said while sharing details of the report. According to the report, 164 petabytes of data was consumed in December 2015, which reached close to 10,000 petabytes in December 2020 on mobile networks. The average consumption of data per user per month also increased by 76 per cent CAGR (compound annual growth rate) over the last five years to 13.5 GB (gigabyte) on 3G and 4G network combined. Average data consumed on 4G network are 13.7 GB per user per month. "An average user in India has increased his consumption on smartphones by 4 times in the last year. An average person consumes close to 5 hours per day, in fact, it is 4.48 hours per day, on their devices. Even from today, we will grow 4 times more in terms of more content getting used," Marwah said. Almost 55 per cent of this consumption is being now spearheaded by short content, which is available on channels like YouTube, social media and other OTT apps and the rest of the 45 per cent is getting consumed on other kinds of content like fintech, e-commerce and other kinds of browsing activities. The consumption pattern on smartphones is driven by the enablement of short videos, penetration of high-end devices and attention of millennials over short content. Marwah said the need for fixed broadband connections in the country increased in 2020 due to work from home. Fibre-to-the-home (FTTH) and fixed wireless are going to see huge growth in years to come. In December 2014, there were 690 thousand homes that were connected with FTTH which grew over 5-fold to 4 million in December 2020, the report said. Nokia Mbit report projects fibre-based broadband connections to increase from less than 15 per cent of total fixed broadband connections in 2019 to almost 48 per cent by 2025. There were just 22 million fixed broadband (FBB) subscribers in 2020 and the revenue of the segment is expected to increase 1.5 times by 2025. The time spent on education apps increased 30 per cent and OTT traffic increased 265 per cent in April 2020 since February 2020. Marwah said the data growth scenario makes ground for starting 5G services in India now. According to the report, the 700 megahertz (MHz) spectrum band is suitable for 5G coverage but the data speed will be very poor. Marwah said that the quantum of the spectrum will be very small in 700 Mhz, which is most expensive compared to other bands, therefore the data speed will be very low. Nokia report suggests telecom operators should have 100 Mhz of spectrum in 3.4 to 3.8 GHz frequency range for good coverage and data speed. The top speed expected on a 5G network is 1 gigabit per second (Gbps). The Department of Telecom has informed a Parliamentary panel that it expects to hold another round of auction in 2021 after which 5G services can be rolled out. According to the report, there were about 2 million 5G devices active in the country, while 150 million 4G capable devices were shipped in India in 2020. "Around 100 million subscribers having LTE (4G) capable devices are still on 2G and 3G services. 4G capable device penetration reached 77 per cent at a pan-India level in 2020," the report said. Nokia chief technology officer Randeep Raina said 2G is not going to be shut anytime soon because there are 300 million feature phones that are running on the network. "We will see some of the spectrum getting reformed for LTE (4G). As the ecosystem for mobile devices gets better, we will see a lot of spectrum getting reformed for 4G or 5G," Raina said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indians-spend-highest-average-time-on-smartphones-country-second-globally-in-broadband-usage-nokia-report-950114.html
11-02-2021||National||CBSE issues guidelines for class 9, 11 exams; recommends new academic session begin from April 1||The Central Board of Secondary Education has directed schools under it to take steps to identify and resolve learning gaps, and then conduct examinations for Classes 9 and 11 by following COVID-19 safety protocols. The board has also recommended that the new academic session begin from April 1. "For Classes 9 and 11, schools should take steps to identify and remedy the learning gaps and thereafter, conduct examinations by strictly following COVID-19 safety protocols as per the Examination Bye-Laws," the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Controller of Examination Sanyam Bhardwaj said in a letter to school principals. "This exam will also help in identifying learning gaps which could be addressed by schools in the new academic session, at the beginning of classes, by having a bridge course specially designed to address learning gaps," he said. Schools were shut in March last year as a precautionary measure following the outbreak of the coronavirus. During the subsequent nationwide lockdown, students moved to online classes. But as restrictions were gradually eased from June last year, schools reopened partially in a few states from October 2020 onwards. In the letter, Bhardwaj said, "While holding examinations/classes, COVID-19 safety protocols should be followed strictly. It would be appropriate to start the academic session 2021-2022 from April 1 to the extent feasible subject to the instructions of state governments." Schools are requested to follow the suggestions to make the next session more streamlined and ensure that learning gaps, if any, are addressed, he added. "Schools have opened in a majority of states and with the improvement of COVID-19 pandemic situation, it is expected that schools will be opened in other states and union territories. Schools should be fully geared up and prepared to welcome the students for face to face classes. This will help students attend schools for completing their practicals," Bhardwaj said. The CBSE had earlier this month announced the schedule for board exams for classes 10 and 12. "The board has taken decision to reschedule the class 10 and 12 exams from May-June, because of the unprecedented situation arising due to COVID-19 Pandemic. As a result a number of schools have been seeking advice from CBSE regarding examinations for classes 9 and 11 and about the commencement of new academic session,” Bhardwaj said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-issues-guidelines-for-class-9-11-exams-recommends-new-academic-session-begin-from-april-1-950133.html
11-02-2021||National||Khalistani flag hoisting by SFJ: NIA files chargesheet against six||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday filed a chargesheet against six people in connection with a case of hoisting the Khalistani flag by cadres of the outlawed Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) organisation on the eve of Independence Day in Punjab's Moga, an official said. The US-based separatist group SFJ is banned by the government. On August 14, two miscreants hoisted a yellow-coloured flag with Khalistan written on it on the terrace of a four-storey building of the Deputy Commissioner's Office Complex in Moga, according to an NIA spokesperson. They also cut the rope of the Indian flag hoisted near the main gate and dragged it along with the rope, the official said. The crime was committed by the miscreants at the behest of SFJ militant Gurpatwant Singh Pannu, who had offered them cash rewards, the NIA official said. The chargesheet was filed before a special NIA judge in Mohali under relevant sections of the IPC, the UAPA and the Prevention of Insult to National Honour Act against Inderjit Singh, Jaspal Singh, Akashdeep Singh, Jagwinder Singh, Pannu and Harpreet Singh. Inderjit Singh, Jaspal Singh and Akashdeep Singh are radicalised members of the SFJ, a proscribed unlawful association, and conspired with Pannu and Rana Singh of the SFJ, the NIA official said. In furtherance of the conspiracy, Inderjit Singh, Jaspal Singh and Akashdeep Singh were involved in hoisting the Khalistani flag at the DC Office Complex in Moga on August 14 last year and also tearing of the Indian national flag hoisted on the premises of the DC Office, the spokesperson said. They made a video of the incident and sent it to SFJ's Pannu and Rana Singh which was broadcasted by them on various social media platforms like YouTube, US Media International and SFJ Channel to propagate the secessionist agenda of the SFJ and in support of Referendum-2020 for making a separate state of Khalistan, the NIA official said. Pannu and Rana Singh have also sent funds through money transfer services to Inderjit Singh and Jaspal Singh after the commission of the crime, the official said. During the investigation, various electronic devices like laptop, hard disc, mobile phones containing incriminating material were seized from the accused, establishing their strong involvement in the crime. Further investigation in the case is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/khalistani-flag-hoisting-by-sfj-nia-files-chargesheet-against-six-950134.html
11-02-2021||National||Budget 2021-22 reflects dismal state of India's economy: Opposition leaders in Rajya Sabha||Opposition parties in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday termed the union budget for 2021-22 as one "for the rich and by the rich" that reflected a "painful story" of the country and bankruptcy of its economy. Various parties including the Congress, TMC, SP and left parties hit out at the government over the state of the economy and rising unemployment and alleged that the Modi dispensation was out to sell the country's assets. Participating in the debate on the union budget, Congress leader P Chidambaram tore into the government for presenting a "disappointing" budget and described it as a "budget for the rich, of the rich and by the rich" meant for only "one per cent of India's population controlling 73 per cent wealth". Rejecting the budget, the former finance minister hit out at the ruling dispensation, charging it with "incompetent economic management". Participating in a debate on the budget, he said, "The sub-text is, this is a budget for the rich, of the rich and by the rich.... There is nothing for the poor people of India, who continue to suffer.... This is a budget for those one per cent who control 73 per cent of India's wealth." He said the government is in denial about the slowdown in the economy and believed that the problem in the economy is cyclical and not structural. "Two years of slowdown before the coronavirus is a reality," he said. Chidambaram alleged that the country has witnessed three years of "incompetent economic mismanagement". "Mark my words, the growth projections will fall short by the end of 2021," the former finance minister asserted. TMC member Sukhendu Sekhar Ray said the budget reflects the bankruptcy in the Indian economy. "The Budget has shown certain dreams that even the Economic Survey has not talked about them," he said. Stating that the budget outlines a "painful story", Ray said neither does it have the government's story nor that of the Opposition or that of the common man. All it has is a painful story, he alleged. He further said the Economic Survey pegged the country's growth at 11 per cent for the 2021-22 fiscal but the Budget document projected more than this at 14.4 per cent. "On January 4, the World Bank global report estimated India's GDP to plunge 9.6 per cent. However, a spokesperson of the government says such a report should not be relied upon. Till date, we don't know about the revised estimate. How do we reject the World Bank Report and how do we trust your figures," he asked. Ignoring these reports, the government is showing the dream of "Atmanirbhar Bharat" to everyone, he added. On labour laws, the Trinamool Congress leader said the six labour laws have been amended for the benefit of corporates and termed it as an "anti-labour step". "The hire and fire policy shall prevail upon the working conditions of the workers. The working hours will be extended from 8 hours to 12 hours at the dictates of corporates. This is going to happen when the labour laws will be implemented," Ray said, asking, "Who will give the consent? If employees don't give, they will lose their jobs". There is a "vast army" of unemployed people and it will lead to a law and order problem in the coming days, he warned. CPI (M) member Elamaram Kareem said the Union Budget is very disappointing and it has failed miserably in addressing the present situation. He said the Budget is far away from the ground realities and is "cruelly insensitive" to the sufferings of the toiling mass. "This budget looks like a sales advertisement. Everything is for sale here," he alleged. Manoj Jha of RJD said earlier it used to be a budget for general people but since the 1990s it has become "khaas" (special) budget. He said the budget has failed to address the current challenges. Jha also criticised the government for privatisation, including Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC). Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Vishambhar Prasad Nishad said he does not think that the government's plan about doubling the income of farmers will succeed and pointed out that there is no provision for the farm-allied sectors in the budget. "The budget is a bundle of untrue bluffs," he said. The budget will increase the disparity between the rich and the poor and it is very disappointing for farmers, wage-earners and small traders, Nishad said. Arun Singh (BJP) lauded Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for not imposing any additional taxes despite the adverse circumstances. He said not even a rupee in tax was levied in the budget. Singh accused the former UPA regime of corruption and mismanagement. During the UPA regime, he said, one minister used to be part of 26-27 groups but decisions were taken by an "invisible power". BJD member Sujeet Kumar lauded the growth focus of the Budget, saying increased capital expenditure for improving the physical infrastructure, higher priority to health and drinking water, and steps to boost start-up ecosystem in the country were praiseworthy initiatives that will help the country march towards prosperity. He, however, flagged the marginal hike in the defense Budget, at a time when Pakistan and China were raising their allocations on defense. He also expressed disappointment at reduced allocation for the education sector. TKS Elangovan of DMK said the Budget had not made adequate provisions to address the plight of daily wagers, who were significantly impacted by the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/budget-2021-22-reflects-dismal-state-of-indias-economy-opposition-leaders-in-rajya-sabha-950135.html
11-02-2021||National||Online GMAT exam to now have Analytical Writing Assessment section||The Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT), accepted as admission criterion by over 2,300 business schools across the globe, will now include the Analytical Writing Assessment (AWA) section which was earlier omitted from the online exam. The move is part of certain enhancements introduced by the Graduate Management Admission Council (GMAC), the administrator of the GMAT, in the online exam that provide additional flexibility for test takers and create greater parity with the test centre exam experience. According to GMAC officials, to respond to the rapidly changing marketing dynamics, some GMAT features were omitted from the initial GMAT online exam launch, including the AWA section. However, the AWA section has remained an integral part of the GMAT exam, providing business schools with important insights and candidates with the opportunity to demonstrate critical thinking and the ability to communicate ideas, they said. The GMAT online exam has evolved since the outset of Covid-19 from an interim to a permanent solution, supporting the ability to consistently evaluate talent in a virtual, ever-changing environment. In under a year, GMAC has released several enhancements to the GMAT online exam experience including the use of physical and online whiteboards, disability accommodations, and the option to retake the GMAT online exam. “We’re focused on providing the flexibility and support to address the long-term needs of schools and test takers. As we continue to adjust to uncertainties of the new norm, our online exams become a vital standard option, providing test takers around the world with the confidence to test in a test centre or online to meet their business school application needs,” said Joy Jones, GMAC’s Chief Product Officer and General Manager of Assessments. “There was an interest from schools to include the AWA online, and we worked to make this happen to support application cycle seasonality. We’ll continue to make investments that support our schools and test takers with enhanced and comparable online and test centre exam experiences,” he added. Since the GMAT online exam launched, over 45,000 exams have been delivered in more than 150 countries, territories, and special administrative regions. “The GMAT exam is a powerful tool for both business school candidates and admissions professionals to help make ‘right fit’ decisions for MBA and business master’s programs, which are seeing record numbers of applications,” said Jones. “We believe that test takers globally should have the ability to choose how they test to achieve their best on exam day in pursuit of their goals. Our ongoing enhancements to the GMAT online exam help to ensure the options are consistent and that we continue to meet the evolving needs of candidates and business schools,” he added. The GMAT exam is required for admissions in business schools and is designed to showcase the skills that are most relevant to the world's leading graduate business programs. Nine out of 10 new MBA enrolments globally are made using a GMAT score. GMAC is a global non-profit association of 223 graduate business schools. It owns and administers the GMAT exam, used by more than 7,000 graduate programs worldwide.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/online-gmat-exam-to-now-have-analytical-writing-assessment-section-950136.html
11-02-2021||National||Mughal Gardens in Delhi to open for public from Saturday, visitors must do advance online booking||The Mughal Gardens will open for public from Saturday and visitors will be allowed to see it only through advance online booking, according to a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan on Thursday. President Ram Nath Kovind will open the annual "Udyanotsav" of the Rashtrapati Bhavan on February 12, it said. "The Mughal Gardens will remain open for the general public from February 13, 2021 to March 21, 2021 (except on Mondays which are maintenance days) between 1000 hrs to 1700 hrs," the statement said. As a precautionary measure, walk-in entry will not be available this year, it said. Visitors will be allowed to see the Mughal Gardens only through advance online booking, the statement said. Booking can be made on https://rashtrapatisachivalaya.gov.in or https://rb.nic.in/rbvisit/visit_plan.aspx. Seven pre-booked hourly slots will be available between 1000 hrs and 1700 hrs, it said, adding that the last entry will be at 1600 hrs. "Each slot can accommodate a maximum of 100 persons. During the tour, visitors have to follow COVID-19 protocols such as wearing mask, maintaining social distancing. They will have to undergo thermal screening at entry point. People vulnerable to COVID-19 are discouraged for the tour," the statement said. Entry and exit for all visitors will be from gate no 35 of the President's Estate, close to where North Avenue meets Rashtrapati Bhavan, it said. Visitors are requested not to bring any water bottles, briefcases, handbags/purses, cameras, radios/transistors, boxes, umbrellas, eatables, the statement said. Arrangements of hand sanitiser, drinking water, toilets, first aid/ medical facility are provided at various places along the public route, it said. Apart from the annual opening of the Mughal Gardens, people can visit the Rashtrapati Bhavan and the Rashtrapati Bhavan Museum as well as witness the Change of Guard Ceremony, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mughal-gardens-in-delhi-to-open-for-public-from-saturday-visitors-must-do-advance-online-booking-950137.html
11-02-2021||National||SC asks Centre to frame guidelines for scribes in competitive exams||The Supreme Court on Thursday held that a Writer's cramp can be considered as a disability entitling the afflicted person to take scribe to write competitive examinations, including the prestigious, Civil Services examinations conducted by the UPSC. Maintaining that it was neither a largesse nor a privilege, the court said that provision for the facility of a scribe was in pursuance of the statutory mandate to ensure that persons with disabilities are able to live a life of equality and dignity based on respect in society for their bodily and mental integrity.  A three-judge bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud directed the Centre to frame guidelines and norms within three months to protect the rights of disabled students to appear in all competitive examinations with help of scribe in conformity of the progressive outlook of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016. The bench, also comprising Justices Indira Banerjee and Sanjiv Khanna, said consultation with persons with disabilities and their involvement in decision making about matters affecting their lives was necessary to bring about any meaningful change in the realisation of their rights.  The court said a case-by-case approach must be adopted by the relevant body charged with the obligation of providing reasonable accommodation. It also stressed at "linguistic shift" in the way the persons with disabilities were referred to "evince a clear desire to make the disabled feel empowered and included, not alienated and situated on a different footing from their able-bodied counterparts". Rejecting the Union government's argument for potential misuse of the facility, the bench said, "When competent persons with disabilities are unable to realise their full potential due to the barriers posed in their path, our society suffers, as much, if not more, as do the disabled people involved. In their blooming and blossoming, we all bloom and blossom." The court said failure to meet the individual needs of every disabled person will breach the norm of reasonable accommodation and flexibility in answering individual needs and requirements was essential for it. The court passed its judgement on a civil appeal filed by Vikas Kumar, an MBBS, who suffered disability in the form of dysgraphia, commonly known as a Writer’s Cramp. He was denied a scribe by the UPSC as the rules allowed candidates with locomotor disability and cerebral palsy only to take the help of a scribe. The court said, "To confine the facility of a scribe only to those who have benchmark disabilities would be to deprive a class of persons of their statutorily recognised entitlements. To do so would be contrary to the plain terms as well as the object of the Act." It said the UPSC would be a loser in denying to the nation the opportunity to be served by highly competent people who claimed nothing but access to equal opportunity and a barrier-free environment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-frame-guidelines-for-scribes-in-competitive-exams-950138.html
11-02-2021||National||Uttarakhand flash floods: Rising river waters delay rescue efforts||Surging waters in the Dhauliganga river on Thursday forced a brief pause on the rescue efforts to reach out to the 37 persons trapped inside a tunnel of the NTPC hydel power project Tapovan since Sunday’s flash floods triggered by an avalanche. Rescue operations hit a roadblock on Wednesday night as the cleared part of the tunnel at the 520MW under construction NTPC plant kept getting filled with slush from other underground tunnels of the run-of-the-river project. In a change in strategy, the rescue efforts were focused on drilling vertically to “peep into a tunnel” 12 meters below continuing to search for signs of life below the massive debris brought by a flash flood on Sunday left a trail of death and despair in this Himalayan town. As water levels surged, rescue operations were stopped for about 30 minutes and resumed after receiving an “all clear” signal from a team monitoring the site where the avalanche had hit the river Rishiganga about nine kms upstream from Tapovan. ITBP officials flew drones to look for possible hurdles in the flow of the river that could lead to a sudden surge in the waters. Meanwhile, a search was launched to look for missing persons along the river banks from Joshimath to Gauchar, about 90 km downstream, as the torrent of debris washed away power projects, bridges and temples that came in the way. According to officials, 35 bodies have been recovered since Sunday’s flash floods and 169 persons remain missing – most of them engaged at the NTPC project site Tapovan and at the smaller Rishiganga project about nine km upstream near Raini village. Anxious relatives continued to throng the project site looking for information about their near and dear ones missing in the disaster. Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya had to face the ire of the relatives who broke down before her and sought speeding up of rescue efforts. “We are making every effort to search for those who are missing,” Maurya told reporters at the project site Tapovan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-flash-floods-rising-river-waters-delay-rescue-efforts-950140.html
11-02-2021||National||Air bubble arrangement between India, Russia to come into effect from tomorrow||India and Russia have concluded an air bubble arrangement and it will come into effect from Friday, the Russian Embassy said. Under the pact between the two countries, special international passenger flights can be operated by their airlines into each other's territories under restrictive conditions. "We would like to inform you that the Russian and Indian sides have concluded an air bubble arrangement coming in to effect on February 12, 2021," the Russian Embassy said in a statement on Thursday. "We also would like to emphasise that the entry of tourists from Russia is not yet possible." Scheduled international flights continue to remain suspended in India since March 23 last year due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special flights have been permitted under air bubbles since July last year. According to the statement, three categories of passengers would be permitted to travel from India to Russia under this bubble: "Stranded citizens of Russia; any Indian national or Nepalese national or Bhutanese national holding a valid Russian visa; seamen planning to work in Russia". The statement said four categories of passengers can travel from Russia to India under this bubble: "Indian nationals or Nepalese nationals or Bhutanese nationals stranded in Russia; all overseas citizen of India (OCI) cardholders and person of Indian origin cardholders holding passports of any country; seamen from Russia; Russian nationals intending to visit India for any purpose (including the dependents holding appropriate visa), except tourism". India has formed air bubble arrangements with around 24 countries, including the US, UAE, Bahrain, Canada, France, Germany, Kenya, Bhutan, Afghanistan, Iraq and Japan since July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-bubble-arrangement-between-india-russia-to-come-into-effect-from-tomorrow-950141.html
11-02-2021||National||2,072 Indians died of coronavirus infection abroad: Centre||A total of 2,072 Indians died due to the coronavirus in various countries with the highest death toll of 906 being reported in Saudi Arabia followed by 375 in the United Arab Emirates, the government said on Thursday. Replying to a question in Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said 369 Indians died of coronavirus infection in Kuwait while 166 deaths were reported from Oman. An estimated 8.5 million Indians live and work in the Gulf region. Hundreds of thousands of them returned to India following the pandemic. According to the details provided by Muraleedharan, 34 Indians died in Qatar, 48 in Bahrain and 23 each in Sudan and Nigeria. He said 15 Indians died in Italy, seven in France, nine in Nepal, six in Iran and seven Indians succumbed to the virus in Iraq. Replying to a separate question, Muraleedharan said India's policy on Taiwan is clear and consistent. "Government facilitates and promotes interactions in areas of trade, investment, tourism, culture, education and other such people-to-people exchanges," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2072-indians-died-of-coronavirus-infection-abroad-centre-950146.html
11-02-2021||National||Govt seeks Parliament nod for additional gross expenditure of Rs 6.28 lakh cr||The government on Thursday sought Parliament's approval for gross additional expenditure of Rs 6.28 lakh crore for 2020-21 as part of the second and final batch of supplementary demands for grants. The proposals involve net cash outgo of Rs 4.13 lakh crore while the remaining amount will be matched by savings of ministries or enhanced receipts. The approval of Parliament is sought to authorise the gross additional expenditure of Rs 6,28,379.99 crore, according to the document placed in Lok Sabha by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. "Of this, the proposals involving net cash outgo aggregate to Rs 4,12,653.48 crore and gross additional expenditure, matched by savings of the Ministries/ Departments or by enhanced receipts/ recoveries aggregates to Rs 2,15,725 crore," it said. The government has sought Rs 3,04,557.83 crore for the Department of Food and Public Distribution, including for food subsidy, subsidy to sugar mills, and extending soft loans to sugar mills. Further, Rs 49,112.42 crore has been sought for meeting expenditure under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan 3.0 towards payment for indigenous urea (Rs 36,112.80 crore) and import of urea subsidies (Rs 12,999.62 crore). As per the document, Rs 15,485.88 crore will be for meeting expenditure under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan 3.0 towards payment for indigenous P&K subsidy (Rs 9,722.53 crore), imported P&K subsidy (Rs 5,719.37 crore) and city compost (Rs 43.98 crore). According to the document, Rs 1,22,208 crore will be for providing loans to state governments through the issue of debt under special window under back to back the loan to states in lieu of GST compensation shortfall and under special assistance as a loan to states for capital expenditure. An amount of Rs 20,466.50 crore will be for capital outlay on defence services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-seeks-parliament-nod-for-additional-gross-expenditure-of-rs-628-lakh-cr-950148.html
11-02-2021||National||Over 73.30 lakh healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated against Covid-19: Health ministry||The number of healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated against Covid-19 reached 74.30 lakh on Thursday, the 27th day of the countrywide inoculation programme, the Union Health Ministry said. The cumulative number of healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated against the coronavirus is 74,30,866 till Thursday 7 pm, as per a provisional report, it said. Of the total, 57,90,832 are healthcare workers and 16,40,034 are frontline workers. The ministry said that 1,53,799 vaccination sessions have been held so far, with 10,743 sessions being held till 7 pm today. On Thursday, all states and union territories, except Mizoram and Daman and Diu, reported vaccination of beneficiaries, and 4,13,752 people were vaccinated till 7 pm, it said. "Of these, 85,604 were healthcare workers, while the other 3,28,148 beneficiaries were frontline workers," the ministry said, adding that the final report will be completed by late in the night. It said 47 adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs) have been reported till 7 pm on the 27th day of the vaccination drive. The nationwide inoculation drive was launched on January 16 with initial priority to healthcare workers. Frontline workers, like police, civil and defence staff and municipal employees, started receiving Covid-19 vaccine jabs from February 2. The 74,30,866 beneficiaries vaccinated so far include 4,48,903 from Bihar, 3,33,436 from Kerala, 4,76,277 from Karnataka, 4,85,593 from Madhya Pradesh, 6,00,456 from Maharashtra, 1,62,596 from Delhi, 6,43,438 from Gujarat, 7,52,501 from Uttar Pradesh and 4,49,649 from West Bengal, according to the provisional report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-7330-lakh-healthcare-and-frontline-workers-vaccinated-against-covid-19-health-ministry-950162.html
11-02-2021||National||Social media platforms must follow law of the land; Twitter adopting double standards, slams Centre||Amid a tussle between the central government and Twitter over blocking of accounts, IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday said social media platforms must follow the law of the land and warned of strict action against them if they failed to stop spreading fake news and fuelling violence. "We respect social media a lot, it has empowered common people. Social media has a big role in the Digital India programme. However, if social media is misused to spread fake news and violence, then action will be taken, be it Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn or WhatsApp," said the minister said during Question Hour in the Rajya Sabha. Slamming Twitter, he said the company is adopting the double standards while condemning the violence. "When there is violence in US Capitol Hill, social media platforms encourage police investigation but when Red Fort is breached, the same platforms go against the Government of India. "Red Fort is the symbol of our pride. We won't allow these double standards in the country. What is this? You are trending hashtags supporting genocide?" the minister said. "You have crores of followers. Make money but you have to abide by the Constitution of India and laws of India," the minister said. The minister's warning came in the background of ongoing tussle between the government and Twitter over blocking of 1,400 microblogging accounts, which the government says engaged in provoking protesting farmers. Prasad hails Koo "Koo is a made-in-India app that has become a toast for success today and we should be proud of it. It is a matter of pride for me that Indians are heading so many multi-technology companies. Let us salute the extraordinary courage of our start-ups," Prasad said during the Question Hour in Rajya Sabha. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology on Wednesday used Koo to post a message and expressed its displeasure over Twitter blogpost. For the past few days, many Union ministers and government departments have opened their accounts in Koo. Even several BJP leaders openly called for support to Koo, to counter Twitter. Koo, which is one of the winners in the 'Social category' of the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat App Innovation Challenge', has witnessed a 10-fold surge in its downloads in the past two days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/social-media-platforms-must-follow-law-of-the-land-twitter-adopting-double-standards-slams-centre-950164.html
11-02-2021||National||UP releases reservation policy for upcoming panchayat polls||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday released the reservation policy for the upcoming three-tier panchayat polls in the state. Reservation by rotation will be implemented in the panchayat elections, Additional Chief Secretary, Panchayati Raj, Manoj Kumar Singh said. The reservation system in place for the elections from 1995 to 2015 will be taken into account in the new policy, he said. The order of Scheduled Castes (SC), Other Backward Classes (OBC) and women in the previous election will be taken into account in the reservation policy, the ACS said adding that preference would be given to seats which have never been reserved till now. Last week, the Allahabad High Court asked the State Election Commission in Uttar Pradesh to ensure the rural civic body elections are held by April 30, rejecting the poll panel's undertaking to hold the polls by May. At present, the state has 826 vikas khands (development blocks), and 58,194 gram sabhas. There are 7,31,813 wards in the gram sabhas, and 75,855 wards in kshetra panchayats and 30,051 wards in 75 zila panchayats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-releases-reservation-policy-for-upcoming-panchayat-polls-950165.html
11-02-2021||National||Over Rs 1,000 crore raised since Jan 2021 for Ram temple: Trust member||Over Rs 1,000 crore has so far been raised for the Ram temple in Ayodhya through the campaign started last month, a member of the trust overseeing the construction of the shrine said on Thursday. Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra secretary Champat Rai said people from all communities have generously donated for the construction of the temple. The accounts of the trust in three nationalised banks show an amount of over Rs 1,000 crore, he said. Rai said nearly 1.50 lakh VHP activists are collecting funds for the Ram temple. Thirty-seven activists have been deputed to deposit the donations in the bank accounts. From remote villages, activists are bringing funds and depositing in the bank accounts, he said. Rai said all communities are supporting the fund raising campaign that was started on January 15. The Ram temple trust has opened accounts in the State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank and the Bank of Baroda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-rs-1000-crore-raised-since-jan-2021-for-ram-temple-trust-member-950166.html
11-02-2021||National||New British High Commissioner, four other foreign envoys present credential to President||President Ram Nath Kovind accepted credential from new British High Commissioner to India, Alex Ellis, in a virtual ceremony on Thursday. Ellis said that 2021 would be a significant year for the UK-India partnership, both bilaterally and on the global stage. The UK government had made clear the importance it places on its relationship with India, as visits by the British Foreign and Trade Secretaries, Dominic Raab and Elizabeth Truss, to New Delhi underlined. “My immediate priorities include preparing for the UK Prime Minister’s upcoming visit to India and, I hope, welcoming India to the G7 and COP26 summits in the UK later this year,” said the new High Commissioner to India. He said that he would be looking to build a deeper, more forward-looking partnership between the UK and India that would benefit peoples of both the nations and the world, through creating jobs by increased trade and investment, furthering excellent health cooperation, working to keep countries safe, and tackling the global challenge of climate change together. “It also means nurturing the unique “living bridge” of people and ideas that ties us together, and makes the UK-India relationship like no other.” The President also accepted the credentials from Hugo Javier Gobbi, Yasiel Alines Burillo Rivera, Guillermo Rubio Funes and Hayet Talbi, the new envoys of Argentina, Panama, El Salvador and Tunisia respectively. Kovind conveyed his good wishes to the envoys on their appointment. He said that India enjoyed warm and friendly relations with all the five countries and that the ties were deeply rooted in a common vision of peace and prosperity. He also thanked their Governments for supporting India’s candidature for the non-permanent seat of UN Security Council for the term 2021-22. He said that India had been at the forefront of global efforts to forge a decisive and coordinated response to the Covid-19 to ensure collective health and economic well-being. He further stated that under the government of India’s Vaccine Maitri initiative, highly affordable vaccines made in India have already reached several countries, re-enforcing our reputation as “Pharmacy of the World”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-british-high-commissioner-four-other-foreign-envoys-present-credential-to-president-950169.html
11-02-2021||National||Royal Bengal tiger kills woman in Bihar’s VTR||A 60-year-old woman was reportedly killed by a Royal Bengal Tiger in Bihar’s Valmikinagar Tiger Reserve (VTR). The victim has been identified as Chhatra Devi who had gone into the forest to graze her livestock, including goats. Her family members grew suspicious when Devi did not return home in the evening. To trace her, the villagers entered a few hundred metres inside the forest area. It was then that they found Devi lying in a pool of blood. “Apparently, the circumstantial evidence suggests she was attacked by a tiger. The victim has deep mark around the head, neck and teeth marks on thighs and other parts of the body,” said SK Pathak, the range officer of the Manguraha forest area. The police said a case of unnatural death was registered on Wednesday while the victim’s body has been sent for autopsy. “Her family will be given a compensation as per the government rules,” averred District Forest Officer, Ambarish Mall. Spread over 900 square kilometres, the Valmikinagar Tiger Reserve has around 30 tigers on the sprawling forest cover, which also shares a border with the Chitwan National Park in Nepal (in the north) and Sheopur Range (in the west) in Uttar Pradesh. The area is now getting infamous for the man-animal conflict. A fortnight back, a Royal Bengal Tiger was found dead in the Govardhan forest area of the VTR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/royal-bengal-tiger-kills-woman-in-bihar-s-vtr-950171.html
11-02-2021||National Politics||Budget Session in Parliament to conclude on February 12||The first leg of the Budget Session in the Parliament will conclude on Friday, Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu said.  There will be no sitting on Saturday and the Parliament will adjourn till March 8. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman will be speaking in the House tomorrow. Initially, the House was to adjourn on February 15 but it was advanced to February 13.  The second leg of the Budget Session is to start on March 8 and end on April 8. Rajya Sabha has already passed two Bills after clearing the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address. However, Lok Sabha was lagging in business as the Opposition had disrupted the House for four days demanding a separate discussion on farmers issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/budget-session-in-parliament-to-conclude-on-february-12-949953.html
11-02-2021||National Politics||BJP's yatra to end infiltration: Amit Shah slams Mamata for 'welfare of nephew' politics||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday attacked West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee claiming that Didi is only committed to the "welfare of nephew". "PM Modi is committed to the welfare of the poor, while Mamata Didi is committed to the welfare of nephew," Shah said while launching 'Poribartan Yatra' from Cooch Behar today. Stating that CM Mamata Banerjee is a "failed administrator", he said, "BJP's 'Parivartan Yatra' is not for changing CM, MLA or minister, it's for ending infiltration." Shah also targeted the CM over her reaction to "Jai Shree Ram" slogans. "Such an environment has been created in Bengal that raising Jai Shree Ram slogans has become a crime. Mamata Didi, if slogans of Jai Shree Ram are not raised here, will it be raised in Pakistan?" he asked.  The home minister promised that till the election ends, Mamata Didi will also say 'Jai Shree Ram'. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-yatra-to-end-infiltration-amit-shah-slams-mamata-for-welfare-of-nephew-politics-949963.html
11-02-2021||National Politics||No status quo ante means no peace and tranquillity: Rahul Gandhi on Rajnath Singh's Ladakh statement||Not satisfied with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's statement on developments on India-China border, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said there will be no peace and tranquillity if status quo ante is not restored on the border and accused the Narendra Modi government of letting go of Indian territory. "No status quo ante = No peace and tranquillity. Why is GOI (Government of India) insulting the sacrifice of our jawans and letting go of our territory?" Rahul tweeted, hours after Singh made a statement in Rajya Sabha announcing that India and China reached an agreement on disengagement of troops from the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh. No status quo ante = No peace & tranquility. Why is GOI insulting the sacrifice of our jawans & letting go of our territory? Congress MPs, including former Defence Minister A K Antony, protested in Rajya Sabha as they were not allowed to seek clarification from Singh on his statement on the 'Present Situation in Eastern Ladakh'. However, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said the matter was sensitive and the issue was developing. In his statement, Singh said India and China have reach an agreement on disengagement in the North and South Bank of the Pangong Lake and has been agreed to convene the next meeting of the Senior Commanders within 48 hours after the complete disengagement in the Pangong Lake area so as to address and resolve all other remaining issues. "The implementation of this agreement started yesterday (Wednesday) in the North and South Bank of the Pangong Lake. It will substantially restore the situation to that existing prior to commencement of the standoff last year," Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-status-quo-ante-means-no-peace-and-tranquillity-rahul-gandhi-on-rajnath-singhs-ladakh-statement-949964.html
11-02-2021||National Politics||Modi’s appreciation brings Ghulam Nabi Azad to centre stage of J&K’s future politics||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s emotional appreciation for the outgoing Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Ghulam Nabi Azad, has shifted the focus of Kashmir politics onto the veteran Congress leader. Azad, who was the Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir between 2005 and 2008 is being seen as the best bet on the vexed issue by political pundits and politicians, alike. A few days before his farewell, Azad had asked the Parliament to table a bill for the restoration of statehood to Jammu and Kashmir. Speaking during the discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the President’s address, Azad said Modi is the only person who can find a solution to the problems of Jammu and Kashmir. Two days after both Houses of Parliament cleared the reading down of Article 370 and the reorganisation of the state of Jammu and Kashmir into two separate Union Territories on August 5, 2019, Modi, in a televised address to the nation had promised that at some point statehood would be restored to J&K, something that Azad recently demanded. While bidding a tearful farewell to Azad on February 9 in the Upper House, the Prime Minister said that he respects the Congress leader as a “true friend” and will not let him retire, and will continue taking his advice. Azad is known to have certain views on Article 370 and almost all the outstanding issues being faced in Jammu and Kashmir. The Congress veteran also congratulated the Modi government for conducting District Development Council (DDC) elections successfully. “The BJP government has achieved its aim of scrapping Article 370 and now wants democratic process to flourish in J&K. There can’t be anybody better than Azad to lead the process at the moment,” political analyst and TV debater Majid Hyderi told DH. He said as the chief minister Azad had set a benchmark of good governance in J&K. “In the last two years, the BJP tried to support some individuals to take the centre stage of J&K politics, but as they lack credibility the experiment failed. When the PM said he will continue to take advice from Azad, he gave enough hints as to what is expected to come,” Hyderi added. A senior J&K Congress leader wishing anonymity said that Azad enjoys the support of most of the leadership in J&K. “Jammu region, where the Congress party’s vote bank lies, has no issues with scrapping of Article 370. (But) people in Jammu want restoration of statehood and some guarantees on jobs and land rights which is something Azad sahib has demanded,” he said. There are unconfirmed reports that the Centre wants to hold elections in J&K sometime later this year as the Delimitation Commission set up in March 2020 is set to complete the process in next few months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-s-appreciation-brings-ghulam-nabi-azad-to-centre-stage-of-jk-s-future-politics-949970.html
11-02-2021||National Politics||Budget for the rich, of the rich, by the rich, says P Chidambaram||The Opposition Congress on Thursday accused the government of presenting a disappointing Budget that caters only to a handful of rich and ignores the bulk of India that has silently suffered or is still suffering. Participating in a debate on the Budget in the Rajya Sabha, senior Congress leader and former Finance Minister P Chidambaram said, "The sub-text is, this is a budget for the rich, of the rich and by the rich.... There is nothing for the poor people of India, who continue to suffer.... This is a budget for those one per cent who control 73% of India's wealth”. "Every economist in the world has said we have to stimulate demand and the best way to stimulate demand is to put money in the hands of people. This government has failed on that account. I repeat the charge. You are still not learning the lessons of the last 36 months. I am afraid that as a result of your not learning the lessons, another 12 months will be lost and the poor will suffer and suffer greatly," he said. Chidambaram said the government is in denial about the slowdown in the economy and believed that the problem in the economy is cyclical and not structural. He said that there was no demand in most parts of the country, including in developed states such as Tamil Nadu, where every other small shop has closed down and added that it was left to one's imagination how backward states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha must be coping. "You have ignored the bulk of India. Who is this Budget for?" he asked, while saying that the incompetent management will undo the growth achieved and the borrowings will only be used to fill the huge craters in the economy. He also cautioned the government against boasting about expected double digit economic growth numbers next year, which he said were only mechanical and were based on an extremely low base of this year. "Inflation next year will be at least five or six per cent.... The arithmetic I have says your growth will only be 9.4 or 8.4...which is a natural and mechanical growth after the coronavirus-induced slowdown. Do not boast about the numbers. It will take you two-three years to get to a stable GDP. Take the advices of well-meaning critics, address the structural issue of the economy and support the poor,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/budget-for-the-rich-of-the-rich-by-the-rich-says-p-chidambaram-950003.html
11-02-2021||National Politics||Don't make it a prestige issue, repeal farm laws, Sachin Pilot tells Centre||Urging the Centre not to make the agri laws a "prestige issue", senior Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Thursday asserted that the government must let go of its "stubbornness" to immediately repeal the legislations, and said that when the BJP could not convince its allies like the Akali Dal and the RLP on the issue, how can it expect the farmers to accept the laws. A day ahead of former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi's visit to Rajasthan to raise the voice of the farmers against the farm laws, he said that the Centre should withdraw the laws and after thorough consultation with farmers and states, come up with a new set of legislations which the tillers would themselves want and is not something that is forced upon them. In an interview with PTI, Pilot slammed the BJP for stating that the Congress had made a "U-turn" on the farm laws, saying it was the BJP which was prone to making 'U-turns', while his party was consistent on all issues. While the Congress supported agri reforms, it did not back laws which are "contrary to the interest of the farmers", said the former Rajasthan deputy chief minister, who addressed two kisan panchayats in Dausa and Bharatpur recently, which saw a massive turnout. "First of all, they (BJP) made a U-turn on Aadhaar, then on GST, MGNREGA, FDI and so many issues. The Congress said we want to get new investments (in the agri sector) and technological inputs, want more 'mandis', liberalise the system, but never said we will make laws contrary to the interest of the farmers," he said. Stressing that the government should set aside its "ego'' and let go of its "stubbornness" to repeal the laws, Pilot said almost all political parties and even the BJP's allies - be it the Akali Dal or Hanuman Beniwal's Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) - opposed the laws. Both the Akali Dal and the RLP quit the BJP-led NDA, opposing the farm laws brought in by the government. "They were not able to convince their own NDA partners, how can they expect the farmers to be convinced by these laws and accept them," Pilot said. "I don't think they should make it a prestige issue," the former Rajasthan Congress chief said. Asked if there could be a middle path or the repeal of laws was the only option, Pilot said the farmers have explicitly said that they want a complete withdrawal of the laws and the Congress stands firmly behind their demand. Criticising the three farm laws, Pilot said the first major problem with them is that they were made without consultation with any stakeholder as no farmer unions or state government was involved in the making of the laws. "Clearly these three laws that the government has made are not in the interest of the farmers because they are protecting everybody but the farmer. You dismantle the 'mandi' system and remove the stock limits, you are obviously encouraging large conglomerates and huge companies who can manage and maintain huge granaries", which could lead to manipulation of the food grain market in the future, he claimed. Asked about the BJP's assertion that the 'mandi' system will stay and the law only provides more options to the farmers, Pilot said that the BJP had also claimed that the farmers' income will be doubled and Rs 15 lakh will be transferred in the accounts of people, none of which happened. "The law is in favour of a few individuals which will then control the sector. There is only so much food grain that is grown and harvested, if the government stops or drastically reduces procurement, where will the food security act go, from where will the food come for the supply for the PDS (public distribution system)," the 43-year-old leader said. He hailed the efforts of former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for strongly opposing the laws and standing with the farmers while extending moral support to them in various places. "Mr Gandhi vehemently opposed the laws and he is coming to Rajasthan to give support to the demand of the farmers to repeal these laws. He is touring three or four agrarian districts and will take part in many 'kisan sabhas' and will meet farmers and give support to their demands," he said of Gandhi's two-day visit to the state on February 12-13. Referring to the multi-layered barricading and iron nails studded on roads at the protest sites on Delhi's border points, Pilot said the farmers are sitting at the Delhi's borders for the last 80 days and not a single incident of violence took place as they were agitating on truly Gandhian philosophy, but had to face severe intimidation. "What happened on Republic Day, every individual has condemned that. We have to investigate how that happened and now they have caught the main accused who is not a farmer," Pilot said, referring to the violence in Delhi during the protesting farmer's tractor rally on January 26. "The huge deployment, nails being dug and barricading, gave a sense that the government is attempting to suppress the farmers by oppressive means," Pilot said. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh demanding the rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring farmers better opportunities and usher in new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dont-make-it-a-prestige-issue-repeal-farm-laws-sachin-pilot-tells-centre-950018.html
11-02-2021||National Politics||Bengal polls: Mamata Banerjee will chant 'Jai Shree Ram' by the time polls are over, says Amit Shah||Union Home Minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah on Thursday said that West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will  begin chanting 'Jai Shree Ram' by the time the upcoming assembly polls get over. Shah, while addressing a rally in North Bengal as part of the saffron party's ongoing 'Parivartan Yatra', said that Banerjee gets angry at 'Jai Shree Ram' slogan. "If 'Jai Shree Ram' is not chanted in India, will it be chanted in Pakistan? You get angry over it because you want to appease a particular section of people for vote bank politics," Shah said. On January 23, Banerjee had refused to speak at a programme, held to celebrate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, following slogans of “Jai Shree Ram” raised by a section of the audience. An angry Mamata had said that one should not insult someone after inviting that person and left the podium in a huff. The incident happened in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Shah flagged off the fourth of the five 'Parivartan Yatras' planned by the BJP ahead of the assembly polls and said that the yatras are not for changing a chief minister, MLA or minister but ending inflitration and transforming the condition of West Bengal. The union minister also said that the BJP is ready to take on the "goons" of the ruling TMC and that the upcoming assembly poll would be a contest between the "vikas (development) model" of the Narendra Modi government and Mamata Banerjee's "vinash (destruction) model". (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bengal-polls-mamata-banerjee-will-chant-jai-shree-ram-by-the-time-polls-are-over-says-amit-shah-950025.html
11-02-2021||National Politics||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar backs Modi govt on farm laws, hopes for a resolution soon||Bihar Chief Minister and JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar on Thursday backed three contentious farm laws, saying these legislations are in the interest of farmers and not against them. Speaking to reporters after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Kumar said his party is with the government on the issue and that the Centre has opted for the right path by holding talks with the farmer unions agitating against the three laws. "Hopefully, the issue will be resolved soon," the BJP ally said. Thousands of farmers are protesting on various Delhi borders for more than two months demanding the repeal of the three laws, which they find pro-corporate and against the existing mandi and MSP procurement systems. However, the government has rejected these apprehensions as baseless, though at least 11 rounds of talks between the two sides have failed to end the stalemate. Kumar also made light of the claims of rival parties, including Lalu Prasad's RJD, that his government in Bihar will not last its full term, saying if they are getting publicity out of it, then there is nothing wrong with that. He added in the same vein that these leaders are ignorant of realities. This was Kumar's first meeting with Modi after his government assumed office in November last year. Describing it as a coursey meeting, the Bihar chief minister said he did not make any specific demand and they talked about a range of issues. In power in Bihar since 2005 except for a brief period, this is the first time that Kumar's JD(U) is a junior partner in the alliance with the BJP after its tally fell to 43 seats in the 243-member assembly from 71 while the saffron party jumped to 74 from 53.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-backs-modi-govt-on-farm-laws-hopes-for-a-resolution-soon-950072.html
11-02-2021||National Politics||Govt ready for talks, can amend farm laws if needed: Rajnath Singh||The Union government is ready to discuss the new agriculture laws with farmers' leaders with an open mind and even to amend them if necessary, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said here on Thursday. The new laws are aimed at doubling farmers' income, Singh said, speaking at a function to inaugurate thousands of small-scale irrigation projects in Madhya Pradesh. Singh's statement follows Prime Minister Narendra Modi's fresh appeal to protesting farmers on Wednesday to come forward for talks and the assurance that the government is open to amending the laws if there are any shortcomings. "We are ready to talk with an open mind on farm laws and if needed even make amendments to them. As a result of our government's decisions, a new confidence is being built among common farmers. And due to this (confidence) farmers have achieved a record production," Singh said. "In 2017, the prime minister had vowed to double farmers' income by 2022. This was not an easy resolve ....against the backdrop of this, the three farm laws were enacted last year," he said. The new laws aim at fetching fair price for farmers' produce and give them liberty to sell it wherever they wish, the Union minister further said. But "people with vested interests" created confusion over the three laws, spreading misconceptions such as markets run by Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees and Minimum Support Prices (MSP) will be abolished and farmers' lands will be mortgaged, Singh alleged. The prime minister had stated categorically in Parliament that neither any APMC Mandi has closed after the new laws came into force, nor has the MSP regime ended, he said, adding that rather the MSP has increased. Under the new laws, agricultural produce will be up for sale and not the land, the Union minister stressed. Saying that Mahatma Gandhi considered villages as the soul of India, Singh said development of rural areas was the government's priority.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-ready-for-talks-can-amend-farm-laws-if-needed-rajnath-singh-950094.html
11-02-2021||National Politics||Hum do, humare do: Rahul Gandhi attacks government in Lok Sabha, says farm laws will damage rural economy||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday accused the Union government of aiding crony capitalism, saying that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was running the country on a "hum do, hamare do" (we two, our two) principle.  "You all must remember the saying we used for family planning, — hum do, hamare do (We two and ours two), but just like Corona has returned in another form, this slogan too has made a comeback. Today, four people run the country — hum do, hamare do,” he said in the Lok Sabha during a discussion on the Budget.  When some members asked him to name the four, Rahul said, "everyone knows them". "This principle (hum do, hamare do) has been in play in demonetisation, Goods and Services tax, then came Covid. Migrant workers pleaded for a bus or train ticket to return home but were told to walk back. Most recently, the three farm laws passed in September that have had the farmers across the country up in arms," he said.  Interrupting Gandhi’s speech, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi got up and raised a point of order and he himself ended up taking Ambani and Adani’s name. “He is claiming that 40 per cent of the groceries and other vegetables, they are kept in Adanis and Ambanis. Let him prove it, he should place it on the table,” Joshi said. To this, members from the opposition camp retorted saying, “He has taken the names himself.” The former Congress president said that the NDA government was ensuring the well-being of only a few rich people close to those in power. Criticising the government for bringing in the farm laws, Rahul said, "Intent of the first law is to give one friend the right to have all crops of India. Who'll be at loss? 'Thelawalas', small businessmen and those working in the mandis." "The content of the second law is that big businessmen can store as much food grains, fruits and vegetables as they want. They can hoard as much as they want," he said.  Rahul said that the third law will not allow a farmer to go to the court when he goes before the biggest businessman of India to demand the right price for his crops. "The new farm laws will destroy India's food security system and will hurt the rural economy," he said. Lending his support to the ongoing farmers' protests, he said that it was not an agitation of only farmers but a movement of the country and the government would have to repeal the laws.  ​​​​​​​||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/hum-do-humare-do-rahul-gandhi-attacks-government-in-lok-sabha-says-farm-laws-will-damage-rural-economy-950095.html
11-02-2021||National Politics||From the Newsroom: Rajnath Singh says India will not allow even an inch of its territory to be taken; Nitish Kumar backs farm laws||In your evening news brief, From the Newsroom, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said that India will not allow even an inch of its territory to be taken; Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar backs farm laws and Pakistan conducts training launch of a surface-to-surface cruise missile. Here is the top news of February 11, 2021: Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that security forces have proved that they are ready to face any challenge to protect the sovereignty of the country and that India will not allow even an inch of its territory to be taken. Talking about the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Rajya Sabha, Singh said, "Our sustained talks with China have led to agreement on disengagement on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake. After this agreement, India-China will remove forward deployments in a phased, coordinated manner." Bihar Chief Minister and JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar on Thursday backed three contentious farm laws, saying these legislations are in the interest of farmers and not against them. Speaking to reporters after meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Kumar said his party is with the government on the issue and that the Centre has opted for the right path by holding talks with the farmer unions agitating against the three laws. Pakistan on Thursday conducted a successful training launch of a surface-to-surface cruise missile which can strike targets up to 450 kilometres, the Army said, the country’s third missile test in three weeks. The Babar missile "is capable of engaging targets at land and sea with high precision,” the Army said in a statement, adding that the missile was launched from a state-of-the-art multi-tube launch vehicle. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/from-the-newsroom-rajnath-singh-says-india-will-not-allow-even-an-inch-of-its-territory-to-be-taken-nitish-kumar-backs-farm-laws-950097.html
11-02-2021||National Politics||Did not expect a Congress MP will call Mahatma Gandhi conspirator: Anurag Thakur's remark kicks a row in Rajya Sabha||Union minister Anurag Thakur on Thursday kicked a row in Rajya Sabha when he sought to extrapolate usage of the term 'andolanjivi' by a Congress MP for Mahatma Gandhi, to ask if the Father of the Nation was a "shariantkari" (conspirator). KC Venugopal of the Congress while participating in the discussion on Budget for 2021-22 referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's comment of 'andolanjivi' for farmers protest. Noting that the nation got freedom from the British through 'andolans' (protests), he said by that logic Mahatma Gandhi should have been the biggest 'andolanjivi'. Intervening in the debate soon after Venugopal finished speaking, Thakur said criticism is fine but "I had not expected that a Congress MP and office-bearer will call Mahatma Gandhi a shariantkari (conspirator). Nothing can be more unfortunate than that." Congress members immediately protested saying that no one called Gandhi conspirator. They rushed into the well of the House demanding an apology from Thakur. Bhubaneswar Kalita, who was in the chair, said he will examine the records and will expunge any word that is unparliamentary. But the Congress members were not satisfied and continued to protest. Amid protests, Thakur, who is the Minister of State for Finance, continued to make his statement saying the Budget for the fiscal year beginning April 1 is one for new India which has made higher provisions for departments such as social justice and empowerment and women and child development. He went on to state that the Budget was for Aatmanirbhar Bharat which has been cheered by all as reflected in the stock market rising for days post its presentation. Kalita asked Congress members to go back to their seats but they continued to protest. He asked Thakur to conclude as the allocated time for the sitting of the House was getting over. Thakur, who had begun speaking just a few minutes before the scheduled time was to end at 15.00 Hrs, ended and proceedings were adjourned for the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/did-not-expect-a-congress-mp-will-call-mahatma-gandhi-conspirator-anurag-thakurs-remark-kicks-a-row-in-rajya-sabha-950149.html
11-02-2021||National Politics||Farmers' agitation: Protesting unions to hold 'kisan mahapanchayats' across country in coming days||The Samkyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting farmer unions, on Thursday announced that 'kisan mahapanchayats' will be organised across the country in the coming days against the Centre's three agri laws. The morcha made it clear that it will not call off the ongoing protest until its demands to repeal the laws and bring legal guarantee for minimum support price on their crops are met. In a statement, the protesting farmers' body said that its teams are planning the programmes of the state-wise mahapanchayats. The move comes a day after it announced a four-hour nationwide 'rail roko' (rail blockade) on February 18 to press for their demands. Protesting farmer leader Darshan Pal said a mahapanchayat will be held in Moradabad (Uttar Pradesh) on Friday, followed by Bahadurgarh bypass (Haryana) on February 13, Sri Ganganagar (Rajasthan) on February 18, Hanumangarh (Rajasthan) on February 19 and Silkar (Rajasthan) on February 23. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for over 75 days. In a statement, Pal alleged that the government is not serious to fulfil the "fair and genuine" farmers' demand of 'karza mukti, pura daam'. The unions also claimed that the Haryana government has proposed to install CCTV cameras at the Tikri border protest site. Meanwhile, Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav, who has been actively involved in the agitation, issued a statement terming as "baseless" the allegation made by Congress member Ravneet Singh Bittu blaming him for the Republic Day violence in the national capital. Speaking in the Lok Sabha on February 9, Bittu claimed that Yadav had incited the farmers which lead to the violence on January 26. At the Singhu border protest site, the unions have begun strengthening the infrastructure by installing CCTV cameras for enhanced security, electric fans to beat the heat in the coming months, and laying separate optical fibre line for wi-fi facility in case there is another internet shutdown. These are some of the measures taken by the agitating farmers to prepare for a long haul as a resolution of the stalemate over the new farm legislation seems unlikely anytime soon. "We are strengthening our communication and other infrastructure to continue the agitation for a long period," said Deep Khatri associated with managing logistics at the Singhu Border protest site. To increase security measures and keep miscreants at bay, 100 CCTV cameras with digital video recorders are being installed at the main stage used by the Morcha and also at some identified spots across the protest site's stretch on the GT Karnal Road. The protesting farmer unions have been alleging that the laws will weaken the minimum support price mechanism and end mandi system. But the government says the new legislations offer more options to farmers to sell their crops, and will help raise their incomes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-agitation-protesting-unions-to-hold-kisan-mahapanchayats-across-country-in-coming-days-950186.html
11-02-2021||North and Central||Farmers' protests: DU students allege police violence||Students of the Delhi University were allegedly manhandled by police on Wednesday during a solidarity march to support the protesting farmers. Members of the All India Students' Association (AISA) and students of DU raised slogans of immediate repeal of the three contentious farm laws and release of all arrested leaders. According to a statement released by AISA, the police attempted to stop the march at the Vallabhbhai Patel Chest Institute, but students continued to march towards the arts faculty. On entering the faculty, the police "resorted to violence, manhandling and injuring several students", it said. The protesters concluded the march by conducting a public meeting at arts faculty with speakers from different organisations, including the AISA, the Democratic Students' Union and the Bhagat Singh Chhatra Ekta Manch. "The Delhi Police and Haryana Police have created a warzone at our borders. The new bogey of 'aandolanjeevi' will not work and democratic voices of India shall continue fighting fascism. The government must immediately release all arrested farmers and Nodeep Kaur," Ritwik Raj, secretary of AISA DU, said. When contacted, a police officer denied allegations of any manhandling at the march.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protests-du-students-allege-police-violence-949887.html
11-02-2021||North and Central||BJP MP Gautam Gambhir's new canteen to serve lunch at Re 1||BJP MP Gautam Gambhir on Tuesday launched the second 'Jan Rasoi' in east Delhi's New Ashok Nagar area and said by serving hygienic food at rupee one, this was not just a canteen but a "movement" to feed those in need. The first 'Jan Rasoi' was launched by Gambhir at Gandhi Nagar market in his East Delhi constituency in December last year. It has so far served 50,000 persons, said a statement from the BJP MP's office. The canteen at New Ashok Nagar that will serve lunch to 50 persons at a time, was launched by the MP in the presence of BJP national vice president Baijayant Panda and the party's Delhi unit president, Adesh Gupta. "This is a historic occasion as such a thing is being in Delhi for the first time. We have seen other state governments opening subsidised canteens but nothing of that sort has happened in Delhi. I congratulate our MP for doing such an impeccable job," said Panda, who is also the in-charge of BJP in the national capital. Gambhir said that the 'Jan Rasoi' was not just a canteen but a "movement" to feed those in need and a "mission" to end hunger.  "I have not entered politics to compete in drama and dharnas but to bring real change and that is what I am doing. I only have my resources with which I want to help the most vulnerable sections of society," said cricketer-turned-politician. He said that food is the most basic necessity and even in the national capital people are unable to get two square meals a day which is why only a token amount of rupee one is being charged by the canteen for "hygienic and nutritious" food. The BJP leaders tasted the food to be served from the Ashok Nagar 'Jan Rasoi' at the inaugural function. Delhi BJP chief Gupta said that BJP MPs are working tirelessly to ensure Delhi's people are served in the best manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mp-gautam-gambhirs-new-canteen-to-serve-lunch-at-re-1-949910.html
11-02-2021||North and Central||Won't allow even an inch of territory to be taken: Rajnath Singh||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said that security forces have proved that they are ready to face any challenge to protect the sovereignty of the country and that India will not allow even an inch of its territory to be taken. Talking about the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Rajya Sabha, Singh said, "Our sustained talks with China have led to agreement on disengagement on the north and south banks of Pangong Lake. After this agreement, India-China will remove forward deployments in a phased, coordinated manner." "We've begun talks over North-South bank of Pangong Lake Some issues over deployment at LAC are yet to be resolved. Both sides agreed that complete disengagement to be done at the earliest," he said.   He stated that China will keep its troops to the east of the Finger 8 at the north bank of Pangong Lake, while India will keep its troops at its permanent base near Finger 3. He said, "We are committed to maintaining a peaceful situation at the Line of Control. India has always emphasised on maintaining bilateral ties." He said that many fraction areas are built near LAC in Eastern Ladakh and China has collected heavy force, arms and ammunition near LAC and in the nearby area on its side. He added that the Indian forces have also effectively done counter deployment. "No matter which party you belong to, the country stands united when it comes to national security," Singh added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wont-allow-even-an-inch-of-territory-to-be-taken-rajnath-singh-949925.html
11-02-2021||North and Central||Workers feared buried under slush in 4 tunnels at Tapovan||A tunnel at the NTPC hydel project site has become the focal point of rescue efforts, but there are four other tunnels that act as water ingress points where more workers are feared buried under the sludge carried by the landslide-induced avalanche on Sunday. The four tunnels, next to the barrage of the run-of-the-river project, were under construction and workers were present on Sunday morning when disaster ravaged the project site. An official of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), who has been part of the rescue efforts, said the entry to the four tunnels were covered by sludge as high as 25 meters, making it a difficult area for even machines to venture. “An earth-mover or excavator would sink in the sludge,” Aparna Kumar, Indo-Tibetan Border Police Deputy Inspector General told DH. A video of the disaster, being circulated over social media, showed a group of workers stranded on the barrage when the muddy waters came roaring towards the project site, bringing along huge boulders from upstream. The group of workers were seen moving together in a group before being swept away by a wall of water that came rushing towards the project site, leaving a trail of death and destruction. “All the energies of the rescue efforts are focused on one tunnel that has 35-40 people, but no one is focussing on these four tunnels,” a distraught Surat Singh from Tehri Garhwal told DH. He claimed that several persons were buried under the sludge which entered the four tunnels which merge into a single tunnel where the current rescue efforts were underway. More than 600 personnel from the Army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) were engaged in the search-and-rescue operations underway since Sunday||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/workers-feared-buried-under-slush-in-4-tunnels-at-tapovan-949946.html
11-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand floods: Drilling operation at Tapovan tunnel continues; families get impatient||Authorities on Thursday began drilling inside a tunnel in Uttarakhand in an attempt to rescue more than 35 workers trapped there after a flash flood that destroyed dams and bridges. About 171 people remain unaccounted for since Sunday's disaster in the state, most of them workers at the Tapovan Vishnugad hydroelectric project and at the smaller Rishiganga dam, which was swept away by the torrent. So far, the bodies of 33 people have been found, the state police chief's office said. While scores are thought to have been washed away as rock and debris surged down the Dhauliganga River, rescue efforts have been focused on saving an estimated 35 workers stuck in a 2.5 km tunnel connected to the Tapovan project. But the slush and water have been so heavy that soldiers have made only halting progress in four days. After clearing more than 100 metres of mud, rocks and debris, relief workers on Thursday sent water tankers and generators deep into the tunnel to assist in drilling. The men are trying to search for signs of life in smaller tunnels and rooms branching off from the main passage, officials said. Relatives continued to arrive at the site, but five days after the disaster, there was frustration at the lack of progress. "They are not telling us anything," said Praveen Saini, whose nephew, Ajay Kumar Saini, is trapped in the tunnel. Another was holding onto hope that his brother had survived after he was able to ring his mobile. "If his phone survived, maybe he survived," Jugal Kishore said. Originally thought to be a glacier breaking apart in the country's second-highest, Nanda Devi mountain, and crashing into the river, some scientists now say the flood was more likely to have been caused by an avalanche. "It appears that the event was caused by a very large rockfall from high up the mountainside which picked up lots of snow and ice on the way down and melted these because of the frictional heat created by the rock fall," said Stephan Harrison, professor of Climate and Environmental Change at the University of Exeter in the United Kingdom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-floods-drilling-operation-at-tapovan-tunnel-continues-families-get-impatient-949960.html
11-02-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan Assembly proceedings adjourned twice amid uproar by BJP members||The Opposition BJP on Thursday created an uproar in the Rajasthan Assembly over the issue of attack on an RSS worker in Kota, leading to adjournment of house proceedings twice. During the zero hour, BJP MLAs Vasudev Devnani and Madan Dilawar raised the matter but Speaker CP Joshi did not allow them following which Deputy leader of opposition, Rajendra Rathore, and others stormed to the well protesting against the incident.  As they defied the Speaker's ruling, the speaker took up the listed business.   The speaker said that he had allowed Leader of Opposition Gulabchand Kataria to speak on law and order situation and that opportunity could have been used to raise this particular matter.  Referring to the uproar by Rajendra Rathore and BJP MLAs, he said, "It is unfortunate that there is competition among you to prove who is more loyal".  The BJP members also waived a purported photo of one the accused with Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal and demanded a reply from the governor.  A worker of the RSS was shot at by three assailants in Kota on Tuesday night. The accused have been held by the police. The speaker said that if allegations have to be made, there are rules under which it can be done but the uproar cannot be allowed.  The BJP MLAs sat on a dharna in the well of the House following following which the Speaker adjourned the House for half an hour.  The BJP MLAs continued the dharna inside the House. As the uproar continued, the House was adjourned for the second time till 1:30 pm by the chairperson.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-assembly-proceedings-adjourned-twice-amid-uproar-by-bjp-members-949987.html
11-02-2021||North and Central||Partial shutdown marks Maqbool Bhat’s death anniversary in Kashmir||Partial shutdown in Kashmir Valley on Thursday marked the 37th death anniversary of JKLF founder, Mohammad Maqbool Bhat, who was hanged in New Delhi's Tihar Jail on this day in 1984. While shops, fuel stations and other business establishments remained shut in the commercial hub Lal Chowk and old city Srinagar, the markets were open in the civil lines area of the city. Public transport was largely off the roads, but private cars, auto-rickshaws and cabs were plying almost normally in the city. Reports of similar shutdown were received from other district headquarters of Kashmir. While educational institutions in the Valley are closed on account of winter vacations, reports said, attendance in government offices was more or less normal. Unlike previous years, this time the impact of the strike was low, reports said. Till 2019 separatists would issue strike calls in advance on February 11 to press their demand for the return of Bhat’s mortal remains to his family. They would also call for a strike on February 9 demanding the return of the mortal remains of Parliament attack convict Afzal Guru, who was secretly hanged in Delhi’s Tihar Jail in 2013. After both the executions, the bodies were buried within the precincts of the jail. However, since the abrogation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 in August 2019 and subsequent crackdown on separatists, no such strike calls have been issued. Even the local media doesn't publish any statements coming from separatist groups. Posters, purportedly issued by Hurriyat Conference, were pasted in some areas of the city in recent days, calling for a shutdown on February 9 and 11. However, the officials said, the authenticity of the posters could not be verified. Authorities had made elaborate security arrangements in Srinagar and other sensitive areas of the valley to maintain law and order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/partial-shutdown-marks-maqbool-bhat-s-death-anniversary-in-kashmir-950012.html
11-02-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh woman arranges own 'samadhi' to meet Lord Shiva; cops rescue her just in time||Prompt action by the cops saved the life of a woman, who had 'entombed' herself at her village in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur district, to 'meet' Lord Shiva. According to reports, the woman, a resident of Marha village in the district, had taken 'samadhi' (entombment) on Wednesday in the presence of scores of residents of the village.  The woman told her family members and the residents of the village that she had seen Lord Shiva in her dream and now she wanted to take 'samadhi' so that she could meet him. Instead of trying to reason with her, the family members and some local residents started digging a pit to fulfil her wish. The woman later entered the pit after which they covered with mud.   While many among the villagers started singing 'bhajans' (religious songs) and also offered flowers to the 'samadhi', someone informed the cops. A police team, which reached the village, managed to bring her out of the 'samadhi' and rushed her to the hospital. The doctors said that she was out of danger. Police said that they were investigating the matter and would take stern action against those who might have aided her. Barely a few days ago a Russian woman, who 'wanted' to meet Lord Krishna, had allegedly jumped to death from the sixth floor of a building at Vrindavan town in Uttar Pradesh's Mathura district. A friend of Russian woman — Tatyana, who also lived with her — told the cops that she (Tatyana) wanted to meet Lord Krishna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-woman-arranges-own-samadhi-to-meet-lord-shiva-cops-rescue-her-just-in-time-950024.html
11-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand Governor faces ire of kin of those trapped inside Tapovan tunnel||Uttarakhand Governor Baby Rani Maurya had to face the ire of the families of those trapped inside a tunnel at Tapovan, when she visited the site to take stock of the rescue work. The families waiting for over four days to be reunited with their closed ones broke down before the governor, seeking her intervention to expedite the rescue operations at the tunnel, where 25-35 people are trapped since the Sunday avalanche in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district. Maurya asked them to be patient as relentless efforts were on to rescue those trapped inside the tunnel. "A multi-agency rescue operation has been going on. No effort is being spared. People should be patient," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-governor-faces-ire-of-kin-of-those-trapped-inside-tapovan-tunnel-950031.html
11-02-2021||North and Central||Returning to 'soft Hindutva'? Priyanka Gandhi takes a dip at holy Sangam, visits Mankameshwar Temple||Apparently returning to what many are terming as 'soft Hindutva' and a bid to shun her party's 'pro-Muslim' image, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday took a dip at the holy Triveni Sangam (the confluence of Ganga, Yamuna and the mythical Saraswati rivers) on the occasion of 'Mauni Amavasya' (a scared day on which millions take a dip in the holy rivers across India) at Prayagraj. Priyanka also paid obeisance at the famous Mankameshwar Temple in the town. It is believed that the wishes of a person are fulfilled by paying obeisance at the temple. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had also visited the temple back in 2001. Priyanka is also likely to meet Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopanand Saraswati. The Congress leader took the dip at the Sangam like an ordinary devotee, without any protocol, in view of the 'Mauni Amavasya' bathing. She also had a brief boat ride in the river. Clad in a maroon kurta, she also also offered coconut and flowers at the Sangam. She wore 'rudraksh beads' on her wrist. However, she maintained a distance from the media persons and did not reply to their questions.  Earlier she offered flowers as a tribute to former Indian Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru at the Anand Bhavan and spent some time with the children at the orphanage there. Priyanka had on Wednesday paid obeisance at the famous Shakambhari Devi Temple near Saharanpur, about 500 kilometres from here before addressing a well attended 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' there. She was there for around half an hour. She was seen carrying beads of 'rudraksha' (considered to be a sacred seed by the Hindus). Priyanka's temple hopping and the dip at the holy Sangam has been praised by several Hindu seers, who are currently camping on the bank of the Ganga in view of the ongoing Magh Mela (an annual religious event). ''Congress may regain its past glory if its leaders keep visiting temples....former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi also regularly visited temples,'' said a prominent seer after Priyanka's visit. BJP leaders said that the temple visits by Priyanka prove that Congress is following the path shown by the saffron party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/returning-to-soft-hindutva-priyanka-gandhi-takes-a-dip-at-holy-sangam-visits-mankameshwar-temple-950032.html
11-02-2021||North and Central||PAGD wins DDC chairperson post in Jammu and Kashmir's Anantnag||The People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) won the election for the post of chairperson of the District Development Council (DDC) in Anantnag district held on Thursday, officials said. PAGD is an amalgam of six parties seeking the restoration of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. In the fourth phase of the polls on Thursday, the election was conducted in Anantnag district in south Kashmir and the PAGD, which also includes the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), won both the posts of the chairperson as well as the vice-chairperson, the officials said. The PAGD had fielded an NC candidate for the post of the chairperson and a PDP candidate for the deputy. The NC's Mohammad Yousuf Gorsi, who had won the DDC polls from Pahalgam seat, was elected as the chairman of the district council, whereas Javaid Ahmad of the PDP was elected as the vice-chairman, the officials said. Gorsi polled 11 votes out of the total 14 members elected to the council in December last year, they added. Among the 14 seats in Anantnag, six were won by NC, three each by Congress and PDP and two by independents. This is the fourth chairperson post win for the PAGD after the successes in Kulgam, Ganderbal and Pulwama. In the first phase of the polls to the posts of chairpersons and vice-chairpersons for three districts on Saturday, Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party won two – Srinagar and Shopian, while CPI(M) – which is part of the PAGD – won from Kulgam. In the second phase of the elections, the polls were held in the two districts of Budgam and Kupwara, while the elections in Baramulla district were postponed. While an independent candidate Nazir Ahmad Khan was elected as the chairperson in Budgam, Jammu and Kashmir People's Conference led by Sajad Lone won from Kupwara district. In the third phase of the polls on Wednesday, the elections were conducted in two districts of the Kashmir valley - Ganderbal and Pulwama – and the PAGD won from both places. While the NC won the post of the chairperson from Ganderbal, a PDP candidate was elected as chairperson in Pulwama, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pagd-wins-ddc-chairperson-post-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-anantnag-950034.html
11-02-2021||North and Central||Farm Laws: Farmers improve facilities, infrastructure to prepare for prolonged protest at Singhu border||With a resolution of the stalemate over the new farm legislation seeming unlikely anytime soon, the agitating farmers at the Singhu border have started strengthening the infrastructure at the protest site to prepare for a long haul. The leaders of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, leading the protest, have reiterated to continue the agitation indefinitely till the Modi government scraps the three contentious farm laws and extends a legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP) for crops. "We are strengthening our communication and other infrastructure to continue the agitation for a long period," said Deep Khatri associated with managing logistics at the Singhu Border protest site. To increase security measures and keep miscreants at bay, 100 CCTV cameras with digital video recorders are being installed at the main stage used by the Morcha and also at some identified spots across the protest site's stretch on the GT Karnal Road. "We are also readying a control room behind the main stage for monitoring and keeping a tab on the happenings here as a lot of people come and go everyday, " Khatri said. Further, a team of 600 volunteers has been raised for patrolling the protest site, managing traffic and keeping a watch at night. These volunteers have been provided with easily identifiable green jackets and identity cards, he said. Work is also on to install large LCD screens at 10 vantage points, at a distance of 700-800 metres, to enable the protesting farmers to watch activities like speeches of the leaders from the main stage. "We will also use these points as pit stops for ambulances and teams of volunteers to coordinate traffic management, patrolling and response in case of any emergency," Khatri said. In order to deal with any disruption in internet service as was done recently by the government, the Morcha is also hiring a separate optical fibre line for wifi facility, Khatri said. He said in view of the approaching summer, electric fans and air conditioners are also being installed at the main stage used by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha and other facilities are being strengthened there. The farmers protesting at Singhu asserted that they were ready to camp in protest for months and there was no dearth of people and resources to do so. "We come from the culture of langar (community kitchen), so food is not a problem. Many farmers come here, stay for several days and go back to their villages to attend to their fields while others come and join us. This is going on and there is no lack of farmers' strength here," said Ranjit Singh from Moga in Punjab. Morcha leader Rakesh Tikait who is staging the protest at Delhi's Ghazipur border had on Wednesday said the farmers' agitation will be long drawn and it will spread across the country in the coming days. The farmers are protesting at Singhu, Ghazipur, Tikri border points of Delhi since November, demanding that the Centre scrap the new farm legislation. The stalemate over the farm laws continues as 11 rounds of talks between the Central government ministers and farmer leaders have failed to achieve any breakthrough. Tikait had on Wednesday said the government should talk to the farmer leaders to find a solution to the issues at hand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farm-laws-farmers-improve-facilities-infrastructure-to-prepare-for-prolonged-protest-at-singhu-border-950042.html
11-02-2021||North and Central||Nepal bans three Indian climbers for six years for faking Mt Everest summit||Nepal has banned two Indian climbers and their team leader from carrying out any mountaineering expeditions in the country for six years after a probe found that they faked their Mt Everest summit in 2016, according to a media report on Thursday. Indian nationals Narender Singh Yadav and Seema Rani Goswami received expedition certificates during the spring season of 2016 without successfully climbing the world's highest mountain, the Himalayan Times reported, quoting a spokesperson of the Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation. Both the climbers had received the certificates of climbing the 8,848.86m (29,032 ft) mountain by submitting false details to the Department of Tourism. Their certificates have been revoked, the ministry said After receiving a complaint about the fake ascent, the ministry had formed a committee to investigate the matter. "The investigation has confirmed that both of them had obtained certificates by giving false details," the spokesperson was quoted as saying by the daily. They have been banned from ascending any mountain in Nepal for six years. The ban will be effective starting May 20, 2016, it said. Their Indian team leader Naba Kumar Phukon, who led the expedition, has also been banned for six years starting May 20, 2016. The government has also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on the Seven Summit Treks Pvt Ltd, the agency which organised the expedition for the Indian nationals. The ministry has also warned Pawan Kumar Ghimire, the liaison officer of the team, not to repeat such mistakes in the future. The ministry has also decided to impose a fine of Rs 10,000 on Nga Dawa Sherpa, the climbing supporter during the expedition. Sherpa had filed false documents claiming that Yadav had successfully climbed Mt Everest. This is not the first time that climbers have been confirmed of faking the summit of Mt Everest. Dinesh and Tarakeshwari Rathod, an Indian couple, who were part of a different expedition in the spring of 2016, had also claimed that they had scaled Mt Everest and obtained the expedition certificate by submitting false details, the daily said. Their climbing recognition was also revoked by the DoT. Aiming to reduce such activities, the government has been dwelling on installing GPS tracking system in the mountains. However, no progress has been made on this front yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nepal-bans-three-indian-climbers-for-six-years-for-faking-mt-everest-summit-950086.html
11-02-2021||North and Central||AAP claims Delhi BJP office land given at throwaway price||The Aam Aadmi Party claimed on Thursday that the Centre had sanctioned more than 2 acres of posh land at just Rs 2 crore to the Delhi BJP to build its office. AAP leader Saurabh Bharadwaj claimed the land at the Deendayal Upadhyaya Marg was not for building any political party office, but a school. No reaction was immediately available from the Bharatiya Janata Party. "At one side, the BJP government harasses the ruling party of Delhi and try to evict them from their party office. On the other side, it provides land to the BJP at negligible prices," the legislator said at a press conference in New Delhi. Bharadwaj demanded that the Delhi BJP must disclose how could they get 10,000 square yards of land in "just Rs 2 crores". "Here, no one can buy 2 yards of land with this money!" he said. "On behalf of the Aam Aadmi Party, I want to ask the BJP whether it is true that this land was sanctioned to build schools or not," he said. Bharadwaj added that the Centre had asked AAP to pay crores of rupees as rent for the party office, alleging that the BJP government "had also tried to evict us from this office repeatedly". "The BJP should come clean and tell us whether they have any shame or not to own such a party office despite having such a negligible number of assembly seats in Delhi," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-claims-delhi-bjp-office-land-given-at-throwaway-price-950108.html
11-02-2021||North and Central||Civic body polls: BJP demands deployment of central forces in Punjab||A BJP delegation on Thursday met Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore, urging him to issue directions for the deployment of paramilitary forces in the state ahead of the body civic polls. Elections to eight municipal corporations, 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats in the state will be held on February 14. The delegation comprised Union minister Som Parkash and senior party leader Madan Mohan Mittal. They apprised the governor of a “series of attacks” on the BJP leaders, including party's state unit chief Ashwani Sharma and former cabinet minister Tikshan Sood. “There have been almost two dozen incidents of violence against the BJP workers in which police took no action and rather encouraged the anti-social elements to spread terror,” the delegation alleged, according to astatement. They said the BJP candidates for the forthcoming municipal elections are being “intimidated and brutally assaulted” all over the state. “Police officials in Ferozepur, Mansa and Rajpura were openly encouraging these criminal elements to terrorise and harm the BJP candidates,” the BJP leaders alleged. Earlier, BJP candidates were threatened against filing nominations and now they are not being allowed to campaign for the upcoming municipal polls, they said. "It is a far too serious situation which demonstrates complete collapse of democratic norms and a play of criminal forces in society", said BJP general secretary Subhash Sharma. The delegation demanded that the state election commission must ensure that the model code of conduct was followed and the erring officials were punished. Punjab BJP chief Ashwani Sharma's vehicle on Tuesday was allegedly attacked by some unidentified persons with sticks and rods in Ferozepur. Sharma had gone there for a meeting with local party workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/civic-body-polls-bjp-demands-deployment-of-central-forces-in-punjab-950158.html
11-02-2021||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi pays tribute to farmers who died in rally||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi along with other Opposition members in Lok Sabha on Thursday stood silence for a minute to remember those who lost their lives during farmers protest.  At end of his speech during a discussion on Budget, Rahul appealed to the House to stand in silence for a minute to remember those have lost their lives during the farmers' protest. Opposition parties MPs including NCP, DMK and TMC stood while ruling party members continued to sit. While asking the members to the seat, Speaker Om Birla objected to Rahul Gandhi conduct. “If you wish to discuss something, give it to me in writing and I will allot time… but allow me to run the House,” Birla said. It was Trinamool Congress  MP, Derek O’Brien, on February 4, was first stopped midway in his response to the President’s speech in Rajya Sabha for a one-minute silent tribute to protesting farmers who died. All opposition MPs in the House stood up with Derek for the tribute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-pays-tribute-to-farmers-who-died-in-rally-950160.html
11-02-2021||Oasis||Water seldom flows upward||Indeed, it was an intriguing thing that a friend was informing me of recently. She was saying, “With profuse care, I look after my parttime domestic, right from providing her with daily food to proffering financial aid for her progenies’ education. As she is unlettered, being uninitiated about umpteen things in life, I undertook the task of intellectually uplifting her by imparting knowledge of various kinds. But lo! Even an exiguous amount of interest she never evinced in learning, as if she was against extricating herself from the execrable mesh of ignorance, she was entwined with.”  “Every day, to do her chores, she’d enter our house with enormous speed and exit off with equal speed. Later, she’d excitedly head towards the place of my neighbour, who is a veritable flibbertigibbet, always tittle-tattling about others’ life. With great gusto, my maid gives her gossip-mill all the grist needed! No wonder, ‘water finds its own level’” Incidentally, it is not just the indigent folks, who display this intense disinterest in intellectual interactions. Even some of the educated seem to exhibit this trait. Just latch on to lengthy intellect-laden topics before them, sure you’d be labelled as lunatic, loped off from a loony-bin! Yes, you stick out like a sore thumb if you are that ‘scholarly’ sort.   But try indulging in frivolous gossip, involving someone’s life. Voila! You get an instant audience, who have their ears cocked up, hanging on to every syllable you spew. Being an intellectual, if you have often wondered, why people don’t enjoy the same comfort level with you, the way they enjoy with others, well, the answer is awfully simple. “Mediocrity recognizes, appreciates, and feels comfy with only mediocrity”!  Yes, many times, to have powerfully effective communication, often you’d be finding yourself plunging down to others’ level, instead of having them pulled to your level – which in all probabilities, you know, would be a painful task! That is ‘coz, “Water can flow downward from a higher level, but emphatically, not the other way round”!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/water-seldom-flows-upward-950217.html
11-02-2021||Opinion||A bubble on water||Bholi, born to Mistress Folly, collared me the other day for a listen-in on her happy life. She lived in an upscale residential area with her happy family amidst all those boulders of chairs and sofas. The TV and the stereo-sets awaited her pleasure. The jumbo-size refrigerator spilt out its contents to the dining table three times in the day. Perhaps there was justification for her to feel that nothing of all this would change; that one day would follow another, bringing with it new movies to be seen, more coffee and card parties. Above all, the huge solid house which her father-in-law had built gave Bholi the greatest feeling of permanence. ‘We are permanent here, you see,’ she said waving a hand towards her house as I felt my own rootless life galloping away in a gale. Purandaradasa, the 16th-century minstrel from Karnataka, with a tanpura in his strumming hands, bells at his ankles, sang and danced in the streets in an ecstasy of having seen God in his visions. The story goes that the Haridasa was tied to a temple pillar in Pandarapur and beaten unconscious, for singing of God. The themes of his songs cover the entire gamut of human existence. He sings of the pleasures of the senses which are fleeting and the mortality of man. Only in the love of God, he says, there is permanence and everlastingness. Purandaradasa died, being a frail mortal, but his songs full of the glory of God live forever.  Earthly life, sings Purandaradasa, is like a bubble upon water; cling firmly to the everlasting love of God. There has been, time and again in the musty records of history, a lone example of someone who seeks a magical release, a cutting loose into the mad ecstasy of song and dance. It’s not an easy task. One has to tread the sharp razor’s edge to find God. Such a one was Purandaradasa… a wanderer and a pilgrim who moved forever from one place to another with the song of the impermanence of man and the eternal city of God always on his lips.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-bubble-on-water-949849.html
11-02-2021||Opinion||Asking citizens to snoop on each other sets dangerous precedent||Citizen volunteers will be expected to report social media posts connected with child pornography, rape, threats to national security and India’s friendly relations with other countries and content that might disturb public order. Since there is no clear definition of what is anti-national, critics believe that the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act could be used to stifle dissent. The suspicion is understandable. The news of this proposal comes even as Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently spoke of a brand of dissenters and protestors as ‘andolan jeevis’ and the need to protect the nation from them. The DDR Museum and the Stasi Museum in Berlin provide ample evidence of what can happen when the state enlists the support of citizens in spying on fellow citizens, including their own families. The secret police, made up of citizen informants, helped the German Democratic Republic maintain files on millions of East Germans. This template is unsuitable for a country like India, which takes pride in being the world’s largest democracy. Does recruiting citizen volunteers mean that the government is outsourcing its power to non-state actors? It might be too early to draw such a conclusion. However, speculation gains credence because citizens have witnessed numerous instances of ‘gau rakshaks’ or cow vigilantes taking the law into their own hands to terrorise Muslims and Dalits. Citizens with ulterior motives, who want to create communal tensions, can abuse their role as volunteers.  It is important to believe that well-intentioned citizens will sign up, wanting to lend a hand in protecting the integrity and sovereignty of the country they call home. However, it is equally necessary to watch out for people who do not come with the same honourable intentions. To ignore or overlook them would be foolhardy. Having them enrol for a scheme like this would defeat the stated purpose, which is to prioritise security.  People could potentially report false claims in order to settle personal scores, and individuals belonging to minority communities will be rendered vulnerable for no fault of their own. What safeguards are being put in place to ensure that this will not happen? We know from reports in neighbouring Pakistan that religious minorities are regularly dragged into false cases of blasphemy by people who want to exploit their precarious position.  (Chintan Girish Modi is a writer, educator and researcher who tweets @chintan_connect) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/asking-citizens-to-snoop-on-each-other-sets-dangerous-precedent-949867.html
11-02-2021||Opinion||Biden-Modi phone call a sign of renewed solidarity in Indo-US ties||The recent telephonic conversion between US President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on February 8 though brief has significant pointers to their respective priorities, thoughts and the future trajectory of Indo-US relations.  Perhaps the most significant issue to have emerged from the discussion is President Biden’s emphasis on building a “stronger regional architecture” through the Quad (USA, Japan, Australia and India), ostensibly to counter China’s influence in the Indo-Pacific.  If Chinese media reports are to be believed, China’s preliminarily moves to mend frayed ties with several countries such as India, Vietnam and others, signalling an improvement of relations if the other side also took into account China’s concerns, is based on the Chinese government’s reading of the Biden administration’s moves relating to China.  While it may not be possible to directly link the on-going disengagement between Indian and Chinese armies in Eastern Ladakh to these moves, it’s timing must be noted. Interestingly, President Biden chose India to make his first telephone call after the US’s closest allies. Earlier, three high officials, Secretaries of State, Defence and the National Security Adviser had spoken to their Indian counterparts, underlining the importance attached to the Indo-US strategic relationship by the new government in the US.  The two sides have agreed to work together for a rule based international order (a reference to China’s militarisation of South China Seas and threats against its neighbours) and a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific.  India’s importance to the US Some analysts believe that the US is at an inflexion point today similar to 1946 when President Truman was searching for a suitable strategy to win the Cold War against the Soviet Union. The difference now is that the US's competitor is China, a country headed by Xi Jinping, who is using China’s economic clout to divide the transatlantic alliance and resorting to the biggest peacetime military buildup in history. President Biden has made it clear that while the US “need not have a conflict, there would be extreme competition with China” as the US is not inclined to concede its global supremacy. He has set up an inter-agency task force to study the US military and intelligence footprint in Asia, the role of the US’s allies and partners and recommend a strategy on how to win the competition against China. The trajectory of Indo-US relations under President Biden could well turn out to be more consistent, smoother and stronger because India is poised to play a central role in the US's Indo-Pacific strategy given its big professional armed forces, large economy and its aim of resisting China’s unfair policies.  Defending democracy The second set of issues that President Biden discussed with PM Modi included global problems such as the fight against Covid-19 pandemic, cooperation on climate change, rebuilding of the global economy and fight against global terrorism. In addition to the UN Secretary General, the US government has applauded India as “a true friend who is using its pharma industry to help the global community.”  PM Modi cooperated with President Obama in working out the Paris Climate Change agreement in December, 2015; given the good progress made by India in meeting its emissions reductions, it should be possible for the two countries to enhance their cooperation further.  Similarly, there are concerns that subtle changes in the Biden administration’s cooperation with Pakistan may undermine India’s interests. President Biden is fully familiar with the nuances of Pakistan’s support to terror groups operating from its soil against India and Afghanistan and given India’s strategic importance, would be mindful of its interests. The third set of issues referred by President Biden related to defending democratic institutions and norms around the world. Three aspects deserve attention. First, the Biden administration will raise its differences with India, whether on human rights in Kashmir or facilities for farmers protesting on Delhi’s borders, keeping in view its larger bilateral relationship. This was evident in the US State Department statement of February 4, which while asking India to observe the human rights of protestors supported the general trajectory of India’s three farm laws.  Also, the Modi government has, for its own reasons, become more sensitive in dealing with these issues to manage their international ramifications. This was evident in the restoration of 4G Internet in the entire J&K region recently after improvement in the local situation.  Given the new importance gained by the human rights issues, some foreign celebrities like singer Rihanna, climate change activist Greta Thunberg and others have made few comments on the farmers’ protest. These were mostly individuals and their concerns were replied to by Indian officials and celebrities. Then the Indian government has also aligned its reaction to the recent military coup in Myanmar (February 1) with the global outrage expressed by the US, G-7 and other countries speaking of “deep concern at the dramatic turn of events in Myanmar including the detention of State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and hoping that the democratic process would be upheld”. President Biden and PM Modi have agreed to stay in close touch on a range of global challenges and to work together on deepening bilateral cooperation. Discussions on bilateral issues (trade, cooperation in defence, security, emerging technologies, visa and immigration etc.) will wait for the Biden administration to settle down. But going by the current indications, the Biden administration will be more favourably inclined on these issues than its predecessor.  (Yogesh Gupta is a former Ambassador) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/biden-modi-phone-call-a-sign-of-renewed-solidarity-in-indo-us-ties-950030.html
11-02-2021||Panorama||Gujarat local polls: Congress is sinking as AAP, Owaisi rise  ||A day after a somewhat “impressive” debut public event in Ahmedabad by Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) last week, a Congress MLA in the city resigned after his demand over ticket distribution for municipal corporation polls was not met. It was just another instance of massive infighting in the Congress emerging just when it was supposed to hit the streets as a team to seek votes. Dissidence is said to be so deep in the party that it shunned public announcement of many of its candidates and chose to quietly inform them personally. While the Congress MLA resigned in what was claimed to be a pressure tactic, the BJP on the same day launched its campaign theme song, films, designer hoardings, anthem and the works to formally blow the bugle for the civic polls. This is the crux of the difference in approach of the two political parties that are going to local body polls in less than two weeks. The polls are significant in many ways. First, it is crucial for both parties in their preparation for the Assembly elections next year. The results will help strengthen the ability to garner grassroots support. Second, it is more important for the Congress to keep its stronghold in the rural areas intact if it wants to remain in the game in the next Assembly polls. And to defeat the BJP, it will need to push harder in urban centres or municipal corporations, where its support base has been dwindling.  Gujarat is going to polls for six municipal corporations on February 21, and on February 28, elections for 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluk panchayats will be held. In the last polls in 2015, BJP won all six corporations -- Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Jamnagar -- and a majority of the municipalities. However, Congress did well in the elections to other local bodies. It grabbed a majority of the 31 district panchayats (23 out of 31) and taluk panchayats (146 out of 241). But four of the district panchayats later went into the hands of the BJP due to defections. In the last few years, such defections have marred Congress like never before. Last year, in by-polls caused by defections, Congress lost all eight seats it had held. A ‘moribund’ Congress is said to have attracted Owaisi’s AIMIM and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to Gujarat. The AAP is once again trying its luck, this time a little more aggressively compared to its previous attempts, by carefully sending its cadres to areas dominated by the economically poor, Dalits and Muslims and mobilising them. It is believed that both parties are set to open their accounts for the first time, which will, by and large, be at the cost of the Congress. For Congress, the stakes are higher in the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation -- one of the richest corporations in the country -- where it is likely to lose more seats with the advent of AAP and AIMIM. In 2015, out of 192 seats, BJP won 142 while Congress was restricted to 49, and one remaining seat went to an independent candidate. Political observers claim that Congress’ numbers are going to fall. “Congress doesn’t want to fight and has no plan to do that. It has not had a credible face to offer to the electorate for so many years in the state. Its leaders are involved in infighting. More than Congress, it is AAP that is visible in public. Their (AAP) cadre has planned much in advance and are working hard. Although it is difficult to predict their performance, AAP and AIMIM are going to cut into Congress’ vote for sure,” said senior journalist and political analyst Hari Desai. AAP is ahead of Congress in its planning, devising strategies and selling its ‘Delhi model’ of running government schools and ‘mohalla clinics.’  Experts say that “winning is not a challenge” for BJP but it is trying to keep AAP at bay. Here, AIMIM being in the fray may help BJP. “More than a moribund Congress, militant-type opposition leaders (such as in AAP) could make BJP more uncomfortable in the corporation by raising issues that Congress has failed to as the chief opposition party so far.” Analysts believe that BJP may improve its tally in the rural areas as well due to Congress’ inaction, despite the fact that farmers are unhappy with the Vijay Rupani government, besides a supposed anti-incumbency feeling. The BJP also faces threat from growing “dissatisfaction” in the Patel community, which has been siding with the BJP for long. There is a feeling that Patels have been sidelined in the current dispensation. The last Patel chief minister was Anandiben Patel, now UP governor, who was ousted after the Patel agitation for reservation in 2015. She was replaced by Rupani, a Jain. Similarly, state BJP chief Jitu Vaghani, a Patidar, was replaced by C R Paatil, who has roots in Maharashtra. The results of the polls are going to test the capabilities of Paatil, considered a strategist and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s close aide. Paatil has been claiming that under his leadership, BJP will have its biggest victory in the state in the Assembly polls next year. Meanwhile, Congress doesn’t seem to be getting any benefit by promoting Hardik Patel, who shot to fame in 2015 by leading the Patidar agitation for reservation, as working president of the state unit. This, many say, is mainly due to the internal conflicts in the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/gujarat-local-polls-congress-is-sinking-as-aap-owaisi-rise-949847.html
11-02-2021||Panorama||Naturopathy requires increased attention||In India, there are a little more than one million allopathic doctors to treat a population of about 1.39 billion people, with one state-run hospital for every 90,343 persons, and one government hospital bed for every 2,046 persons, which depicts an overburdened healthcare system. In an already fragmented healthcare system, the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic have been devastating; clearly highlighting the lack of resources, facilities, and infrastructure, and has clearly shown that the Indian healthcare system requires an integrated approach through the combination of allopathic clinical/curative services with preventive, promotive services like Naturopathy. The alternative system of medicine like naturopathy with its preventive approach can help reduce the burden of diseases and lessen the healthcare costs and overgrowing burden on healthcare facilities across the country.  According to a study published by the Lancet Global Health in 2018, non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are growing in India. The study mentions that from the year 1990 to 2016, ischemic heart disease and stroke made the largest contribution to the total burden of mortality in India at 28.1%, while chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma made the second-largest contribution to the total mortality burden in India, at 10·9%.  Also, the contributory ratio of cardiovascular diseases to mortality increased by 34·3% from 1990 to 2016, the study revealed. These figures represent some of the world’s largest health losses, with enormous policy ramifications. Furthermore, the lack of adequate facilities and infrastructure is a big dent in the healthcare system, resulting in overcrowding in hospitals. Many major metropolitan cities reported an alarming shortage of spaces in hospital intensive care units (ICUs) and general wards during this pandemic. Out-of-pocket payments for health care in India continue to be among the leading causes of poverty for many households. The British Medical Journal published a study in 2018 stating that 55 million Indians fell below the poverty line because of high out-of-pocket (OOP) expenditure in 2011-2012. In a country with low per capita public spending on health care, a preventive method of treatment can certainly make a big difference in the lives of the general population. Naturopathy is a preventive model of holistic care that addresses the disease’s root cause rather than merely treating the symptoms. The naturopathy approach is more integrated, where everything is taken into consideration, like the patient’s physical, mental, and emotional health and all the social and environmental factors. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), non-communicable diseases result in the deaths of over 41 million people annually, with 15 million people between the ages of 30 and 69. With the increasing threat of NCDs, behavioural and lifestyle changes are reckoned as the way forward. Naturopathy, with its holistic approach, educates and makes people responsible for their health. The combination of Yoga therapy and Naturopathy can successfully treat patients and spread knowledge and awareness about health & disease among the public. Unlike conventional medicine, the naturopathic treatment method usually involves diet therapy, lifestyle changes, yoga, and various therapies that are often less expensive. Since naturopathy’s primary focus is to improve the body’s immunity power to boost physical and mental health, the need for expensive, repeated, and sometimes ineffective treatment is eliminated. A major advantage of naturopathy is its ability to eliminate the associated healthcare costs that come with adverse reactions to prescription drugs. According to a Harvard University study published in 2014, about 328,000 patients in the U.S. and Europe die from adverse reactions to prescription drugs each year. A naturopathic treatment method uses therapies that are gentle, non-invasive, effective, and do not have adverse side effects. Often at times, economically vulnerable sections of the society fail to get the treatment they need from public health facilities as they are mostly overcrowded and understaffed. Even if they manage to get evaluated, it is cursory and incomplete on account of the time constraint under which most physicians operate. As a result, the health outcomes of the patients suffer. In such a scenario, the Naturopathy modality of healthcare can be an immense support to the government’s dream of universal health coverage, provided the standardisation of the practice happens soon. (The writer is senior chairman of a naturecare institute)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/naturopathy-requires-increased-attention-949848.html
11-02-2021||Panorama||The ‘thorns’ that still afflict India’s economy||In his Budget speech of 2015-16, the late Arun Jaitley took a dig at the previous UPA government with a few lines from a Hindi poem: “Kuchh to phool khilaye humne, aur kuch phool khilane hai/Mushkil yeh hai, bagh me ab tak kaante kai purane hai” (We have helped some flowers blossom, we have to grow many more, but the garden is still filled with many thorns from the past). Listening to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s promised ‘once in a century’ Budget speech last week, and on closely observing the Budget numbers, maybe one can recollect Jaitley’s poetic words for his own government: the ‘thorns’ of the current government’s own past (and its present) still remain rather unacknowledged and unaddressed in the garden, making it difficult for ‘new flowers’ to blossom. Despite a ‘pro-growth’ outlook, and a much-needed clarity on the Finance Ministry’s macro-fiscal priorities, the Budget, overall, comes across more like a standard financial statement and part of business-as-usual. Something that wasn’t expected in a moment of deep economic crisis and in a ‘once in a century’ opportunity (as the Finance Minister herself stated). Looking closely at the numbers, an adverse effect seen in the Centre’s resource mobilisation efforts, due to a pandemic accompanied by a deeper economic crisis, are now obvious. It was good to see the Finance Minister being honest and transparent about the government’s weakening revenue position and the increasing deficit numbers. However, it is important to acknowledge how, even before the pandemic, central tax collection had started slowing down, partly because of a slowing economic growth trajectory and due to the catastrophic policy measures taken by the government: a slash in corporate tax rates (in September 2019); a failure to achieve projected disinvestment targets year-on-year. On non-tax receipts, too, for example, the proceeds of disinvestment in 2020-21 (revised estimate) fell short of the budget estimate target of Rs 2.1 lakh crore, which was more than three times the disinvestment proceeds of 2019-20. This fact reflects poorly on the capabilities of the Finance Ministry to implement sound disinvestment plans based on what it seeks to ‘outline’ in estimates and on its plan for future revenue expansion. In reference to a few big-ticket announcements -- made in terms of a spending increase on capital expenditure -- if one sees the accounts, the actual ‘capital expenditure’ is likely to rise only by 3% or so over the next fiscal (if you look at the revised estimates and the fiscal space for ‘capital expenditure’ goals closely). This isn’t clearly a lot, nor a point worth cheerleading upon. Yes, the total government expenditure as announced by the Finance Minister is likely to go up by Rs 4 lakh crore. But most of this spending, at least 80%, is likely to be assigned for food-fertilizer-related subsidy expenses, with another 12% for an increase in MGNREGS outlay. There is very little here in spending for income support to those worst impacted by the pandemic and economic crisis, and that’s troubling. What about areas of priority in social sector expenditure? From what’s reported in the CBGA’s latest budget analysis report: As per the Economic Survey 2020-21, the combined public spending on social sectors by the Union and states remained below 7% of GDP until 2018-19. Though this figure rose to 8.8% of GDP in the Budget Estimates (BE) for 2020-21, one can note how, even at close to 9% of GDP as the combined public spending on social sectors in the country, it is way below the level of budgetary support for social sectors not just in most developed countries, but also in a number of large developing countries, especially in moments of a deep crisis. Furthermore, where the current Budget -- and the government’s macroeconomic priority -- more noticeably disappoints, despite all its high hopes, is in its inability to neither acknowledge nor address the ‘thorns’ of the past and present embedded in crises of high unemployment, low social-spending in creating social security for lower middle-class workers and putting more (disposable) money in the hands of those who need it the most (via tax incentives). While major asset owners and profit earners have maximised their profitability during the Covid pandemic last year, the real crisis in hand is still evident in the declining wages for (middle income) salaried classes and a disproportionately high loss in jobs across urban and rural areas. There is, unfortunately, nothing in this Budget for these millions -- either in terms of direct personal taxation (or exemption) benefits, or a plan to set a more robust and targeted job-creation plan in place, say through an urban-focused job creation plan similar to MGNREGA at least within the public sector, a proposal many thought might have got a nod this time for national-level implementation. In sum, if the Union government’s hope to create enough ‘jobs’ for the increasing jobless is through a higher fiscal spending plan, vaguely defined in the form of a government-financed infrastructure project pipeline at a time overall domestic private investment is woefully low across sectors (including in construction, real estate), and most labour-intensive manufacturing units are already struggling with low demand and capital, then not much is likely to change in the months ahead to bring about the quality of economic recovery one hopes for. Despite its ‘pro-growth’ outlook in spirit, this Budget fails to acknowledge, accommodate and address the needs of millions in India’s struggling working class. The ‘aam aadmi’, it seems, is likely to become more and more ‘nirbhar’ on an ultra-rich asset-owning class of elite that alone has benefitted in earnings and profit margins during a pandemic-induced crisis -- the evidence of which was there to see in the ‘irrational exuberance’ seen with the 2,000-point jump in stocks after the FM’s Budget speech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-thorns-that-still-afflict-india-s-economy-950214.html
11-02-2021||Panorama||Self-diagnosis is fraught with risk||Have a headache or a sore throat or indigestion? How many times have you turned to the internet to get a diagnosis? You might be putting yourself at great risk.  The digital revolution has changed many aspects of our lives, especially in the way we source health-related information, as it is easily and freely available. Earlier, one out of ten patients would seek health information on the internet, but today, that number has changed to nine out of ten people. Many even believe that the internet has all the answers to their health problems. A recent Google trend report on how Indians surfed the web in the past year has some shocking revelations. According to Google trends, “How to make coronavirus vaccine at home? And how to improve immunity against Covid?” were some of the top trending searches on the internet in India, followed by questions around food to eat to build immunity, plasma therapy, Covid symptoms, home remedies for Covid etc. More often than not, self-diagnosis on the internet always points towards something more frightening. It can lead to misdiagnosis or over-diagnosis. For example, if you search for ‘headache’, you are likely to find around 20 results showing different interpretations of headaches, each scarier than the other. There are chances that your headache may be something small but the search can show signs of a cancerous tumour or some other neurological problem. In this process, one may panic and experience high levels of stress. Moreover, self-medication involves pharmacological risks that can result in severe adverse reactions. Sometimes, you may even under-diagnosed which could have a serious long-term impact on the quality of life or worse, death. Cyberchondria refers to a person’s anxiety about their health that is created by excessive use of the internet to search for medical information. In the early 2000s, a British newspaper coined this term playing on the word hypochondria. Like hypochondria, cyberchondria involves excessive anxiety about health. According to experts, lately, cyberchondria is becoming a growing problem as people resort to find out what the internet has to say about their health and wellbeing. People having cyberchondria tend to misinterpret normal bodily changes and minor physical symptoms as signs of serious illness or disease. For many people living with health anxiety, the fear can become so severe that it interferes with work and relationships.  Many times, we come across patients with a whole list of questions that they have about their symptoms and medical condition. Some patients come with a diagnosis they have already arrived at by using the internet. And some, come with lab reports and medical investigations, also a result of online searching. Off course, we would call them empowered patients, but quite often these people display a lack of trust in the health advice offered by doctors. We must understand that no technology or internet search can completely replace professional medical help. By doing so, you are inadvertently putting yourself both at risk of anxiety and incorrect diagnosis and can will end up spending more money on healthcare. Using search engines to gain knowledge about health topics is not a magazine thing but checking the source of the information is very important. Information on these websites and apps should be viewed very cautiously as they don’t know your medical history or actual symptoms. The suggestions they make are not made by medical practitioners but are actually key-word based. It would be helpful to remember these things:  Anyone can publish content online Look to online search as your starting point, not your final answer Seek information from reliable websites such as health clinics, hospital websites, reputed health magazines and publications  Don’t delay actual care from medical professionals Do your online research, then write down your questions, call your doctor or a health centre in your neighbourhood, and talk to someone who knows how to tie all the pieces together Remember, the internet is just a channel through which you can gain information, but the actual empowerment comes when you use that information wisely and not rashly. (The writers are general physicians in a hospital in Mulund, Maharashtra)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/self-diagnosis-is-fraught-with-risk-950216.html
11-02-2021||Right in the Middle||We only have what we give||What can we give to one another? A lot actually. And it does not take a whole lot of sacrifice. It takes ebullience, it takes attentiveness, it takes understanding, it takes a sense of humour and it takes love. If you look closely, all of these things are a manifestation of us being alive to the joy of being alive; by being altruistic we pass on this feeling of joy.  When you leave home to follow your dreams or those of your children, the road ahead is riddled with potholes, feeling of insecurity and a desire for emotional anchoring. And so it was with us when we moved to the USA until we witnessed what can only be called a series of deliberate acts of kindness.  The best place for walking in the area that we lived was adjacent to the backyards of the suburban homes. During the evenings most families would walk along the path enjoying the fresh air and the vibrant atmosphere. We noticed that one of the houses had a small white bucket tied to the backyard fence. Almost every other day the bucket was filled with little gifts and toys for children depending on the season and time of the year. We witnessed; back to school gifts, Halloween items, little thanksgiving gifts, and then Christmas and new year bounties. The items were not expensive but they were useful and always enough for the children who frequented the path. We would see children stop by the little white bucket and pick up a trinket that was sure to make them smile.  It was heartwarming to know that someone went out of their way and schedule to procure little seasonal things that children would use and appreciate. We would often walk right up to the house with the bucket to see what new and exciting item was placed there, and we were never disappointed. The delightful screeches of the little children filled the walkway with glee and the ingenuity and thoughtfulness that went into selecting each little gift filled our hearts with joy.  We never really saw or met the person who kept these largesses for the children but we knew that this anonymous benefactor had a heart of gold. A person who deliberately planted little delights for the children could not help but receive the fruits of his/her kindness. These fruits would not be tangible, but to be the reason someone smiles, to be the reason that someone feels loved and believes in the goodness of people is to be touched by the hand of God.  It is these little acts of kindness put together that compels the whole world to come a little closer and makes a suburban walkway in the USA feel like home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/we-only-have-what-we-give-949846.html
11-02-2021||Right in the Middle||MD in dosa batter||I am Prasanna Harihar MD for my dear friends.  My declared passion and love for an object, that has become synonymous with Bengaluru, has perched me on this altar.  It’s not my initials; nor is it my qualifications to practice medicine that have gifted my this nickname. I’m a self-declared exponent of the “Masala Dosa.”  Like an exquisite art form, that first takes shape in the artist’s mind, the pre-preparation to soak the right ingredients in an optimal proportion is a pre-requisite. The consistency of the batter is highlighted by the texture and the colour.  The batter soaked overnight is allowed to ferment and rise, which can be equated to a flower emerging from its bud. Voila! A debut experience catapulted me to be an ardent student of MD.  Introduced to this discipline at a tender age of 12, with mom’s ready batter, I took to it like a duck to water.  Indeed, an art form since it involved the careful process of heating the pan to the ideal temperature. The next step is to spread the batter with a ladle to achieve a perfectly round shape. The right quantity of oil sprinkled around it helps is cook to achieve a crisp texture and a golden colour.  There are various avatars of dosa – aloo curry on the inside for Masala Dosa, Karnataka-styled mixed vegetable curry or Sagu Masala, Davanagere Benne Dosa where the potato curry is served on the side along with chutney and butter, a red-chutney made of red chillies, onion, and garlic smeared on the inside for Mysuru Masala Dosa, a set of soft and slightly thicker spongy ones for Set Dosa, and so on.   Masala Dosa enjoyed with two to three different varieties of chutney is a delight fit for a king. A Sunday morning MD followed by the aroma and sip of a hot filter coffee catapults one to the threshold of heaven. My friends and I under the pretext of walking, devour MDs at the famous MTR, Vidyarthi Bhavan, CTR, Darshinis, SLV that dot our city. The king of breakfast delicacies’ twin ‘idli’ is celebrated on March 30 as world idli day. I’m all geared up now to launch a movement to celebrate January 1 as World MD Day, giving a mouth-watering start to a fresh year.   My mouth salivates as I wax lyrical about Masala Dosas.  I reach into the refrigerator for the batter and parallelly start brewing rich filter coffee, set the pan to heat and destabilise my inertia to cook a little potato curry for another ‘perfect MD!’||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/md-in-dosa-batter-950212.html
11-02-2021||Second Edit||A welcome initiative in Afghanistan||India’s people-friendly engagement of Afghanistan has taken an important step forward with the two countries signing a Memorandum of Understanding during their recent virtual summit on the construction of the Shahtoot Dam. The dam, which will be built by India across the River Kabul, is expected to cost $236 million and will take three years to complete. It will help provide drinking water to around two million of Kabul’s residents and irrigate over 400,000 acres of land. Over the past two decades, India’s role in Afghanistan has been aimed at improving the lives and livelihoods of the Afghan people. Several of the programmes it is implementing there are focused on improving nutrition and building capacity. India’s infrastructure-building, which includes the construction of roads, dams, power projects and hospitals have boosted the Afghan economy. The Shahtoot Dam will take Indian support for Afghanistan’s well-being further. Only recently, India supplied 500,000 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine to Afghanistan. Such engagement is positive and is being appreciated by Afghan leaders and people. India has done well to press ahead with the Shahtoot Dam project despite the huge risks involved. Not only is the security situation in Afghanistan precarious, but also President Ashraf Ghani’s position is increasingly shaky. Besides, the dam project faces opposition from Pakistan. Since it is the Kabul River’s lower riparian country, Islamabad is bound to raise allegations that the Shahtoot Dam is reducing water flow into the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province. It will find ways to obstruct the implementation of the project. It will seek to intimidate India into pulling out of the project. Other anti-India forces operating in Afghanistan, including the ISI-backed Haqqani Network and other Pakistani terrorist protégés, could target the Shahtoot project. India must not be intimidated by their threats or violence. Indian workers and projects have been targeted by the Taliban, the Haqqani Network and other hostile groups. Indian workers at project sites of the Zaranj-Delaram highway were abducted and some even killed. The Iranian government expressed its apprehensions over the Salma Dam reducing the Hari River’s water flow into Iran. That dam, too, was built by India. New Delhi’s engagement in Afghanistan has therefore not been easy. It has had to deal with countless obstacles and hostile interests. Some it overcame through dialogue, others it dodged. Still others, it was compelled to ignore in the best interests of the Afghan people and India-Afghanistan relations. Work on the Shahtoot Dam will be challenging but, as in the past with other collaborative projects in Afghanistan, India must stand its ground.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-welcome-initiative-in-afghanistan-949841.html
11-02-2021||Second Edit||We’re yet to learn the value of a tree||The Supreme Court’s suggestion that a protocol should be framed for estimating the cost of a tree is welcome at a time when trees are being cut down wantonly for various purposes. There was some new thinking on the issue of the cost of a tree during the hearing of a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed against the West Bengal government’s move to cut down 356 trees for the construction of five railway overbridges over a 59-km area. The project would cost Rs 500 crore. Fifty trees have already been felled and others have heritage value. The court had last year set up a five-member committee to determine the true value of a tree, which is a major factor in the assessment of project cost and in calculating compensation.  At present, the value of a tree is calculated on the basis of the value of the timber it has. But the committee has suggested that the cost should also take into consideration other benefits like the oxygen the tree releases into the atmosphere and the bio-fertilisers it produces. If the cost of these and other benefits go into the valuation of the tree, it will cost much more. The committee has also suggested that the benefits derived from the tree during its life should also be calculated. Heritage trees should command premium valuations. Such an estimation might put the value of a tree at Rs 74,500 multiplied by its age. Going by this calculation, the West Bengal government would have to pay Rs 220 crore, out of the Rs 500 crore budget for the project, just as compensation for the trees.  The court has not accepted the report but has sought replies from the Centre and the West Bengal government. It noted that governments would go bankrupt if the committee’s system of valuation is accepted. But it wants a rational and comprehensive system of valuation for trees. The aim should not be just to calculate the compensation price but the value of the tree in the ecosystem. This needs to be evolved as a protocol, giving due consideration for protection of the environment and the need for development. The committee’s report has given some ideas which will be useful as guidelines in the exercise. These have not been considered as relevant and important till now. The committee has also made other recommendations like the need for better compensatory plantation for the loss of trees. The planting of saplings in place of trees that are cut down is only a ritual now. Its recommendation that all alternatives should be considered before a tree is cut down is sound, but this does not always happen in these axe-happy times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/we-re-yet-to-learn-the-value-of-a-tree-950208.html
11-02-2021||South||Ordinance for registration of migrant workers in Kerala||The Kerala government has decided to bring in a legislation to mandate registration of migrant workers. The state Cabinet on Wednesday decided to recommend to the Governor to bring in an ordinance in this regard. The Inter-state Migrant Workers Welfare Registration - Kerala ordinance would mandate registration for all migrant workers. The aim is to ensure welfare and safety of migrant workers, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Even as studies pointed out that the migrant population in Kerala is around 25 lakh, the state still lacked fool proof data on the migrant workers in Kerala. Lack of proper data of migrant workers reflected mainly during the time of lockdown due to Covid. Hence the state government has decided to mandate registration for migrant workers through legislation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ordinance-for-registration-of-migrant-workers-in-kerala-949864.html
11-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu to get two Special Expenditure observers to ensure 'inducement-free' polls||Tamil Nadu, which has earned notoriety for rampant use of money to influence voters during elections, will get two Special Expenditure Observers this Assembly polls due in April-May, as the Election Commission of India (ECI) makes an effort to make the democratic exercise “inducement-free.” Wrapping up his two-day visit to Tamil Nadu to oversee preparations for the elections, Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora said all political parties in the state demanded that the elections be conducted in a single-phase. While pointing out that some political parties took objection to the move of providing ballot votes to those above 80 years of age, the CEC said they will not be “able to reconsider the decision” as it was implemented successfully in Bihar elections. Replying to questions on when the state would go to polls and whether it will be a single-phase election, Arora said everything will be “clear” when the date for the elections are announced in New Delhi. The term of the 15th Assembly ends on May 24, Arora noted, saying elections will “certainly” be conducted before the date. CEC and his team held discussions with political parties, senior bureaucrats, police officials, and other stakeholders to elicit their opinion on the conduct of polls. Addressing a press conference, Arora laid stress on ECI's efforts to conduct the elections in a free, fair, and “inducement-free” manner. “We have decided to appoint two Special Expenditure Observers to Tamil Nadu to oversee the elections. These officials will be in the rank of former Secretaries to the Government of India or ex-Chairperson of the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT). Apart from this, we will have a much senior person than these officers to oversee expenditure in Tamil Nadu and Kerala,” Arora said. The CEC said the ECI's goal was to ensure that there are “no R K Nagar and Vellore” this Assembly election, in an apparent reference to rescinding of elections in the above-mentioned Assembly and Parliamentary constituencies in 2017 and 2019. Elections to two Assembly segments, byelection to R K Nagar, and elections to Vellore Lok Sabha seat were cancelled at the eleventh hour due to rampant use of money power. Candidates from almost all political parties bribe voters a few days before the elections, and despite rescinding the polls more than once, the ECI has not been able to stop distribution of cash. Explaining in detail about the measures keeping in mind the Covid-19 rules, Arora said the ECI has decided to set up an additional 25,000 polling booths to ensure social distancing, taking the number to 93,000. The number of polling booths in Tamil Nadu usually is around 63,000. “Polling time will also be increased by an hour,” the CEC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-to-get-two-special-expenditure-observers-to-ensure-inducement-free-polls-949996.html
11-02-2021||South||Bypoll to Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat along with Assembly elections||Bypoll to Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat will be held along with the elections to the Tamil Nadu Assembly, the Election Commission of India (ECI) announced on Thursday. “It will be held along with the assembly elections,” Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora told reporters here at a press conference. Bypoll to Kanyakumari has been necessitated after the death of its representative H Vasanthakumar due to Covid-19 infection in August 2020. Kumar, a Congressman, won the seat in 2019 elections by a margin of over 2 lakh votes, defeating the lone Union Minister Pon Radhakrishnan elected from Tamil Nadu. It is expected that Congress and BJP, which contested the seat in 2019, are likely to field their candidates as part of the DMK and AIADMK alliance respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bypoll-to-kanyakumari-lok-sabha-seat-along-with-assembly-elections-950002.html
11-02-2021||South||Kamal Haasan to be Makkal Needhi Maiam's 'permanent' president, resolves party||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) on Thursday announced that its leader Kamal Haasan will be the “permanent president” of the party and delegated the powers to decide on the election strategy and alliance to him. The decisions were taken at the first General Council (GC) meeting of the MNM since its inception in 2018. Holding a torchlight, the election symbol of his party, Kamal Haasan made his first public appearance on Thursday after a “follow-up” surgery he underwent in his leg last month. The meeting was expected to make an announcement whether the MNM will contest the April-May assembly polls alone or as part of an alliance. However, no decision in this regard was taken. The GC passed 25 resolutions, including asking the administration to release a White Paper on the debts of the Tamil Nadu government and exerting pressure on the Centre to ensure the release of seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case. “Thalaivar (President) Kamal Haasan has accepted the demand of all members of the General Council that he be the permanent president of the Makkal Needhi Maiam, having devoted all his fame, and experience to do better for the people of Tamil Nadu. Accordingly, Kamal Haasan will be the permanent president of the party from today (February 11),” one of the resolutions read. The GC also authorised Kamal Haasan to take decisions regarding party's electoral strategy and alliance. “Everyone should work with the single-point agenda of winning the 2021 assembly elections and ensure that Kamal Haasan becomes the Chief Minister,” the resolutions signed by former bureaucrat and party's general secretary Santhosh Babu said. The GC also lauded Kamal Haasan for “successfully completing” the first leg of his campaign for the assembly polls. MNM projects itself as an alternative to the Dravidian majors – DMK and AIADMK – who have ruled the state since 1967. The party scored around 3.75 percent of votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasan-to-be-makkal-needhi-maiams-permanent-president-resolves-party-950016.html
11-02-2021||South||PM Narendra Modi to visit Tamil Nadu on Sunday; may discuss politics with AIADMK||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be in Tamil Nadu on Sunday to inaugurate the last stretch of Chennai Metro's Phase-I project and lay the foundation stone for various development projects, just a few months before the states goes to its most crucial assembly elections in recent years. Though there is no scheduled meeting so far with anyone, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam may get to talk to him for a few minutes as “they will be with him” throughout his three-hour-long visit to Chennai, informed sources said. Modi will inaugurate the 9-km corridor connecting Washermanpet with Wimco Nagar, one of the congested areas in the city, while laying the foundation stone for an ambitious project that envisages linking River Cauvery with Gundaru. Opening of the 9-km stretch completes the first phase of the Chennai Metro, whose construction began in 2009. Modi's visit is significant since it comes close on the heels of V K Sasikala, a close confidante of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, returning to Tamil Nadu with a bang after completing her four-year prison term in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. Sasikala's entry is expected to cause confusion in the AIADMK for the party was controlled indirectly by her when Jayalalithaa was the Chief Minister. The BJP has announced that it will contest the assembly elections in alliance with the AIADMK but broad contours of the tie-up like seat-sharing are yet to be discussed. BJP, which was hoping to piggyback on Tamil superstar Rajinikanth, is working towards bringing together the ruling AIADMK and its splinter group, AMMK, led by Sasikala's nephew T T V Dhinakaran, for an electoral understanding. DH had on January 20 reported that BJP has mooted a proposal that Dhinakaran's AMMK will join the AIADMK-led alliance accepting Palaniswami as the Chief Ministerial face. However, the source had then added that incumbent Palaniswami, who has established his position within the government and the party, is red-flagging the proposal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-narendra-modi-to-visit-tamil-nadu-on-sunday-may-discuss-politics-with-aiadmk-950044.html
11-02-2021||South||TRS wins Greater Hyderabad Mayor, Deputy Mayor posts||The ruling TRS in Telangana on Thursday bagged the Mayor and Deputy Mayor posts in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) with the support of ex-officio members and the AIMIM. Vijayalaxmi R Gadwal and Mothe Srilatha, both belonging to TRS, were elected the Mayor and Deputy Mayor respectively, by show of hands, during a special meeting of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). The TRS did not get a majority on its own and secured only 56 wards in the 150-member GHMC in the civic elections held in December last year. The BJP contested the Mayor and Deputy Mayor election though it lacked the numbers, but the TRS nominees won as the ex-officio members and the AIMIM backed them. Though BJP won 48 wards in the election, its strength came down to 47 following the death of one of its victorious candidates. The saffron party had said it decided to contest for the Mayor and Deputy Mayor posts, despite lacking the numbers, in the spirit of democracy and to oppose the "opportunistic" attempt of TRS to win the poll through a "backhand deal" with AIMIM. Though the keenly-fought GHMC elections were held in December, the election of Mayor and Deputy Mayor was conducted on Thursday as the term of the previous body came to an end only on February 10. The proceedings of the special meeting began on Thursday with the newly-elected Corporators taking the oath of office. While the TRS and BJP won 56 and 48 wards respectively in the GHMC polls, the AIMIM bagged 44 wards. Congress could win only two wards. The BJP gave the TRS a run for its money in the GHMC polls by organising a powerful campaign in which its top leaders, including Union Home Minister Amit Shah, J P Nadda and UP CM Yogi Adityanath participated. The Lok Sabha MPs and MLAs, who have their vote in the city are ex-officio members of the corporation. Besides, MLCs and Rajya Sabha members, who have their vote in the city, had to give an option, choosing the GHMC, to be able to vote, official sources said earlier. According to GHMC sources, there were 44 ex-officio member votes in the GHMC and TRS has 32 followed by MIM 10, BJP 2 who are eligible to vote taking the total number of votes to 194. Meanwhile, state BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar alleged that the unholy alliance between the TRS and AIMIM stood exposed (with the AIMIM supporting the ruling party in the Mayor election). What BJP said during the GHMC poll campaign about the two parties came true, he claimed. Vijayalaxmi R Gadwal is the daughter of TRS Rajya Sabha member K Keshav Rao who had also served as state Congress president before joining TRS. According to TRS sources, Vijayalaxmi did BA and LLB. She lived in the US for several years and returned to India in 2007. While in the US, she worked as a research assistant in Duke University, North Carolina. She won from Banjara Hills ward in 2016 and again in December 2020. Mother Srilatha is TRS Corporator from Tarnaka ward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/trs-wins-greater-hyderabad-mayor-deputy-mayor-posts-950051.html
11-02-2021||South||Tiger knocks on Wayanad resident's door||A family in Kerala's Wayanad had a harrowing experience as a tiger came to their house and tried to open the door Wednesday night. Forty-two-year-old Salitha and her nephew, Mithun, aged 20, who were at the house during the time had a narrow escape as the tiger returned to the forest. The house is situated close to the forests at Thirunelli in Wayanad and wild animals like elephants are frequently spotted in the area. The two told the police and forest officials that around 11 pm they heard a sound at the front door and that their pet dog was also barking continuously. Once they looked towards the direction of their door, they noticed the tiger trying to push open it open. Both of them rushed to the door and pushed the door from inside. After some time the tiger withdrew. They later alerted the local police and forest authorities. Marks of the tiger’s paws were reportedly spotted by the forest authorities near the house. Surveillance cameras were also installed in the locality. A couple of months ago a crocodile entered a house at Athirapally in Thrissur district. The area is known for eco-tourism and the house was close to river.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tiger-knocks-on-wayanad-residents-door-950110.html
11-02-2021||South||Father, brother's friend held for sexually abusing and impregnating minor girl in Kerala||A minor girl at Kollam district in south Kerala was sexually abused by her father and brother's friend. The shocking incident came to light after the 15-year-old girl was found to be pregnant. On counselling by the child protection authorities, the girl revealed the sexual assault that she has faced. She was hospitalised after she complained of health issues. On medical examination, she was found to be pregnant and the hospital authorities reported the matter to the police. According to police sources, the girl said in her statement that her father sexual harassed her in their house since November last year. Afterwards, a friend of her brother also sexually assaulted her. The family is financially weak and to make matters worse, the father is an alcoholic. Both the accused have been held by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/father-brothers-friend-held-for-sexually-abusing-and-impregnating-minor-girl-in-kerala-950143.html
11-02-2021||South||High level probe into furnace oil leaking to sea||A high-level probe was ordered by the Kerala government into the leakage of furnace oil from Travancore Titanium Products in Thiruvananthapuram to the Arabian sea. The local fishermen raised concerns that the leakage of around 5,000-litre furnace oil to the sea on Wednesday could affect the marine resources. Even a sea turtle was found dead in the seashore aggravating the concerns of the fishing community. There were also allegations of lapses on the part of TTP officials in spotting the leakage in time. Industries Minister E P Jayarajan said that a comprehensive probe would be carried out in the wake of the allegations and the concerns over environmental hazards caused by the furnace oil leakage. TTP, which manufactures Titanium dioxide pigments, was temporarily shut following the incident. It is located close to the sea. Efforts to clean the seashore was also progressing. The Kerala State Pollution Control Board was also reviewing the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/high-level-probe-into-furnace-oil-leaking-to-sea-950147.html
11-02-2021||State||Karnataka: New sand mining policy to ease sand transportation||The state government has proposed a new sand mining policy, easing restrictions on transport permits. Tweaking existing regulations, the government will henceforth not insist on permits for transporting sand, as long as it is within district limits and is for personal use. Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani on Wednesday said the government wanted to make access to sand easier for the common man. Small farmers and the poor should not suffer due to strict regulations meant for commercial mining, Nirani said. Towards this end, a draft sand policy 2021 has been prepared, which will soon be published, according to the minister.  Nirani said sand transportation within a district will not require permits as long as it is for personal use. “Locals can use sand in their surroundings as long as it is not within the premises of auctioned sand mining sites,” he said.   “There is no limit on the quantity transported as it is not for commercial use. However, there is no need for any official permit. A nominal amount will be fixed for the sand,” the minister said. “Sand is not available even for Ashraya Houses. One had to buy it from those with licences making sand scarce and expensive. People can now transport it in their own vehicles like tractors and bullock carts,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-new-sand-mining-policy-to-ease-sand-transportation-949830.html
11-02-2021||State||The Lead: Mayhem in Mines — Quarrying bring clouds of gloom to villages near Krishnaraja Sagar Dam||In this episode of DH Radio, we look at the issue of mining in Mandya district and listen to the plight of people residing near Bebi Betta.  This series from Deccan Herald comprehensively looks at the issue of illegal mining in that state. A sort of activity that affects us — you, me and our planet. In today's episode, we travel to the district of Mandya. The district is home to the majestic KRS or Krishnaraja Sagar Dam, a 90-year old dam which provides water to millions of people. But quarry activities near the dam pose a threat to the structure. Activists have been demanding that the area within the radius of 20-km around the dam be declared a protected zone. M Lakshmana, former chairman of Mysuru chapter of Institution of Engineers and founder of Association of Concerned and Informed Citizens of Mysuru, tells us of the dam's importance. To know more listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/the-lead-mayhem-in-mines-quarrying-bring-clouds-of-gloom-to-villages-near-krishnaraja-sagar-dam-949934.html
11-02-2021||State||Karnataka govt plans a new look for Bengaluru's Sree Kanteerava Stadium||Karnataka Youth Empowerment and Sports Minister KC Narayana Gowda on Thursday unveiled a grand plan to modernize Bengaluru’s Sree Kanteerava Stadium, which he said will be done at an estimated cost of Rs 1,500 crore. “The plan is to upgrade the stadium on public-private partnership (PPP). The detailed project report is ready. Talks are on and soon we will give it final shape,” Gowda said, after reviewing this with officials. “The blueprint for the indoors and the entire stadium premises is ready. This will include a multi-storey building, 3-star and 5-star hotels, parking and commercial establishments,” Gowda said. A similar PPP model will be explored to develop stadia in districts, the minister said. “If private companies come forward, the government has decided to hold talks with them. We’ve also discussed utilizing corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds,” he added. According to Gowda, the idea is to increase the number of sportspersons in the state participating in the Olympics. “We must make ready 100+ athletes across the 14 Olympic sports and of them, at least 50 athletes should become eligible,” he said. Gowda’s department has decided to seek an allocation of Rs 1,000 crore in the upcoming state budget. “When compared with Punjab and Haryana, the allocation for sports in our state is less. So, we want to increase it three times and make it at least Rs 1,000 crore,” Gowda said. The minister also pulled up officials when he found low expenditure against the district-level allocation of funds. “If the allocated funds are not used, it can potentially spoil the life of athletes,” he said and warned officials of action.The government is working on a new policy intervention aimed at the youth, Gowda said. “We will give the Youth Policy a new form. We plan to organize youth melas to help them prepare the right mindset and skills. These melas will also be converted as job melas. There are 2.5 crore youths in the state and the new policy will make sure all of them get involved,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-plans-a-new-look-for-bengalurus-sree-kanteerava-stadium-950099.html
11-02-2021||State||Migratory birds add colours to water bodies in Hassan district||With the change in the climatic condition, a large number of birds from parts of North India and foreign countries are migrating towards the South, including the Hassan district. Colourful and rare birds can be seen dotting Hemavathy backwaters in Gorur and several lakes in the district, much to the delight of the bird watchers and nature lovers. As soon as the winter sets in, it becomes difficult for the birds to food in colder countries and also at the Himalayas and surrounding region due to heavy snowfall. Not able to withstand the freezing temperature levels, the birds migrate towards warmer places in the South. They stay here for breeding till March and return later. This is the best time for the bird watchers to identify rare birds and even capture them on their cameras. Birds can be seen at Satyamangala Lake in the city, Hunasinakere, Gavenahalli Lake, Hemavathy backwaters, near Shettihalli Church and other water bodies. The birds are from Mongolia, Syberia, Atlanta, Himachal Pradesh, Tibet, Jammu and Kashmir and other places, according to experts. The birds that are seen in large numbers are painted storks, woolly-necked storks, grey heron, blackhead ibis, little egret, purple moorhen, grey duck, great Indian cormorant, pelicans, red wattled lapwing, spot-billed grey ducks, bar-headed geese and others. Striped ducks are seen in large numbers at Hemavathy backwaters. As the water level has receded, the ducks are feeding on the grains of grass. Even paddy fields are attracting birds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/migratory-birds-add-colours-to-water-bodies-in-hassan-district-950176.html
11-02-2021||State||Cold, dry spell to continue for a few days in Karnataka: IMD||Dry and chilly weather conditions are expected to prevail over interior Karnataka regions during the next few days. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), minimum temperatures were appreciably below normal (-3.1 to 5 degrees) in South Interior Karnataka region. Minimum temperatures are expected to hover around 12-13 degrees in Bengaluru and surrounding districts during the period. Minimum temperatures were also below normal in North Interior Karnataka districts, with cities such as Bidar registering temperatures around eight degrees below normal. Speaking to DH, C S Patil, director, IMD, Bengaluru, said that the dip in temperature was due to lack of moisture and humidity levels. “Conditions have been extremely dry, causing cold weather conditions,” he said, noting that the drop in temperature was more pronounced in interior Karnataka districts such as Bengaluru, Bidar and Kalaburagi. Forecasts indicate that the situation will prevail for the next three to four days or more, depending on atmospheric circulations. “Moisture could flow to the mainland from the sea in the coming days, normalising the minimum temperature recorded,” he said. Temperature recorded In Bengaluru, the mercury had dipped to 12.4 degree Celsius at HAL in the city on Thursday morning, making it one of the coldest days this winter season. At KIAL and Bengaluru city, the minimum temperature recorded during the day was 12.8 and 14.5 degree Celsius respectively. Other cities too witnessed cold conditions as the minimum temperature in Bidar was 10 degree Celsius, 8.1 degrees below normal. Similarly, Shivamogga registered 10.4 degree C, which was 6.1 degrees below normal and 11.8 in Mysuru, which was 5.7 degrees below normal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cold-dry-spell-to-continue-for-a-few-days-in-karnataka-imd-950200.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka High Court takes up suo motu PIL on functioning of FSLs||The High Court on Wednesday registered a suo motu PIL regarding infrastructure, equipment and vacancies at Forensic Science Laboratories (FSL) in the state. The court has directed both the Director FSL Bengaluru and Secretary of the Home Department to file affidavits setting out temporary and permanent measures to improve the functioning of the FSLs in the state. The suo motu PIL was registered based on the observations made in a single-judge bench order recording inordinate delays in filing of the FSL reports. In the case at hand, the single judge had observed that there was a delay of four years in filing the report. Perusing the pendency at the FSL, the judge had noted that as many as 35,738 samples arising out of 6,994 cases were pending with FSLs as on November 30, 2020. Further, it was observed that of the pending samples, 6,868 samples were pertaining to narcotic cases, 3,968 samples related to DNA analysis and 9,958 relating to the authenticity of documents. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, ordered notice and said that all vacancies/posts at the FSLs should be filled up in a time-bound manner. The bench observed that the state government should also explore the possibility of setting up more FSLs and also mobile testing labs. The bench observed that there is no time limit fixed for analysis of samples sent to FSL. “According to us, the failure of the state government to provide proper machinery to FSL will have a direct correlation with the criminal justice system and delay will result in a violation of fundamental rights under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” the court said. The bench pointed out that three posts of joint directors, seven posts of deputy directors, 18 posts of assistant directors, 35 posts of senior scientific officers and 138 posts of scientific officers are vacant at various FSLs in the state. Director of FSL and the home secretary have been directed to submit details of infrastructure, vacancies in the state level lab at Bengaluru as well as five regional labs at Mysuru, Mangaluru, Davangere, Belagavi and Kalaburagi. The bench posted further hearing to March 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-high-court-takes-up-suo-motu-pil-on-functioning-of-fsls-949818.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||President Ram Nath Kovind visits Satsang Foundation Ashram||President Ram Nath Kovind visited the Satsang Foundation Ashram founded by spiritual teacher Sri M at Madanapalle in Andhra Pradesh, as part of his recent tour of Karnataka. During his five-hour stay at the ashram, the President held an interaction with Sri M at Sri Guru Babaji’s shrine.  The President also inaugurated the Yogashala of the Bharat Yoga Vidya Kendra and interacted with the students of the first Yoga teacher training programme that was held at the ashram. He appreciated the students who had come from various parts of the country to Madanapalle for the course.  President Kovind said that Yoga would always be of great help in meeting the daily challenges in all spheres of life. “The most important aspect of learning Yoga is creating a healthy mind in a healthy body as well as being able to explore deeper aspects of consciousness,” he said.  During his walk around the Ashram, the President planted a tree and laid the foundation stone for Swaasthya Hospitals, an initiative of the Satsang Foundation. Later, he held an interaction with the students and teachers of the Satsang Vidyalaya – a free school providing holistic development, quality education, nutrition and healthcare services to the children of marginalised communities in Madanapalle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/president-ram-nath-kovind-visits-satsang-foundation-ashram-949819.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Budget in 1st week of March; CM holds meetings with departments||The state budget for 2021-22 will be presented in the first week of March, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said Wednesday. The chief minister was speaking to media persons at Vidhana Soudha, after paying respects to former CM Kengal Hanumanthaiah on his 113th birth anniversary. He said that the budget would be presented in the first week of March, but the exact date would be decided shortly. “The pre-budget meetings which are underway will be completed within a week’s time,” he said. On Wednesday, Yediyurappa held a series of pre-budget meetings with various departments.  As for the growing reservation demands from different communities in Karnataka, Yediyurappa said that he would make all efforts permissible within the constitutional framework to meet these demands. “I will consult legal experts on the issue. We will implement whatever the law permits us to,” he assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-budget-in-1st-week-of-march-cm-holds-meetings-with-departments-949821.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||H K Patil urges Karnataka govt not to scrap taluk panchayats||Former RDPR minister and senior Congress MLA H K Patil said on Wednesday the state government should not make a hasty decision on scrapping taluk panchayat (TP) system without understanding its importance in three-tier panchayat raj system. “As per the 73rd Amendment to the Indian Constitution, the state governments cannot scrap the taluk panchayat system. The successive governments failed in strengthening the TPs. The taluk panchayat has a big responsibility in initiating and executing development works of respective taluks. The government should give serious thought to empowering the TPs,” Patil told reporters. “The ongoing talk about scrapping TPs or adding more teeth to Zilla panchayats is a conspiracy by the state government to postpone the elections to local bodies,” the Congress legislator charged. The debate on taluk panchayat system gained fire with RDPR Minister K S Eshwarappa’s recent statement that the government is ready to scrap TP as it’s proving to be a burden on the state exchequer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/h-k-patil-urges-karnataka-govt-not-to-scrap-taluk-panchayats-949822.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Don't make farmers' stir a prestige issue: Gowda to Centre||Former Prime Minister and JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda on Wednesday said that the Union government should not make the farmers’ agitation a matter of prestige and that they must take initiative to resolve the issue through dialogue. Speaking to reporters here en route to Devadurga to attend a JD(S) convention, Gowda said, “Farmers have the right to express their grievances. Braving harsh winter, they are protesting the farm laws in open. Voices of farmers must be heard.” On the Republic Day violence, he said, “A probe into the Republic Day violence is underway. I will not comment on the rumours of Khalistan conspiracy or foreign money link to tractor rally violence in the national capital.” Replying to a query on the quota demand by a few castes, Gowda said,” Former chief minister and Congress leader Siddaramaiah knows it better. Siddaramaiah was a part of the late M P Prakash-led committee on the categorisation of castes/sub-castes. When asked about Prime Minister Narendra Modi mentioning about his contributions to discussions pertaining to the farm sector in Rajya Sabha, Gowda said, “PM Modi is an intelligent man. He must have spoken based on the knowledge gained from the encyclopedia about me and my family’s background. This is being interpreted by many in many ways, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dont-make-farmers-stir-a-prestige-issue-gowda-to-centre-949823.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||39L vehicles may be scrapped in Karnataka||Thirty-nine lakh vehicles in Karnataka will have to be scrapped if the government notifies a new rule prohibiting the use of old vehicles.  As per the rule, private vehicles aged above 20 years and commercial vehicles (yellow number plate) aged over 15 years have to be scrapped. Of the 2.46 crore vehicles in Karnataka, about 39 lakh have to be scrapped to comply with the rule or pay green tax.  The rule, proposed by the Centre, has already seen much opposition. However, officials believe it is necessary to reduce pollution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/39l-vehicles-may-be-scrapped-in-karnataka-949857.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt promises special funds to promote new veggie, flower species||Karnataka will soon launch programmes to introduce new varieties of vegetables, fruits and flowers developed by scientists at the Indian Institute of Horticulture Research (IIHR) here, said Horticulture Minister R Shankar.  Visiting the National Horticulture Festival (NHF-2021) at the IIHR’s Hesaraghatta campus on Wednesday, Shankar told reporters that a separate budgetary allocation was made to introduce these varieties to farmers across Karnataka.  “IIHR scientists have developed some of the best varieties and these must be available to all farmers,” he said, adding the government was planning to introduce the varieties, along with the latest technology developed by the scientists, through the 715 farmers’ contact centres across the state.  Stating that Karnataka is eighth in the country in expanding the cultivation of horticultural crops, Shankar hoped the state would become first in the coming days.  He directed horticulture department officials to open a separate market for flowers. “We have been facing space constraints in the existing market for the sale of flowers. There are complaints about middlemen coming in the way of floriculturists at fruit and vegetable markets. We will soon resolve this problem and a separate place will be identified for setting up a flower market,” Shankar said.  On the third day of the horticulture fair, the IIHR inked MoUs with four companies for the commercialisation of technology developed by its scientists. Companies from Bengaluru, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Tamil Nadu signed the MoUs.  Thousands of farmers from Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagar, Mandya, Kolar, Chikkaballapura, Tumakuru, Ballari, Hassan and Chikkamagaluru districts arrived by special buses to attend the fair.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-promises-special-funds-to-promote-new-veggie-flower-species-949858.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||65k IMA depositors applied for claims worth Rs 2,695 cr, HC told||A total of 65,258 claim applications for 69,099 depositor accounts have been received in the IMA case. Of these, about 45,000 claims have been verified to date while the verification of the rest is likely to be completed within a month, the state government informed the high court on Wednesday.  IAS officer Harsh Gupta, the competent authority appointed in the IMA case under the Protection of Interest of Depositors in Financial Establishments (KPID) Act, 2004, stated in an affidavit that applications until January 3, 2021 (the extended deadline), had claimed a total of Rs 2,695.1 crore.  The competent authority has filed an application before the special court for finalising the mode and manner of the settlement of claims.  The affidavit also stated that the additional chief secretary, revenue department, had written to the principal chief commissioner of income tax, seeking a refund of about Rs 134 crore paid by the IMA group in income tax.  A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka directed the government to produce a copy of the court order along with the additional chief secretary’s letter. The bench said the income tax department was expected to respond to the letter at the earliest.  The court adjourned the hearing and directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to submit a further status report of the investigation by April 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/65k-ima-depositors-applied-for-claims-worth-rs-2695-cr-hc-told-949860.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: More women vaccinated in Karnataka than men||Women in Karnataka seem to be more open to vaccination than men as Co-WIN app data suggests that a whopping 2,89,787 women have been vaccinated so far in the state while only 1,74,545 men have been vaccinated. This also mimics the national trend where 39,56,198 women were vaccinated against 28,90,676 men. However, officials say that since a majority of health workers like ASHAs, ANMs, staff nurses are women, it is plausible that more women are vaccinated than men and it may have nothing to do with hesitancy among men. As per Covid patients' data in the state, men have been infected more (5,79,298) compared to women (3,63,914). Even in mortality rates, a higher number of men have succumbed to the disease (8,757) than women (3,484). In the first state serosurvey, 30 per cent of male respondents were found to have been exposed to the SARS-CoV-2 virus over 22 per cent women, out of the 16,585 individuals surveyed. A gender-wise beneficiaries break-up sourced from the Co-WIN dashboard as on February 10 showed that 6,00158 women were registered for vaccination in the state, 96,254 more than the number of men. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said, "We have more female grassroots health workers than male workers. We have around 40,000 ASHAs, 15,000 female ANMs, nurses, health professionals and paramedics who are mostly women. Anganwadi workers are also women. We need to check vaccine acceptance rates in men though." "It is true that men have been affected more by Covid than women. Then why are they not coming forward to get vaccinated? We should probably look at targeting IEC materials at men who seem to be the vulnerable group when it comes to Covid," Pandey said. There are 1.3 lakh employees in the health department of which regular employees are 69,000, NHM staff is 25,000, and the rest are contract workers, where women outnumber men. "In Arogya Soudha itself, there are only 45 per cent who are vaccinated. We are trying to convince and increase our own numbers," Pandey said. Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu said women generally display low risk-taking behaviour than men globally when it comes to even cardiovascular diseases, drinking or smoking. "All over the world, women are more health-conscious. Be it a daily walk, alcohol intake or smoking, or risk-taking behaviours. Not just Covid, more men compared to women have cardiovascular diseases. We should have gender-neutral public messages that encourage, for example, women to get men in their respective families to get vaccinated, which won't look like bias," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-more-women-vaccinated-in-karnataka-than-men-949931.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt spends over Rs 10 cr for Covid vaccination||The operational expenditure (opex) for Covid vaccination in Karnataka is Rs 10.08 crore, according to a written reply in the Lok Sabha on February 5. The cost was calculated for 8,02,101 health workers and 2,70,232 frontline workers registered on Co-WIN as on February 3. More people have registered since then. This is the third-highest in the country after Uttar Pradesh (Rs 13.32 crore) and Maharashtra (Rs 11.94 crore). This expense is justified, said officials as it is a little more than what was allotted for the previous vaccination campaigns, like Measles-Rubella where 64 lakh children were vaccinated in the state. As per the average arrived at by an expert, this works out to Karnataka spending Rs 94 per dose for vaccinating an individual against Covid-19 while the national average is Rs 71 per dose. In spending per person, Karnataka is the fifth-highest behind Bihar (Rs 105), Dadar and Nagar Haveli (Rs 104), Kerala (Rs 101), and Odisha (Rs 95). The operational expenses for vaccination include micro-planning (includes incidental expenses like printing, photocopying, stationery etc), vaccine transport and delivery (transport of vaccines from district headquarters to primary health centres, community health centres and vaccination sites), cold chain (diesel for generators and ice packs), supervision (vehicles for supervisors that may be used to transport AEFI patients), training (honorarium for trainers, training material and refreshments for participants), mobilisation of beneficiaries (posters, mikes), injection safety (bags), contingency and support for monitoring. Wastage issue According to the state health department, there is 7-8% wastage of Covishield vaccine doses and 9% wastage of Covaxin doses. On average, this is 6% wastage. Commenting on the operational expenses, a health department official said, "It is as per the number of beneficiaries registered on Co-WIN on the date they (Government of India) calculated. They have fixed an amount per beneficiary and calculated expenses for every state. It is a little more than what is allotted for previous vaccination campaigns. The expenses are justified if they use it appropriately." Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu, who worked out the per capita expenditure for the vaccination, told DH, "The Union health ministry announced that UP, MP, and Rajasthan are the best performing states in terms of vaccination. The reason is that the states that have fewer registered workers have higher vaccination coverage." "The states should have recruited a sufficient number of workers in the public health system. The lack of a sufficient number of registrations means that a particular state has not made the active efforts in registering them or those positions are vacant or missing." "Priority groups per one lakh population is a basic requirement. States such as the UP, receive a lion's share of National Health Mission and other funding. What prevents them from hiring and registering all of them?" he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-spends-over-rs-10-cr-for-covid-vaccination-950175.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Post-facto approval for hike in farm produce purchase||A Cabinet sub-committee on fixing support prices for farm produce, headed by Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, has given post-facto approval for an increase in procurement of farm produce for the monsoon season of 2020-21. In 2020-21, the Centre had approved procurement of 1.1 lakh metric tonnes of paddy, 3 lakh tonnes of ragi and 4000 metric tonnes of white jowar. The state government had written to the Centre seeking an increase in the procurement. As per the government's request, the Centre has approved procurement of 12.10 lakh metric tonnes of paddy, 4 lakh metric tonnes of ragi and 1 lakh metric tonne of white jowar. A direction to this effect was issued and the Cabinet Sub-committee gave a post-facto approval for the same, according to a press release. The minimum support price for paddy (common) is Rs 1,868 and that for paddy (A grade) is Rs 1,888 per quintal, for white jowar is Rs 2,620 and for ragi Rs 3,295.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/post-facto-approval-for-hike-in-farm-produce-purchase-950177.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||VTU to give grants up to Rs 25 lakh for research projects||Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), Belagavi, under its VTU Research Grants Scheme for the year 2021, is giving a maximum of Rs 25 lakh per research proposal selected from teaching faculty members working in affiliated, constituent, autonomous engineering colleges and postgraduate centres of the university. Projects under the scheme would be sanctioned on the basis of University-Institute Partnership (UIP) model. As per the University-Institute Partnership model, the grantee institution shall contribute 25% of the total sanctioned budget.  The university has issued a notification in this regard recently and the research proposals have to be submitted on or before March 26, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vtu-to-give-grants-up-to-rs-25-lakh-for-research-projects-950179.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Court boycotts: HC initiates contempt proceedings against Bar Associations||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday registered suo motu contempt proceedings against office-bearers of the Bar Associations that called upon the advocates to abstain from the court work. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka ordered notice to the office-bearers of the Bar Associations in Mandya and Davangere districts. The Chief Justice had made an appeal on February 3 asking bar associations not to boycott the court proceedings. The appeal was made after receiving reports from the district courts about the resolutions passed by the Bar Associations in Mandya and Davangere districts. The CJ had stated in the letter that such conduct violates the apex court's order in Captain Harish Uppal's case, where it was held that lawyers have no right to go on strike or give a call for boycott, not even a token strike. The letter also said that abstaining from court work or boycotting the court proceedings amounts to interference with the administration of justice. The bench on Thursday noted that a report submitted by the registry showed that bar associations of Mandya, Maddur, Srirangapatna, Pandavapura, Malavalli, KR Pet and Davangere abstained from court work on various dates. Some associations abstained from work even on February 6 and 8. The bench observed that at least two bar associations have taken recourse to boycott even after an appeal was made by the CJ on February 3, 2021. "Apart from the fact that prima facie it amounts to criminal contempt it must be noted here that the functioning of all courts was adversely affected which brought about sufferings to the litigants and the members of the bar. Now that normalcy has been substantially restored, the associations cannot take recourse to strike or boycott,” the bench said. The court directed the Registrar General to take steps to initiate separate suo motu contempt proceedings against the office-bearers of the bar associations which took recourse to abstain from court work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/court-boycotts-hc-initiates-contempt-proceedings-against-bar-associations-950180.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KIOCL Ltd records profit of Rs 64 cr after tax||KIOCL Limited has recorded a profit of Rs 64 crore after tax during the third quarter of 2020-21. The company's total cumulative revenue stands at Rs 1,444 crore as against the target of Rs 1,446 crore. M V Subba Rao, chairman and managing director of KIOCL Limited, said that the sea-borne iron market depicted positively during December 2020 due to good demand from Chinese steel mills and lower port stock. The strong pellet demand in the overseas market due to higher steel production in China coupled with restriction and high Coke price, robust domestic demand due to shortage of Iron Ore and higher steel prices resulted in encouraging financial performance of the Company. The pellet production and dispatches in Q3 were 0.489 million tonnes and 0.522 million tonnes and cumulative pellet Production 1.49 million tonnes, despatch 1.64 million tonnes, a press release stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kiocl-ltd-records-profit-of-rs-64-cr-after-tax-950181.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Leopard which created panic at KRS, rescued||The leopard, which created panic, fell into a trap laid by the forest department, near the Visvesvaraya canal, Brindavan Gardens, Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam, in Srirangapatna taluk on Wednesday night. The leopard was sighted near the Brindavan Gardens and its movement was captured in a CCTV camera a few days ago. This created panic among the visitors, tourists, and locals. Following this, the forest department personnel placed a cage at two places to capture the wild cat. The leopard fell into a trap on Wednesday night. As there are suspicions that the leopard-spotted on the Southern part of the Brindavan Gardens, might be another one, a cage has been placed there for a few more days to ensure that there was only one leopard. The captured wild cat would be released into the wildlife sanctuary, the forest officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/leopard-which-created-panic-at-krs-rescued-950182.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Wild jumbo claims one more life in Sakleshpur; MLA, locals protest||The farmers of Halasulige and surrounding villages in Sakleshpur taluk, led by MLA H K Kumaraswamy, staged a protest with the body of an elephant attack victim, in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s Office in the city on Thursday. Vasanth (55), a labourer from Puttur, had gone to a coffee plantation at Halasulige village when a wild jumbo suddenly attacked him on Wednesday. The severely injured Vasanth was admitted to the district hospital, where he succumbed to the injuries in the night. This triggered the villagers, who placed the body of Vasanth in front of the DC’s Office and staged a protest, seeking a permanent solution to the wild elephant menace. They claimed that the wild elephant menace had not been addressed by the ministers and the district administration so far. The villagers said the people of Malnad region have been suffering due to the jumbo menace since the last 20 years. The forest and the district in-charge minister should hold a meeting within two days and find ways to resolve the problem. They also insisted on not withdrawing the protest till the meeting date is finalised and given in writing. Deputy Commissioner R Girish pacified the protesters and assured that he has spoken with the district in-charge minister and the chief minister. A meeting will be convened on February 16 in Sakleshpur with the affected people. District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah, Forest Minister Arvind Limbavali and MLAs of the region will attend, he assured. The villagers withdrew the protest only after it was given in writing.  MLA Kumaraswamy said, “One more death due to jumbo attack has been reported in the constituency. Five people have died in the last two months. More than 65 elephants have been camping and roaming in herds in the Malnad region, creating panic. The government should consider the issueseriously.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wild-jumbo-claims-one-more-life-in-sakleshpur-mla-locals-protest-950183.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Speed up PM Awas, Svanidhi schemes: BSY tells banks||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday asked banks to prioritize lending under the PM Awas Yojana and the PM SVANidhi schemes in which Karnataka is lagging behind other states.  Chairing a review meeting at Vidhana Soudha, Yediyurappa found delays on the part of banks in disbursing credit under the two schemes.  Under the PM Awas Yojana credit-linked subsidy scheme, only 53,695 applications have been processed, which is low compared with other states, Yediyurappa found. Similarly, on affordable housing, only 1.16 lakh work orders had been issued out of 3.46 lakh cases and 19,658 homes have been completed. Apparently, Yediyurappa lost his cool on this.   “The CM expressed concern that the bank loan process has not started,” a statement from Yediyurappa’s office stated.  Under the PM SVANidhi scheme, in which street vendors are given capital loans, 2.24 lakh applications have been received, but only 66,423 have been approved. “This is a scheme that will benefit those affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Banks should clear pending applications soon,” Yediyurappa said.   ‘Just following court order on evictions’ Housing Minister V Somanna justified the eviction of over a dozen slum dwellers in Agrahara Dasarahalli in Bengaluru on Thursday. “These were homes that were originally allotted to the poor. They were occupied by the privileged. Also, there was a court order based on which authorities took action,” Somanna said, losing his cool with the media. “Why are we supporting these people instead of poor people?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/speed-up-pm-awas-svanidhi-schemes-bsy-tells-banks-950198.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Fee cut order irks Karnataka schools without govt benefits||The recent decision of the government to cut school fee has irked a group of educational institutions which have not received benefits like the 12A exemption and have not taken land or other benefits from the government to run the institute. The management representatives of such schools demanded that the government revisit the order issued and fix the fee reduction, scientifically considering all aspects.  Speaking to DH, S A Hussain, governing council chairman of Insight Educational Trust, said, “The government should look at the schools based on the way they are functioning. There are some schools which have not got any benefits from the government but given 25% seats under RTE quota. The decision taken by the government to cut 30% of the tuition fee is unscientific.” “While we are running as a non-commercial institution, how can the government take such decisions generalising all schools? There are some schools which increase the fee once in three years and during the pandemic even schools are going through a tough financial phase because of the government’s intervention in deciding the fees,” said Hussain. Considering all the above facts, the educational institutions which fall under this category have requested the government to reconsider the order. “We request the government not to use the same yardstick to measure all institutions,” Hussain said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/fee-cut-order-irks-karnataka-schools-without-govt-benefits-950201.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Penalty for dumping garbage in Charmadi Ghat||From February 15, those dumping garbage in Charmadi Ghat on National Highway 73 will be slapped with a stiff penalty, Charmadi Gram Panchayat (GP) has warned. Charmadi GP Panchayat Development Officer (PDO) Prakash Shetty said the Panchayat will also not hesitate to even file criminal cases against those dumping garbage and polluting the pristine forests. As a deterrent, the Panchayat had slapped a fine of Rs 500 on a man who was caught red-handed while dumping the garbage. The man who threw garbage was from Ujire, he said. Prakash Shetty told DH that the Panchayat and the local residents together were creating awareness on not throwing garbage by the side of highway or public places for the past two months. The Panchayat had been making announcements in this regard through a loudspeaker mounted on a vehicle. It will soon install CCTV cameras at identified places to further discourage the dumping of garbage, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/penalty-for-dumping-garbage-in-charmadi-ghat-950203.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt mulls organic agri varsity||The government is planning to set up an exclusive organic agriculture university, Agriculture Minister B C Patil said on Thursday.  During a review meeting on organic agriculture, the committee members suggested that the government set up the university in Shivamogga, on the lines of the ones in Gujarat and Chhattisgarh. The government would consider the same, Patil said.  Underlining the importance of organic agriculture in ensuring the health of both the soil and the farmer, the minister told officials to promote millets and other organic produce in the market. The government also needs to increase resource persons for organic agriculture and has to ensure that there are enough government agencies certifying organic manure, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-mulls-organic-agri-varsity-950204.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||11 nursing students arrested for ragging||Eleven 11 students of BSc (nursing) at a private nursing college, accused of ragging their juniors, were arrested by the police here on Thursday. Based on a complaint from one Martin George, the Ullal police had registered a case against 18 students. Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Sashikumar has appealed to the students to get themselves introduced to their juniors in a friendly manner and not harass them. The commissioner also appealed to institution heads, lecturers and students to report incidents of ragging to the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/11-nursing-students-arrested-for-ragging-950206.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Villagers bear the brunt of uncontrolled blasting in quarries||“Uncontrolled blasting at stone crushers has damaged our houses. Walls and ceilings of many houses in the villages under Magadi gram panchayat have developed cracks. The deafening sound of the explosives make children and elderly tremble with fear. It’s been months since we slept peacefully,” the aggrieved villagers of Parasapur and surrounding areas poured out their woes to DH. The villagers complain that indiscriminate blasting from many unauthorised quarries in and around Parasapur, apart from damaging their houses, has badly affected the water table in the region. The water level in many borewells has either gone dry or dipped considerably. The overloaded tippers and tractors have rendered the rural roads unmotorable in the region. Villagers had staged roadblocks in the past, demanding action against unauthorised quarrying and transportation of jelly and M-sand, but to no avail. Magadi lake, the home for migratory birds from the Eurasian countries, is just 4 to 5 km from the quarries. If the blasting continues unabated, the birds may stop coming to the lake, fear birdwatchers. Meanwhile, PDO Manjunath Kuduri, speaking to DH, admitted that nine crushers are functioning in the GP limits while the permission was issued to only five crushers. The remaining four have not obtained NoC from the local body, he said and promised that he would look into the matter and take appropriate action. But Tahsildar Yellappa Gonnennavar has a different story to tell. “There are no unauthorised stone crushers in Shirahatti taluk. We have issued notice to the quarry owners asking them to produce the records of renewed licence for crushing. We will initiate action against those found operating quarries unauthorisedly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/villagers-bear-the-brunt-of-uncontrolled-blasting-in-quarries-950209.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Questions on vaccine efficacy as Karnataka prepares to give second dose to healthcare workers||As many as 13,594 health workers in Karnataka will be eligible for a second dose of the Covid vaccine on February 13, day 28 of vaccination. However, questions are being raised on how effective the vaccine will be if the second dose is taken this early. On February 10, the World Health Organisation (WHO), for the first time ever released interim guidance on the use of Astra Zeneca-Oxford University Covid vaccine (Covishield). It said, “In light of the observation that two-dose efficacy and immunogenicity increase with a longer interdose interval, WHO recommends an interval of 8 to 12 weeks between the doses.”  As per Serum Institute of India too, the manufacturer of Covishield, vaccinating after four weeks will provide 53% efficacy as against waiting for three months that will provide 78% efficacy. Health department officials say though the matter was raised with the Government of India in their video conferences, the Drugs Controller General of India has approved only a 0-28 day schedule for the two doses and the state is not at liberty to change this even if beneficiaries request for a later date. An official working closely with immunisation programmes in the state told DH, “Even in WHO’s interim guidance issued on Wednesday, it says, the second dose should be preferably given after eight to 12 weeks of the first dose, but can be given after four weeks also.” “The question of efficacy isn’t being addressed in the case of Covaxin as we don’t even have data on its efficacy. Yet, the second dose will be administered after four weeks. Once, the safety and the fact that the vaccine generates antibodies was established approval was given without waiting for any further data. The government’s focus now is only on preventing Covid deaths and reducing the severity of the disease, which a vaccine helps in reducing, notwithstanding efficacy rates,” he said.  Covid-19 technical advisory committee member Dr C N Manjunath, who is due for his second dose on February 19, said, “As per the manufacturer, the second dose taken later the better. But the state is bound to follow the protocol set by the union government. If the state starts obliging requests of health workers, which includes doctors in the know of efficacy rates, to reschedule the second dose for a later date, the entire vaccination programme will go haywire with targets spilling over to the next month.” Currently, Covid vaccines have an expiry date of May with a shelf life of only six months, as manufacturers did not have a lot of time to check its stability.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/questions-on-vaccine-efficacy-as-karnataka-prepares-to-give-second-dose-to-healthcare-workers-950213.html
11-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Child marriage: Education Department to conduct survey||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar has directed the officials to conduct a survey on child marriages and child labour cases reported during lockdown due to the prolonged closure of schools. In a meeting on Thursday, the minister directed the officials to submit a report and start rehabilitation activities as per the norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/child-marriage-education-department-to-conduct-survey-950215.html
11-02-2021||West||Modi govt waives off Rs 6 crore tax on imported medicines to save 5-month-old Teera||The Union government has waived import duty and GST of Rs 6 crore on medicines for a five-month-old girl suffering from a rare medical condition, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said on Tuesday. Teera Kamat, admitted in a suburban hospital, suffers from Spinal Muscular Atrophy in which a complete breakdown of nerve cells results in zero control over muscle movement. Her parents, Priyanka and Mihir Kamat, had written on social media about their child's fight with a debilitating ailment, leading to fundraising as well as appeals to the Union government to waive import duty and GST on medicines. Among the medicines is Zolgensma which targets the root cause of SMA and which has to be imported. In their social media appeals, Teera's parents had said that 23 per cent import duty and 12 per cent GST added Rs 6 crore to the cost of Rs 16 crore that the treatment entails. Fadnavis, on February 1, had written to the Centre requesting a waiver of import duty and GST. "I would like to thank you from bottom of my heart for extremely humanitarian and sensitive approach and quick action for exempting customs duty for importing life saving drug Zolgensma for five-month-old Teera Kamat from Mumbai," Fadnavis said in a letter to the Prime Minister's Office on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/modi-govt-waives-off-rs-6-crore-tax-on-imported-medicines-to-save-5-month-old-teera-949909.html
11-02-2021||West||Coach of moving train gets detached in Mumbai; traffic hit||A coach of the speeding Bandra Terminus-Ramnagar Express got detached from the train near Jogeshwari station on Thursday morning, delaying local and long-distance trains on the western line during peak hours, officials said. No passenger was injured in the incident, they said. However, this delayed further journey of the affected train and local train services, causing inconvenience to scores of commuters on the Western Railway's suburban network. The incident took place between Andheri and Jogeshwari stations on the down (Borivali-bound) fast line at around 5.30 am when the train's rear LHB (Linke Hofmann Busch) coach got uncoupled from its immediate coach, a railway official said. "It was an empty coach on the rear end of the train and it was supposed to open from a station ahead. It got uncoupled near the Jogeshwari station," Western Railway's chief public relations officer Sumit Thakur said. Later, the coach was re-coupled with the train and it departed for further journey at 6.40 am, he said. "No passenger was injured in the incident," he said. Earlier, the train had left from the Bandra Terminus at 5.10 am for its destination Ramnagar in Uttar Pradesh, another railway official said. It was supposed to reach Borivali station here at 5.33 am, but due to the incident, it arrived there at 7.03 am, he said. Because of the incident, the suburban trains on the western line were running late by 10 to 15 minutes and the movement of several outstation trains was also affected, the official said. "Due to technical issue at Jogeshwari station, all UP and DOWN suburban train services between Churchgate to Virar stations are running late by 10-15 minutes," the Western Railway's Divisional Railway Manager said on their official Twitter handle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coach-of-moving-train-gets-detached-in-mumbai-traffic-hit-949938.html
11-02-2021||West||Rise in fuel prices force Maharashtra auto drivers to work extra hours||The rising prices of petrol is eating into the earnings of auto-rickshaw drivers and disturbing their household budgets, forcing them to work extra hours to earn additional income here in Maharashtra. Some of the auto-rickshaw drivers say they earlier used to work from 10 am to 7 pm in a day, but are now starting early in the morning and ferrying passengers till late night to earn some profit and support their families. Retail petrol rates have risen by Rs 18.01 per litre since mid-March 2020, after the government raised taxes to mop up gains arising from fall in international oil prices. Diesel rates have gone up by Rs 15.44 per litre. So far this year, petrol prices have risen by Rs 3.89 per litre and of diesel by Rs 3.86 per litre. In Aurangabad, the price of unleaded petrol has reached Rs 95.27 per litre, while the petrol with additives is selling at Rs 98.13 per litre. Among those hit hard by the price hike is Abdul Rahim (65), hailing from Sanjay Nagar area here, who has been driving auto-rickshaw since 1980. "Earlier, I used to ferry passengers from 10 am to 7 pm. The petrol price rise has reduced my earnings and to earn a profit of around Rs 200, I have to now start early at about 9 am and drive till 10 pm," he told PTI. Rahim said he spends nearly Rs 230 every day on fuel and by end of the day, he earns about Rs 400. He has to shell out money for the vehicle's maintenance also. "My family comprises five members and one of my sons works in a garage. This adds little to our family income. We earlier suffered due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown and now the rising fuel price is a cause of worry," he said. There are 31,038 auto-rickshaws registered with the Aurangabad regional transport office, including 9,972 vehicles using LPG as fuel, an RTO official said. Auto-rickshaw driver Mohammed Faheem said he earns about Rs 300 after spending Rs 110 on petrol for his vehicle. "I also need to pay Rs 100 as rent to the vehicle owner every day. I earn only Rs 100, hence I am driving at least two more hours every day," he said. Those driving vehicles using LPG as fuel earn a little more, but driving with a petrol engine is a tough job, said Faheem (45), a resident of Rangar Galli here. "My son is working in a mobile shop and adds Rs 4,000 to our family income every month. Many a times, he has to take an advance from his employer for the medical treatment of my wife, who is diabetic," he added. Dinesh Bhatawale, another auto-rickshaw driver here, said he has changed his work schedule to earn some income. "I start my day around 8 am. Earlier, I used to go home around 2 pm for lunch and take a little rest. Now, I spend the afternoon time looking for passengers," he said. Bhatawale said even if a passenger calls around 10 pm, he does not refuse to ferry him/her. Another local auto-rickshaw driver Dattaprasad Trivedi said even though he is out on roads for at least two more hours every day, there is no certainty of getting passengers. "Many have left this work and taken up other jobs," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rise-in-fuel-prices-force-maharashtra-auto-drivers-to-work-extra-hours-949949.html
11-02-2021||West||Maharashtra Governor B S Koshyari denied permission to fly in govt-owned plane to Uttarakhand||The bitter tussle between the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi dispensation and Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari came out in the open yet again on Thursday when the latter was denied permission to fly in a state government plane to Dehradun. Koshyari was deboarded from the Cessna Citation XLS eight-seater jet, rattling the Opposition BJP. He was scheduled to preside over and address the 122nd induction training programme of IAS officers at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration in Mussoorie on Friday. The Governor had left Raj Bhavan in the morning with his Aide-de-Camp (ADC) and Officer on Special Duty (OSD) for the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport and boarded the plane. “However, the Governor was informed that the permission for the use of government aircraft had not been received,” a Raj Bhavan spokesperson said.   Thereafter, tickets were booked for the Governor, his ADC and OSD in a commercial airline. “In preparation of the visit, the Governor’s Secretariat had written to Government of Maharashtra authorities seeking permission for the use of government aircraft by the Governor well in advance on 2 February,” a Raj Bhavan spokesperson said.  Accordingly, the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) was informed, the Raj Bhavan said.  The Thackeray-headed CMO later put the ball in Raj Bhavan’s court saying that on Wednesday, it has informed the Governor’s office about not being able to provide the aircraft. "After being informed by the CMO a day in advance, the Raj Bhavan secretariat was expected to confirm the clearances before making arrangements for the Governor to go to the airport. Since this was not done, the Governor was unable to travel to his intended destination in the government aircraft. Responsibility should be fixed on the concerned Raj Bhavan staffers for the lapses which resulted in an embarrassment to the Governor," it stated. The CMO, however, is silent on why the permission was denied to Koshyari to fly the state plane. Thackeray’s close aide and Shiv Sena Chief Spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that the government had merely followed the rules. “I had a word with the chief minister...I can say that the rules were followed,” Raut said. He, however, did not go into the specifics.  “The government plane is for official work...even when the Chief Minister uses it, it is for government work," said Raut while not commenting on whether the Governor’s visit was official or personal. The BJP’s Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said, “What has happened is unfortunate....The Governor is not a person, he is an institution....I have never seen such an egoistic government.” Fadnavis pointed out that after the request from the Raj Bhavan was raised, the file was sent by the General Administration Department (GAD) to the CMO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-governor-b-s-koshyari-denied-permission-to-fly-in-govt-owned-plane-to-uttarakhand-949954.html
11-02-2021||West||Actor Armaan Jain fails to appear before ED in money laundering case||Bollywood actor Armaan Jain who was summoned by the Enforcement Directorate in an alleged money laundering case today failed to appear before the agency, according to ANI quoting ED officials.  Enforcement Directorate had summoned Armaan Jain in an alleged money laundering case today. He didn't appear before the agency today: ED Official More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/actor-armaan-jain-fails-to-appear-before-ed-in-money-laundering-case-949967.html
11-02-2021||West||Maharashtra Congress to hold event to welcome new chief Patole||In what would be a massive show of strength, newly-appointed Maharashtra Congress President Nana Patole would formally take charge at the historic August Kranti Maidan on Friday. According to the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC), Patole would take over from the outgoing president and state Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat. Earlier known as Gowalia Tank Maidan, the August Kranti Maidan and the adjoining Sheth Gokuldas Tejpal Hall and Mani Bhavan, all located in the Grant Road-West area of Mumbai, have a special significance for the Congress party. On December 28, 1885, 72 social reformers, journalists and lawyers congregated for the first session of the Indian National Union at Gokuldas Tejpal Sanskrit College, Bombay. The conference was renamed as the Indian National Congress. It was on August 8, 1942, in Gowalia Tank Maidan that Mahatma Gandhi made the Quit India speech, in which he said, “Here is a mantra, a short one, that I give you. You may imprint it on your hearts and let every breath of yours give expression to it. The mantra is: "Do or Die". We shall either free India or die in the attempt; we shall not live to see the perpetuation of our slavery.” Mani Bhavan and Girgaum Chowpatty nearby also have a significance in history. Mani Bhavan was Gandhi's Mumbai headquarters for about 17 years, from 1917 to 1934. The mansion belonged to Revashankar Jagjeevan Jhaveri, Gandhi's friend and host in Mumbai during this period. It was from Mani Bhavan that Gandhi initiated the Non-Cooperation, Satyagraha, Swadeshi, Khadi and Khilafat Movements. Gandhi's association with the charkha began in 1917 while he was staying at Mani Bhavan. Mani Bhavan is also closely associated with Gandhi's involvement in the Home Rule Movement as well as his decision to abstain from drinking cow's milk to protest the cruel and inhuman practice of phookan meted out to milch cattle, common during that period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-congress-to-hold-event-to-welcome-new-chief-patole-949990.html
11-02-2021||West||Left parties demand release of those held in Bhima Koregaon case||The Left parties on Thursday demanded the release of all those held in the Bhima Koregaon case, citing reports that claim the evidence against them was "manufactured". The parties cited a news report claiming a forensic lab in the United States has found that the computer of Rona Wilson, one of the activists held in the case, was hacked and a malware installed, which planted incriminating mails in his files that he had never seen. This has also been verified by other experts, they said. "The Politburo of the CPI(M) demands the dropping of cases against activists arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case and asks the Maharashtra government to set up an SIT to enquire into the developments exposed by the credible reports of international experts as to how evidence was manufactured and planted in the computer of one of the activists Rona Wilson," a statement from the party said. "It will be recalled that it was these mails which were claimed by the NIA to be part of the 'conspiracy'. "This case of computer hacking to plant incriminating mails is a deadly technological weapon which the Modi Government has used in the Bhima Koregaon case and may use in future against political opponents. It is essential that this expose should not be allowed to be covered up or brushed aside as the initial official response indicates," the statement said. The CPI, in a separate statement, demanded an independent probe into the matter. "The Communist Party of India notes with pain and anguish that latest revelations show that cases were filed in the Bhima Koregaon case based on planted and manipulated documents put into the computers. Despite that the authorities are continuing to harass the activists, intellectuals, Dalit activists and sympathisers, under the allegation that a conspiracy has been hatched by them," it said. "The party deplores the way NIA and other agencies act in order to suppress the genuine voice of opposition and dissent to the government policies. The party demands that this must stop immediately and the release of all innocent accused," the party added. The CPI demanded prompt action and an impartial probe into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/left-parties-demand-release-of-those-held-in-bhima-koregaon-case-950053.html
11-02-2021||West||Mumbai: Coach of moving train gets detached twice; traffic hit||A coach of the speeding Bandra Terminus-Ramnagar Express got detached twice from the train on a rail section here in a span of a couple of hours on Thursday morning, delaying local and long distance trains on the western line, officials said. No passenger was injured in the incident, they said. However, this delayed further journey of the affected train and local train services, causing inconvenience to scores of commuters on the Western Railway's suburban network. The train left from the Bandra Terminus at 5.10 am for its destination Ramnagar in Uttar Pradesh. However, around 5.30 am, the train's rear LHB (Linke Hofmann Busch) coach got uncoupled from its immediate coach between Mumbai's Andheri and Jogeshwari stations on the down (Borivali-bound) fast line, a railway official said. It was supposed to reach Borivali station at 5.33 am, but due to the incident, it arrived there at 7.03 am, he said. "It was an empty coach on the rear end of the train and it was supposed to open from a station ahead. It got uncoupled near the Jogeshwari station," Western Railway's chief public relations officer Sumit Thakur said. Later, the coach was re-coupled with the train and it departed for its onward journey at 6.40 am, he said. However, the same coach again got detached from the train between Naigaon and Vasai Road stations of the Mumbai Metropolitan Region around 7.17 am, Thakur said. As the coach could not be re-coupled, the train was allowed to proceed on its journey without that coach, after being held up there for about 21 minutes, rail sources said. The coach was later brought to the Vasai Road yard with another engine, they said. Thakur said no passenger was injured in the incident. However, local trains on the western line got delayed by 10 to 15 minutes and the movement of several outstation trains was also affected, another official said. "Due to technical issue at Jogeshwari station, all UP and DOWN suburban train services between Churchgate to Virar stations are running late by 10-15 minutes," the Western Railway's Divisional Railway Manager said on their official Twitter handle in the morning. Later, a rail activist said the suburban trains on the western line were running late even in the afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-coach-of-moving-train-gets-detached-twice-traffic-hit-950063.html
11-02-2021||West||Nationalist Congress Party in Kerala on the verge of a split||The Kerala unit of the Nationalist Congress Party, which is an ally of the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front in the state, is likely to split over a tussle over the Pala assembly seat in Kottayam district. The CPI(M) is learnt to be firm on its stand that Pala, the constituency from which NCP’s Mani C Kappan is an MLA, shall be given to the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K Mani, which is a new entrant to the front. Kerala Congress(M) founder leader K M Mani had been Pala MLA for over 50 years in a row till his death in 2019. In the bypoll that followed, Mani C Kappan won the polls. NCP national leadership is expected to announce the party’s stand on Friday. The opinion doing the rounds was to leave the left-front and join the Congress-led United Democratic Front. But a section in the NCP led by Kerala Transport Minister A K Saseendran reportedly prefers to remain in the left-front. The Congress also sent a welcome message to Mani C Kappan to the Congress party. The issues started after KC(M) that recently joined the left-front ending their decades-long ties with Congress-led United Democratic Front raised a demand for the Pala seat citing emotional connection with the seat held by the party founder leader K M Mani for more than five decades. Following the performance of the left front in KC(M)’s strongholds in central Kerala in the recent local body elections, KC(M) stepped up demand for the Pala seat. Jose K Mani, who is K M Mani’s son and a former MP, might be contesting in the seat as an LDF candidate in the upcoming Assembly polls. But Mani C Kappan is firm on his stand that he would contest from Pala. Even talks initiated by national leader Praful Patel with Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan could not resolve the issue. Vijayan even told reporters afterwards that in a coalition when new parties join the front there needs to be certain adjustments among the parties on seat sharing. The CPI(M) seems to be seeing more prospects in the tie-up with the KC(M) rather than that with the NCP as the KC(M) has considerable influence in the Christian vote banks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nationalist-congress-party-in-kerala-on-the-verge-of-a-split-950084.html
11-02-2021||West||Stormy relation between Raj Bhavan and Maha Vikas Aghadi government continues||When Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari was refused the permission to travel in a state government plane, it was viewed as yet another point of an ongoing clash between the Maha Vikas Aghadi government led by Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray and the Raj Bhavan. Though Thackeray and Koshyari have a good personal equation, as the latter had been to Matoshree for dinner, their working relationship seems to have been a stormy one. The history of this rift goes back to October 2019, when the results of the Vidhan Sabha elections came out, reflecting a fractured mandate, and subsequently, the Governor recommended President’s rule. Thereafter, while the Shiv Sena, NCP, Congress and other parties were working on the formation of an alliance, Devendra Fadnavis and Ajit Pawar were sworn-in as the chief minister and deputy chief minister, respectively. However, the hurriedly formed government could not sustain and Pawar went back to his uncle and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. On 28 November 2019, Uddhav Thackeray was sworn-in as the chief minister, heading a government that kept the BJP out of power. With strong RSS roots, Koshyari (78), an ex-MLA and ex-MP, is a seasoned politician having himself been the chief minister and the Leader of Opposition in Uttarakhand. In fact, Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana had often targeted him for using Raj Bhavan as a BJP office. In the last 14 to 15 months, there had been several instances of Koshyari versus Uddhav clashes. To discuss and review the Covid-19 pandemic situation in Maharashtra, the Governor convened a meeting at Raj Bhavan, which CM Thackeray skipped. When the temples were closed to the public because of the coronavirus lockdown, Koshyari shot off a letter to the chief minister, asking whether the latter had suddenly turned ‘secular’. However, Thackeray reacted by saying: “You have taken oath as a Governor…and secularism is a part of the Constitution. However, I don’t need a certificate on Hindutva from anybody, nor do I have to learn it from anyone.” The MVA was also unhappy when Koshyari gave an audience to Kangana Ranaut, who went to Raj Bhavan to complain about the demolition of a part of her office. Besides, it has been a few months since the MVA government had submitted the names to fill up the 12 seats of the Maharashtra Legislative Council from Governor’s quota, which Koshyari is yet to clear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stormy-relation-between-raj-bhavan-and-maha-vikas-aghadi-government-continues-950111.html
11-02-2021||West||SpiceHealth launches mobile Covid-19 RT-PCR testing facility in Mumbai||After successfully launching and operating multiple Covid-19 mobile testing laboratories in Delhi and Haryana and conducting more than 750,000 Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) tests, SpiceHealth in association with the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM), launched three mobile testing laboratories in Mumbai on Thursday. The mobile labs, which are accredited by National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), have been set-up at Bandra Kurla Complex, National Sports Club of India, Worli and NESCO, Goregaon. SpiceHealth’s mobile testing laboratory at Bandra Kurla Complex was inaugurated virtually by the  Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray, in the presence of Ajay Singh, CMD, SpiceJet and Avani Singh, CEO, SpiceHealth and other senior government officials. On November 23, 2020, SpiceHealth, a healthcare company founded by the promoters of SpiceJet, had launched its first mobile testing facility at ICMR, AIIMS, Delhi, which was inaugurated by Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. “After making a significant contribution and helping scale up Covid testing in Delhi, SpiceHealth is proud to partner with MCGM  and set-up mobile laboratories in Mumbai. At a time when Covid-19 was at an all-time high, we disrupted the RT-PCR testing space by offering tests in mobile laboratories at Rs 499, as opposed to the then-existing rate of Rs 2400 in Delhi. Our mobile laboratories ensured scalability and our low price ensured affordability and our vigorous testing helped curb the spread of the virus, said Singh. SpiceHealth, at present, has five mobile labs at government-designated locations in Delhi and Haryana, a testing facility at Manesar in addition to the genome sequencing facility at the Delhi airport. The Company is conducting around 20,000 RT-PCR tests per day. In addition to making RT-PCR testing affordable for the common man, SpiceHealth ensured that the test results were made available within just six hours from the time of sample collection as compared to the average 24-48 hours taken by others. SpiceHealth was also the first to introduce the innovative concept of mobile laboratories that could be placed in remote areas, in containment zones, in villages where access to hospitals and medical facilities was a challenge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/spicehealth-launches-mobile-covid-19-rt-pcr-testing-facility-in-mumbai-950113.html
11-02-2021||West||Goa wants to promote e-vehicles, tinkers with bike-swapping policy||In a bid to phase out petrol and diesel-driven vehicles, the Goa government is considering swapping them for e-vehicles, Power Minister Nilesh Cabral said on Thursday, even as the Power Minister also said that his ministry was also tinkering with a policy initiative which would allow existing two-wheeler owners to swap their bikes for e-bikes, which would be made available at subsidised prices. "The Goa government has a fleet of around 550 cars, if we switch them to e-vehicles, the costing will decrease considerably," Cabral told reporters here. The Power Minister also said that he was in touch with the Union Minister of State for Power RK Singh to extend e-technology to commercial vehicles in the state including public transport and goods carriers. Cabral also said that his Ministry was in touch with Hero Motors -- one of the leading e-vehicle manufacturers in India to procure between 10,000 and 15,000 e-bikes, which would be offered to existing two-wheeler owners in Goa, on the condition that they phase their present vehicles. "We are working on the model. Existing bikes can be scrapped. Hero (Motors) is also interested in tying up with us. We are looking at 10,000 to 15,000 electrical bikes in a year," Cabral said. The e-bikes, Cabral said would be offered at rates, which were cheaper than market prices by bunching together state and central government subsidies, along with discounts offered by vehicle dealerships. "We are also in the process of setting up charging stations across Goa to encourage e-vehicles," Cabral also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-wants-to-promote-e-vehicles-tinkers-with-bike-swapping-policy-950154.html
