12-02-2021||First Edit||Here comes the Stalinist State||The Union Home Ministry’s call to citizens to become ‘cyber volunteers’ and identify, flag and report illegal, unlawful and “anti-national” online content is perhaps the most brazen and dangerous sign yet of an attempt to turn our democratic and free society into a ‘Surveillance State’. Though vigilante activities directed against individuals, social groups and communities have spread and increased in the past few years and the State has ignored and sometimes even patronised them, it was not expected that the State itself would set up a virtual vigilante force. The move amounts to that, and the first step has actually been taken. The programme is to be implemented as a pilot project in, unsurprisingly, Jammu & Kashmir and Tripura, and then extended to other states. The J&K police has told citizens to “register as volunteers through a dedicated section ‘Cyber Volunteers’ on National Cybercrime Reporting Portal.” The volunteers are to flag and report child sexual abuse, rape, terrorism, “radicalisation” and “anti-national” activities of others on social media. This has dangerous consequences for citizens’ rights and freedom and for society and politics. In the first place, it is illegal, whatever the explanations and justifications that might be given for it, because it violates the fundamental rights to freedom of speech and privacy. The Supreme Court’s guidelines have laid down that only online speech that disrupts public order and incites violence can be acted against under the law, but can that judgement be left to the government’s cyber hordes? Words like “radicalisation’’ and “anti-national’’ are not legally defined and it will be left to the interests and prejudices of the volunteers to decide what they mean. In times when words and protests against the government are dubbed “anti-national’’, it is clear who the targets will be. This will certainly be misused. In any case, it is the State’s responsibility to identify and take action against offences on social media and it cannot shift that to the ordinary citizen who may have personal, political or other reasons to implicate others.  The volunteers will have to retain confidentiality about their work. That means, they are to be a secret police reporting on people, the way people are spied on in dictatorships. The Gestapo had civil informants and the Stalinist State had a network of informers. The system being developed in India will work much the same way, with citizens ratting on others and the heavy hand of the State coming down on those who do not conform and those whom it does not like. Trust between citizens will be broken and we will all have to live in fear of each other. Who is it in the Modi government who aspires to be Lavrentiy Beria?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/here-comes-the-stalinist-state-950594.html
12-02-2021||In Perspective||The ‘Global Gag Rule’ must go forever||Much to the exultation of health groups across the globe, US President Joe Biden has, through a series of executive orders, started to roll back various anti-abortion measures put in place by the Trump administration. Most significantly, he reversed one of Trump’s most controversial orders -- the so-called “Mexico City Policy”. The policy, which under earlier Republican administrations were applicable only to US family planning assistance, was expanded in scope by in January 2017, renaming it “Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance”. It required any foreign NGO receiving US global health assistance to certify that they do not use their funds to provide abortion services, counsel patients about the option of abortion or refer them for abortion, or advocate for the liberalisation of abortion laws. It came to be called the ‘global gag rule’ (GGR) as it placed restrictions on organisations from using even their own (non-US government) funds to enable safe abortion access to their constituencies and tied their hands in facilitating conversations on progressive abortion laws and policies in their own countries. In 2019, the GGR was further expanded to withhold funds from foreign NGOs that give money to other groups providing abortions, in a bid to thwart what the Trump administration called “backdoor funding schemes”. The GGR thus forced healthcare providers across the globe to make the immensely difficult choice between either providing an inclusive range of reproductive healthcare services or enjoying continued access to critical funding from the US. It extended restrictions to an estimated $8.8 billion in US assistance, including funding support for family planning and reproductive health, maternal and child health, nutrition, HIV/AIDS, infectious diseases, neglected tropical diseases, and even to water, sanitation and hygiene programmes. A devastating consequence of this policy was that women from some of the most underprivileged countries in the world lost access to family planning services, were denied critical information on maternal health, rendered vulnerable to unintended pregnancies and unsafe abortions, which contributed to a rise in maternal mortality. Ironically, as a study by Stanford Researchers (2019) revealed, the reduction in access to contraception as a result of the GGR led to a rise in abortions. The Foundation for AIDS Research in its study (2019) reported that organisations rooted in diverse geographical locations, who were implementing partners of the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), underwent serious organisational changes due to the gag order, leading to a reduction in the provision of critical non-abortion-related information, including for contraception and HIV. The International Women’s Health Coalition has noted that the policy has been particularly harmful to the health and well-being of women, young people, and marginalised communities such as LGBTQI, the rural poor and religious minorities. While the rescinding of the GGR by the Biden administration is a welcome move, is it enough? Health groups and advocates across the globe fear that the next Republican government that comes to power may reinstate GGR, plunging the health sector once again into uncertainty.  Last week, the Global Health, Empowerment and Rights (HER) bill was reintroduced in the US Congress for the third time. The legislation, if passed, would permanently end the Global Gag Rule. The Global HER Act would remove eligibility restrictions on recipients of US foreign assistance, guarantee that US foreign assistance prioritises women’s health, and NGOs on foreign soil receiving US funding would not have to do so at the cost of their free speech. Most importantly, the passing of the Act will prevent a future US president from unilaterally reinstating the GGR. The re-introduction of the bill in the US Congress has come as hope for women’s health and reproductive rights globally. This has come at a time when we are witnessing restrictions on women’s reproductive freedom in various parts of the globe. Recently, Poland declared a near-total ban on abortion, backed by the ruling Law and Justice Party (PiS), which had placed anti-abortion rhetoric at the heart of its socially conservative agenda. Massive protest movements have erupted across the country and thousands of women have taken to the streets, defying law enforcement directives, to assert their right over their bodies. For the religious conservatives in the US, the GGR is a sensitive issue. Recently, more than 100 Republican lawmakers sent a letter to Biden asking him to reconsider the repeal of the GGR as it would mean complicity of the US taxpayer in global abortion. Until the Global Her bill is passed, the threat of the GGR returning will always loom large over the global health sector. Whether the Biden administration is successful in getting the required support for this bill is going to be a real test of their commitment to undoing the devastating impacts of the GGR on global reproductive freedom. (The writer is a Professor at Jindal Global Law School, OP Jindal Global University, Sonipat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-global-gag-rule-must-go-forever-950595.html
12-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sandur residents trade health for jobs as rehab funds gather mining dust||People of Sandur, a mineral-rich taluk in Ballari district, are the worst affected in the state, both in terms of finance and health due to unabated mining. Yet, a majority of the population is forced to demand the continuation of mining in the region. The continued dependence of Sandur’s people on mining, which they once opposed vehemently, is because funds meant to improve their living conditions, ensure sustainable livelihoods, and reclamation of the ecosystem, have been grossly underutilised. Rehabilitation work was supposed to be carried out under two heads: District Mineral Foundations (DMFs) funds and Comprehensive Environment Plan for the Mining Impact Zones (CEPMIZ) funds under the Reclamation & Rehabilitation (R&R) plans. A portion of the royalty and taxes collected through the sales of iron ore and minerals becomes the principal amount for the district administration to take up long-term sustainable projects for the affected people of mining areas. A whopping Rs 22,000 crore has now been collected. This could not be put to use for various reasons. The state government is awaiting Supreme Court orders on its action plan to utilise the funds. In a recent affidavit filed on December 10, 2020, the state government prayed for a direction to appoint a retired Supreme Court judge to head the Overseeing Committee on the implementation of the restoration scheme. Between 2015-16 and 2019-20, the Ballari DMF funds account had Rs 1,482 crore of which only Rs 236.40 crore has been utilised till March 31,2020. Of the total amount, Rs 868.13 crore has been allocated for high priority sector including health, environment and skill development. However, till March 2020, the district administration had utilised only Rs 127.79 crore. Surprisingly, not a single rupee was spent on environment preservation and pollution control measures. While the DMF funds have provisions for providing irrigation facilities, a majority of the farmers in Sandur region have not benefited in spite of the fact that Tungabhadra reservoir is just 40 km away. Of the total Rs 80.6 crore allocated for irrigation, only Rs 9.38 crore has been utilised, making agriculture unsustainable here. For skill development, the Ballari administration has used only Rs 3.25 crore against the allotted Rs 53.46 crore. Ravichandra (41), a truck driver says, mining has to continue, even if it means suffering kidney stones and breathing problems, as he would be left with no other way of earning a living. He was not aware that DMF funds can help him train and acquire other skills to sustain life. More than 5,000 truck drivers, including those below the age of 18, are working in one of the 39 mines that are functioning now in Sandur taluk. A majority of them said they are willing to switch jobs if they are provided with the required skills. P Pennappa, a villager from Kamtur, surrounded by seven mines, says whatever little the government has provided, has not helped people. “We have a primary health centre, and the doctor here comes once a week for a few hours,” he said. There were hardly any emergency medicines stored in the PHC when DH visited the village. And a few folic acid tablets that were kept in the storeroom were well past their expiry date. The DMF funds’ health allotment is Rs 214 crore, of which only Rs 21 crore was utilised. Official response Ballari deputy commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati, who took charge recently, says all the details of work taken up under DMF funds are being uploaded on the official website. The administration has taken up several rehabilitation works. “Every week, senior officials from Bengaluru have been taking stock of the situation and utilisation of funds,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sandur-residents-trade-health-for-jobs-as-rehab-funds-gather-mining-dust-950227.html
12-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Garbage slide: Rs 14 cr interim relief paid to 44 victims||Eyes of elderly Lakshmi turned bleary as she listened to senior Civil Judge and Member Secretary of District Legal Services Authority Shilpa A G emphasising that the victims of Pachhanady garbage slide had lost their livelihood, health and above all mental peace. Lakshmi says their family of four, including two daughters, lived a life of contentment in Mandara until the day when mountains of garbage came sliding down in August 2019. As the place had become unfit to live, the family were forced to relocate to Karnataka Housing Board’s apartment in Kulashekar. Lakshmi’s husband Boja Moily worrying over their future went into depression and passed away four months ago. Moily owned 48 cents of land and livestock in Mandara and had received a compensation of Rs 12 lakh for crop loss. “Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) officials after inspecting our documents at the camp held on Wednesday had promised a compensation of Rs 40 lakh,” said Lakshmi waiting for her turn to receive interim compensation from senior Civil Judge Shilpa and MCC Commissioner Akshay Sridhar at the court hall on district court premises on Thursday. Lakshmi, however, is determined to move on with her new life. Even if the MCC removed the garbage and made the land cultivable, I will not go back, she adds firmly. 65-year-old Karunakara, the first victim of garbage slide to receive the interim compensation, with folded hands pleaded with both Judge Shilpa and Sridhar to make his land cultivable and restore his livelihood. He later told media persons outside the court hall that they were leading a joint family in Mandara. Karunakara said post garbage-slide, he had tried his hands on doing something else in order to support his family. But with this age nobody even wants me to offer the post of a watchman, he lamented. He reveals investing his share of compensation for crop loss, which was over Rs 2.5 lakh, on land. “I have no intention of surrendering 3.5 acres of agricultural land to the MCC and claim compensation. The land is covered with sewage water and there is no drinking water connection or roads. So I begged with the MCC to help me return to farming by removing sewage and making the land cultivable as before. I am not interested in filing cases and demanding higher compensation. I will accept whatever compensation is paid to me,” he stressed. An elderly woman complained that senior citizens were forced to wait for hours together. “In Wednesday’s camp, it was 10 pm by the time officials scrutinised my documents,” the elderly woman added. Officials said that overall victims were happy on receiving interim compensation from the MCC. MCC Commissioner Akshay Sridhar said a compensation of Rs 2.7 crore for crop loss was disbursed to 41 victims. This time they had made provisions to disburse Rs 14 cr as interim compensation to 44 victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/garbage-slide-rs-14-cr-interim-relief-paid-to-44-victims-950235.html
12-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Officials capture leopard that injured couple in Mangaluru||A leopard that had created fear by attacking a couple and later climbing a tree at Renjilady in Kadaba was finally captured by the forest department officials, on Friday noon.   The leopard was caught after tranquilising it by the expert. Chandrashekar Kamath and his wife Sowmya Kamath, while on way to their farmland to change the jet of the sprinkler, the leopard had attacked and injured them in the early morning. Suspecting that the leopard had hidden inside the farmland, the forest officials carried out a search operation. During the search operation, the officials noticed the leopard on a tree. The expert tranquilised the leopard and was later caught using a net. ACF Austin P Soans, RFOs Raghavendra Manjunath and others were present. The injured couple has been admitted to a hospital in Puttur for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/officials-capture-leopard-that-injured-couple-in-mangaluru-950382.html
12-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||UoM retd profs hit streets demanding pension, arrears||The retired professors of University of Mysore are up in the ante against the varsity authorities for not clearing their arrears and pension. The pensioners, who gathered in front of Kuvempu Statue at Manasagangothri, slammed UoM Vice-Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar for the lapses. Professor Shivaraj said that despite several representations made to the VC, he has failed to release full pensionary benefits. In March 2020, the government of Karnataka released Rs 78.14 crore to pay the 7th pay UGC arrears to all the teachers, but, the University failed to pay. The varsity has distributed Rs 28.14 crore arrears to a few professors. The balance of Rs 50 crore is lying idle with the University since June 2020. Since it is the responsibility of the university to disburse pensionary benefits, UoM could have disbursed the arrears of pensionary benefits from Rs 50 crore to the professors who superannuated between January 1, 2016 and June 30, 2020 and could have claimed reimbursement from the government later. Khaiser Jahan Begum, retired professor of Library Science, who served for 41 years, said, "Mysuru is pensioners’ paradise and the UoM is century-old and a well- known varsities globally. But, the varsity is ill-treating it’s pensioners." “When I joined service four decades ago, I never dreamt of this day. The varsity is hurting the pensioners, who had served the varsity for several years. The authorities has not only sent us out unceremoniously, but, has made us feel terrible at the advanced age. The protest by the retired professors to get their legitimate dues is shameful to the varsity,” she said. The VC has no time to look after students and to settle the benefits of retired professors, said agitators. The professors, who retired after April 1, 2018, from Bengaluru University, Davangere, Karnataka, Kuvempu and Mangalore Universities, and also Government colleges in the state have received full pensionary benefits, they claimed. The VC explained, “We have written 10 letters to the state government and I have personally contacted Higher Education Minister in this regard.”  The professors have been given the benefits of the 6th pay, but, the difference of sixth pay and seventh pay has to be given, he said. There is a delay by the government in releasing the funds due to Covid-19 and it will be settled by the end of March. The retired teachers are waiting from last eight months to get their pensionary benefits, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/uom-retd-profs-hit-streets-demanding-pension-arrears-950579.html
12-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rogue elephant which killed 3 people rescued||The rogue elephant that killed three people in December 2020, at Berambadi in Pandalur taluk, Nilgiri district, Tamil Nadu, was captured at Mudumali Tiger Reserve, on Friday. It may be mentioned that the elephant had killed three people, including a father and son. After the locals stageda  protest demanding the Forest department to capture the jumbo, they took out a combing operation and was successful in capturing it on Friday, with the help of dart experts and veterinarians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rogue-elephant-which-killed-3-people-rescued-950580.html
12-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Modi should be ashamed, says Badagalapura Nagendra||Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) state president Badagalapura Nagendra on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should be ashamed for creating hurdles with barbed wire fencing, to stop the farmers. The Union government managed to disconnect internet and electricity before calling the protesting farmers for formal talks, he alleged. In a press conference here, Nagendra said, "The farmers are not seeking amendment to the three Farm Acts but, demanding to withdraw them. The policies will be a threat to the agriculture sector and affect 80 crore people." Alleging conspiracy behind the policies, Nagendra also said that there was a need for second freedom struggle to protect the values of Independent India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/modi-should-be-ashamed-says-badagalapura-nagendra-950581.html
12-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Nation never saw coward PM like Modi: Yathindra||Varuna MLA Dr Yathindra Siddaramaiah on Friday criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying that the country has never seen a coward PM like Modi. Speaking at a protest condemning the hike in fuel prices in Nanjangud, the MLA said, "Though the farmers are protesting for the last 75 days in Delhi, the PM has failed to resolve the issue and is defending the agriculture policies." The PM addresses the nation through his radio programme ‘Mann Ki Baat’, but he never comes before the media. “Are the farmers fools to oppose the policies that are beneficial for them? As they understand the consequences, they are opposing it,” he said. The government which has to resolve the issues is conspiring to control the protesters. Even Chief Minister B S Yediyurppa has failed to speak to the agitating farmers in the state. If anyone raises voice against the government they are branded as traitors, he slammed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nation-never-saw-coward-pm-like-modi-yathindra-950583.html
12-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Reservation for mayor, deputy announced||Political activities have picked up in the city, after reservation matrix was announced for the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor. This time, the JD(S) is likely to join hands with the BJP to form council and keep the Congress away from the power. Mysuru Mayor post is reserved for General category (Woman) and Deputy Mayor post for General category. Out of 65 members, 32 are women corporators. While the BJP has 13 women corporators, JD(S) has 11. Seven are Congress corporators and BSP has one corporator. Even though the BJP, with 22 corporators, is the single largest party in the MCC, it was in the Opposition for the first two terms of the council, as the JD(S) and the Congress formed a coalition for the first two terms. But, now, the JD(S) is likely to align with the BJP to form council. As there is no proper coordination between the JD(S) and Congress leaders, JD(S) would go with the BJP to keep Congress away from Mayorship, according to sources. BJP MLA L Nagendra said, “The BJP would form the council as the chances of the party joining hands with the JD(S) are high. District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar and the party leaders will decide about it. BJP corporator must be elected as Mayor. I don’t have particular choice.” JD(S) corporator Prema Shankaregowda said, “JD(S) is yet to decide about future course of action and is waiting for the decision of the party leaders. We will abide by the decision of the party leaders. We are even ready to sit in Opposition party, as per their directions.” The term of previous Mayor Tasneem of JD(S) ended on January 19 and the election to elect 23rd Mayor is due. As per the agreement between the Congress and the JD(S) in 2018, the Mayor’s post was reserved for the Congress, in first and third term. In the first term, Congress corporator Pushpalatha Jagannath was the Mayor. With 22 corporators, BJP is the single-largest party in the MCC. The Congress has 19 and JD(S) has 18 members. In addition, the council has five Independents and one BSP corporator. The strength of the house is 74, including MLAs, MLCs and MP. The members of Karnataka Rajya Nayaka Hitarakshana Vedike staged a protest urging to reserve Mayor’s post to ST community. They pointed out that as no ST community people have been elected as Mayor, the reservation must be changed to ST.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/reservation-for-mayor-deputy-announced-950584.html
12-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Siddaramaiah is Karnataka’s Trump, says AHV||MLC A H Vishwanath slammed Leader of Opposition party Siddaramaiah and compared him with Donald Trump, former president of the US. Speaking to reporters here, on Friday, Vishwanath said, "Like Donald Trump, Siddaramaiah is  also not ready to accept his defeat. Siddaramaiah is Karnataka's Trump."  Vishwanath said, "Siddaramaiah has forgotten that the Congress itself is AHINDA. Siddaramaiah has no tradition and culture of the Congress party. We brought him to the Congress unfortunately and he became chief minister owing to his luck." "Siddaramaiah is behaving like a child which wants toffee. Siddaramaiah remembers toffee soon after he sees Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. Siddaramaiah wants the CM's position and thus, speaking about a change of leadership in the state," he said. For a query about AHINDA convention, Vishwanath said that AHINDA convention by Siddaramaiah and former minister Dr H C Mahadevappa is a selfish agitation for their gains. “Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar is becoming more powerful and Siddaramaiah is becoming weak in politics also among his own Kuruba community. Siddaramaiah is feeling insecure in politics,” he commented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/siddaramaiah-is-karnataka-s-trump-says-ahv-950585.html
12-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP slaps notice against former union minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal for 'embarrassing' statements||The BJP’s central disciplinary committee has issued a show-cause notice to former union minister and Bijapur City legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal for his repeated censure of the BS Yediyurappa administration. Yatnal has 15 days to respond to the notice, according to sources. The notice states that Yatnal’s statements caused embarrassment to the government as well as the party, and he has been asked to explain why disciplinary action should not be initiated against him. Known to be a hardline Hindutva firebrand, Yatnal has publicly chided Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa for his style of functioning and has claimed on several occasions that he will be removed from the top post. A Lingayat strongman, Yatnal has attacked the government over its “neglect” of north Karnataka in terms of allocation of funds and has accused Yediyurappa’s son and BJP vice-president BY Vijayendra of running a ‘parallel government’. This is not the first time the BJP has pulled up Yatnal. In 2019, he was slapped with a show-cause notice after he blamed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Centre’s delay in providing flood aid to Karnataka. The BJP was forced to expel Yatnal twice — in 2010 and 2015 — for ‘anti-party’ activities. His first expulsion, for his sharp criticism of the party’s affairs, took him to the JD(S). Yatnal returned to the BJP in 2013, but he was booted out two years later for contesting as a rebel candidate in the Legislative Council election, which he won.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-slaps-notice-against-former-union-minister-basanagouda-patil-yatnal-for-embarrassing-statements-950459.html
12-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah pens open letter asking citizens to support farmers||Karnataka's Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has urged “fellow Indians” to lend their support to the agitating farmers through a 5-page explainer targeted at urbanites. “Farmers are not protesting only for themselves. They are also fighting on behalf of the entire country,” stated Siddaramaiah. “APMC amendment has come into effect. Now anybody can buy and sell farm produce anywhere. There is no need to go to APMC. Traders who carry trade within APMC should pay APMC fees while those who carry out trade outside APMC premises will not pay. Then why will any trader come to APMC to purchase? Where will producers sell if no trader comes to APMCs? Who will stop the exploitation of farmers? Farmers can take loans by pledging their produce in APMC. What will farmers do now if APMC goes into the hands of private players?” Siddaramaiah said, accusing the Centre of not consulting farmers. The Congress leader said that the Centre had also amended the Essential Commodities Act, removing restrictions on storing food grains in warehouses. “This will result in the hoarding of essential commodities creating artificial shortage increasing the prices for all the consumers,” he said. “Everybody knows what happened with Tur dal in 2015-16. It was procured at Rs 60-70 from farmers and sold at Rs 180-200 to consumers. Then I-T conducted raids in the godowns belonging to Adani, Jindal etc and seized more than 75,000 tons of Tur dal. Now, with the new amendment, no one can be raided for hoarding,” he said, adding that the prices of food grains had gone up. The government has also enacted the Contract Farming Act allowing farmers to enter into contracts with capitalists, Siddaramaiah said. “If there are any conflicts during the contract term, farmers have to approach AC-DC and not the judicial courts. The power to adjudicate is not with the courts. Everyone knows who the officials will ultimately favour. It is definitely not the farmers,” he said. “Now tell, will these new farm laws help people in any way.” Siddaramaiah asked. “Would you still like to call our proud farmers anti-national?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-pens-open-letter-asking-citizens-to-support-farmers-950514.html
12-02-2021||National||India on track to meet its climate change mitigation commitments: Jaishankar||Calling India clearly a leader in climate action, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has asserted that the country was on track to meet its climate change mitigation commitments. Addressing the World Sustainable Development Summit on Wednesday, Jaishankar said India currently had the fastest-growing solar energy programme in the world. "We have expanded access to clean cooking fuel to cover over 80 million households in need, which has led to an energy saving of about 47 billion kWh per year and reduction of 38 million tonnes of CO2 per year. This is among the largest clean energy drives globally," he said. "India is clearly a leader in climate action. Addressing this challenge requires us to evolve a comprehensive approach, which covers education to values, and from lifestyle to developmental philosophy. "We need global awareness to bring about behavioural change. Respect for nature, the judicious use of resources, reducing our needs and living within our means have all been important aspects of both India's traditions and its present-day efforts," Jaishankar said. Jaishankar saidt hat the renewable energy installed capacity in India has grown 162 per cent in the last five years. "As we go into COP 26 this year, there are several threads that need to be addressed. Climate Ambition needs to go hand-in-hand with the framework for financial, technical and capacity-building support to countries who need it. It is equally important for countries to fulfil their pre-2020 commitments," he said. The summit was attended by Mohammed Nasheed, Speaker of the People's Majlis, Maldives; John Kerry, US special presidential envoy for climate; Wera Mori, minister for environment, conservation and climate change, Papua New Guinea; and Lord Goldsmith, minister for pacific and the environment at the FCDO, UK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-on-track-to-meet-its-climate-change-mitigation-commitments-jaishankar-950240.html
12-02-2021||National||Vardhan allays fears of Chhattisgarh over incomplete Covaxin trials, absence of expiry date on vials||Allaying concerns of Chhattisgarh over incomplete phase 3 trials of Covaxin, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said both this and the other Covid-19 vaccine Covishield are safe and immunogenic and should be used expeditiously to mitigate the impact of the pandemic. Earlier, Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singh Deo said he had written to Vardhan urging him not to send Bharat Biotech's Covaxin till the phase-3 clinical trial results are completed while also expressing concern about the absence of expiry date on the vials of the vaccine.   The primary concerns of the state, Deo said on Twitter, are the inhibitions regarding the incomplete third phase trials of Covaxin and the absence of expiration date on the vials of the vaccine. "I have requested him to halt the supply of Covaxin to Chhattisgarh until these issues are addressed to the satisfaction of our Health Department to avoid the wastage of the early expiration doses of the drug," he said in another tweet. Responding to his letter, Vardhan said he has got the matter examined in the ministry and as per New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019, under Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and in light of urgent need due to Covid-19 pandemic in the country, the Central Drugs Standard and Control Organisation (CDSCO) has granted permission to manufacture the two vaccines based on the prescribed procedure and after due evaluation of pre-clinical and clinical trial data. Only those Covid-19 vaccines that have been granted permission for restricted use in emergency situations by the DCGI i.e. Covishield and Covaxin are being used for Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country. "Both these vaccines being supplied to the states /UTs are safe and immunogenic and should be used expeditiously to rapidly confer protection to prioritised beneficiaries thereby mitigating the impact of the pandemic at the earliest," he said. "Your concern regarding the unavailability of expiry date on Covaxin vial is also completely unfounded and without basis, as the same is mentioned on the label of vaccine vials," Vardhan said in his letter. He further noted that Chhattisgarh has achieved 69.87 per cent coverage of its healthcare workers by giving them the first dose of the vaccine, the state has been able to cover only 9.55 per cent of 2,09,512 frontline workers through the first dose of the vaccine. "You would appreciate that this coverage needs to improve significantly since the adequate quantity of both the vaccines is available with the state. I look forward to your continuous oversight and guidance to the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state of Chhattisgarh which remains crucial for its success," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vardhan-allays-fears-of-chhattisgarh-over-incomplete-covaxin-trials-absence-of-expiry-date-on-vials-950250.html
12-02-2021||National||DH Toon | Koo's popularity surges amid government endorsement||Indian micro-blogging platform Koo's popularity surges as government endorses it, making it the poster boy for 'Atmanirbhar Bharat'. Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad touted the app in Rajya Sabha on Thursday, saying "let us salute the extraordinary courage of our start-ups." Koo, hailed as an Indian rival to Twitter, comes at a time when the Centre is in a headlock with the US-based social media platform over the suspension of accounts related to the months' long farmers' protests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-koos-popularity-surges-amid-government-endorsement-950253.html
12-02-2021||National||Farmers to intensify protest today: Key things to know||In a bid to put more pressure on the Centre to repeal three farm laws, agitating farmers are set to intensify protests across the nation from today. Protesting farmer unions are planning programmes of the state-wise 'kisan mahapanchayats' that are set to be organised across the country in the coming days against the Centre's three farm laws. The Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the protesting unions, has made it clear that it will not call off the ongoing protest until its demands to repeal the laws and bring legal guarantee for minimum support price on their crops are met. The announcement to intensify protest came soon after PM Modi's reply to the Motion of Thanks to the President's Address in Lok Sabha where he gave no indication of repealing the controversial laws. Farmers' leader Darshan Pal said SKM discussed the various programmes between February 12 and February 18. Here is everything you need to know about the 'mahapanchayats' and other programmes: 1. A 'mahapanchayat' will be held in Moradabad (Uttar Pradesh) on February 12, followed by Bahadurgarh bypass (Haryana) on February 13, Sri Ganganagar (Rajasthan) on February 18, Hanumangarh (Rajasthan) on February 19 and Silkar (Rajasthan) on February 23. 2. On February 12, Darshan Pal said, all road toll plazas in Rajasthan will be made toll free. 3. On February 14, candle marches and other programmes will be organised to remember the "sacrifice of martyred soldiers in Pulwama attack". On February 14, 2019, terrorists drove an explosive-laden SUV into a convoy of CRPF personnel killing 40 personnel in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama. 4. Farmers will also organise a solidarity show on February 16 on the occasion of birth anniversary of Sir Chhoturam. On February 18, the SKM also called for a 'rail roko' agitation across the country from 12 pm to 4 pm. 5. At the Singhu border protest site, the unions have begun strengthening the infrastructure by installing CCTV cameras for enhanced security, electric fans to beat the heat in the coming months, and laying separate optical fibre line for wi-fi facility in case there is another internet shutdown. 6. These are some of the measures taken by the agitating farmers to prepare for a long haul as a resolution of the stalemate over the new farm legislation seems unlikely anytime soon. On Monday, after the Rajya Sabha passed the Motion of Thanks, the SKM said that Prime Minister Modi has insulted the farmers, adding that they are proud to be 'aandolan jeevis' as it was agitations that liberated India from colonial rule. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the three Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for over 75 days. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-to-intensify-protest-today-key-things-to-know-950267.html
12-02-2021||National||India reports 9,309 new Covid-19 cases, 87 deaths||The daily new Covid-19 cases fell below 10,000 for the third time this month taking India's tally of cases to 1,08,80,603, while fresh fatalities were recorded below 100 for the seventh time in February, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday A total of 9,309 infections have been reported in a day. The death toll increased to 1,55,447 with 87 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.    The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,05,89,230 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.32 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,35,926 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.25 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,47,89,784  samples have been tested up to February 11 with  7,65,944 samples being tested on Thursday. The 78 new fatalities include 25 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 7 each from Punjab and Karnataka. A total of 1,55,447 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,415 from Maharashtra followed by 12,402 from Tamil Nadu, 12,251 from Karnataka, 10,886 from Delhi, 10,225 from West Bengal,  8,696 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,161 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-9309-new-covid-19-cases-87-deaths-950279.html
12-02-2021||National||Mallikarjun Kharge to be next Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha||Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge will be next Leader of Opposition in the Upper House, with the party capping the suspense on who will succeed Ghulam Nabi Azad, retiring on February 15. Kharge (78), who was Leader of Congress in the previous Lok Sabha, was elected to Rajya Sabha in June last year after the party leadership decided to accommodate him in the Upper House, as he had lost the 2019 polls. He will be the second leader from Karnataka to be the Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha after M S Gurupadaswamy, one of the founders of Janata Party and the second Leader of Opposition between March 1971 and April 1972. Overall, he will be the 17th Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha. Gurupadaswamy was also Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha between December 1989 and November 1990 and then again became Leader of Opposition between June-July 1991 for the second time. The post of Leader of Opposition was established in Rajya Sabha in 1969 and Shyam Nandan Mishra (Congress-O) was the first Leader of Opposition between December 1969 to March 1971. The news about Congress nominating Kharge came on the last day of Budget Session's first leg in Rajya Sabha. Azad, who will retire three days later and is at loggerheads with the leadership, came to Rajya Sabha at around 2.30 pm when Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was replying to the budget debate.  Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote to Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday about the party's choice of Kharge as the successor of Azad, who has served as the LOP for the longest period of six years and nine months, followed by Sikander Bakht (5 years 10 months), Manmohan Singh (5 years 9 months) and Arun Jaitley (5 years 2 months). A Gandhi family loyalist, Kharge's election to Rajya Sabha was seen as party leadership's plans to elevate him as Leader of Opposition when Azad retires. With no Assembly in place in Jammu and Kashmir, Azad cannot return to the House immediately. He can return only if the Congress decides to field him from Kerala where Rajya Sabha polls could take place before April. As Azad's tenure was coming to close, there was speculation about Congress' Deputy Leader Anand Sharma and senior leaders Digvijay Singh and P Chidambaram besides Kharge being considered for the post. The Congress High Command, however, decided to rely on Kharge. Azad's return to the Rajya Sabha also looks unlikely in the near future as he along with Sharma and other senior leaders, now known as G-23, wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi seeking clarity on the leadership question. They had also demanded elections to the party president. Who is M S Gurupadaswamy? M S Gurupadaswamy, who was born in August 1924, hailed from Mysuru in Karnataka and was a founder of Janata Party. He was the Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha as well as twice the Leader of the Opposition. He was a minister in Indira Gandhi government during 1967-69 and was one of the first ministers to resign when the Congress split in 1969. He also served as minister in the VP Singh government in 1989-90. Gurupadaswamy passed away in May 2011.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mallikarjun-kharge-to-be-next-leader-of-opposition-in-rajya-sabha-950283.html
12-02-2021||National||I will join BJP when we have black snow in Kashmir: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad, who is retiring from the Rajya Sabha next week, said that he will join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) when there is "black snow in Kashmir". Azad said he has known PM Narendra Modi since the 90s, fought with him and even shared a cup of tea. He also highlighted his cordial relations with late former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee but rubbished rumours of joining their party. In his 28-minute farewell speech in the Upper House of Parliament on February 9, Azad, 71, had recited several couplets and hoped for the restoration of peace in Jammu and Kashmir and the return of Kashmiri Pandits back to the Valley. Azad recalled his long association with Parliament beginning from 1980 and also his experiences as Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir. He retraced his political journey beginning from the Bhalesa block in Doda district. Azad was among the four members in the Rajya Sabha to be given an emotional farewell by the House. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had turned emotional in Rajya Sabha while recalling his close association with Congress leader Azad. Reminiscing about their long association, Modi said that as chief ministers of Jammu and Kashmir and Gujarat, both of them kept in touch.  Azad and Nazir Ahmed Laway (PDP) are due to retire on February 15 while the terms of Mir Mohammad Fayaz (PDP) and Shamsher Singh Manhas (BJP) ended on February 10.  The six years’ term of all the Rajya Sabha members from Jammu and Kashmir is coming to an end during the current session of Parliament and there is going to be no representation in the Upper House from the Union Territory till the time a Legislative Assembly gets constituted after elections. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-will-join-bjp-when-we-have-black-snow-in-kashmir-ghulam-nabi-azad-950285.html
12-02-2021||National||Govt earned over Rs 100 crore by selling vehicle owner data to private firms||The central government collected over Rs 100 crore in revenue by sharing Vahan and Sarathi databases to private entities, Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari informed the Parliament on Thursday.  Vahan and Sarathi databases contain details of registered vehicles and driving licenses in the country. "The revenue collected by the government by providing access to VAHAN and SARATHI database is Rs 1,11,38,79,757," Gadkari said, adding that the Bulk data sharing Policy & Procedure had been scrapped by the BJP government. The Centre also said that there was no proposal to force private players to delete the data provided by the government.  The private firms can purchase the data at Rs 3 crore per calendar year and Rs 5 lakh for education institutes using it for research. The firms would receive data dumps four times a year.  Earlier, the ministry dropped the bulk data sharing policy over potential misuse and other privacy issues. Currently, data on vehicles can be shared under the Personal Data Protection Bill, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-earned-over-rs-100-crore-by-selling-vehicle-owner-data-to-private-firms-950293.html
12-02-2021||National||Under pressure, Twitter blocks 1,400 accounts flagged by govt over farmers' protest||After the Indian government's recent warning, Twitter has blocked 1,400 accounts out of 1,435 accounts related to farmers' protest, which the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology asked to block. Now only 35 accounts have not been blocked and the process of blocking these accounts also on, Twitter informed the government, sources said. Samajwadi Party MP Chaudhary Sukhram Singh Yadav in the Rajya Sabha on Friday demanded that the government should take action against social media platform Twitter for blocking his account. Yadav said his Twitter account has been “withdrawn and blocked” despite no complaints as such. This development came following the virtual meeting between the Secretary, Meity and Twitter officials on Wednesday night. During the meeting, the Secretary warned Twitter that it has to follow the law of the land and ensure that fake news should not be spread to the platform. Twitter, as a business entity working in India, must also respect the Indian laws and democratic institutions. Twitter is free to formulate its own rules and guidelines like any other business entity does but Indian laws which are enacted by Parliament of India must be followed irrespective of Twitter’s own rules and guidelines, the Secretary told US-based company. Agree to abide by the law During the meeting, the Twitter official said they have started blocking accounts spreading fake news and agreed to block more such accounts. They have also agreed to abide by Indian laws, the statement from the government said. For the past 2 weeks, there was a tussle between Twitter and the Miety over blocking of accounts. The Meity has asked Twitter to block 1,435 accounts related to farmers' protest for the past two weeks. According to the government, these were handled by Kalistan and Pro-Pakisthan handlers and used to provoke protesting farmers. However, Twitter was reluctant to block the entire list of accounts provided by the government citing the freedom of speech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/under-pressure-twitter-blocks-1400-accounts-flagged-by-govt-over-farmers-protest-950300.html
12-02-2021||National||Covid-19 situation improves significantly in Mumbai-MMR region||There has been a considerable improvement in the Covid-19 situation in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) even as the Maharashtra government continues its mission to go back to normal. If one analyses the figures of the last 10 days, the fresh positive cases of Covid-19 in the Mumbai-MMR has remained on an average below the 1,000 mark and deaths below 10. In Mumbai, the total progressive cases and deaths stand at 3,12,303 and 11,405, respectively, while in MMR the tally was 7,01,471 and 19,646, respectively. In the financial capital – that comprises two districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban – the recovery rate is 96 per cent, according to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). In Mumbai, the overall growth rate from February 4-10 is 0.13 per cent while the doubling date was 533 days. According to officials of the Public Health Department, there has been an improvement but the situation – in the five MMR districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad - is being closely monitored as the local trains have now been opened for general public though with restricted timings. The suburban pockets of Thane City, Kalyan-Dombivli, Vasai-Virar, Mira-Bhayander, which were major areas of concern, have not improved and things are going back to normal. However, officials and doctors pointed out that they have noticed that people are lowering their guards and are either not wearing masks or not wearing them properly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-situation-improves-significantly-in-mumbai-mmr-region-950306.html
12-02-2021||National||Minimum temperatures hover above normal in Punjab, Haryana||The minimum temperatures registered a further increase and hovered above the normal limits in Punjab and Haryana on Friday. The mercury rose by a couple of notches at most places in the two states since Thursday, meteorological department officials said here. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a low of 11.6 degrees Celsius. In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a low of 10.4 degrees Celsius, while Ludhiana and Patiala recorded a minimum temperature of 11.2 degrees Celsius each. Adampur (11.5 degrees Celsius), Halwara (11.2 degrees Celsius), Pathankot (12.8 degrees Celsius), Bathinda (8.7 degrees Celsius), Gurdaspur (eight degrees Celsius) and Faridkot (10.5 degrees Celsius) also recorded above-normal minimum temperatures. Ambala in Haryana recorded a low of 11.9 degrees Celsius, while the mercury settled at 9.3 degrees Celsius at Hisar. Karnal (10 degrees Celsius), Rohtak (10.6 degrees Celsius), Bhiwani (11.3 degrees Celsius) and Sirsa (10.3 degrees Celsius) also recorded above-normal minimum temperatures. According to the officials, after a gap of several days, fog engulfed many places in the region in the morning, including Chandigarh, Amritsar, Patiala, Ludhiana, Bhiwani, Karnal and Ambala. Visibility levels dropped at these places in the morning due to the fog, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minimum-temperatures-hover-above-normal-in-punjab-haryana-950322.html
12-02-2021||National||J&K joins hands with UK space agency for impact-based flood forecasting||The Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir has joined hands with a UK-based space agency for a collaborative project on impact-based flood forecasting, an official spokesman said on Friday. The national space innovation programme (NSIP), undertaken by HR Wallingford in collaboration with Oxford University, Sayers & Partners (SPL) and D-Orbit, is an initiative that supports collaborative projects between UK-based organisations and international partners, he said. It is a big step taken by the Lt Governor administration which will help to predict fluvial flood risks in terms of expected loss to life, injuries to people, building collapse, infrastructure disruption and economic damage, the spokesman said. At present, there is no such effective impact-based flood forecasting mechanism in Jammu and Kashmir, he added. Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha said the international collaboration adds specific value in helping analyse past flood events and identifying relationships between predicted floods and their impact. The mechanism will predict the impact on people, their houses, crops, livestock, and transport routes, thereby mitigating many of the challenges people face during flood events, he added. “Having impact-based forecasts of flood risk will be useful for efficient and effective contingency planning and swift evaluation of severity for necessary response,” Sinha said. The spokesman said the framework, using earth observation (EO) based information, will be capable of being linked to any existing or future flood flow forecasting system. The UT administration will not have to bear any expenses on the project, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-joins-hands-with-uk-space-agency-for-impact-based-flood-forecasting-950323.html
12-02-2021||National||UP Police books Google's Sundar Pichai, others over 'defamatory' video; removes names from FIR later||A day after lodging an FIR against Google CEO Sundar Pichai and three other officials of the company in connection with an alleged case of defaming prime minister Narendra Modi, the Uttar Pradesh activist dropped their names as they failed to find any evidence against them. According to the police sources, the FIR was registered at Bhelupur police station in Varanasi after an RTI activist lodged a complaint that he had received thousands of threat calls after he objected to a video, which allegedly defamed the PM. The activist, a resident of Varanasi, claimed that the video was uploaded on WhatsApp and later YouTube. He alleged that he was also tagged in the video. The activist said that he had written to the social media platforms to remove the alleged video but they did not do so forcing him to approach the court. Later on the direction of the court, an FIR was registered against 18 people, including Pichai and three other senior officials of Google under sections 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation), 500 (defamation) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) besides the IT Act. A senior police official said in Varanasi on Friday that the names of Pichai and other Google officials were removed from the FIR after no evidence was found against them during the investigation. ''The investigation against others is going and appropriate action will be taken if the evidence is found against them,'' the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-police-books-googles-sundar-pichai-others-over-defamatory-video-removes-names-from-fir-later-950328.html
12-02-2021||National||Congress planning nationwide protest against soaring fuel prices: Chennithala||The Congress is planning a nationwide protest against the increasing fuel prices, senior party leader Ramesh Chennithala said here on Friday as he attacked the BJP-led government at the Centre over the soaring prices of diesel and petrol. The Leader of Opposition in the Kerala Assembly, who is leading the 'Aiswarya Kerala Yatra' to prepare the ground for Congress-led UDF ahead of the Assembly polls, urged the centre and state governments to lower the excise duty on diesel and petrol to ease the burden on the people. "The Congress is planning an all India protest, if the prices of fuel continue to soar on an uncontrolled level," Chennithala told reporters here as he commenced today's yatra in Ernakulam district. He alleged that the BJP-led government at the Centre and the LDF government in Kerala were indulging in profiteering instead of passing on benefits of low prices of crude oil to consumers by reducing the hiked rates of petrol-diesel-LPG gas. The senior Congress leader said when the UPA government was in power, price of crude oil was USD 108 per barrel, but petrol and diesel was sold at a subsidised rate at Rs 71.41 and Rs 55.49 per litre. "Now, the crude oil price is far less than the half of UPA rates but the Narendra Modi-led government has increased the prices of petrol-diesel sky high," Chennithala said. He also urged the CPI(M)-led government in Kerala to reduce the tax levies on fuel to provide relief to the people of the state hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. On Thursday, petrol price in the national capital closed in on record Rs 88 per litre mark while diesel neared Rs 85 in Mumbai after rates across the country were hiked for the third day in a row. Rates vary from state to state depending on the local incidence of taxation (VAT) and freight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-planning-nationwide-protest-against-soaring-fuel-prices-chennithala-950333.html
12-02-2021||National||Indian nationals advised against visiting Dubai consulate amid spike in Covid-19 cases in city||India's consulate in Dubai has issued an advisory to Indian nationals to avoid visiting the mission unless it is absolutely necessary and instead make use of various electronic platforms amidst a spike in Covid-19 cases in the city. Dubai has witnessed a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the past weeks. The gleaming city had faced criticism globally for reopening businesses and easing curfews to attract tourists during the peak year-end holiday season. “Members of the Indian community who wish to visit the Consulate for any consular services are advised to avoid such visits unless absolutely necessary," the India mission said in the advisory posted on Twitter. "They should, instead, make use of the various electronic platforms offered by the Consulate without having to physically visit the office,” it said. Being the largest expatriate community, it said, it is the responsibility of all the Indian nationals residing in the UAE to strictly comply with Covid preventive measures and guidelines issued by the country's health authorities from time to time such as wearing face masks at all times, maintaining social distancing, avoiding public gatherings etc. The Indian Consulate in Dubai provides its services to more than 2.6 million Indians living in Dubai, Sharjah, Ajman, Ras Al Khaimah, Fujairah and Umm Al Quwain, the Gulf News reported. The UAE reported 3,525 new cases of coronavirus on Thursday, bringing the total number of diagnosed cases in the country to 339,667. It has reported 974 deaths so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-nationals-advised-against-visiting-dubai-consulate-amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-city-950336.html
12-02-2021||National||India exported Covid-19 vaccines worth Rs 338 crore till Feb 8, says Piyush Goyal in Rajya Sabha||India's exports of the Covid-19 vaccine stood at around Rs 338 crore till February 8, Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal said in the Rajya Sabha on Friday. The exports include grant of the vaccine doses to friendly countries and commercial shipments. Replying to supplementary questions in the House, Goyal said exports of the vaccine started in January. India is taking care of the domestic vaccine requirement first and based on that "giving vaccines to friendly countries," he said. "Total export is about Rs 338 crore worth of Covid vaccine," the minister said. Giving details, Goyal said export of Covishield vaccine manufactured by the Serum Insitute of India, Pune as Government of India grant stood at 62.7 lakh doses with FoB (free on board) value of about Rs 125.4 crore. Paid exports of 1.05 crore doses were valued at about Rs 213.32 crore. Goyal said the government has granted permission to the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech International Limited, Hyderabad for the manufacture of Covid-19 vaccines. Close coordination is being maintained through regular interaction between relevant departments of the Government of India and vaccine manufacturers to ensure adequate availability of Covid-19 vaccines for the national vaccination program, he added. The minister further said the health ministry is working along with all states, and the Prime Minister is also interacting with all states. Highest priority for vaccination has been given to healthcare and frontline workers by the government, Goyal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-exported-covid-19-vaccines-worth-rs-338-crore-till-feb-8-says-piyush-goyal-in-rajya-sabha-950337.html
12-02-2021||National||FM Nirmala Sitharaman's reply on Budget discussion in Lok Sabha on February 13||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to reply on Budget discussions in Lok Sabha on February 13 (Saturday).  Lok Sabha will adjourn after the Budget reply.  Rajya Sabha will adjourn today afternoon after Nirmala Sitharaman's reply. The second leg of Budget Session 2021 will start on March 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-nirmala-sitharamans-reply-on-budget-discussion-in-lok-sabha-on-february-13-950340.html
12-02-2021||National||Nothing for common man in budget: Opposition in Rajya Sabha||Opposition parties in the Rajya Sabha on Friday charged that the Union Budget serves the interests of capitalists that will help the rich turn richer and has nothing for the common man. Participating in the debate on the budget, leaders of parties like the Congress, BSP, AAP and Left launched an all-out attack on the BJP government for allegedly selling off the country's assets and PSUs to big industrialists. Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohil alleged that the budget helped the rich capitalists and was asking the poor, the oppressed and the downtrodden to become 'atmanirbhar' (self sufficient). He alleged that the cess imposed by the government was an attempt by it to deprive the states of their share in taxes. He alleged that PM Narendra Modi recently quoted his predecessor Manmohan Singh and Sharad Pawar selectively and out of context on the issue of farm reforms, and recalled that he, as Gujarat chief minister, had recommended a law to ensure Minimum Support Price (MSP) to farmers. "The country is passing through a bad time due to decisions like demonetisation and the GST. The government is helping and supporting the big people and is asking the poor, the weaker and the downtrodden to become 'artmanirbhar'," Gohil alleged. Binoy Biswam (CPI) charged that in the name of 'atmanirbhar', this budget is clearly helping the capitalists of the country. "Is this the model of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' that you surrender everything to capitalists. This government can be called a government of FDI for capitalists. Don't try to cheat people, as it is time they understood this," he alleged. Biswam alleged that the government is selling everything from air to sea to land and even underground and is "blindly following" the capitalist model. "The government is destroying the economy and is cheating the people," he alleged. Ashok Siddharth (BSP) said there is nothing in this budget for the common man as it is trying to sell the country's assets and PSUs. "This government wants the rich to turn richer and the poor poorer," he charged, adding that it is not fair to give away the rights of poor, Dalits to industrialists. The BSP member said the interests of SCs/STs and OBC are being hurt the most through privatisation as there is no reservation in the private sector. He said once the PSUs are sold to industrialists, there will be no reservation in them and Dalits and the poor will suffer the most. He called upon the government to bring a law to enforce reservation for SC/ST/OBC in the private sector. Sanjay Singh (AAP) charged that the government was selling off everything to private companies and big industrialists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nothing-for-common-man-in-budget-opposition-in-rajya-sabha-950346.html
12-02-2021||National||MP cops provide security to Kangana Ranaut after Congress leaders' threat||Madhya Pradesh police have put in place thick security cover around Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut in the wake of a threat by some state Congress leaders that they would not allow her to shoot for a film if she did not apologise to farmers over her tweets, an official said on Friday. Shooting for Dhaakad, Ranaut's new film, is going on in Sarni area of Betul district. Talking to PTI over phone, Sarni City Superintendent of Police (CSP) Abhay Ram Choudhary said, "Security has been tightened for the actress after MP Home Minister Narottam Mishra directed Betul Superintendent of Police Simala Prasad to do so." Police personnel equipped with batons and firearms are deployed around the coal handling plant (CHL) near a power project, where the shooting is on, he added. "Police will man gate numbers two and four of the CHL, from where actors usually enter the shooting venue," Choudhary said. An inspector has been assigned to oversee Ranaut's safety at the resort, located around 45 kms from Sarni town, where she is during for the shoot, he said. "We will ensure that she does not face any disturbance during the shoot," the CSP added. As per the film schedule, her shoot at Sarni would end on February 17, the police officer said. State Congress Sewa Dal secretary Manoj Arya and Chicholi Block Congress Committee president Nekram Yadav had on Wednesday submitted a memorandum to a tehsildar in Betul, in which they threatened that they would not allow Ranaut to shoot at Sarni if she does not apologise by Friday evening over her comments against the ongoing farmers' protest. The Congress leaders had alleged that Ranaut had maligned farmers. On Thursday, Narottam Mishra had said that the government will ensure that "behan-beti" Kangana faces no problem while shooting. He had also urged state Congress chief Kamal Nath to dissuade his party workers from disrupting the shoot. Twitter had recently deleted some of Ranaut's controversial tweets over the farmers' protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-cops-provide-security-to-kangana-ranaut-after-congress-leaders-threat-950347.html
12-02-2021||National||Farm laws will help double farmers' income: Thakur||BJP leader Anurag Thakur on Friday slammed Opposition parties, asking them not to use farmers for their political gains and asserted that the three new farm laws will help in doubling income of the farming community. While participating in the debate on the Union Budget in the Rajya Sabha, Thakur, who is the Minister of State for Finance, challenged the opposition leaders to show him if it is written anywhere in the three agri laws that the regime of 'mandis' and MSP would come to an end due to the legislation. "These people say farm laws are black laws. Only whose thinking is black will call it black. This law has been brought to double the income of farmers. We are committed to double the income of farmers," Thakur said in the Upper House. "You say mandis will be finished. I openly challenge Congress leaders to tell us in which law it has been written that mandis will be finished. Where has it been written that MSP will end? Does any Congress leader or any opposition leader have the guts to tell if anywhere in the agri law it is written that mandis will end? Do not use these simple farmers for your politics. We have taken the task to double farmer' income and we will do it," Thakur said. "You say mandis will be finished. We say we are going to further strengthen these mandis. You don't have logic, facts, you only want to create differences," the minister said. Thakur noted that purchase of agri produce has only increased under the current dispensation as compared to that under the UPA government. He said that in order to improve agriculture infrastructure in the country a cess has been introduced in the budget. "There is a need for agri infra for perishable goods. Why didn't you come with it in the last 65 years? The Modi government has brought in infrastructure cess and because of this there will be no increase in the prices of petrol and diesel," he noted. Attacking the West Bengal government, Thakur said that due to "stubborn" attitude of Chief Minister Mamta Banerjee, benefits under the PM Kisan Yojana and Ayushman Bharat were not reaching the masses in the state. Thakur also said that it was the UPA government which started privatisation of airports. "It was under your rule that Air India was destroyed and now you want taxpayer's money amounting to Rs 6,000 crore given to it every year and not for the welfare of poor masses of this country. What should be done you decide," Thakur said. He said inflation used to be in the range of 11-12 per cent during the UPA rule, which has now come down to 4 per cent. Besides, fiscal deficit, which used to be the range of 5-6 per cent, has been brought down to less than 3.5 per cent, he added. Thakur said it was the UPA government which forced banks to give money to people who have now run away from the country. "Why was it that in your government there was one scam after another. Dr Saheb was an honest man, what about the people under him, there would not even be one department where a scam would not have taken place in your government," he said. He further said, "Modi government is completing 7 years and no one can allege even 7 paise corruption on any of the ministers. This is an honest government." Thakur said the Modi government has done maximum work for the poor helping maximum number of people to come out from poverty. He said the government was working on employment generation and to make it self reliant. Thakur added that seven textile parks and three drug parks would come up in the country, leading to huge investment and employment to people. He noted that provision has been made in the Budget to increase capital expenditure outlay by 34.5 per cent which would have a multiplier effect on development across sectors. The minister also said that the Modi government consulted all states before taking measures during the pandemic and, therefore, the mortality rate in the country was among the lowest in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-laws-will-help-double-farmers-income-thakur-950348.html
12-02-2021||National||PM Modi wants to clear path for his friends: Rahul Gandhi on farm laws||Hitting out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue of the new farm laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said the PM wants to clear the path for his friends by implementing the three legislations, which will hit 40 per cent people of the country, who are associated with the agriculture business. Addressing a farmers' "mahapanchayat" in Pilibanga town of Rajasthan's Hanumangarh district, Gandhi said that after demonetisation and the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), the farm laws were another blow to the people of the country. "Forty per cent people, including farmers, traders and labourers, will be hit if these laws are implemented. "After demonetisation, I had said the move was not against black money, but people did not understand it at that time. Then the GST was implemented, which was an attack on small and mid-size businesses. Narendra Modi wants to clear the path for his friends," he said. The former Congress chief also alleged that the government has ceded Indian territory to China between Finger 3 and Finger 4 in eastern Ladakh. "He would not stand in front of China but would threaten farmers. This is the reality of Narendra Modi," he said. Gandhi said the prime minister does not understand the power of farmers, labourers and small traders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-wants-to-clear-path-for-his-friends-rahul-gandhi-on-farm-laws-950371.html
12-02-2021||National||Committed to achieving goal of $500 bn in bilateral trade with US: Ambassador Sandhu||India and the US are committed to achieving the ambitious goal of a bilateral trade of $500 billion, India's top envoy has said, underlining that New Delhi is keen to engage with the new Biden administration, particularly on trade and economic partnership. When President Joe Biden was the vice president, he had set an ambitious goal of taking bilateral trade to $500 billion. “We are committed to achieving the ambitious goal of bilateral trade of $500 billion. I am optimistic that there is nothing we cannot achieve together, if we sit across the table and discuss,” India’s Ambassador to the US, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, told PTI in a recent interview. “We look forward to engaging with the new administration particularly on the trade and economic partnership. You should not forget that the India-US relationship has had a history of breakthroughs. It is in the inherent nature of this relationship,” Sandhu said. Responding to a question on India-US bilateral trade, he said that it is well known that the bilateral economic partnership has been on an upward trajectory: $150 billion in bilateral trade; $46 billion US Investments in India; over 2,000 US companies in India, including every major Fortune 500 companies and over 200 Indian companies created about 125,000 jobs in United States across all states. “The private sector and businesses on both sides are excited about the limitless opportunities for expanding our trade and investment ties,” Sandhu said. According to Richard M Rossow, Wadhwani Chair in US India Policy Studies at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) think-tank, India-US bilateral trade took a hit this last year, primarily due to Covid-19 pandemic. Goods trade dropped from $92 billion in 2019 to $78 billion in 2020. Services trade was relatively stable at somewhere around $50 billion, he said. Beyond the numbers, trade ties are languishing, he noted adding that individual firms are still finding opportunities. “But that is in spite of our governments. Both governments have taken protectionist turns in recent years. I have no doubt that we will hit $500 billion in trade someday; our governments can help decide if it takes a decade or a century,” Rossow said. “It will take enormous courage and political leadership to repair our trade relationship--especially as our respective economies and job markets reel from Covid effects. But we should start small- securing our "mini trade deal" and remove some of the more onerous frictions,” he said in response to a question. “Expand discussions to look at cooperation in strategic-economic sectors like critical minerals, climate change, and emerging technologies. Then see where discussions can go. But at the moment, both sides lack a plan and lack leader-level attention,” Rossow said. In a blog post, CSIS said that the Biden administration is less likely to be driven by populist impulses and may also open new avenues for trade cooperation, such as environmental goods and green technologies. Expansion and predictability in temporary work visas like H-1B will be a welcome news for the services trade, but the visa reform, the Biden administration promised will likely only benefit skilled workers, said the blog post authored by its research associate Kriti Upadhyaya. Protectionist tendencies, she said, will endure in the near term, mostly owing to the pressures created by the Covid-19 pandemic. Already, the pandemic has set bilateral trade with India back. India slipped from being the United States’ ninth-largest trading partner to its eleventh largest, she said. The US remained India's top trading partner for the second consecutive fiscal in 2019-20, which shows increasing economic ties between the two countries. According to the data of the commerce ministry in New Delhi, in 2019-20, the bilateral trade between the US and India stood at $88.75 billion as against $87.96 billion in 2018-19. The US is one of the few countries with which India has a trade surplus. The trade gap between the countries has increased to $17.42 billion in 2019-20 from $16.86 billion in 2018-19, the data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/committed-to-achieving-goal-of-500-bn-in-bilateral-trade-with-us-ambassador-sandhu-950379.html
12-02-2021||National||Many patients after Covid-19 infection suffer from brain fog||About 25 per cent of Covid-19 sufferers experience brain fog and fatigue weeks and months after infection. A possible reason for this is the cytokine storm that can happen during Covid-19 predominantly due to inflammation, said Dr Vishakha Shivdasani, a medical doctor and award-winning nutritionist. “Most patients suffering from this have heightened anxiety. Compassion and empathy, both from medical professionals and family members, is very important. Vitamins like B6 and B12, and iron and folic acid, in addition to hydrating well and increasing protein content in your diet, can alleviate these symptoms. Also, the use of supplements like Coenzyme Q10 as explained above and magnesium, for those very stressed, is also helpful,” said Dr Shivdasani. There are also issues like thermoregulatory dysfunction. “Very often, a patient will call and complain that s/he has recovered from Covid-19, but the fever episodes continue. It is important to note that post-infection, one can have an increased body temperature by one degree, but this is not regarded as a fever. This is seldom a cause of worry and can sometimes take between one and three months after testing negative but does most often regularize,” said Dr Shivdasani, who has penned a book – ‘Covid and Post-Covid Recovery: DoctorVee’s 6-Point Plan - that has been brought out by HarperCollins Publishers India. However, if your temperature is more than two degrees over your normal temperature, then you must seek a physician’s advice as that could be a sign of re-inflammation and is worth doing a blood test to check CRP, said Dr Shivdasani, the vice president of South Mumbai’s Medical Association of Doctors. On how to prepare the body for the vaccine, she said one has to improve sleep,  take probiotics, quit alcohol and increase zinc in their diet. She said: “Alcohol has been seen to influence the response to some vaccines like the pneumococcal vaccine. Alcohol also disrupts the deeper state of sleep which is when the body heals and repairs itself. The deeper phases of sleep, known as REM, are essential for a proper immune response. It is prudent to avoid binge drinking 45 days after vaccination and completely abstain for one week before and after vaccination.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-patients-after-covid-19-infection-suffer-from-brain-fog-950397.html
12-02-2021||National||Left, Congress likely to start seat-sharing talks with IFS ahead of polls in West Bengal||Following initial hiccups, the Left Front and the Congress are finally set to start a tripartite seat-sharing discussion in West Bengal with the Indian Secular Front (IFS), recently floated by influential minority leader Abbas Siddique. Left Front sources said that if everything goes according to plan then the three sides would start the seat-sharing discussions early next week. “The main agenda of the meeting will be how many seats the Left Front and the Congress would leave for the IFS in the Assembly elections,” a senior Left Front leader said. Siddique had earlier written to Left Front chairperson Biman Basu seeking an alliance. However, Congress was waiting for an official invitation for seat-sharing discussions with the IFS. Sources in the State Congress said that they had recently received a letter from Siddique in this regard. They further revealed that Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha and State Congress president Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury had asked senior Congress MLA and Leader of the Opposition Abdul Mannan to take forward alliance related discussions with the IFS. “CPI(M) State secretary Surjyakanta Mishra has spoken to Mannan in this regard and urged him to continue discussions with the IFS,” a senior State Congress leader said. However, at a rally in Diamond Harbor in South 24 Paraganas district on Tuesday Siddique made it clear that he was keen on having an alliance with the Left Front and the Congress. “People want an alliance among the IFS, Left Front and the Congress. It will be good for all,” said Siddique. He also said that that he had written to the Left Front Chairperson and talks were also going on with the State Congress president. He also said that he was preparing to field candidates in 10 seats in the district. Siddique floated the IFS in late January. He is the cleric of a popular medieval shrine called Furfura Saharif. He has considerable influence on Muslims in the southern part of Bengal and a section of the tribal population in the state. “I will not contest any elections but want to be the kingmaker in Bengal,” said Siddique.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/left-congress-likely-to-start-seat-sharing-talks-with-ifs-ahead-of-polls-in-west-bengal-950416.html
12-02-2021||National||India's active Covid-19 caseload falls to 1.35 lakh; only one state reports over 1,000 cases, Centre says||India's tally of active Covid-19 cases has fallen to 1.35 lakh comprising only 1.25 per cent of the total infections, while the distribution of new cases in a span of 24 hours shows only one state reporting over 1,000 cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. The distribution of daily deaths among states and union territories also reflects a significant decline with 18 states and UTs not reporting any new deaths in a span of 24 hours. Thirteen states and UTs have reported between 1-5 new deaths, it highlighted. The country's total active number of cases has seen a sharp decline, falling to 1.35 lakh (1,35,926) and comprises only 1.25 per cent of the total cases.  "The day-to-day change of active cases in the last few weeks shows a consistent decline. "The distribution of new cases in India in the last 24 hours shows a positive picture with only one state reporting over 1,000 cases while the rest of the states and UTs reporting less than 1,000 new cases," it said. States and union territories that have not reported any new cases in a span of 24 hours. "The distribution of daily deaths among states and UTs also reflects a significant decline with 18 states and UTs not reporting any new deaths in a span of 24 hours. A total of 13 states and UTs have reported between 1-5 new deaths," the ministry said. The ministry said while 9,309 new confirmed cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours in the country, 15,858 new recoveries were registered in the same period. The national recovery rate (97.32 per cent) continues to be one of the highest globally. The continued high rise in the recoveries has led to progressively improving national recovery rate, the ministry underlined. The total recovered cases have surged to 1,05,89,230.  "The gap between active and recovered cases is continuously increasing and stands at 1,04,53,304," it said. Till 8 AM on February 12, over 75 lakh (75,05,010) beneficiaries have received vaccination under the countrywide COVID-19 vaccination exercise. The total cumulative vaccination coverage of 75,05,010 includes 58,14,976 healthcare workers (HCW) and 16,90,034 frontline workers (FLWs). A total of 1,54,370 sessions have been conducted so far. India is the fastest country to cross the 70 lakh (7 million) vaccination mark, the ministry said. On day 27th (February 11) of the vaccination drive, 4,87,896 beneficiaries (HCWs-1,09,748 and FLWs-3,78,148) were given jabs across 11,314 sessions. The number of beneficiaries being vaccinated everyday has shown a progressive increase, the ministry said. A total of 10 states and UTs have vaccinated 69 per cent of the total beneficiaries. Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 10.2 per cent (7,63,421) of the total beneficiaries, it said. The ministry said 86.89 per cent of the newly recovered cases are recorded in six states. Maharashtra has contributed the highest number to the newly recovered cases (6,107), followed by Kerala (5,692) and Chhattisgarh (848). Also, 79.87 per cent of the new cases are from six states. Kerala has reported the highest daily new cases at 5,281, followed by Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu with 652 and 481 new cases, respectively. A total of 87 case fatalities have been reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states account for 75.86 per cent of these. Maharashtra has reported the maximum fatalities with 25 new deaths, followed by Kerala with 16 new daily deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-active-covid-19-caseload-falls-to-135-lakh-only-one-state-reports-over-1000-cases-centre-says-950422.html
12-02-2021||National||Adults choosing their life partner can’t succumb to class honour or group thinking: SC||The Supreme Court said that adult boys and girls choosing their life partner cannot succumb to the concept of class honour or group thinking.  The court asked the police authorities to lay down some guidelines and training programmes to handle such socially-sensitive cases. “Educated younger boys and girls are choosing their life partners which, in turn, is a departure from the earlier norms of society where caste and community play a major role," a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy said.  The court said it is a progressive outlook that may reduce caste and community tensions brought out by inter-caste marriages.   The bench said: “We are fortified in our view by earlier judicial pronouncements of this court clearly elucidating that the consent of the family or the community or the clan is not necessary once the two adult individuals agree to enter into a wedlock and that their consent has to be piously given primacy.”  Echoing B R Ambedkar's views that inter-caste marriage can break casteism, the bench noted that intimacies of marriage lie within a core zone of privacy, which was inviolable and even matters of faith would have the least affect on them.  “The right to marry a person of choice was held to be integral in Article 21 of the Constitution," the top court said.   A missing person's complaint was lodged on October 14, 2020, in Karnataka's Belagavi by the father of a girl, who is an MA, B Ed, after she eloped and married an assistant professor, hailing from Uttar Pradesh, without informing the father.  The investigating officer, after learning about their marriage, insisted that the girl should appear in person at the police station to record a statement to close the case, and if she fails to do so, there was a possibility of her husband being charged with kidnapping. Faced with dire consequences, the couple approached the top court, which criticised the police officer’s conduct that put the girl under threat of action.    The top court said the choice of an individual is an inextricable part of dignity, for dignity cannot be thought of where there is erosion of choice. “Such a right or choice is not expected to succumb to the concept of ‘class honour’ or ‘group thinking’”, the top court said. The court quashed the FIR lodged with the Murgod police station.  The bench emphasised that the girl’s family should accept the marriage and re-establish social interaction with the couple. “Under the garb of caste and community, to alienate the child and the son-in-law will hardly be a desirable social exercise," it said.  The court also directed the Karnataka police department to not only counsel the current IOs but device a training programme to deal with such cases for the benefit of the police personnel.  "We expect the police authorities to take action in this behalf in the next eight weeks to lay down some guidelines and training programmes on how to handle such socially-sensitive cases," the bench said. The bench quoted B R Ambedkar, who said, “where society is cut asunder, marriage as a binding force becomes a matter of urgent necessity. The real remedy for breaking caste is inter-caste marriage. Nothing else will serve as the solvent of caste.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adults-choosing-their-life-partner-can-t-succumb-to-class-honour-or-group-thinking-sc-950425.html
12-02-2021||National||Union Minister Praksh Javadekar joins indigenous Twitter replica Koo||Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar on Friday began using India's micro-blogging platform 'Koo', joining several ministers who already created their accounts on it. Making the announcement through his Twitter handle, Javadekar said, “I am now on #Koo also, the #MakeInIndia micro-blogging platform. Follow me @prakashjavadekar on #KooApp.” The application was launched 10 months ago but in the last few weeks it saw a massive surge in user base as Union ministers and government departments have endorsed the homegrown microblogging platform amid a spat with Twitter. Minister of Railways, Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal on Tuesday tweeted that he was on Koo and asked people to connect with him. The information technology ministry used Koo to broadcast its stand on Twitter's non-compliance with its order to take down allegedly inflammatory content by some farmer protesters, while ministers urged people to switch platforms. These developments have led to a surge in the user base of the Indian rival. Koo, which has startling similarities with Twitter, now has over three million users, Koo co-founder Mayank Bidawataka had told PTI on Thursday. Koo has a yellow bird as its logo in contrast to the blue bird of Twitter. "We had two million users with about 1.5 million active users. Now, we have now crossed the 3 million-mark," Bidawataka had told PTI. Twitter has 17.5 million users and is ardently used by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Cabinet ministers to communicate with the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-praksh-javadekar-joins-indigenous-twitter-replica-koo-950434.html
12-02-2021||National||India calls for release of political leaders in Myanmar||Though the western nations are responding to Myanmar Army’s takeover of power with sanctions, India on Friday told the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) that it would continue its development projects in the South-East Asian nation. New Delhi continued to avoid condemning the military coup in Myanmar but called for the release of all political leaders detained in the South East Asian nation. “Unfortunately, the hopes and aspirations of the people of Myanmar have been dealt a blow by the latest developments,” India’s Permanent Representative to the UNHRC, Indra Mani Pandey, said. “We strongly believe that the rule of law and democratic processes must be upheld and the detained political leaders released. The right to protest peacefully is an integral part of the democratic ethos,” he said, participating in a special session of the international organization. The Myanmar Army on February 1 detained the country’s de facto ruler Aung San Suu Kyi and many other leaders and activists of her National League of Democracy (NLD). Though the NLD was re-elected to power in the general elections held on November 8, the opposition Union Solidarity and Development Party (USDP), as well as its mentor – the Myanmar Army – alleged irregularities in the polling process. India called on the “leadership of Myanmar” to work together to resolve their differences in a peaceful and constructive manner. Restoring democratic order should be the priority of all stakeholders in Myanmar. The international community must lend its constructive support to the people of Myanmar at this critical juncture, it added. India stated that the recent developments in Myanmar were “a matter of deep concern” as they would affect the progress of democracy in that country. The United States has imposed new sanctions on Myanmar on Wednesday. The United Kingdom is also planning to tighten its existing sanctions on the South East Asian country. The European Union is also planning to impose sanctions. “India shares a land and maritime border with Myanmar. We have direct stakes in the maintenance of peace and stability and the development of the country,” Pandey told the UNHRC. “Our project and capacity-building based efforts in Myanmar have aimed at socio-economic development of the country. We propose to continue with our developmental efforts so that people on the ground do not suffer.” New Delhi pointed out that India had been steadfast in its support to the process of democratic transition in Myanmar. “We have worked with all concerned to facilitate the establishment of multi-party democracy and a stable democratic federal union in Myanmar,” India’s envoy to the UNHRC said, adding, “An area of our focus has been capacity building, including courses on constitutional and federalism for political leaders and elected representatives. We believe that the progress achieved on the path to democracy, over the last decade or more, was impressive.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-calls-for-release-of-political-leaders-in-myanmar-950438.html
12-02-2021||National||Pressure mounts on Uddhav-led MVA as Tiktok star's death takes political turn in Maharashtra||Days after social media star Pooja Chavan died under mysterious circumstances in Pune; the issue is blowing into a major political issue in Maharashtra. Mounting pressure on the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government as Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has called for a detailed probe. Fadnavis, a former Chief Minister, has written to Director General of Police Hemant Nagrale and has submitted dozen-odd audio clips that had gone viral on social media. The name of an MVA leader is being linked to the issue – and it could give some uneasy moments for the ruling dispensation. Hailing from Parli in Beed district, Pooja (22), a popular TikTok star, was staying in Pune and attending an English speaking course. She was staying in the Wanawadi area with her brother and friend – and allegedly died by suspected suicide by jumping off from a building on 9 February. State BJP’s women’s cell President Archana Patil met Pune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta and demanded a detailed investigation.  “The name of a minister is being linked to her and hence we need a proper probe and this is our request,” she said. “Her family is under pressure,” BJP’s women’s wing leader Chitra Wagh said and urged state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh for a probe.“The Banjara community is disturbed after the incident and hence it is imperative that a proper investigation is done,” Fadnavis said in the letter to Nagrale. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who is the Guardian Minister of Pune, said that the police is investigating the suicide. “Once the investigations are complete, the truth will come out,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pressure-mounts-on-uddhav-led-mva-as-tiktok-stars-death-takes-political-turn-in-maharashtra-950449.html
12-02-2021||National||Party was unaware if Trivedi had issues, his resignation not a setback: TMC spokesperson Vivek Gupta||TMC MP Dinesh Trivedi did not discuss the issues plaguing him with West Bengal Chief Minister and party chief Mamata Banerjee before his resignation in the Rajya Sabha on Friday, the party’s official spokesperson and former RS MP Vivek Gupta said. Gupta also said Trivedi's resignation was not a setback for the TMC and will not affect the party’s poll campaign in the state. “We are all trying to speak to him but instead he is busy talking to others. This is the first time that we have heard that he is feeling suffocated or claustrophobic or he is affected by the violence," Gupta said. "In his constituency which is Barrackpore from where he lost the last election, it is BJP’s Arjun Singh who won. So, if he is really affected by the violence then is his indication towards the violence perpetrated by the BJP?,” Gupta said while addressing a press briefing. The leader further said from 2010-2019, violence, specially political violence was absent from the state. “By nature we Bengalis are peace loving. We believe in fighting with brains and not physically. We have no tradition of wrestling or contact sports. We are into arts culture and we have a creative spirit. We are shocked at Dinesh Trivedi’s statement. “He is one of the founder members of the party, a four-time RS member and (former) railway minister. Mamata Banerjee has given him respect... Last year, after he lost the election, he was nominated as Rajya Sabha member by the party. So I don’t think he has any reason to be upset with the party,” he said. Gupta also said maybe during the last year when people had to wear masks, Trivedi had found a "more suitable mask”. “His resignation is not a setback for the party, maybe personal loss for people like me who have worked closely with him or have learnt from him. Our campaign will go on as usual. Someone else will take his place," he said. Gupta further said, “I do not think he has discussed his issues or resignation with (Mamata) didi. Before taking such a stand he should have discussed with the party leader. Maybe he was driven by some other agenda or he took an emotional decision”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/party-was-unaware-if-trivedi-had-issues-his-resignation-not-a-setback-tmc-spokesperson-vivek-gupta-950451.html
12-02-2021||National||Family pension upper limit upped from Rs 45,000 to Rs 1.25 Lakh, says Union Minister Jitendra Singh||Union minister Jitendra Singh on Friday said that in a far-reaching reform regarding family pensions the upper ceiling has been raised from Rs 45,000 to Rs 1.25 lakh per month. He said the move will bring "ease of living" for the family members of the deceased employees and would provide adequate financial security to them. The minister said that the Department of Pension and Pensioners' Welfare (DoPPW) has issued a clarification on the amount admissible in case a child is eligible to draw two family pensions after the death of his or her parents. "The amount of both the family pensions will now be restricted to Rs 1,25,000 per month, which is over two and half times higher than the earlier limit," said Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel. In accordance with sub-rule (11) of rule 54 of the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules 1972, in case both wife and husband are government servants and are governed by the provisions of that rule, on their death, the surviving child is eligible for two family pensions in respect of the deceased parents, a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry said. Earlier instructions laid down that the total amount of two family pensions in such cases, shall not exceed to Rs 45,000 per month and Rs 27,000 per month, which were determined at the rate of 50 per cent and 30 per cent, respectively taking into account of the highest pay of Rs 90,000 as per the sixth Central Pay Commission (CPC) recommendations, it said. Since the highest pay has been revised to Rs 2,50,000 per month after the implementation of the seventh CPC recommendations, therefore the amount prescribed in Rule 54(11) of CCS (Pension) Rules has also been revised to Rs 1,25,000 per month being 50 per cent of Rs 2,50,000 and Rs 75,000 per month being 30 per cent of Rs 2,50,000, the statement said. The above clarification has been issued on the references received from various ministry/department, it said. As per the existing rule, if parents are government servants and one of them dies while in service or after retirement, the family pension in respect of the deceased shall become payable to the surviving spouse and in the event of the death of the spouse, the child shall be granted two family pensions in respect of the deceased parents subject to fulfilment of other eligibility conditions, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/family-pension-upper-limit-upped-from-rs-45000-to-rs-125-lakh-says-union-minister-jitendra-singh-950453.html
12-02-2021||National||Lok Sabha to convene at 10 am on Feb 13 instead of 4 pm: Speaker Om Birla||The Lok Sabha will convene at 10 am instead of the usual 4 pm on Saturday, Speaker Om Birla has announced. The Rajya Sabha had been meeting at 9 am due to Covid-19 distancing norms. Some Rajya Sabha members also sit in Lok Sabha chamber. Lok Sabha has been meeting at 4 pm and some of its members sit in RS chamber to maintain social distancing amid the pandemic outbreak. Since Rajya Sabha went on a recess on Friday and would reconvene on March 8, the Lok Sabha would meet in the morning. Birla announced the new timing in the House on Friday after the Question Hour. The new shift in Parliament came into place in the Monsoon session. There was no Winter session. The lower house will go into recess Saturday evening and reconvene on March 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-to-convene-at-10-am-on-feb-13-instead-of-4-pm-speaker-om-birla-950455.html
12-02-2021||National||Amit Shah tweaks Bengal BJP’s campaign strategy ahead of polls||With the Assembly elections round the corner Union Home Minister Amit Shah during his latest visit to West Bengal gave a three-step instruction on public outreach to the state BJP leadership. BJP sources said that Shah asked the state BJP leadership to make “key modifications” to their campaign strategy during a late-night organisational review meeting on Thursday. State BJP insiders said that Shah asked the leaders to hold more small street corner meetings at the booth level during the party’s Parivartan Yatra in Bengal. “He asked us to take the yatra more into suburban towns and villages and mingle with the voters at the grassroots level,” a senior State BJP leader said. He also said that the Home Minister instructed the state leaders to focus more on door-to-door campaigning instead of large rallies. The BJP leader said that Shah was of the opinion that the effort and time required for organising a large rally could be used to hold several small public meetings at the booth level which would pay rich dividends to the party in the Assembly elections. “The Home Minister said that instead of bringing people to our rallies we have to go to their doorsteps,” he said. State BJP sources further revealed that Shah asked the state leaders to involve more booth workers in the Paivartan Yatra instead of keeping it limited mainly to State and Central leaders. They further revealed that Shah had asked to assign specific duties to those who have joined the BJP from other parties. Earlier Shah had asked the state BJP leaders to rope in “efficient vote managers” especially from the Trinamool Congress (TMC) the CPI(M). “Amit Shah had asked us to reach out more to the people. However, we have already started our ‘Grihasampark Abhiyan and Krishak Suraksha Abhiyan’. Now we are trying to get into people’s hearts,” said State BJP president Dilip Ghosh. At a meeting with the State BJP’s social media workers Shah set a target for them to reach out to 10 crore people of Bengal with BJP’s ideology and developmental work of the Narendra Modi Government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-tweaks-bengal-bjp-s-campaign-strategy-ahead-of-polls-950456.html
12-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Petrol, diesel prices soar to record highs; TMC MP resigns from Rajya Sabha||In your evening news brief, Petrol and diesel prices soar to record highs; Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman replies to the Opposition’s charges on the Union Budget and Senior Trinamool Congress MP Dinesh Trivedi resigns from the Rajya Sabha.  Here is the top news of February 12, 2021: Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday gave a strong rebuttal to the Opposition charge that the Union Budget this year was meant to serve only the rich and ignored the bulk of India’s poor. Replying to the debate on the Budget in the Rajya Sabha, the finance minister said that her government-provided both, the short term quick relief needed by the poor during the Covid pandemic, and sought to invest in sectors that can bring in multiplier effect at a time when the economy was suffering due to the pandemic. Petrol and diesel prices soared to record highs on Friday after rates were hiked for the fourth day in a row. Petrol price was increased by 31 paise per litre and diesel by 35 paise a litre, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. In four days, prices have gone up by Rs 1.21 per litre for petrol, while diesel has risen by Rs 1.25 a litre. Ahead of assembly polls in Assam, Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Friday presented a vote-on-account for Rs 60,784.03 crore in the House and withdrew an additional cess on petrol and diesel, making the fuels cheaper by Rs 5 per litre. Senior Trinamool Congress MP Dinesh Trivedi on Friday announced his resignation from Rajya Sabha saying that he feels "suffocated" and cannot remain silent while West Bengal is facing a lot of political violence. Trivedi (70), a former Railway Minister, announced his decision on the floor of the House during the debate on Budget, amid speculation that he may join BJP. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-petrol-diesel-prices-soar-to-record-highs-tmc-mp-resigns-from-rajya-sabha-950458.html
12-02-2021||National||SC upholds e-voting of unitholders to wind up 6 MF schemes of Franklin Templeton||The Supreme Court on Friday gave its final stamp of approval to e-voting, held to seek the consent of unitholders, to wind up six mutual fund schemes of Franklin Templeton. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna rejected the objections to poll results and found that the unitholders of the six schemes have given their consent by a majority to wind up the six schemes through e-voting between December 26 and 29, 2020. The court clarified that consent of the unitholders would mean consent by the majority of those who have participated in the poll, and not of the majority of all the unitholders of the scheme. The matter arose out of October 24, 2020 judgement by the division bench of the Karnataka High Court, which declined to interfere into decision by the trustees on winding up of Franklin India Low Duration Fund, Franklin India Ultra Short Bond Fund, Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, Franklin India Credit Risk Fund, Franklin India Dynamic Accrual Fund and Franklin India Income Opportunities Fund. The top court, which had on February 2 directed for disbursal of Rs 9,122 crore within 20 days, said distribution of funds to the unitholders can be made in tranches without waiting for liquidation of all the securities or assets. On obtaining the consent of all parties, the court had earlier appointed M/s SBI Funds Management Private Limited to undertake the exercise of winding up, including liquidation of the holdings, assets, portfolio and distribution and payment to the unitholders. Former Chief Election Commissioner T S Krishnamurthy was appointed as the Observer by SEBI in view of the directions given by the court to ensure fairness and transparency. After noting that more than Rs 17,000 crores are yet to be realised, the court also pointed out the trustees and SEBI has given different time frames within which they felt the securities can be liquidated. The court, however, said M/s SBI Funds Management Pvt Ltd should follow the best effort principle to ensure expeditious and timely payment to the unitholders and assure the best possible liquidation value of the assets and securities to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-upholds-e-voting-of-unitholders-to-wind-up-6-mf-schemes-of-franklin-templeton-950476.html
12-02-2021||National||TMC labels Dinesh Trivedi as ‘ungrateful’ after resignation||The sudden resignation of Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Dinesh Trivedi from the Rajya Sabha on Friday drew a scathing response from the party which dubbed him as “ungrateful”. While the TMC leadership tore into Trivedi, the BJP promptly announced that if Trivedi wanted to join the saffron party then he would be welcomed. The development comes at a time when the TMC is facing an exodus of leaders and party workers to the saffron party ahead of the Assembly elections. Lashing out at Trivedi, TMC’s deputy leader in Rajya Sabha Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said that “ his actions show how ungrateful he is.” “He did not say anything for so many years but suddenly when the Assembly elections are around the corner he started to complain against the party. He has betrayed the trust of the people. Now he is showing his true colours,” said Roy. Senior TMC MP in the Lok Sabha Sougata Roy accused Trivedi of “enjoying power” during their tenure but quit the party ahead of elections. “He has not done the right thing by resigning ahead of the Assembly elections. He never raised any such grievances in the party. He could have raised it at a party forum. People like him enjoy power during their tenure and quit the party ahead of elections,” said Roy. Reacting to the development, State BJP president Dilip Ghosh said that if Trivedi wanted to join the BJP he would be welcomed. “The beginning of the end of the TMC has begun. Mark my words, the TMC will disintegrate soon. We will welcome him (Trivedi) in the BJP if he wants to join the BJP,” said Ghosh. BJP national secretary and co-observer in Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya described Trivedi as an “honest person” and said he “ suffocated” in a party like the TMC. According to sources in the TMC, Trivedi was distancing himself from the party for the last couple of months. A two time MP and former Railway Minister Trivedi was sent to the Rajya Sabha after he lost to BJP’s Arjun Singh in the last Lok Sabha elections. Trivedi is the fourth senior TMC leader after Suvendu Adhikari, Rajib Banerjee and Laxmi Ratan Shukla to resign from his posts. While Adhikari and Banerjee eventually joined the BJP, Sukla resigned as Minister and expressed his desire to quit politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-labels-dinesh-trivedi-as-ungrateful-after-resignation-950482.html
12-02-2021||National||PM to hand over Arjun tank to Army in Chennai on Sunday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hand over the Arjun Main Battle Tank (MK-1A) to the Army in Chennai on Sunday and also inaugurate and lay the foundation stones of several projects in Tamil Nadu and Kerala. A PMO statement on Friday said that these projects, including the launch of a Chennai Metro project and a petrochemical complex in Kerala, will add crucial momentum to the growth trajectory of these states and help hasten the pace for them to realise their full development potential. In Chennai, Modi will hand over to the Army the state-of-the-art the Arjun tank, which has been indigenously designed and developed, and manufactured by the Combat Vehicles Research and Development Establishment, DRDO along with 15 academic institutions, eight labs and several MSMEs, it noted.  Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu and Kerala are expected to be held in April-May. During his visit, the prime minister will inaugurate the Chennai Metro Rail Phase-I extension, completed at a cost of Rs 3,770 crore, and commission passenger services from Washermenpet to Wimco Nagar. This 9.05 km long extension will link North Chennai with the Airport and Central Railway Station. The PMO said that he will also inaugurate the fourth railway line between Chennai Beach and Attipattu stations. This 22.1 km section, laid at a cost of Rs 293.40 crore, traverses through Chennai and Thiruvallur districts and will ease up traffic from Chennai Port. This section connects the Chennai Port and Ennore Port, and passes through major yards, providing operational flexibility for the movement of trains, the PMO said. Modi will inaugurate the electrification of a single-line section of 228 km, completed at a cost of Rs 423 crore. This will enable free flow of traffic without the need for a change of traction between Chennai Egmore and Kanyakumari and would result in saving of Rs 14.61 lakh per day on fuel cost, it added.  He will also lay the foundation stone for the extension, renovation and modernization of the Grand Anicut Canal System and the Discovery Campus of IIT Madras. The canal is important for irrigation in the delta districts and the modernization exercise will cost Rs 2,640 crore, leading to an improvement in its water-carrying capacity.  The Discovery Campus of IIT Madras will be built at Thaiyur near Chennai at an estimated cost of Rs 1,000 crore in the first phase over an area of 2 lakh sqm. In Kerala, Modi will dedicate to the nation the Propylene Derivative Petrochemical Project (PDPP) of BPCL. It will produce acrylates, acrylic acid and oxo-alcohol, which at present are predominantly imported, and is expected to result in saving of about Rs 3,700-4,000 crore per annum in foreign exchange.  Constructed at a capital cost of about Rs 6,000 crore, the PDPP complex has been set up close to the refinery to achieve integration of feedstock supply, utilities, off-sites and other facilities, the PMO said. It will benefit the downstream sector in saving huge costs as a result of the ready availability of feedstock and optimized supply chain management. With its commissioning, Kochi refinery will become the first Indian refinery to produce niche petrochemicals. The prime minister will dedicate to the nation Ro-Ro vessels at Willingdon Islands, Cochin. The International Waterway Authority of India will deploy two new Roll-on/Roll-off vessels between Bolgatty and Willingdon Island on National Waterway-3. The Ro-Ro vessels -- MV Adi Shankara and MV CV Raman -- will have the capacity to carry six 20-feet trucks, three 20-feet trailer trucks, three 40-feet trailer trucks and 30 passengers each.  The service will benefit trade as a result of reduced transportation cost and transit time, and will also lead to reduced congestion on the roads of Kochi, the statement said. The prime minister will also inaugurate the International Cruise Terminal 'Sagarika' at Cochin Port. Situated at the Ernakulam Wharf on Willingdon Island, it is India's first full-fledged international cruise terminal. It has state-of-the-art facilities and has been constructed at a cost of Rs 25.72 crore, the PMO said.  "It will promote tourism, give a fillip to development and will act as an effective instrument for employment generation, earning revenue and foreign exchange," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-to-hand-over-arjun-tank-to-army-in-chennai-on-sunday-950495.html
12-02-2021||National||New Textile Policy is at draft stage: Smriti Irani||The new textile policy, which would help in promoting exports and creating employment opportunities, has not been finalised and is at the draft stage at present, Parliament was informed on Friday. In a written reply to the Lok Sabha, Textiles Minister Smriti Irani said that the policy is being formulated by holding widespread consultations with various associations, industry bodies, states and other stakeholders, representing sub-sectors such as cotton, silk, jute, handloom, handicrafts, and power loom. "At present, New Textile Policy has not been finalised and it is at the draft stage," she said, adding the policy will give thrust on enhancing export performance and creating better employment opportunities. In a separate reply, she said during the current cotton season 2020-21, (from October 2020 to September 30, 2021), as of February 6, Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) has procured 90.87 lakh bales under the minimum support price (MSP) operations. "CCI is procuring around 25,000 to 30,000 bales per day in the cotton-growing areas wherever the prevailing kapas prices are ruling below MSP," she added. Replying to another question, the minister said certain Indian textile products are listed in the US Trafficking Victims Protection Re-authorisation Act (TVPRA) child labour/ forced-labour List 2020. She added that steps have been taken through the Embassy of India in the US for delisting such products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-textile-policy-is-at-draft-stage-smriti-irani-950519.html
12-02-2021||National||In talks with PM Modi, Canadian PM Justin Trudeau commended govt's efforts to engage farmers in dialogue: MEA||In his telephonic talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau commended the Indian government's efforts to choose the path of dialogue in dealing with the farmer protests and described it as "befitting in democracy", the Ministry of External Affairs said on Friday. Modi and Trudeau held a telephone conversation on Wednesday, covering a range of issues including the coronavirus crisis. "On the farmers' protests, Prime Minister Trudeau commended efforts of the government of India to choose the path of dialogue as befitting in democracy," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a media briefing. His comments came following a question on the issue. "He (Trudeau) also acknowledged the responsibility of his government in providing protection to Indian diplomatic premises and personnel in Canada," Srivastava said. A readout issued by Trudeau's office on the telephonic talks mentioned that the farmer protests figured in the discussions though the Indian statement on the same had not mentioned it. "The leaders discussed Canada and India's commitment to democratic principles, recent protests, and the importance of resolving issues through dialogue," the Canadian readout said. It mentioned several other issues discussed by the two prime ministers. Tens of thousands of farmers have been protesting at three border points on the outskirts of Delhi demanding repeal of the three contentious farm laws. The talks between the farmers and the government are deadlocked as the farmers are insisting on complete repeal of the laws. In early December, Trudeau, backing the agitating farmers in India, had said that Canada will always be there to defend the rights of peaceful protests and had expressed concern over the situation. Last week, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau had made a comment on the issues related to the farmers and it was conveyed to Canada that such remarks pertaining to the internal affairs of India are "unwarranted" and "unacceptable".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-talks-with-pm-modi-canadian-pm-justin-trudeau-commended-govts-efforts-to-engage-farmers-in-dialogue-mea-950521.html
12-02-2021||National||Illegal mining rampant in Mandya: Lok Sabha MP Sumalatha||Illegal mining and stone quarrying units are rampant in Mandya district and the government must take action against such units, Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambarish said, in Lok Sabha, on Friday. Asking a supplementary question on curbing illegal mining, she said residents of more than 15 villages in 2,500 acres of land in Mandya district are suffering severely due to illegal mining or stone quarrying units. Since most of these units are operating near the forest, it also damages ecology, she said. She asked a question whether the Centre formulating strict rules to check all these illegal mining units. Replying to this, Union Minister for Environment and Forest Prakash Javadekar said his Ministry has been taking strict action against illegal mining and imposition of fine amount also increased against such units besides filing criminal cases. "The Environment Ministry is pursuing all complaints against illegal mining and it is the responsibility of the state government to check such things," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/illegal-mining-rampant-in-mandya-lok-sabha-mp-sumalatha-950530.html
12-02-2021||National||India imports 80% of its requirement of medical devices: MoS Ashwini Choubey||India currently imports approximately 80 per cent of its requirement of medical devices, with the US, Germany, China, Singapore and Netherlands being top exporters of such devices to the country, the Lok Sabha was informed on Friday. The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) is presently regulating 28 categories of notified medical devices under the provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and the Medical Devices Rules, 2017, said Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey in a written reply. Further, in order to regulate all medical devices, the health ministry has issued a notification dated February 11, defining medical devices and specifying mechanism for regulation of all non-notified medical devices in a phased manner to ensure quality, safety and performance of these devices, he said. Asked if the government has set up a roadmap for India's self-reliance in medical equipment, medical devices and medical lab kit sector, the minister said various schemes have been formulated to promote domestic manufacturing of medical devices/equipments and attract large investment in the sector. Such schemes/initiatives are the National Biopharma Mission, DBT-AMTZ COMManD (COVID-19 Medtech Manufacturing Development) Consortia launched by the Department of Biotechnology with Andhra Pradesh Med-tech Zone (AMTZ), Production Linked Incentive Scheme for Promoting Domestic Manufacturing of Medical Devices and Scheme for Promotion of Medical Devices Parks. A scheme called ‘Production Linked Incentive Scheme for Promoting Domestic Manufacturing of Medical Devices’ has been approved by the Centre with a total financial outlay of Rs 3,420 crore. Another scheme ‘Promotion of Medical Device Parks’ has also been approved by the government with a financial outlay of Rs 400 crore. The National Biopharma Mission, with an outlay of Rs 148.79 crore is meant for establishment of infrastructure and facilities for manufacturing and testing of medical devices. Nine such facilities have been funded and Rs 105.42 crore have been utilized, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-imports-80-of-its-requirement-of-medical-devices-mos-ashwini-choubey-950533.html
12-02-2021||National||Uttarakhand Floods | Need to strengthen monitoring in Himalayas; similar avalanche occured in 2016 at same spot: Expert||After the massive deluge in Uttrakhand whose exact cause is yet to be ascertained, experts in the field of glaciology have called for strengthening the surveillance in the area. JNU School of Environmental Sciences' Dr A L Ramanathan, who has been working on the dynamics of Himalayan glaciers, says that so far the issue of glacier burst is ruled out in the Uttrakhand incident but a lot of investigation and research must be done to know the exact cause. In areas of an altitude above 5,600 m, a mixture of ice, rocks and sediments fall into meltwater streams coming out of the mountains resulting in the formation of obstructions which are in the form of temporary mini lakes. Due to the temperature rise (because of climate change), the factors of these temporary structures such as the hydrostatic pressure, surface and sub-surface hydrology is affected, whose metrics, when rises above the threshold, leads to avalanches affecting the downstream region. Dr Ramanathan, a professor of environmental geology, hydrogeochemistry, Biogeochemistry and glaciology laboratory, says that such an avalanche occurred in the same location in 2016 and was reported in scientific journals. He says that such temporary structures are also seen in the Alps and other Cascadian mountains but the nations there avoid a disaster by monitoring the hydrostatic pressure and other factors. They have addressed the problem of reducing the pressure by releasing the water slowly. "Even though we have high-resolution satellite data the only thing is that we need a dedicated monitoring team. Climate change will induce the melting and the obstructions that have formed for years or months may break anytime," he says, warning that we might see another such avalanche. "We need to strengthen the monitoring system using technology, put people to analyse the data and draw a solution. The Himalayan ecology, glaciology and water resource should have a dedicated Centre or a sub ministry, for this region and the eastern and western ghats are important sources of water. We need to develop a strategy of minimum disturbance and maximum benefit," he says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-floods-need-to-strengthen-monitoring-in-himalayas-similar-avalanche-occured-in-2016-at-same-spot-expert-950540.html
12-02-2021||National||India and US agreed to remain in contact on developments in Myanmar following coup: MEA||India and the US have agreed to remain in contact as well as exchange assessments of the situation in Myanmar following the military coup, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Friday. MEA Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said at a media briefing that developments in Myanmar were discussed during the telephone conversations between President Joe Biden and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. He said India believed that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld in Myanmar. "We believe that the rule of law and the democratic process must be upheld. As immediate neighbours with close cultural and people-to-people ties as well as relations strengthened by exchanges in trade, economy, security and defence," Srivastava said. "We are closely monitoring developments in that country. We will remain engaged with all concerned on this issue," he added. Last week, Myanmar's military grabbed power in the coup against the civilian government and imposed a state of emergency after detaining Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi and other leaders of her National League for Democracy (NLD). The country witnessed massive protests in the last few days against the February 1 coup. On Wednesday, Biden announced a series of sanctions on the military leaders of Myanmar for overthrowing the NLD government in the coup. "Recent developments in Myanmar were discussed during the telephone conversations between President Biden and Prime Minister Modi on February 8 and the External Affairs Minister and his US counterpart Secretary Blinken on February 9," Srivastava said. "India and the US have agreed to remain in contact and exchange assessments on the situation," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-and-us-agreed-to-remain-in-contact-on-developments-in-myanmar-following-coup-mea-950547.html
12-02-2021||National||War of words between Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singh Deo on Covaxin's efficacy||Nearly two months after India’s first home-grown Covid-19 vaccine was given approval for a commercial rollout without efficacy data, a war of words has erupted between Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singh Deo and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Covaxin’s efficacy with the central minister accusing Deo of “stoking inhibition on the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccine". Deo, on his part, pointed out that inhibitions and concerns regarding Covaxin— manufactured by Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad— were real and it could not be taken lightly under any circumstances.  “How can a vaccine be made available for regular use unless it has cleared the third phase of trials and its reports are published?” he asked. The Chhattisgarh minister, one of the senior-most Congress leaders from the state, reminded Vardhan that when such inhibitions regarding the performance and efficacy of the AstraZeneca-Oxford University vaccine cropped up, the Drugs Controller General of India had paused the clinical trial and production of the vaccine in India. On the eve of Chhattisgarh receiving its quota of Covaxin last month, Deo wrote to Vardhan flagging the inhibition and concerns among the community arising from lack of clinical trial data. He requested the central minister to reconsider the decision of sending Covaxin and observed that the vaccine could be dispatched only after phase-3 results are out. “While the world progresses in the direction of more effective and efficient vaccination options, not just in capacity but also in implementation, is it wise to rush into the process ignoring the slightest scepticism of the general community!” he tweeted. In his response, Vardhan said the indigenous vaccine is “safe and immunogenic” and should be used “expeditiously to rapidly confer protection.” The BJP leader also asked Deo not to stoke inhibition. “Is it really befitting of a state's Health Minister to stoke inhibitions regarding efficacy of Covid-19 vaccine? In such unprecedented times, you should help address any vaccine hesitancy and do what's in the best interest of people, not further vested interests,” Vardhan said. In his letter, the Union Health Minister, however, did not mention that the DCGI approved use of Covaxin in a “clinical trial mode” (without explaining what it is) but made an attempt to equate the two vaccines. Till Friday 77.66 lakh people received the vaccine at 1,63,587 sessions. This is less than 50% of the people who should have got the shots in those sessions. The second dose of vaccination for the first group of who received the vaccine on January 16 will happen on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/war-of-words-between-union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-and-chhattisgarh-health-minister-t-s-singh-deo-on-covaxins-efficacy-950551.html
12-02-2021||National||BJP MPs move privilege motion against Rahul Gandhi||Some BJP MPs moved a breach of privilege motion against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in the Lok Sabha on Friday night. BJP MPs Sanjay Jaiswal, Nishikant Dubey, PP Chowdhary and Meenakshi Lekhi gave notice, citing "serious breach of privilege and contempt of the House on February 11, 2021", to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla who took it up. The notice was in response to Gandhi's call for two minutes of silence in the Lower House for the farmers who had lost their lives during the protests against the three contentious farm laws at the end of his speech during a discussion on the Budget on Thursday. Opposition parties' MPs including those from the NCP, DMK and TMC stood while treasury bench members continued to sit. Speaker Om Birla had objected to it and asked the members to take their seats. “If you wish to discuss something, give it to me in writing and I will allot time… but allow me to run the House,” Birla had said. "Everybody has respect for farmers. However, I have a responsibility to the House as per rules and procedure," the Speaker added. "For the first time, we saw an MP giving orders to everyone to rise and maintain silence. Some MPs did that. Lok Sabha should take action. Privilege Motion Notice is against Rahul Gandhi who gave orders and all MPs who rose. They insulted the House," BJP MP Sanjay Jaiswal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-mps-move-privilege-motion-against-rahul-gandhi-950576.html
12-02-2021||National||6.3 magnitude earthquake hits Tajikistan; tremors felt in Delhi, NCR||A high-intensity earthquake hit Tajikistan on Friday night, tremors of which were felt in Delhi NCR and several other parts of north India. The seismology department at first erroneously gave the epicentre as Amritsar and put the quake's depth at 19 km. It later sent a revised statement to confirm the quake was in Tajikistan. It ascribed the error to a software mistake. According to the National Centre for Seismology (NCS), the magnitude of the quake was 6.3. The tremors created panic among people who rushed out of their homes. However, there were no immediate reports of any loss of life or damage to property. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who was virtually interacting with students of the University of Chicago, was heard saying, his entire room was "shaking". National Conference (NC) leader Omar Abdullah said the tremors reminded the people of the 2005 quake in Jammu and Kashmir. "Not since the earthquake of 2005 have the tremors in Srinagar been bad enough to force me out of the house. I grabbed a blanket & ran. I didn't remember to take my phone & so was unable to tweet “earthquake” while the damn ground was shaking," he tweeted. Not since the earthquake of 2005 have the tremors in Srinagar been bad enough to force me out of the house. I grabbed a blanket & ran. I didn’t remember to take my phone & so was unable to tweet “earthquake” while the damn ground was shaking. "The epicentre of the earthquake is Tajikistan. Our preliminary findings said the epicentre was Amritsar. We have now revised the epicentre," J L Gautam, Operations Head of the NCS said. According to M Rajeevan, Secretary in the Ministry of Earth Sciences, "The message was wrongly taken out by the system. It has been corrected." The NCS had also said there were two quakes - the Tajikistan one occurred at 10.31 PM while the Amritsar quake happened at 10.34 PM. "There was only one quake," Gautam said later. The Himalayan and the Hindukush mountain ranges are prone to quakes and many a time its tremors can be felt across the Indo-Gangetic belt. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal prayed for the safety of people. According to the Delhi fire department, no calls were immediately received for help. Rajasthan Governor Kalraj Mishra also tweeted about the tremors and prayed for well being of all.  In Chandigarh, Class 11 student Aditya, who was preparing for his school exams, said "I thought somebody was pushing my chair."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/63-magnitude-earthquake-hits-tajikistan-tremors-felt-in-delhi-ncr-950582.html
12-02-2021||National||Over 77.66 lakh healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated against Covid-19: Health Ministry||The number of healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated against Covid-19 has reached 77.66 lakh on the 28th day of the countrywide inoculation programme, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. The cumulative number of healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated against Covid-19 till 6 pm on Friday is 77,66,319 as per the provisional report, the ministry said. These include 58,65,813 healthcare workers (58.9 per cent of the target number) and 19,00,506 frontline workers (21.2 per cent of the target beneficiaries) whose vaccination started on February 2, it said. "A total 2,61,309 beneficiaries were vaccinated till 6 pm on Friday across 35 states and UTs. These include 50,837 HCWs and 2,10,472 FLWs as per provisional figures," the ministry said, adding that the final report would be completed by late night. Ten states which recorded the highest number of vaccinations on Friday are Uttar Pradesh (68,135), Maharashtra (24,946), Madhya Pradesh (21,897), Jammu and Kashmir (17,900), West Bengal (17,609), Gujarat (16,069), Karnataka (13,741), Chhattisgarh (11,988), Jharkhand (10,488) and Odisha (7,279), said Mandeep Bhandari, joint secretary in the Ministry. Twelve states and Union Territories - Bihar, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Himachal Pradesh, Lakshadweep, Kerala, Mizoram,  Chhattisgarh, Sikkim and Rajasthan have vaccinated over 70 per cent of the registered HCWs, he said. On the other hand, eight  states and UTs  have reported less than 40 per cent coverage of vaccinating HCWs. These are Delhi, Punjab, Chandigarh, Tamil Nadu, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Manipur, and Puducherry.   A total of 33 people have been hospitalized so far which comprises 0.0004 per cent of the total vaccinations. Of the 33 cases of hospitalization, 21 were discharged after treatment, while 10 died and two are under treatment, the ministry said.  In the last 24 hours, one person who is suffering from Anaphylaxis has been treated at Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital, West Bengal and has been discharged.  A total of 24 deaths have been recorded till date. These comprise 0.0003 per cent of the total vaccinations, the ministry said.  No new death has been reported in the past 24 hours, the ministry said. "No case of serious/severe AEFI/Death is attributable to the vaccination till date," Bhandari stated. States and UTs have been advised that all HCWs should be scheduled for vaccination at least once by February 20 this year and through mop-up rounds by February 25. The scheduling of all FLWs for vaccination at least once by March 1, 2021 and mop-up rounds of FLWs by  March 6, 2021 has also been advised,  the ministry said. The 77,66,319 beneficiaries who have been vaccinated include 4,51,621 from Bihar, 3,40,223 from Kerala, 4,90,746 from Karnataka, 5,09,168 from Madhya Pradesh,  6,33,519 from Maharashtra, 1,66,725 from Delhi,  6,61,508 from  Gujarat, 8,31,556 from Uttar Pradesh and 4,70,912 from West Bengal, according to the provisional report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-7766-lakh-healthcare-and-frontline-workers-vaccinated-against-covid-19-health-ministry-950602.html
12-02-2021||National Politics||PM Modi is a coward who cannot stand up to the Chinese: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday targetted Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Ladakh dispute, saying that the "prime minister is a coward who cannot stand up to the Chinese." In a scathing attack, the Congress leader alleged that PM Modi "is spitting on the sacrifice of our army". "He (PM Modi) is betraying the sacrifice of our army. Nobody in India should be allowed to do it," he said.    Commenting on Defence Minister Rajnath Singh's statement on the situation in Eastern Ladakh in Parliament yesterday, Rahul Gandhi said, "Now, we find our troops are now going to be stationed at Finger 3. Finger 4 is our territory. Now, we've moved from Finger 4 to Finger 3. Why has Mr Modi given up our territory to the Chinese?" He added that the defence minister didn't speak a word on the most important strategic area, Depsang Plains, from where China had entered. "The truth is that the Prime Minister has given away the Indian territory to China. He must answer to the country," he said.  Rahul further added that it is the responsibility of the prime minister to protect the territory of this country. How he does it (protects the country's territory) is his problem, not mine, he added.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-is-a-coward-who-cannot-stand-up-to-the-chinese-rahul-gandhi-950282.html
12-02-2021||National Politics||PM Modi gave Indian territory to China: Rahul Gandhi||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of bowing down and acceding Indian territory to the Chinese. His comments came during a press conference a day after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh made a statement in Parliament that India and China have reached an agreement on disengagement in the North and South banks of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh. The BJP hit back at Rahul saying he has taken a contract to defame the country and that he should seek answers from his grandfather Jawaharlal Nehru who gave the territory. "Indian troops are now going to be at Finger 4. Our territory was till Finger 4. Why has the Prime Minister given Indian territory to China? The Prime Minister and the Defence Minister will have to answer," Rahul said. He asked the government why the Indian troops, which through their hard work had occupied Kailash ranges, have been told to move back. "What have we got in return? The more important question is that there is no movement of Chinese back from Depsang Lake and Gogra-Hot Springs. It is clear that the Prime Minister has given Indian territory to China. This is the truth," he said. He said there was no mention of Chinese coming into Depsang or Hot Spring. "There is only give and no take...This is absolutely 100 per cent cowardice. The Prime Minister is a coward who could not stand up to China," he claimed. Responding to Rahul's charges, Union Minister and senior BJP leader Mukthar Abbas Naqvi said there is "no cure" for him as he is engaged in a conspiracy to defame the country and break the morale of the security forces. Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy referred to the 1961 India-China war and said, "He must ask his grandfather (Jawaharlal Nehru) about who has given India's territory to China, he will get the answer. Who is a patriot and who is not, the public knows it all." Rahul also accused the Prime Minister of betraying the sacrifice of soldiers who fought at the borders. "The Army, the Navy and the Air Force are standing up to the Chinese but the Prime Minister is not ready to stand up to the Chinese," he alleged. Asked whether it was a partial success as negotiations are on, he said, "I come to your house. There is disengagement. You gave me the living room, you gave me the bedroom. What is success? The only success is for China and that is the Prime Minister surrendered before them." Queries about his suggestion to solve the issue, he said it was the responsibility of the prime minister to protect the territorial integrity of the country and it is his responsibility to solve it. In his statement, the Defence Minister said both the sides have reached an agreement on the disengagement in the North and South Bank of the Pangong Lake. It has been agreed to convene the next meeting of the Senior Commanders within 48 hours after the complete disengagement in the Pangong Lake area to address and resolve all remaining issues. "The Chinese side will keep its troop presence in the North Bank area to east of Finger 8. Reciprocally, the Indian troops will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3. A similar action would be taken in the South Bank area by both sides," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-gave-indian-territory-to-china-rahul-gandhi-950288.html
12-02-2021||National Politics||Congress realised Nehru's blunder of 'gifting' land to China: BJP's C T Ravi||The BJP took a dig at Rahul Gandhi on Friday for his allegation that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ceded Indian territory to China, saying it was an acknowledgement of the realisation in the Congress that Jawaharlal Nehru had made a "Himalayan blunder" by "gifting" over 38,000 square kilometres of land to the neighbouring country. "I am glad that the Congress has finally realised that PM Nehru created a 'Himalayan Blunder' by gifting 38,000 sq km land to China. Will it also question its co-owner, the coward Rahul Gandhi for making baseless allegations against PM Modi?" Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) general secretary C T Ravi said in a tweet. Gandhi questioned the government on Friday over its agreement with China on troops disengagement in eastern Ladakh and alleged that Modi has "ceded" Indian territory to the Chinese. The former Congress chief's attack on the government came a day after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh assured Parliament that India has not conceded anything in the sustained talks with China and it will not allow even an inch of its territory to be taken away by anyone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-realised-nehrus-blunder-of-gifting-land-to-china-bjps-c-t-ravi-950354.html
12-02-2021||National Politics||Opposition parties slam Centre over Union Budget, say nothing in it for common man||Opposition parties in the Rajya Sabha on Friday charged that the Union Budget serves the interests of capitalists that will help the rich turn richer and has nothing for the common man, even as the BJP defended saying it has earmarked funds for all including strengthening of health sector. Participating in the debate on the budget, leaders of parties like the Congress, BSP, AAP and Left launched an all-out attack on the BJP government for allegedly selling off the country's assets and PSUs to big industrialists. Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohil alleged that the Budget helped the rich capitalists and was asking the poor, the oppressed and the downtrodden to become 'atmanirbhar' (self sufficient). He alleged that the cess imposed by the government was an attempt by it to deprive the states of their share in taxes. He alleged that PM Narendra Modi recently quoted his predecessor Manmohan Singh and Sharad Pawar selectively and out of context on the issue of farm reforms, and recalled that he, as Gujarat chief minister, had recommended a law to ensure Minimum Support Price (MSP) to farmers. "The country is passing through a bad time due to decisions like demonetisation and the GST. The government is helping and supporting the big people and is asking the poor, the weaker and the downtrodden to become 'artmanirbhar'," Gohil alleged. BJP leader and union minister Anurag Thakur attacked opposition parties, asking them not to use farmers for their political gains and asserted that the three new farm laws will help in doubling income of peasants. He challenged the opposition leaders to show him if it is written anywhere in the three laws that the regime of mandis and MSP would come to an end due to the legislation. "We are committed to double the income of the farmers," Thakur said. Bhupendra Yadav (BJP) lauded the government for providing over Rs 27.1 lakh crore, which is 13 per cent of GDP, under 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' in three financial packages. He also noted that the government is ready to talk to farmers on agricultural bills with an open heart and mind. On the issue of privatisation, he quoted former Prime Minister Charan Singh, who in his book had talked about loss-making PSUs due to mismanagement and corruption. Binoy Biswam (CPI) charged that in the name of 'atmanirbhar', this budget is clearly helping capitalists. "Is this the model of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' that you surrender everything to capitalists. This government can be called a government of FDI for capitalists. Don't try to cheat people, as it is time they understood this," he alleged. Biswam alleged that the government is selling everything from air to sea to land and even underground and is "blindly following" the capitalist model. Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda (JDS) said the finance minister has provided for all that is required to deal with the pandemic in this budget. He was of the view that privatization is not always good for all sectors as sometimes it creates private monopoly also. Ashok Siddharth (BSP) said there is nothing in this budget for the common man as it is trying to sell the country's assets and PSUs. "This government wants the rich to turn richer and the poor poorer," he charged, adding that it is not fair to give away the rights of poor, Dalits to industrialists. The BSP member said the interests of SCs/STs and OBC are being hurt the most through privatisation and asked the government to bring a law to enforce reservation for SC/ST/OBC in the private sector. Sanjay Singh (AAP) charged that the government was selling off everything to private companies and big industrialists. Participating in the debate, Satish Chandra Misra of BSP asked the government to waive the customs duty on the import of radiation machines used for treatment of cancer patients. India is recording 12 lakh new cases of cancer every year. Besides, the country is witnessing around 5.5 lakh death every year, which is even higher than the total mortality of 1.5 lakh from Covid-19 in India, on which the government has spent more than Rs 35,000 crore for vaccine only. "Death by cancer is increasing every year and according to WHO report which is alarming, says every one among 15 people in India face the risk of cancer," he said adding. According to Misra, all machines used for radiation therapy are either imported from Sweden or the USA. Now in the budget, customs duty on radiation machines has been increased to 27.4 per cent "Instead of encouraging, the government has increased the tax to 27.4 per cent from 20 per cent, which include customs duty, health cess, social welfare and GST," he said asking the government to look into this aspect as it would earn only Rs 120 crore. Abdul Wahab of the IUML said the budget has failed to give any attention to farmers, students, migrant labourers, minorities and backward communities. Wahab also raised the issue of allocation of funds for a campus of Aligarh Muslim University at Malappuram and difficulties faced by retired army personnel in getting One Rank One Pension (OROP), to which Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur assured to look into. "OROP was pending for 30 to 40 years and the only person, who was able to implement it, is Narendra Modi. Thousands of crore rupees have been given to ex-servicemen," Thakur said. Shiv Pratap Shukla of the BJP termed the budget as progressive. According to him during the pandemic, the Modi government gave priority to health and not to economic growth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-parties-slam-centre-over-union-budget-say-nothing-in-it-for-common-man-950376.html
12-02-2021||National Politics||FM Nirmala Sitharaman slams Opposition for creating 'false' narrative around Budget||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday gave a strong rebuttal to the Opposition charge that the Union Budget this year was meant to serve only the rich and ignored the bulk of India’s poor. Replying to the debate on the Budget in the Rajya Sabha, the finance minister said that her government provided both, the short term quick relief needed by the poor during the Covid pandemic, and sought to invest in sectors that can bring in multiplier effect at a time when the economy was suffering due to the pandemic. “It has now become a sort of habit for some in the Opposition to constantly allege, in spite of what we are doing for the poor and the steps taken for helping the poor and needy of this country, a false narrative is created to accuse - saying that this government works only for cronies,” Sitharaman said. She added that crores of beneficiaries, who have benefited through Mudra loans, Prime Minister Aawaas Yojana and various other schemes launched during Covid were not rich people but for the poor of the country. “More than Rs 27,000 crore worth of loans sanctioned under Mudra…Over 1.67 crore houses completed under PM Awas Yojana. Over 2.67 crore households electrified under PM Saubhagya Yojana since October 2017…. Were all these being done for the rich?,” she asked. "Is this government facilitating the digital transaction to facilitate some cronies, some 'damads'? Not at all, it is helping only the poor," FM said, taking a jibe on Opposition Congress. The Opposition had on Thursday alleged that the Budget provisions served only the rich of the country. This Budget is for the rich, of the rich and by the rich,” said former finance minister P Chidambaram participating in the debate. Sitharaman said that the Budget was for self-reliant India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fm-nirmala-sitharaman-slams-opposition-for-creating-false-narrative-around-budget-950394.html
12-02-2021||National Politics||India hasn't conceded any territory as result of agreement with China: Defence Ministry counters Rahul Gandhi's charge on China||The Defence Ministry on Friday countered Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's charge of Prime Minister Narendra Modi conceding Indian territory to China and asserted that outstanding issues at Depsang, Hot Spring and Gogra post would be taken up within 48 hours of the completion of the Pangong Tso disengagement. Permanent posts of both sides at the north bank of Pangong Tso are well-established. On the Indian side, it is Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 and on the Chinese side, east of Finger 8. The current agreement provides for cessation of forward deployment by both sides and continued deployment at these permanent posts. "India has not conceded any territory. On the contrary, it has enforced respect for the Line of Actual Control and prevented any unilateral change in the status quo," a Defence Ministry official said in a statement. Without naming Gandhi, the ministry said those who doubted the achievements made possible by the sacrifices of the military personnel were actually disrespecting them. The ministry also countered Gandhi’s claim that the Indian territory in the northern bank of the Pangong lake was up to Finger 4. "The assertion that Indian territory is up to Finger 4 is categorically false. The territory of India is as depicted by the map of India and includes more than 43,000 sq km currently under illegal occupation of China since 1962. The LAC, as per the Indian perception, is at Finger 8, not at Finger 4. That is why India has persistently maintained the right to patrol up to Finger 8, including in the current understanding with China." Earlier in the day, Gandhi asked the government to explain why Indian troops, who through their hard work had occupied Kailash ranges, have been told to move back. "Indian troops are now going to be at Finger 4. Our territory was till Finger 4. Why has the Prime Minister given Indian territory to China? The Prime Minister and the Defence Minister will have to answer," he said. "What have we got in return? The more important question is that there is no movement of Chinese back from Depsang and Gogra-Hot Springs. It is clear that the Prime Minister has given Indian territory to China. This is the truth. There is only give and no take. The Prime Minister is a coward who could not stand up to China," the Congress leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-hasnt-conceded-any-territory-as-result-of-agreement-with-china-defence-ministry-counters-rahul-gandhis-charge-on-china-950411.html
12-02-2021||National Politics||When even British could not stand before farmers of India, then who is Narendra Modi: Rahul Gandhi||Saying that the Centre will have to withdraw its farm laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said when the British could not stand before farmers of India, then who is Narendra Modi. Addressing his second farmers’ rally on Friday, Gandhi said 40 per cent people of the country are engaged in farming, which is the business of “Bharat Mata”. "It is the business of 'Bharat Mata' which feeds the nation," he said at the rally held in Padampur town of Rajasthan’s Sri Ganganagar district. He said the agitation against the laws will spread in the country as it is not linked to farmers alone. It is the issue of labourers, traders, small and medium businessmen and the middle class, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/when-even-british-could-not-stand-before-farmers-of-india-then-who-is-narendra-modi-rahul-gandhi-950437.html
12-02-2021||National Politics||Rahul making false claims, insulting armed forces, says BJP chief J P Nadda||The BJP on Friday lashed out at Rahul Gandhi for his allegation that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ceded territory to China with its president J P Nadda dubbing the charge as "false" and questioning if it is not an insult to the armed forces who are leading the disengagement strategy. Nadda dubbed Gandhi's presser in which he attacked Modi as a "new edition of Congress circus". "Why is he bent upon falsely claiming that the disengagement is a loss for India? Is it a part of INC-China MoU?" the BJP leader asked in a tweet. Gandhi on Friday alleged that the prime minister has "ceded" Indian territory to the Chinese, and questioned the government over its agreement with China on disengagement of troops in eastern Ladakh. "This is absolute 100 per cent cowardice. This is nothing else. The Prime Minister is a coward who cannot stand up to the Chinese...He is betraying the sacrifice of our army," he charged. Hitting back, Nadda said, "A new edition of Congress circus today, again due to Mr. @ Rahul Gandhi. Why is he bent upon falsely claiming that disengagement is a loss for India? Is it a part of INC-China MoU? With the armed forces leading the disengagement strategy, isn’t this an insult of our brave forces?" He also posted a couple of media reports and a video message of a former Indian Air Force officer to allege that the Congress-led UPA government did not trust the armed forces and vice versa. "No Indian land has been given up by the government as part of the current disengagement process. If anyone committed the sin of giving up thousands of sq km, it is one corrupt, cowardly dynasty that has broken the country to keep their power intact," he said, attacking the Nehru-Gandhi family. Other senior BJP leaders also attacked Gandhi with Union minister Pralhad Joshi accusing him of "lying left, right and centre" and denigrating the country's security forces. He said the "nation cannot forgive the Gandhi family for losing 43,000 sq. km of land to China". "When one does not have a moral conscience, when one cannot contribute anything positive, one resorts to lies. Rahul lied left, right and centre. Perhaps Rahul is depressed that he could not become PM. He knows that even his shadow won't support him & can't digest the huge public mandate to PM Narendra Modi," Joshi said. With Gandhi making his attack on Modi personal, Joshi alleged that the former Congress chief's "utterances" are based on far-fetched presumptions and create "serious doubts on his mental health". "The selective amnesia which Rahul often displays seems a regular order. Denigrating efforts and sacrifices of our security forces, whom you are placating? Why? Because you got some donation for your party? Can't forget your meeting with the Chinese?" he said in a social media post. Gandhi's attack on the government came a day after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh assured Parliament that India has not conceded anything in the sustained talks with China and it will not allow even an inch of its territory to be taken away by anyone. "Congress party breeds a culture of petty politics. Every member of the Gandhi family always leaves behind a legacy of misdeeds. History bears testimony to their repeated attacks on the sovereignty of the nation and unfortunately it is the country that has to always suffer," Joshi said. The nation cannot forgive the Gandhi family for losing 43,000 sq km of land to China, he said, noting that Pakistan has also illegally ceded 5,180 sq km of Indian territory in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) to China. In a tweet, BJP general secretary C T Ravi said, "I am glad that the Congress has finally realised that PM Nehru created a 'Himalayan Blunder' by gifting 38,000 sq km land to China. Will it also question its co-owner, the coward Rahul Gandhi for making baseless allegations against PM Modi?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-making-false-claims-insulting-armed-forces-says-bjp-chief-j-p-nadda-950447.html
12-02-2021||National Politics||Tej Pratap bombards President Kovind with postcards seeking father Lalu's release||Maverick RJD leader Tej Pratap Yadav launched a unique campaign on Friday for the release of his ailing septuagenarian father Lalu Prasad from custody, as he, along with hundreds of supporters, sent postcards to President Ramnath Kovind to press for the demand. Yadav, the elder son of former chief ministers Prasad and Rabri Devi, on Thursday marched to the General Post Office here with his supporters who carried bundles of postcards addressed to the President seeking release of the jailed party supremo. "We are here with lakhs of 'azadi patras' (petitions seeking freedom) in the interests of a socialist movement that is being undertaken in Bihar. We hope the President will heed the voice of the people," said Yadav, who is known to be a doting son to the RJD boss. Prasad, who is serving sentences in a number of fodder scam cases in Jharkhand, carved out of Bihar, is at present in Delhi undergoing treatment for multiple ailments. In his late 70s, the leader, who had also served as the railway minister in the UPA-1 government, is a diabetic and suffers from a heart condition and kidney problems. He has been granted bail by the Jharkhand High Court in some of the cases but he needs to secure the same in a few others in order to be freed from custody. When asked about the campaign, RJD state spokesman Chitaranjan Gagan said, "It is, of course, a personal initiative of Tej Pratap Yadav but the party does back it since the matter involves our undisputed leader." The move, however, met with strong disapproval from BJP Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi, the former deputy chief minister of Bihar who has been the foremost bete noire of the proverbial "first family" of the RJD. In a couple of tweets, he pointed out that Prasad was convicted after a "prolonged legal battle" and "legal wizards like Ram Jethmalani could neither save him from punishment nor help him get bail". In an indirect reference to Tej Pratap Yadav having been overshadowed by his younger brother Tejashwi, Modi added "the sidelined prince of RJD is now trying to create mistrust in the judiciary by the gimmickry of sending two lakh postcards to the President". Modi also referred to the RJD's dismal performance in the Lok Sabha polls of 2019, when it drew a blank, and Prasad's attempts to topple the NDA government after the recent assembly elections, in which the party won the maximum number of seats but the coalition helmed by it fell short of getting majority. An official of the postal department said postcards found to be in order will be dispatched. "This episode is amusing and puzzling. But the postal department will have to do its job. Postcards found to be in order will be dispatched. Others will go back to the senders," said a department official requesting anonymity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tej-pratap-bombards-president-kovind-with-postcards-seeking-father-lalus-release-950480.html
12-02-2021||National Politics||Country has turned bankrupt under Modi government, says Congress MP Manish Tewari||The country has turned bankrupt under the Modi government and its image has been dented on social, political and international fronts, Congress MP Manish Tewari alleged here on Friday. Addressing a rally in support of party candidates for Mohali municipal body elections slated for February 14, he said there is a debt of Rs 18 lakh crore now on the central government. "The country's economy that grew at 8 per cent every year during Manmohan Singh as PM has now fallen to minus 7.7 per cent," he said. "The Modi government has dented the country on social, political and international fronts by turning it bankrupt," he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/country-has-turned-bankrupt-under-modi-government-says-congress-mp-manish-tewari-950526.html
12-02-2021||National Politics||Protesting farmers won't return home till agreement is reached, says BKU leader Rakesh Tikait||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday revealed plans by farmer leaders to hold meetings in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s home state Gujarat and said protesters in Delhi will not return home until the Centre reaches an “agreement” with them. It was not immediately clear if the remark made at a "mahapanchayat" here was a climb down from Tikait’s earlier assertion that there will be no “ghar wapsi” unless the laws are withdrawn. The government has been telling farmer unions to consider an option other than the complete repeal of the laws. He said the government will have to talk with the farmer unions' committee spearheading the agitation against the laws. “This agitation will continue until the Government of India talks to the committee and arrives at an agreement. Till that time, farmers will not return home,” he said addressing a “mahapanchayat” organised by the “Dalal Khap 84” near the Tikri border. He also claimed the agitation is spread across the country and not limited to Punjab, Haryana or Uttar Pradesh as being projected by some. More “mahapanchayats” will be held in coming days, he said, adding that they will go to Gujarat as well. Tikait alleged that farmers from Gujarat were being pressured not to lend support to the agitation. “If anyone from Gujarat wants to come here to support the agitation and if it is found they are coming, police are being send to their homes,” he alleged. “We will hold meetings in Gujarat and other states,” he said. Tikait also said the “business on hunger” will not be allowed and those wanting it will be “driven out” of the country. Hitting out at the farm laws, he claimed these will lead to the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) and exploitation of farmers, from whom big companies will procure their produce at cheaper rates and then store it in godowns. Big godowns will be built, which will be barricaded on similar lines like the ones near the protest sites at the Delhi borders, he said. Without naming anyone, he said attempts have been made to divide the farmers' stir. "They tried to divide us on the lines of Punjab and Haryana, then small and big farmers,” he said. “We have said that the three laws are not acceptable to farmers and should be rolled back. But how will they take back these when godowns were built first and laws were framed later,” he said. “They did business of temple, religion and feelings. Now, they want to do the business on hunger,” Tikait alleged. The BKU leader from Uttar Pradesh has been camping at Ghazipur on the Delhi-UP border for over two months against the central laws enacted in September. The Centre has been saying these laws will bring in new farming technologies and free the farmers from the clutches of middlemen. The farmers have been rejecting these claims, saying these laws will harm their interest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/protesting-farmers-wont-return-home-till-agreement-is-reached-says-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-950535.html
12-02-2021||National Politics||Chidambaram's speech on Budget only 'verbose': FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday hit out at senior Congress leader and former finance minister P Chidambaram, saying that his speech in Rajya Sabha was only "verbose" as he had nothing meaningful to say about the Budget. Participating in the discussion on the Budget, Chidambaram had said that the Budget presented by Sitharaman was "for the rich, of the rich, and by the rich". He had also lashed out at the ruling dispensation, charging it with "incompetent economic management". Replying to the discussion on Friday, Sitharaman said also took on Chidambaram for questioning Budget numbers, saying unlike the UPA regime when an "artificial" increase in capital spending was shown to project growth and subsidy shifted from the government budget to companies, the Budget for 2021-22 brings transparency by bringing all spending on book. She, however, did not name Chidambaram in her nearly hour-long reply to the issues raised by various members of Rajya Sabha. "There is a lot of grudge in the speech of the former finance minister... So, I feel that there is a little grudge not to recognise how prime minister handled the corona crisis," she said. Further, Sitharaman said the former finance minister "gives me a feeling" that he was trying to imitate Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu in terms of rhyming words. "I get the feeling that the former finance minister is imitating you (Naidu), but he (Chidambaram) has been a miserable failure in the impact that he created, unlike you, who creates a good impact... The imitation and the copy of the Chair in coming up with rhyming words, texts, pretexts, sub-texts, contexts... he used all these trying to imitate you who spontaneously do it," she said. The minister also said that trying to imitate it and having absolutely no impact absolutely proves that "it was a contrived speech which had nothing to accuse this Budget of, but verbose, craftsman of words, we can say what we want and get away with it". On Chidambaram's statement that 'it is a budget for the rich', Sitharaman said the government's focus on roads, electricity and also direct benefit transfer do not go to the rich. They go to the poorest of the poor whose cause the prime minister champions, she added. She cited data to counter Congress' claims about MNREGA, saying actual spending from 2009-10 to 2014-15 was lower than budgeted. She also said that during the NDA regime, the actual expenditure on MNREGA has increased significantly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chidambarams-speech-on-budget-only-verbose-fm-950574.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||Body of ex-UP minister's nephew found on railway tracks in Amethi||The body of a 20-year-old nephew of former Uttar Pradesh minister Gayatri Prasad Prajapati was found on the railway track in Kharauna village in this Uttar Pradesh district on Friday morning, police said. The body of Shubham (20), who had gone out of his house on Thursday evening, was found on the railway track, Amethi Station House Officer (SHO) Shyam Sunder said. The head was severed from the body, he said, adding that the matter concerns the Government Railway Police (GRP) and investigations are on. The son of Prajapati's younger brother Jagdish Prasad Prajapati, Shubham was a resident of Parsava village in Amethi. Prajapati was a minister in the Samajwadi Party (SP) government and is presently in jail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/body-of-ex-up-ministers-nephew-found-on-railway-tracks-in-amethi-950309.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||Phoolan Devi's gun, dacoits' relics in a new museum in Madhya Pradesh's Chambal||Madhya Pradesh’s Chambal belt, once known for some of India’s most frightening dacoits, will now be home to a museum with famous articles used by them. Phoolan Devi’s gun, a tape recorder belonging to the infamous Nirbhay Gujjar, ransom letters and chains for holding captives are some of the many things that will be on display in this museum. The museum will have pictures of 28 policemen who died fighting dacoits in the region, 30 police officers who won valour awards and others who were promoted out of turn. It will also have TVs that will play stories of kidnappings and interviews of family members of the victims. This venture has been funded by donations worth Rs 3 lakh collected from 26 police stations under Singh.  “There will be at least 2,000 digitised police records and material compiled over the past five decades chronicling the crimes of murder, loot and kidnapping carried out by these bandits. The Chambal region became infamous in the country due to these deeds,” the SP said. The police are developing a tourism route showing famous places including the spot where infamous dacoit Paan Singh Tomar died or where Phoolan Devi surrendered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/phoolan-devis-gun-dacoits-relics-in-a-new-museum-in-madhya-pradeshs-chambal-950310.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court issues notice to Centre, Twitter over plea on fake news||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre and Twitter on a plea by a BJP leader for creating a mechanism to check bogus Twitter handles, fake news and abusive content. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response from the Union government and the Twitter on the petition by Vinit Goenka.  The petitioner, also a member of the Governing Council (CRIS), contended that there are hundreds of special media accounts in the name of eminent people and high dignitaries. He sought a direction to put in KYC to make the social media safe and accountable and traceable. "The common man relies upon the messages published from these Twitter handles and Facebook accounts. These bogus accounts are used to promote casteism and communalism which endangers fraternity and unity of the country," the plea filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey said. The PIL also blamed fake news as the root cause of many riots, including the one in Delhi earlier this year. Presently, the total number of Twitter handles in India are around 35 million and the total number of Facebook accounts are 350 million. According to experts, around 10 per cent Twitter handles (3.5 million) and 10 per cent Facebook accounts (35 million) are duplicate or bogus or fake, the plea said. The petition further said that a representation to the concerned authority to act in accordance with the law of the country against social media giant Twitter was filed but no action has been taken so far by the concerned authorities. It also pointed out that the Ministry of Home Affairs has banned Sikhs for Justice (SFJ) under the Unlawful Activities and Prevention Act on July 10, 2019, yet it continued to have an active presence on Twitter, espousing hatred, terrorism and sedition, criminal acts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-issues-notice-to-centre-twitter-over-plea-on-fake-news-950311.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||Assembly elections in J&K likely by year-end||With Delimitation Commission set to complete redrawing of constituencies in Jammu and Kashmir in next few months, much-awaited Assembly elections in the newly-created union territory are likely to be held by the year-end. The delimitation exercise is going on in Jammu and Kashmir under the chairmanship of a retired Supreme Court judge, Ranjana Prakash Desai. “The process is expected to be over in next few months and soon after the Election Commission will announce the election schedule in J&K,” a senior official told DH. The delimitation exercise is being carried out in accordance with the provisions of the J&K Reorganisation Act of 2019 that split the erstwhile state into two union territories of Jammu and Kashmir with an assembly and Ladakh without an Assembly. The delimitation will be based on the Census of 2011 due to an amendment in the J&K Reorganisation Act, he said. Last year during his Independence Day speech, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that “India is committed to holding Assembly elections in Jammu and Kashmir once the delimitation exercise is complete”. The last Assembly in J&K was dissolved by then Governor in November 2018 months after the Mehbooba Mufti-headed government in the erstwhile state fell following the BJP withdrawing support to it in June that year. Though Parliament elections in J&K were held in April-May 2019 with the rest of the country, the Assembly polls were deferred “due to security reasons.” Barring the BJP, almost all the political parties in J&K had urged upon the Election Commission in early 2019 to hold Parliament and Assembly elections simultaneously in J&K. However, after the scrapping of the special status of J&K under Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two UTs, the government of India has been constantly saying that the polls will be held only after the delimitation exercise is completed. It is for the first time since 1996 that Assembly elections in J&K were not being held on time. The BJP national general secretary, Tarun Chugh, says that Assembly elections in J&K will be held soon as “peace has returned to the Valley.” “Kashmir is witnessing peace and is on the path of development,” Chugh, who is also in-charge of Jammu & Kashmir, told reporters, here. He said things about J&K were moving on and “elections will be held soon.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/assembly-elections-in-jk-likely-by-year-end-950335.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||Houses vandalised, two-wheelers set afire in Dalit locality after brawl in Karnal||Eight houses were vandalised and three motorcycles set ablaze in the Valmiki Basti at Phoosgarh in this Haryana district after a brawl over some issue, police said on Friday. Two men have been arrested in connection with the incident, they added. The incident occurred on Thursday afternoon. The residents of the Dalit locality alleged that some upper-caste men were forcing youngsters from the neighbourhood into illegal activities. Police said the allegation is being verified. The residents alleged that an argument broke out between locals and the group of men over the issue, resulting in a brawl. They alleged that the men vandalised eight houses and torched three two-wheelers in the locality. Police personnel in strength were deployed in the area following the incident. Karnal's Superintendent of Police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia said the situation in the locality is peaceful now. He said three motorcycles and some houses were vandalised. "We have apprehended two accused," he added. A case has been registered and further investigations are underway, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/houses-vandalised-two-wheelers-set-afire-in-dalit-locality-after-brawl-in-karnal-950343.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||SC gives Centre six more weeks to decide on mercy plea by convict in Beant Singh's assassination case||The Supreme Court on Friday gave the Centre six more weeks to decide on a mercy plea of Balwant Singh Rajoana, a death row convict. The Centre claimed the process has started and the President would soon take a decision. The convict has been in jail for over 25 years in the case of assassination of then Punjab Chief Minister Beant Singh. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian allowed further time as Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted the process and the President will decide on it. The court may await the President's decision. It sought a timeline but ended up adjourning the matter for six weeks upon request by Mehta. The court had deferred hearing the matter many times on Centre's request. The government had been asked earlier to take a decision by January 26. Mehta had sought time for taking a call in the matter but then said it would not be prudent to decide on mercy plea as it would have "some repercussions" given the present situation. He was alluding to farmers' protest from Punjab and Haryana. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the petitioner, had pointed out that the plea has been pending for the past eight years. 53-year-old Rajoana was sentenced to death by a special CBI court in Chandigarh on August 1, 2007, for his involvement in an explosion outside Punjab Civil Secretariat leading to the death of then Punjab CM and 16 others in 1995. His hanging was stayed in 2012 by the then UPA government when a mercy petition was filed. On December 4, 2020, the court had asked the Centre to inform within two weeks about status in the matter. The court had then noted the petitioner has himself not filed any appeal against his sentence.  It also said the pendency of the appeals at the behest of other co-accused would have no relevance to the proposal intended to be sent for consideration under Article 72 (power of President to grant pardon, reprieve, respite and remission) of the Constitution. The Union government had responded saying that the proposal has not been sent in view of the pending appeals of the co-accused before the top court. On September 27, 2019, the Ministry of Home Affairs wrote to the Chief Secretary of Punjab, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka and Delhi that on the occasion of the commemoration of 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, proposing special remission and release of prisoners.  As many as eight Sikh prisoners were to be given special remission under Article 161 of the Constitution and released from prison. However, the proposal for commutation of death sentence to life imprisonment of one prisoner was yet to be processed under Article 72 of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-gives-centre-six-more-weeks-to-decide-on-mercy-plea-by-convict-in-beant-singhs-assassination-case-950349.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||Drawing flak, J&K withdraws order directing hotels to cancel bookings||Jammu and Kashmir administration Friday withdrew its order directing hotel owners in a ski-resort in Gulmarg to cancel bookings of tourists to accommodate participants of ‘Khelo India’ National Winter Games after drawing flak. The directive had come at a time when hotels at Gulmarg were pre-booked till mid-March owing to the rush of the tourists in Kashmir. Mohammad Aijaz Asad, Deputy Commissioner at Baramulla, said no new order has been issued to cancel the bookings in Gulmarg. “We have not issued any order, and an earlier order has been cancelled. However, it (Khelo India) is a big event for which rooms are required for athletes and officials.” The order issued by the additional deputy commissioner, Baramulla, drew sharp reaction from the National Conference (NC) leader and former chief minister, Omar Abdullah, who termed it as "a mindless application of government writ”. “The games are a welcome addition to our calendar but its mindless application of government writ when the games become a reason to cancel hotel bookings & inconvenience tourists who have booked flights & made their plans well in advance,” Omar tweeted. The week-long games are scheduled to start from February 26. ‘Khelo India’ Winter Games are national-level multidisciplinary grassroot winter games of India and are organised by the Winter Games Association of J&K under the support of J&K Sports Council and Ministry of Youth Services and Sports. The mega event includes snow skiing, snow rugby, snow ice stock, snow baseball, snow mountaineering, snow shoe, ice hockey, figure skating and speed skating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/drawing-flak-jk-withdraws-order-directing-hotels-to-cancel-bookings-950355.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||SC asks AP govt to respond to Odisha's plea for contempt for transgressing boundary||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Andhra Pradesh government to respond to a plea by the Odisha government which sought contempt action against the former's top officers. Odisha accused Andhra Pradesh of "wilfully violating" a 1968 status quo order by notifying Panchayat polls in three villages of Koraput district and claiming those as part of Vizianagaram district. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for the Odisha government, contended before a bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar that they had declared elections in villages of Koraput district. Andhra Pradesh government advocate Mahfooz A Nazki sought to put some preliminary objections. The court, however, asked him to file a response. "We are not passing any order today, whatever consequences have to follow will follow," the bench said, putting the matter for further consideration on Friday next, February 19. Odisha's plea, filed by advocate Sibo Sankar Mishra, contended that the conduct of the AP government's officers, including the Chief Secretary and the State Election Commissioner, has been shocking in view of directions by this court, observed by all concerned since February 2, 1968. "The state has been administering continuously the three Kotiya group of villages apart from electing representatives for local bodies, Assembly and Parliamentary constituencies. Therefore, the attempt to conduct an election in the villages pertaining to the territory of petitioner state is nothing but a wilful attempt to sabotage dictum of this court," it said. The notification for Panchayat polls was issued on March 5, 2020 but it was kept secret. The Sarpanch and Gram Panchayat members were elected unopposed in two villages and one village was to see a contest and the nomination centre has been kept at 20 km away at Vizianagaram district, it said. The Andhra Pradesh had willfully and deliberately violated the Supreme Court order of December 2, 1968, and the judgment of March 30, 2006, by transgressing into Odisha’s territory, it claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-asks-ap-govt-to-respond-to-odishas-plea-for-contempt-for-transgressing-boundary-950359.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||Death of youth in police custody triggers protest in UP’s Jaunpur||The death of a youth allegedly in police custody in the Buxa area triggered protests by locals who blocked a national highway and indulged in stone-pelting, leading to injuries to several policemen. Superintendent of Police Raj Karan Nayyar has ordered the suspension of three policemen, including the in-charge of Buxa police station, and ordered a magisterial inquiry into the death of Kishan Yadav alias Pujari who was taken into custody for questioning in a loot case. A crime branch team had brought four to five youths for questioning in a loot case to the Buxa police station on Thursday. Yadav, 25, who was among them, was taken ill during the night and was rushed to the community health centre. From there, he was referred to the district hospital but he died during treatment, Nayyar said. Evidence of loot had been found against Yadav and he was taken into custody for questioning, the SP said. As soon as the news of the death of Yadav spread, his family and locals gathered on the Lucknow-Varanasi national highway and staged a protest. They also indulged in brick batting, resulting in injuries to Circle Officer (City) Jitendra Dubey and other policemen, Nayyar said. Police and Provincial Armed Constabulary personnel have been deployed in large numbers in the area to maintain law and order, he said. The family alleged that the youth died after being severely beaten up in custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/death-of-youth-in-police-custody-triggers-protest-in-up-s-jaunpur-950367.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||Khelo India: Controversial order asking Gulmarg hotels to cancel pre-bookings of tourists revoked||Authorities in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday withdrew an order asking hotels to cancel pre-bookings at the famous ski-resort of Gulmarg to accommodate participants of Khelo India National Winter Games after the move drew sharp criticism. The order was withdrawn a day after it was issued by the additional deputy commissioner of Baramulla. “The order has been withdrawn,” Deputy Commissioner, Baramulla, Mohammad Aijaz Asad told PTI. The move had drawn sharp reaction from the National Conference which termed it as “mindless application of government writ". Asad said there was no need for such an order to be issued in the first place. “It was not required,” he added. Another official in the administration said the hoteliers had already committed to reserve the rooms for the games’ period and, as such, there was no requirement for such an order which only created a controversy. The order had asked hoteliers to accommodate athletes and officials and cancel pre-bookings of tourists from February 25 to March 3. In a letter to the sub-divisional magistrate, Gulmarg, the additional deputy commissioner had asked him to ensure that boarding and lodging facilities are provided to the athletes and officials during the event. “Further, all pre-bookings, if any, on this account may be cancelled,” the letter read. The week-long games are scheduled to start on February 25. The letter had also been sent to president of Hoteliers’ Club Gulmarg chapter Mukhtar Ahmad Shah for compliance. NC vice president and former chief minister Omar Abdullah had criticised the order, saying it was “mindless application of government writ". “The games are a welcome addition to our calendar but it’s mindless application of government writ when the games become a reason to cancel hotel bookings & inconvenience tourists who have booked flights & made their plans well in advance,” he tweeted. Another NC leader Tanvir Sadiq had also targeted the administration for the move. "Khelo India games are all well & good but why at the cost of our regular tourists? What sort of tourism promotion policy is this where the government forces bookings to be cancelled? Spare a thought for those people who booked rooms weeks ago only to be told they aren't welcome,” he said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/khelo-india-controversial-order-asking-gulmarg-hotels-to-cancel-pre-bookings-of-tourists-revoked-950369.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh Congress MLA Sujan Singh Pathania dies at 77||Senior Congress leader and sitting legislator in Himachal Pradesh Sujan Singh Pathania passed away on Friday morning, a party leader said. He was 77. He was a former minister and sitting legislator from Fatehpur Assembly constituency in Kangra district. He died after a prolonged illness on Friday and will be cremated on Saturday.  Born on September 22, 1943 in Lahore (Pakistan), Pathania was elected seven times as an MLA. Having served in the HP Forest Department as a range officer, he resigned from service to join Janata Party in 1977 and later became a member of the Congress party in 1980. Pathania was elected to the state Assembly in 1977; re-elected in 1990, 1993, 2003 November, 2009 (by-election) from Jawali Assembly constituency and in 2012 and 2017 from Fatehpur Assembly constituency. Before delimitation in 2007, Fatehpur Assembly Constituency was known as Jawali. Pathania remained MPP and Power Minister with additional charge of Non-Conventional Energy Sources, Agriculture from December, 2012 to December 20, 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-congress-mla-sujan-singh-pathania-dies-at-77-950392.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||Two co-accused get interim bail in case against comedian Munawar Faruqui||The Madhya Pradesh High Court on Friday granted interim bail to two men accused of organising a comedy show in Indore, during which stand-up comedian Munawar Faruqui allegedly insulted Hindu deities. Faruqui, who was arrested on January 1 and was in jail since January 2, was set free on bail last week. A single bench of the high court comprising Justice Rohit Arya granted bail to the two co-accused Prakhar Vyas and Adwin Anthony. Comedian Faruqui and five others involved in organising the show in Indore were arrested following a complaint by Eklavya Singh Gaud, son of local BJP MLA Malini Laxman Singh Gaud. The MLA's son had alleged that objectionable comments were made about Hindu deities and Union Home Minister Amit Shah during the show held on January 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-co-accused-get-interim-bail-in-case-against-comedian-munawar-faruqui-950399.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||Bid to connect with farmers: Cots adorn stage at Cong's mahapanchayat||In a bid to connect with farmers through a "Kisan Mahapanchayat" held by the Congress in Hanumangarh’s Pilibanga town on Friday, "charpai" or cots were placed on the stage instead of chairs for party leader Rahul Gandhi and others. All leaders sat on the cots on the stage. “This arrangement was made for giving the stage a farmer-like feel and to connect them with the leaders,” a party leader said. Gandhi was accompanied by Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken, AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal, state party president Govind Dotasra and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot. Prior to Rahul Gandhi, Govind Dotasra, Ajay Maken and Ashok Gehlot addressed the farmers. Gandhi addressed the rally and then left for Padampur in Ganganagar to address another meeting with farmers. Farmer-dominated Hanumangarh and Ganganagar districts share a border with Punjab, where farmers are up in the arms against the Centre's agriculture laws. On Saturday, Gandhi will visit Ajmer and Nagaur districts and address farmers. Nagaur is a centre of farmers' politics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bid-to-connect-with-farmers-cots-adorn-stage-at-congs-mahapanchayat-950418.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||40-day 'Kumbh Baithak' to begin in Vrindavan on Sunday||The Uttar Pradesh Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad will be organising a 40-day long fair here called 'Kumbh Baithak' beginning Sunday as a precursor to the famous Haridwar Kumbh Mela, officials said. Prior to the Haridwar Kumbh, the fair will be organised for 40 days and is expected to see the congregation of saints and Akharas in Vrindavan for which the state government has made grand arrangements, Shailjakant Mishra, Vice-President of UP Braj Teerth Vikas Parishad said on Friday. “Though the first auspicious bathing day falls on 16th February, the fair is likely to be inaugurated by UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on February 14," he added. Thrilled by the massive arrangements made for the 'Baithak' this year, Rajendra Das, Mahant of Akhil Bharitya Nirmohi Akhara said, “The massive arrangements made here reflects the religious sentiments of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, who appears to be committed to revive the glory of the ancient past and culture." Mela Adhikari and CEO of the organisation Nagendra Pratap said arrangements have been made to provide Ganga water for drinking purpose in the fair. Authorities are also trying to ensure continuous flow of Ganga water into the Yamuna river during 'Kumbh Baithak', the official said. For uninterrupted power supply, a sub-station has been established by the Power department at the fair, Pratap added. Other significant feature of the fair are a permanent exhibition reflecting the culture of the state, especially Braj heritage, daily cultural programmes, temporary police line for foolproof security, a camp for journalists, bathing area at the renovated ghats, etc., he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/40-day-kumbh-baithak-to-begin-in-vrindavan-on-sunday-950421.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||Two more bodies recovered in flood-hit Chamoli||Two more bodies were recovered from the flash flood-hit areas of Uttarakhand's Chamoli district on Friday, taking the toll in the calamity to 38, as rescue teams battled on against the odds for the sixth consecutive day to get to 25-35 people trapped in a sludge-choked tunnel here. One body was recovered from the rubble at the demolished Rishi Ganga Hydel Project in Raini and the other from Maithana, district administration officials here said.  A separate team of rescuers was formed under the supervision of the executive engineer of the Rural Works Department to expedite the search operation taking the help of locals and old photographs of the demolished Rishi Ganga hydel project. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel using excavators and JCBs are dredging through the muck to locate the missing, the officials said. At Tapovan, besides the continuing sludge clearing and drilling inside the tunnel, an approach road is being built near the Gauri Shankar temple so that a Pokland machine could be sent down in search of those missing in the debris. A cofferdam is also being constructed at Tapovan to prevent any more water from flushing into the tunnel. Meanwhile, with scientists spotting a new glacial lake in the higher reaches of Rishi Ganga, an eight-member team of the scientists of the Geological Survey of India was formed to inspect the lake, Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadauria said. The GSI team is being sent to inspect the lake and submit its report to the district administration at the earliest, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-more-bodies-recovered-in-flood-hit-chamoli-950433.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||India fears another flash flood from new Himalayan lake||A newly formed Himalayan lake raised fears Friday of another flash flood above a disaster-hit valley in northern India, prompting authorities to conduct helicopter surveys and send a team on a 16-hour climb to investigate. Thirty-six people died and 168 are still missing after a barrage of water and debris hurtled down the valley in Uttarakhand with terrifying speed and force on Sunday, obliterating roads and bridges and smashing through dams. The flash flood on the Rishiganga river is thought have been triggered by a chunk of glacier breaking off, or a glacial lake -- formed when a glacier retreats -- bursting its banks. Glaciers are receding fast in the region due to global warming. On Thursday, geologists said that a new lake had formed near the same river. Professor YP Sundriyal of Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University released a video shot in the area, in which he pointed out the location of the lake and said, "this means that the Rishiganga will breach again". Satellite images and a helicopter survey had confirmed the presence of the lake, senior local police official Ashok Kumar told AFP. He said that teams had been sent to investigate on foot, a trek that would take around 16 hours, with the spot at around 4,200 metres (14,000 feet) above sea level. "But there is one important thing to note. For the last few days, there was less water flow in the Rishiganga. But since yesterday, the flow is a lot," Kumar said. "That means that the lake has given some opening. It would have been dangerous if the water had just been collected and there was no flow." A desperate and arduous search continued on Friday to reach around 30 people trapped in a tunnel since Sunday's flood, with hopes fading for their survival. "We are trying to go to the smaller tunnel which is 12 metres below the existing one," Kumar said. "In the small tunnel, we are hoping for the best... If they escaped the slush and the water, they might be safe in one corner."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-fears-another-flash-flood-from-new-himalayan-lake-950461.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||Three dead, 22 injured as bus overturns in Rajasthan's Chiitorgarh||Three passengers were killed and 22 others injured when a bus overturned while its driver was trying to save a motorcyclist in Rajasthan's Chittorgarh district, police said. The accident occurred near Rithola crossing when the bus was on the way from Bhilwara to Udaipur, they said. While trying to avoid hitting the bike, the bus driver lost control over the wheels. Three passengers in the bus died on the spot and 22 others were injured, two of them referred to Udaipur for treatment, police said. The other injured were rushed to Sanwalia hospital in Chittorgarh, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-dead-22-injured-as-bus-overturns-in-rajasthans-chiitorgarh-950463.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||NTPC sets up medical team at Tapovan site||State-run power giant NTPC on Friday said it has set up a medical team of doctors and para-medical staff and started medical camps for general public at Tapovan which was ravaged by a flash flood last Sunday. "NTPC Tapovan team has brought in an experienced team of doctors, para-medical staff and has started medical camps for the general public at Tapovan. "Medical consultations along with medicines for the needy has proved to be of great help for the people of the surrounding areas devastated by the disaster," an NTPC statement said. This initiative in the backdrop of all odds culminating out of the disaster that struck Tapovan in Uttarakhand on Sunday has found many takers amongst the affected lot, it added. Besides, a Public Information Centre (PIC) has been working at the project site to provide information and facilitate the family members of the missing workers. "Despite the natural calamity that has stuck, NTPC Tapovan team is providing all assistance and cooperation to rescue agencies and administration round the clock since Sunday when the tragedy struck. Tapovan team is leaving no stone unturned to rescue its people and assisting the district administration," a company spokesperson said in the statement. Further, the Tapovan team has been working in close collaboration with various government organisations round-the-clock to ensure safe evacuation of the workers trapped at the Tapovan-Vishnugad Hydel Power Project. Rescue teams battled on against the odds for the sixth consecutive day to get to 25-35 people trapped in the sludge-choked tunnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ntpc-sets-up-medical-team-at-tapovan-site-950471.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||350-meter long lake formed upstream Rishiganga river||A 350 meter-long lake has formed upstream of river Rishiganga near here, the Uttarakhand Police said after a team of the State Disaster Relief Force trekked to the site on Friday. “As per preliminary information, a lake formation has been noticed near Raini village, but it has been discharging water. It appears that the lake is 350 meters long,” the state police said. It said that more details of the lake would be shared after the SDRF team returns from the site. A team of mountaineers and disaster relief personnel had gone on a trek to make an assessment of the formation of a lake at the place where the avalanche crashed into river Rishiganga on Sunday, leaving behind a trail of death and destruction. A geologist with Hemavati Nandan Bahuguna University, Naresh Rana, had shared a video claiming that a lake had formed eight kilometres from Raini village and cautioned that it could lead to flash floods, though not of the magnitude of the disaster that struck on Sunday. NDRF personnel tried to fly a drone over the area but were not successful as the device malfunctioned and crashed a little distance away from here. Meanwhile, the body of Basharat Ahmed Zargar, the General Manager of the Rishiganga hydroelectric project, was found as rescuers managed to reach the tunnel of the power plant on Friday. Zargar, a resident of Srinagar in Jammu & Kashmir, had been working on the Rishiganga project for more than a year and was visiting the project site to oversee maintenance work at the project site when the disaster struck. The death toll of Sunday’s disaster touched 38 on Friday of which 11 have been identified. The rescuers have also recovered 18 body parts from different places in Chamoli district. DNA samples of all the dead bodies and body parts have been taken in a bid to establish their identity. The last rites on 23 dead bodies and 10 body parts have been carried out as per religious practices as advised by a committee set up for the purpose, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/350-meter-long-lake-formed-upstream-rishiganga-river-950537.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||Jharkhand activists demand ban on Rihanna's cosmetic brand||Days after international popstar Rihanna came out in support of the protesting farmers, a group of child rights activists from Jharkhand have submitted a memorandum to the NCPCR, demanding it to ban her cosmetic brand for allegedly using mica from mines where child labourers are reportedly hired. National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) Chairperson Priyank Kanungo told PTI that the memorandum has been received and they are examining the matter. In the memorandum submitted to the NCPCR, the child rights activists under the banner of Jharkhand Bal Swecchik Manch have demanded a ban on Fenty Beauty for allegedly using mica from mines in Jharkhand where child labourers are reportedly hired. They also demanded a case must be registered against Rihanna and her showroom of the cosmetic brand must be shut down. The memorandum comes days after the international pop star came out in support of the ongoing farmers' protest who are demanding the repeal of the three agri laws||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jharkhand-activists-demand-ban-on-rihannas-cosmetic-brand-950542.html
12-02-2021||North and Central||Labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur granted bail in extortion case||Labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur has been granted bail in connection with an extortion case registered against her here. However, the 23-year-old activist will have to remain in the jail as her bail plea in another case was rejected on January 12. Kaur is currently lodged at a Karnal jail. She was granted bail by a court here on Thursday in the case registered against her at the Kundli police station on December 28 last year, a counsel said on Friday. Kaur, a member of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan, is facing three cases, including charges of attempt to murder and extortion. She was arrested for allegedly gheraoing an industrial unit and demanding money from the company in Sonipat, the Haryana Police had said. On Thursday, Punjab minister Aruna Chaudhary had urged the National Commission for Women (NCW) to intervene and ensure the release of Nodeep Kaur. Social Security, Women and Child Development Minister Aruna Chaudhary appealed to the NCW that the Punjab government through the state women's commission will lend legal assistance to Kaur. The Haryana government should be directed to arrange a meeting of a delegation of the commission with the labour rights activist, the minister had said. The Punjab State Commission for Women had sought a status report from the Sonipat Senior Superintendent of Police by February 15 in Kaur's matter. The chairperson of the Punjab panel, Manisha Gulati, said Kaur, a resident of Giadarh village of Muktsar district in Punjab, was arrested from the Kundli border. She said through a written communiqué, the Sonipat SSP has been directed to get the case of Kaur investigated by a senior officer. On February 8, the Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes had asked an additional chief secretary in the state to intervene in the matter and ensure relief to her at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/labour-rights-activist-nodeep-kaur-granted-bail-in-extortion-case-950549.html
12-02-2021||Opinion||Biden is the big spender America wants||By Paul Krugman A sustained campaign of lies on right-wing media — echoed by nearly half of the Republican senators — has convinced almost two-thirds of Republicans that the presidential election was somehow stolen. These lies set the stage for the January 6 attack on the Capitol, but a great majority of Republican senators appear set to acquit Donald Trump for his undeniable role in promoting that attack. Yet President Joe Biden’s plans to rescue the economy command overwhelming bipartisan support. My sense is that the remarkably strong public consensus in favor of Bidenomics has largely flown under the radar. To be sure, I’m not saying that the surprising unity among voters (but not politicians) on economic policy compensates for the terrifying fact that one of our two major parties no longer accepts the legitimacy of elections it loses. But it’s still important for America’s future. You might have thought that Democratic plans for a big rescue package, probably close to the $1.9 trillion the Biden administration has proposed, would lead to a Tea Party-style backlash. But a recent CBS News poll found that 79 per cent of those surveyed either believe that the package is the right size or think that it’s too small. There are, of course, partisan differences, but even among Republicans, 61 per cent support a plan as big as or bigger than the one in the works. This broad public support for Biden’s signature economic policy is stunning given the depth of our political divisions. It’s also very different from what we saw in the early months of the Obama administration, during the Great Recession. Biden has somewhat lower overall approval and much higher disapproval ratings than Barack Obama did at this point in his presidency. But Obama’s personal popularity didn’t translate into strong support for his stimulus plan, which only a narrow majority supported. Why is this time different? I’d suggest three reasons. First, the Obama plan was sold as stimulus: deficit spending to boost overall demand. This was the right thing to do, but the Keynesian economic theory that supports deficit spending during recessions has always been hard for many people to grasp. When John Boehner, the House Republican leader, complained that “American families are tightening their belt, but they don’t see government tightening its belt,” he was peddling junk economics, but it resonated with many voters. The Biden plan, by contrast, isn’t stimulus — even though many reports in the news media keep calling it that. It’s disaster relief. And at some level I think voters get that, and they support aid to those hurt by the pandemic. Second, the Obama stimulus was conflated in many people’s minds with other policies, such as Wall Street bailouts, that were deeply unpopular. In particular, the Tea Party movement was not, despite many claims from commentators, mainly a protest against budget deficits. It began with outrage over the idea that “losers” might receive debt relief. There isn’t anything comparable this time. Most Americans seem to realize that people who lost their jobs because of Covid-19 aren’t suffering for their own fecklessness. Finally, Republican politicians have lost all credibility on fiscal matters. In 2009 many people believed them when they pretended to care about budget deficits. Since then, both the failure of the often-predicted fiscal crisis to materialize and the way the GOP rammed through a huge, unfunded tax cut under Trump have made it hard to take such posturing seriously. In fact, the only coherent objections to the Biden plan seem to be coming from some center-left economists who worry that it will lead to economic overheating. Many, perhaps most other economists, myself included, disagree, and the plan is likely to pass more or less as proposed. But it’s striking that GOP politicians are barely even trying to challenge Democratic plans on the merits. This intellectual vacuum won’t stop Republicans in Congress from voting against the Biden plan, quite possibly unanimously. But in so doing they’ll be at odds not just with the general public but also with many of their own voters. And that may matter. In a better world, the Republican Party’s continuing fealty to a former president who tried to overturn an election with lies and violence would produce massive voter backlash; in America 2021, not so much. But bread-and-butter issues still move voters. Low unemployment helped Republicans do better in the 2020 elections than most analysts expected; the promise of relief checks helped Democrats win the Georgia runoffs and with the control of the Senate — which is, by the way, one reason it would be foolish to scale back relief spending because some economists think it’s excessive. This means that the refusal of Republicans in Congress to back highly popular economic policies may do the party more damage than their complicity in a violent attempt to reverse election results. It isn’t fair or right, but the GOP’s ideological rigidity in a time of economic crisis may matter more, politically, than its rejection of democracy and rule of law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/biden-is-the-big-spender-america-wants-950270.html
12-02-2021||Opinion||What went wrong and caused the potential Kuldeep Yadav fairy tale to unravel?||A little over 25 months ago, Kuldeep Yadav picked up his maiden five-wicket haul in Tests, in his first bowl in Australia at the Sydney Cricket Ground. The following day, his head coach insisted that the left-arm wrist-spinner had made a strong enough case to be a Test regular. Ravi Shastri’s proclamation came on Jan. 7, 2019, the day India officially secured their first series triumph Down Under. More than two years on, Kuldeep has yet to figure in any of India’s 14 subsequent Tests, at home and away. The dramatic fall from grace of a rare purveyor of an unusual craft has been one of the less-discussed tales in Indian cricket. In the sea of anguish following the World Cup semi-final loss to New Zealand in 2019 and the ocean of ecstasy owing to the emergence of such exciting talent as Shubman Gill, Washington Sundar and T Natarajan, the one-time darling of the think-tank has unobtrusively slipped into relative anonymity. Alongside Yuzvendra Chahal, Kuldeep was handpicked as the answer to India’s middle-over bowling woes in 50-over cricket in the immediacy of the Champions Trophy final loss to Pakistan in mid-2017. Instantly, the pencil-thin leg-spinner and his pixie mirror-image struck a wonderful tandem to justify the almost knee-jerk axing of R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja from the white-ball landscape after one ordinary tournament. Their compelling craft and mesmeric hold over crease-tied batsmen who saw spitting cobras in the little orbs of white propelled by strong fingers and supple wrists went a long way towards India rediscovering their limited-overs mojo. While Chahal was pigeonholed into the white-ball compartment, Kuldeep’s uniqueness – the number of active left-arm wrist-spinners in international cricket can be counted on half the fingers in one hand – and his first-class exploits had earned him a call-up to the longer version long before the status of a limited-overs saviour was conferred. On debut in March 2017, Kuldeep showed up the folly of not having blooded him at least a game earlier. On a Dharamsala surface with little 'Indian-ness', he flummoxed Australia’s best with variety and control; ironically, feeding off tips from Shane Warne, he bamboozled David Warner with a flipper and scythed through Peter Handscomb and Glenn Maxwell’s defences to finish with four for 68 in his first international bowl. Four years on, he has played a mere six Tests, even though he boasts a strike-rate of 41.2 – a wicket less than every seven overs. What’s gone so horribly wrong that the potential Kuldeep fairy tale has unravelled this spectacularly? Has he been struck down by a horror case of the 'yips' that wrist-spinners, in particular, are highly vulnerable to? Have analysts deconstructed his mystery, thus arming batsmen with information to not just survive against, but to actually dominate him? Has Kuldeep been slow to react and reinvent himself? Is he going through a crisis of confidence? At 26, is he already at a career crossroads? There is no all-encompassing answer to these intertwined questions though you’d tend to go with a long-drawn out, hesitant 'yesssss' to the last two. Kuldeep’s T20 form, especially, has been little more than ordinary in the last 22 months or so – he has only featured in 14 of the Kolkata Knight Riders' 28 matches in IPL 2019 and 2020 combined and finds himself out of the national team – but if he is in the Test squad, it must be construed that he is good enough to be picked in the 11. Kuldeep went to Australia ostensibly as the third spinner, behind Jadeja and Ashwin. He has since been superseded in the pecking order by Washington Sundar, Axar Patel and Shahbaz Nadeem. He watched from the sidelines at Chepauk last week as Washington and Nadeem casually released whatever pressure Ashwin might have created at the other end. If that didn't prick his pride, one's not sure what else will, truth to tell. It's not as if, in Jadeja's injury-enforced absence, Kuldeep is guaranteed to storm the citadel and provide the deliverance the team so badly needs. However, of all the spin resources at Virat Kohli’s disposal, he is the most likely after, or alongside, Ashwin to pick up wickets. For a captain who otherwise talks an aggressive game, Kohli’s conservatism when it comes to Kuldeep is as baffling as his lumping off-spinners and left-arm wrist spinners in the same basket. Kuldeep can’t return to wickets and confidence by watching from the outer or watching others taste success. Either he gets a game or is released to at least play domestic cricket – his last outing for Uttar Pradesh in any format was in November 2019 – so that he gets game time and a more realistic sense of where he stands as a bowler. This current impasse is in no one’s interest. (R Kaushik is a Bangalore-based cricket writer with nearly three decades of experience)  Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-went-wrong-and-caused-the-potential-kuldeep-yadav-fairy-tale-to-unravel-950324.html
12-02-2021||Panorama||As US revisits Doha Accord, regional peace hinges on what Pakistan does||The Joe Biden administration has indicated that it is reviewing the United States’ Doha Accord with the Taliban. Jake Sullivan, the US National Security Adviser, recently told his Afghan counterpart, Hamdullah Mohib, that Washington is “taking a hard look” at the agreement. The Doha Accord The accord, signed in Doha in February 2020 between the US and the Taliban, had many infirmities and conceded too much to the Taliban. The dialogue preceding the accord, though portrayed as broad-based, facilitated negotiations with the Haqqani Network (HN) -- a group that the US had called “a veritable arm of the ISI.” The morality behind negotiating with a group designated a Foreign Terrorist Organisation was buried and the New York Times even carried an op-ed by HN leader Sirajuddin Haqqani on whom the FBI has a $5 million bounty. Under Donald Trump, the US side took decisions that were not theirs to take, and the agreement with the Taliban contained secret annexures that were kept away from the legally constituted Afghan State. It was forced into referring to the Taliban as the ‘Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan’, which is not recognised by the United States as a State. The process was never Afghan-led, driven or owned. It was, at best, US-led, Pakistan-driven and Haqqani-owned. The levers remained with Pakistan, and a fallout is that the Taliban old guard, likely more reasonable, has probably been marginalised. The Taliban rebuffed US efforts to secure a ceasefire but agreed to a temporary reduction of violence, but in fact violence actually increased during the process. It has not lived up to its commitment to distance itself from the Al Qaeda. Washington, however, stuck to the timeline, bringing down troops from 12,000 to 4,500, and arm-twisted Kabul into releasing 5,000 Taliban prisoners. The next phase -- intra-Afghan negotiations -- has limped along without Kabul being enthusiastic. The negotiations are now focussed, though denied by Washington, on an interim administration and a Taliban-dominated advisory council. This is close to being conspiratorial as it means jettisoning Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and eroding his support base. When Afghan NSA Hamdullah Mohib complained that the US’ chief negotiator Zalmay Khalilzad was “delegitimising” the Kabul government and acting as a “viceroy,” the US reacted by making it known that it would no longer deal with him. The process undermined Kabul, the violence and assassinations were abhorrent. The lack of a forceful response from the US, or even calling the bluff about who was responsible, exposed the accord’s infirmities. This has portents for a future in which violence could force decisions.  The accord pivoted Pakistan, giving it a larger role. Pakistan sold (a) the idea that it could only do so much because there were limitations on the control it exercises (merely the latest in a long list –- non-state actors; Pakistan is also a victim of terror; etc); (b) it fed on US fears about Al Qaeda (AQ) and Islamic State-Khorasan (ISK) (it inconceivable that a 70-year-old Egyptian could move around undetected in Pakistan supervising a terrorist organisation, and the ISK appears to be hitting only Kabul); and (c) that India and its consulates were meddling inside Pakistan (our consulates in Jalalabad and Herat are now closed). The latest ploy is to prey on US fears of a civil war in Afghanistan if it revokes the agreement. It is not in Pakistan’s interest for the US to pull out. Pakistan does not have the economic heft to provide succour to Afghanistan. If there is a return to Taliban rule, or civil war, foreign aid will dry up and refugees will, inevitably, stream across the border. Pakistan would be hard-pressed to find the resources to look after them and they would create pressures in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, where a nationalist movement is underway. The agreement falls short of Indian expectations. The Haqqani Network has Indian blood on its hands, and it answers to Rawalpindi. What is also crucial is the role of non-state actors and sanctuaries -- the Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) operates in Afghanistan from sanctuaries in Kunar. It morphs as it suits them -- into the Taliban’s red unit, the ISK or even under the AQ’s black flag in Kunduz. They were with the ISIS in Syria. Our experience with them has been painful and they are, to us, an “irregular special forces arm of the Pak army.” They are a global menace.  Reactions to Biden review Demanding full implementation of the accord as the “best prescription and only roadmap for ending the war,” the Taliban warned of violence if the US forces were not withdrawn. To drum up regional support, Taliban leader Mullah Ghani Baradar visited Iran and Russia in end-January. In Tehran, Baradar told Ali Shamkhani, secretary of Iran’s Supreme National Security Council, that they “do not trust the US an inch and will fight any party that serves as its mercenary.” Shamkhani criticised US intentions but opposed a Taliban takeover. He was quoted as saying that Iran would “never recognise a group that wants to come to power through war.” Moscow expressed support for intra-Afghan talks to end the fighting and “create an effective national government.” It suggested enlarging the troika of China and Pakistan to work for a peaceful settlement. Moeed Yusuf, Pakistan’s equivalent of an NSA, stuck to script, cautioning that while Pakistan is “available to facilitate peace in Afghanistan”, it cannot be “the potential solution for all problems” and then be “seen as the reason for all evils” if there is no solution. NATO officials told Reuters that they expect the new administration to “tweak” its policy and international troops to stay on beyond the May deadline. They put the onus on the Taliban for not having met conditions.  For Biden, repudiating the accord could lead to more violence and loss of American lives. Sticking with the accord addresses some goals but does not guarantee that it will stem violence. Trying to distance the Taliban from the AQ is fine but the groups simply change their names and identities. Where does the US go from here? The plus is that you have the two sides talking. Reworking the accord to retain some troops -- for counter-terrorism (or a more robust CIA-contractor presence) would be practical and would create confidence in Kabul. An arrangement to bring the Taliban into government, instead of bringing in a new interim administration, would be one way of ensuring that the gains of the recent past are not jettisoned. But for that, the US needs to lean on Pakistan. The moot question is, how far can they push Pakistan without driving them into a warmer Chinese embrace? Whether Pakistan eschews export of terrorism or not is really the bellwether of Pakistani intentions. On this hinges regional peace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/as-us-revisits-doha-accord-regional-peace-hinges-on-what-pakistan-does-950481.html
12-02-2021||Panorama||Rote vs meaningful learning||India is going to join the league of 90 countries in the eighth cycle of Programme for International Students’ Assessment (PISA) in 2022. PISA aims at measuring 15-year-olds’ knowledge and skills in reading, mathematics and science. The OECD-steered PISA has acquired the reputation for benchmarking the educational health of countries, both developed and developing. Despite widespread criticisms about imposing western standards, unrepresentative samples of students at the national level, and its professed assessment of abilities required for modern economies, there is no other testing programme that influences policymakers and the public alike when the findings are made public every three years. Sample questions, for instance, on discounts and design of T-shirts are not necessarily familiar to all sections of a country’s population. A country like China is represented by four out of a total of 32 provinces in the last cycle of testing, giving a distorted picture of Chinese students’ performance. Though India will also be represented by the Union Territory of Chandigarh, Navodaya Vidyalayas and Kendriya Vidyalayas in 2022, the latter two have at least an all-India character, with students drawn from all over the country. The PISA tests are competency-based, unlike textbook-centric and content-based academic tests and examinations conducted in schools and by education boards. The New Education Policy (NEP) also recommends competency-based assessment to test higher-order skills such as analysis, critical thinking and conceptual clarity. These, along with problem-solving, collaboration and communication abilities comprise 21st century skills, which are spoken about extensively as requirements for global citizenship. Communication is not only the proficiency in language, but also its appropriate and effective usage. The latter has more to do with the culture, context and requirement. Competencies are considered as a combination of knowledge, skills and abilities. While knowledge is emphasised in school education, with a sizeable amount of time apportioned to developing cognitive capacities, students have fewer opportunities to engage with skill development. Skills require extensive provisioning of physical infrastructure, sufficient time for students to gain hands-on experience, and professional development of teachers to continuously hone their abilities to transact. Students’ abilities can be raised when they are enthused with opportunities of interactive and reflective classrooms. It requires not only change in the assessment practices but also the way the curriculum is transacted. Although subject-specific delivery of content, session after session, demarcated for different subjects, enables students to acquire information and understanding, it also deprives them of the scope for reflection and building inter-relationships among subjects. Teachers’ concern for covering the syllabus, students’ interest in marks, and parents’ anxiety for their wards to complete written homework, assignments, etc., makes learning a stale exercise. Learning assumes the shape of a highly patterned and monotonous activity, in the absence of a scope for its enrichment through mutual interaction between teachers and students and between students themselves. The NEP also recommends creation of space for a more holistic, inquiry-based, discovery-based, discussion-based and analysis-based learning. The grievance of enormous content to be delivered is also taken care of, with a plan to reduce the curriculum load, to facilitate interaction. This is inevitable in the context of the changing requirements of society. While early 20th century learning centered around meeting the challenges of manufacturing, which required standardisation and uniformity, 21st century learning goes beyond that to provide solutions to global scientific and technological challenges. While technological innovations in different fields emanate from some countries, others are used as sites of mass production. It calls for not only a rethink on curriculum development, transaction and assessment in higher education, but also in school education. Critical thinking, which is nothing but an objective analysis and evaluation of an issue, can be promoted across all stages of schooling with requisite competencies to be attained at each level. An illustration of how Grade-4 children’s learning in a government-run elementary school in New Brunswick in the state of New Jersey, US, shows how students can be given open-ended and diverse learning opportunities. The teacher in the class was involved in his own reading, while each of a pair of students were deeply engrossed in finding answers to the questionnaire that was supplied to them. They all had voluminous reference books before them and had to fill in answers to questions such as the name of the author, publisher, number of pages, year and place of publication, etc., by browsing through the book. Every pair of students had a different reference book, and the questions required time to find answers. The students were not in a hurry but were passionately involved in the assigned work. It was an opportunity for them to undertake and monitor their own learning, without the interference of a teacher. The moment they filled the answers in, they knew that they were able to complete the assigned task. It was not necessary that they found answers to all questions. More importantly, it enabled students to be independent learners, reflect on the assigned task, with enough time to find solutions based on their abilities, and comprised discussions among pairs of students to learn from each other. Certainly, the teacher had briefed the students before assigning the task, and after its completion there was a deliberation on how and what they learned. In this entire exercise, there was no stress on either the teacher or the student to complete the task in a specified time or cram in facts and figures. The information was already available, and the students only had to discover it. It is not only problem-solving but also critical thinking at that stage, for there would be no clear indication for instance of ‘name of the author’ in the reference book. It is often wondered why even at tertiary level some students fail to distinguish between a printer and publisher, and how to reference books. PISA is an opportunity and NEP the means to reverse the adversities in learning, but only if we do not fall into another trap -- of patterning the learning for PISA. (The writer is Professor & Principal, Regional Institute of Education, Mysuru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/rote-vs-meaningful-learning-950592.html
12-02-2021||Right in the Middle||The new burglar||There was a burglary in our house in Indiranagar, Bengaluru, some years ago. We had gone out of station for some days. When we returned and tried to open the door, it was bolted from inside. The thief had gained entry into the house through the back door. However, not many things were missing. One saree from the wardrobe, a small copper vessel and Rs 50 from an old purse was all that was taken away. Some dollar bills in the purse were not touched. Because the loss was not much, I decided not to report it to the police. I checked with the crime reporter of my paper, Deccan Herald, and he concurred. After two months, the reporter came to me and said that articles recovered from thieves were exhibited in the police station. Owners could go there, identify the articles and claim them. I gave him a description of the copper vessel, which was a curio. The next time he went to the station, he looked for it but couldn’t find it. The inspector asked him what he was looking for and he was told about the burglary. The inspector said the article wouldn’t be there if the theft was not reported, but in any case, he would try. He asked for the location of my house. The inspector then told a constable, “Go and fetch Velu.” The constable returned 20 minutes later with a short man in a lungi. A stern look, and some conversation, “Did you go to a house on 9th Main two months ago?” The man thought a bit and said, “No, sir.” The inspector stiffened and rose up from his seat, “Better tell me…” The man said again, “No, sir. Haven’t gone that side in many weeks.” Some stomping on the ground also did not help, the man stood his ground. The inspector told the man, “OK, go, but don’t forget this place.” As the man left, he had a worried look on his face. The inspector said, “See, this is the thief of that area. But he didn’t do this. Can’t do anything now.” And then he added, “You saw the worried look on his face? You know why? He knows that somebody has come into his territory and he has competition now. Now, that is a worry for us, too. We have to find this new man.”   When the reporter met the inspector after some days, he asked him whether they had found the new thief. The inspector said, “Not yet, we were busy. But the other day, when we were on our night rounds, we ran into Velu. He was on his own rounds, looking for the guy. Velu will get him for us.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-new-burglar-950596.html
12-02-2021||Second Edit||India, US: Drifting apart?||Statements issued by India’s Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and the White House on the recent conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and US President Joe Biden provide an early warning of issues that could become irritants, or worse, in the bilateral relationship in the coming months. Both statements highlighted convergence on a rule-based global order, a free and open Indo-Pacific and shared commitment to democratic values. Convergence on these issues suggests that there is ample scope for cooperation on several global issues, including concerns over an increasingly aggressive China. However, details mentioned in one statement and ignored in the other indicate that New Delhi and Washington may not be on the same page when it comes to strategies. Thus, while the US readout referred to “working together… through the Quad,” the MEA statement makes no mention of the grouping, suggesting that New Delhi remains uncertain over how far it is ready to go in joining hands with Washington to take on China. The two sides seem to have differences on the unfolding events in Myanmar, too; while the US statement calls for upholding the democratic process in Myanmar, the MEA statement is silent on the matter. Both statements express commitment to democratic values. The White House statement highlights Biden’s “desire to defend democratic institutions and norms around the world.” In the past, India may have echoed this desire or brushed it aside as mere lofty rhetoric that is often expressed in summit statements. That it finds no mention in the MEA statement is telling. Read alongside recent US reactions to developments in India, Biden’s interest in defending democratic norms abroad is not something that pleases the Modi government, given the perception among key voices and players in the US of a democratic regression in India. With regard to the farmers’ protests, for instance, the US State Department batted for the right to peaceful protest. The India Caucus in the US Congress has called on the Modi government to adhere to democratic norms in dealing with the protests. India can expect greater scrutiny of the health of its democracy by the Biden administration. The Modi government’s excessive and puerile reaction to tweets by Americans on its handling of the farmers’ protest suggests that it will not take criticism in its stride. All this portends the beginning of a cold phase, or worse, in India-US relations, and that won’t do any good to either country in the prevailing economic and geopolitical situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/india-us-drifting-apart-950593.html
12-02-2021||South||Fire breaks out at firecracker factory in Tamil Nadu's Virudhunagar; 15 dead||At least 15 persons were charred to death as an explosion ripped through a fireworks manufacturing unit near Sivakasi in Virudhunagar district in Tamil Nadu on Friday afternoon. More than 30 people working inside the factory in Achankulam village in Vembakkottai taluk have been rushed to various hospitals in the district after suffering severe burn injuries.  Many of the injured are said to be critical, Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan said, adding that doctors and nurses from other facilities are being rushed to the hospitals where the injured have been taken. Videos taken at the spot showed extensive damages to the sheds inside which the workers were making fire crackers. Eye witnesses said the explosion was huge and at least 15 persons died on the spot.  Safety inside the fireworks manufacturing units in and around Sivakasi, the fireworks capital of the country, has been a concern with activists alleging that the authorities did not have adequate measures in place to prevent such incidents. Virudhunagar district has over 1,100 fireworks manufacturing units with Sivakasi accounting for over 95 per cent of them. These units employ men and women who are daily wage labourers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the loss of lives in the accident and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh to the family of each of the deceased. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami also issued a statement saying the state government would hand out an additional Rs 3 lakh compensation each to the families of the deceased.  Palaniswami also ordered officials concerned to inspect fireworks manufacturing units periodically to ensure the safety of workers. “I have ordered for a detailed inquiry into the accident,” he said in the statement. Virudhunagar Congress MP Manickam Tagore asked Modi and Palaniswami to increase the ex-gratia amount and ensure that a team constituted in 2012 to suggest safety measures for the units to complete its work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/fire-breaks-out-at-firecracker-factory-in-tamil-nadus-virudhunagar-15-dead-950356.html
12-02-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh panchayat polls Phase II on February 13||As many as 2,786 panchayats in Andhra Pradesh are set to go for polls in the second phase on Saturday. The panchayat polls began from February 9 and would go on till February 21 in four phases, a press release from the Panchayat Raj Department said on Friday. The first phase was held on February 9. Elections would be held to elect 20,817 ward members, the release said. Polling would begin from 6.30 am and go on till 3.30 pm while counting of votes would begin at 4 pm. Though the elections were to be held for 3,328 Panchayat sarpanchs, 539 have been unanimously elected while no nomination was filed for three villages, it said. As many as 7,507 candidates are contesting for sarpanch posts and 44.876 are in the fray for ward members. The elections are held using ballot paper and without any political party symbols. Totally, 29,304 polling stations were set up out of which 5,480 have been identified as sensitive and 4,181 hypersensitive, the release said. All necessary precautions are in place as per Covid-19 protocols amid tight security and PPE kits would be provided to infected voters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-panchayat-polls-phase-ii-on-february-13-950362.html
12-02-2021||South||Three-phase uninterrupted power supply to pump sets: TN CM||In yet another attempt to woo farmers ahead of the April-May assembly elections, the AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu on Friday announced that it will provide “uninterrupted” three-phase electricity supply to their pump sets. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami told an election rally in Udumalaipettai Tiruppur district that his government was fulfilling the demands made by farmers one by one and will continue to work towards their interests. “Farmers have been demanding for a long time that they need a three-phase electricity supply to their pump sets. I would like to announce that the Amma's (Jayalalithaa's) government will now provide three-phase power supply to farmers' pump sets round-the-clock,” Palaniswami said. Farmers in Tamil Nadu have been getting free electricity supply since 2006 and there have been demands to ensure that their pump sets get three-phase supply without any interruption. Palaniswami has been using his campaign to make several announcements ahead of the elections. Friday's announcement comes a week after the Tamil Nadu government decided to waive off the loans based on demands from farmers who were affected due to the Covid-19 lockdown and cyclones that hit the Tamil Nadu coast late last year. Crop loans availed by 16.43 lakh farmers in cooperative banks in the state with the value of Rs 12,110 crore are being waived off. Palaniswami, who faces an acid test in the April-May assembly elections, projects himself as a “humble farmer” has risen to the top though hailing from a “farmer’s family.” Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu are scheduled in April-May and the AIADMK government has been making a slew of announcements in the past few weeks to woo voters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-phase-uninterrupted-power-supply-to-pump-sets-tn-cm-950420.html
12-02-2021||South||TN, Puducherry Assembly polls to be held simultaneously, says CEC Sunil Arora||Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said here on Friday the Assembly polls due in the next few months would be held simultaneously in Puducherry and Tamil Nadu. He was addressing reporters here before ending his two- day visit, along with a team from the Election Commission, to the Union Territory to review its poll preparedness. Asked about voting rights of members nominated to the Territorial Assembly, he said the Supreme Court had in 2018 ordered such members had voting rights. He read out the provisions for nomination of members in the Union Territory Act and from the extracts of the apex court judgement on voting rights for nominated legislators. Arora said he and his team have had discussions with the officials of various departments such as the enforcement departments and state-level bankers committee, among others. "It was a fruitful meeting," he said. The Chief Election Commissioner further said the commission would ensure free, fair, inducement-free and Covid-19-safe elections. He said there would be zero tolerance to misuse of money power and illegal distribution of freebies and other inducements to voters. He said the number of polling booths would be increased from 952 to 1,564 in the Union Territory. The election official said it was also insisted at the meeting that no polling station should be above ground-level as the aged and physically challenged voters should face no difficulty. He released a booklet on SVEEP (systematic voters education and electoral participation) and also flagged off a vehicle to highlight the chief features of SVEEP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-puducherry-assembly-polls-to-be-held-simultaneously-says-cec-sunil-arora-950460.html
12-02-2021||South||Indigenous mango gardens to be built across Kerala||In a bid to preserve hundreds of varieties of indigenous mangoes, as many as hundred mango gardens with each having over hundred mango trees of different indigenous varieties are being set up across Kerala. An initiative by a group of people at a village in Kannur district to protect an over 200 years old mango trees has led to the novel venture being supported by Kerala Agriculture Department. The mango gardens are being named after noted poet and environmentalist Sugathakumari. The first indigenous mango garden will be inaugurated at C Achutha Menon Government College at Kuttanellor in Thrissur district by Kerala agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar on Saturday. As many as 13,000 saplings were already prepared at a farm at Karimbam in Kannur district. Most of the saplings were collected from various premises in the Kannapuram and nearby panchayats in Kannur district. The gardens would be set up mainly on the premises of government institutions. Last year Kannapuram, which is around 15 kilometres from Kannur city, was declared as ‘Indigenous Mango Heritage area’ as over 200 varieties of indigenous mango trees were spotted in the area. Kerala State Biodiversity Board identified the area as heritage zone in coordination with the Kannapuram grama panchayat.  Shyju Machathi, a local farmer who has been coordinating these initiatives, said that at least 100 varieties of indigenous varieties of mango trees were protected in every 300-metre radius of the locality. The proposal to set up indigenous mango gardens across Kerala got triggered by these initiatives. A heritage walk for mango lovers, researchers and students was also being planned as part of the project, said Shyju who is also a city police officer. The agriculture department is also planning to set up a gene bank of the indigenous varieties of mango trees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/indigenous-mango-gardens-to-be-built-across-kerala-950505.html
12-02-2021||South||Prime accused in 25-year-old Kerala sex trade case gets 24 years in jail||The prime accused in a 25-year-old sex trade case in Kerala was sentenced to 24 years rigorous imprisonment by a court in Kottayam district on Friday. A minor girl hailing from Vithura in Thiruvananthapuram was allegedly lured by the accused, Suresh alias Shamsudeen Shajahan (51), hailing from Kollam district in 1995 with the help of another woman and was subjected to sex trade for several months at a brothel. Several prominent personalities, including an actor, were accused in the case but were later acquitted. Suresh, who was the prime accused in 24 cases registered in this connection, was initially absconding. His surrender came nearly 20 years after the others accused in the case were acquitted. However, he absconded again when he was out on bail and was later nabbed in Hyderabad. He was found guilty under various sections of the IPC and Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act. Since he could undergo the sentences for various offences concurrently, he needs to serve a jail term of around 10 years. A fine of Rs 1.09 lakh was also imposed on him which would be given to the victim as relief. The verdict in only one of the 24 cases was pronounced on Friday while that of 23 cases is still pending.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/prime-accused-in-25-year-old-kerala-sex-trade-case-gets-24-years-in-jail-950515.html
12-02-2021||South||Kerala NCP MLA announces leaving left-front, indecision of party leadership continues||Even as NCP MLA in Kerala Mani C Kappan has announced that he would leave the CPM led Left Democratic Front and join the Congress-led United Democratic Front, the NCP leadership was yet to make any formal announcements in this regard. Kappan’s decision was in protest against CPM’s stand that the Pala seat in Kottayam district, which is now held by Kappan, will be given to Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K Mani in the coming Assembly election.  Sources said that the indecision of NCP leadership is mainly since the national leadership did not want to worsen relations with the CPM. A section of NCP state leaders were also hopeful of the left-front continuing in power for a second term. Hence the party may not leave the LDF. Jose who recently joined LDF demanded the Pala seat citing emotional connection with the seat as his father K M Mani was Pala’s MLA for over 50 years till his death in 2019. Kappan won the seat in the by-poll that followed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-ncp-mla-announces-leaving-left-front-indecision-of-party-leadership-continues-950529.html
12-02-2021||South||Puducherry CM announces cash payment via DBT for free rice scheme||Chief Minister of Puducherry V Narayanasamy on Friday announced that the Territorial government has been remitting into bank accounts of each of the families in BPL (below poverty line) a sum of Rs 3,000 as cash equivalent to free rice for the last five months. He said he has given his approval to Welfare Minister M Kandasamy's decision to pay cash under the DBT (direct benefit transfer) system to the families holding red colour cards. The Chief Minister said the file containing the proposal has since been sent to Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi for her nod. He further said the government order would be issued to disburse the amount to the bank accounts. The payment would entail an expenditure of Rs 52.84 crores and benefit 1,76,134 families. The implementation of the scheme is in keeping with the announcement made on the floor of the Assembly recently, the Chief Minister said in a press release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-cm-announces-cash-payment-via-dbt-for-free-rice-scheme-950538.html
12-02-2021||South||4 dead, 13 injured as bus falls into gorge in near Visakhapatnam||Four people died and about 13 others were injured when a bus carrying over 20 passengers fell into a gorge at Anantagiri near Araku in Visakhapatnam district, a senior police official said on Friday. We have received information that four people died. The bus carrying them fell into a gorge. Our teams have reached the spot for rescue operations, Visakhapatnam range DIG Ranga Rao told PTI. Another senior police official said rescue operations by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and state Fire Service personnel were on standby. According to locals, the passengers were natives of Telangana who were on a visit to Araku, a hill station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/4-dead-13-injured-as-bus-falls-into-gorge-in-near-visakhapatnam-950570.html
12-02-2021||State||Karnataka BJP MLC likens Siddaramaiah to Donald Trump||Slamming the Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah, BJP MLC A H Vishwanath compared him with the former US President Donald Trump. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru, on Friday, Vishwanath said, "Like Trump, Siddaramaiah is not ready to accept his defeat," the BJP MLC ridiculed. He further said that Siddaramaiah has forgotten that the Congress itself is "AHINDA" (Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and Dalits). Siddaramaiah has no tradition and culture of the Congress party, Vishwanath said, adding that "he became chief minister owing to his luck."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-bjp-mlc-likens-siddaramaiah-to-donald-trump-950357.html
12-02-2021||State||Karnataka transport bus conductor puts kidney on sale to meet financial needs||Unable to meet daily expenses due to "deduction of salary", a 38-year-old bus conductor working with the state-owned transport corporation has posted on a social media site that he was ready to sell his kidney. He claimed the deduction due to the pandemic has worsened his financial condition. "I am a transport employee. I don't have money to pay for my ration and house rent. Hence, I have put my kidney on sale. Here is my phone number," Hanumanth Kalegar, who is working at the Gangavati depot of the North East Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC), posted on Facebook. He said even after working with the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation and now with the NEKRTC, there has been no improvement in his financial situation. Left with no option, he decided to sell his kidney, he told reporters. According to him, he has to pay house rent, buy groceries, take care of the education of his children and foot the medical bills of his parents. He added that he had to send his son studying in the fourth standard to grandparents to take care of his education. NEKRTC's Koppal Divisional Controller M A Mulla told PTI that the conductor has been irregular in his duty due to which his take-home pay is very less. "I told his family to ensure that he goes to work regularly without which his condition won't improve," Mulla said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-transport-bus-conductor-puts-kidney-on-sale-to-meet-financial-needs-950365.html
12-02-2021||State||Soaring diesel prices: Karnataka RTCs to propose fare hike of at least 20%||The steep hike in the diesel prices has forced the four road transport corporations of Karnataka to propose the state government to hike the fares of public transport by at least 20%. Speaking to DH, the Managing Directors of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation Shivayogi C Kalasad and North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation Krishna Bajpai said it has become inevitable for the corporations to increase the bus fare to minimise the operational losses. Kalasad said an increase of fare by 15% or 20% will reduce the operating losses of RTCs by at least 50%. He said, between April 2020 and January 2021, the fuel prices has gone up by nearly 50%. In the last eight months, the total losses accrued by the four RTC is pegged at Rs 2,500 crore. This also includes the loss caused by the lockdown-induced by the pandemic. Bajpai said NWKRTC hasn’t reached its pre-Covid passenger level till now. This is also resulting in operational losses. Add to it, the increase in labour charges and other operational charges has made it difficult to manage  without hike in fare, he said and added that the last hike in fare was three years ago. A meeting of all the four MDs of RTCs - KSRTC, BMTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC-- will be held soon and based on the meeting a proposal will be sent to finance department explaining the additional funds that would be required for the operations. Based on the response on how much the finance department can observe the losses, a proposal for hiking the bus fares will be sent to the government. Karnataka government, which is the final authority, will take a call on the quantum of hike, said Kalasad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/soaring-diesel-prices-karnataka-rtcs-to-propose-fare-hike-of-at-least-20-950478.html
12-02-2021||State||ICAR-CPCRI receives national patent||The Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (ICAR-CPCRI), Kasargod has been granted a national patent for ‘Manually Operated Coconut Kernel Slicing Machine’ for its invention, from The Patent office, Government of India. The machine developed by the institute is for slicing coconut kernel. Coconut chips (also a patented technology of CPCRI) was made manually using a potato slicer previous to the invention. The process was quite cumbersome and time consuming. Coconut chips of uniform size and thickness can be made faster using the machine without any drudgery. The patented machine has been commercialised by the institute and is being used by several entrepreneurs in the coconut chips processing centres all over India, said Dr Anitha Karun, Director (in charge) of CPCRI. Another patent granted recently is for ‘a controlled release dispenser,' with ordered pore channels, for delivery of semiochemicals of rhinoceros beetle and red palm weevil’ which was developed jointly  by CPCRI and Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Department of Science and Technology, Bengaluru. In the past CPCRI had received seven patents for its machineries for coconut processing and value addition previously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/icar-cpcri-receives-national-patent-950483.html
12-02-2021||State||DH News Quiz bumper prize winner drives home SUV||The winners of the DH and PV News Quiz contest were felicitated here on Friday. The bumper prize winners of both DH and PV News Quiz contests were rewarded with a Maruti Suzuki Swift car each. Renowned sandalwood actress Shwetha Srivatsav handed over the bumper prizes to the quiz contest winners at DH and PV office. Arun A, a finance executive with a private firm in Bengaluru, who won the DH News Quiz contest, expressed his joy on winning the bumper prize. "I have been a regular reader of DH and the quiz contest caught my attention from the day one. While I used to answer the daily quiz contest on my own, the contest was tricky with tough questions on Sundays. But my brother and cousins helped me in cracking those questions. I owe my success to my brother and family members," Arun said. Arun's brother Santhosh Kumar, an avid reader of DH said, "As a student I used to regularly participate in quiz and other contests conducted by DH especially during Cricket World Cups and IPL tournaments."  Vinutha M, a techie, won the PV News Quiz contest bumper prize. Vinutha's mother Shashirekha said, "My daughter regularly reads Prajavani everyday and took part in the contest. She was thrilled every time answering the questions." Handing over the awards, Actress Shwetha said, "Quiz especially those on news events would help boost the morale of the participants. As a journalism student, I strongly feel that the print media still plays a crucial role in our lives." Sitaraman Shankar, CEO and Editor, DH, said, "This was the first of its kind event by the DH and the participation from the readers was overwhelming." Ravindra Bhat, Executive Editor of Prajavani, shared that the readers' response to the quiz has yet again demonstrated that the print media is as strong as before. The news quiz was held over six weeks (42 days), starting November 15. The participants were required to read Deccan Herald and Prajavani newspapers everyday and answer the questions based on the news. The quiz contest witnessed participation by more than 40,000 people. Apart from bumper prizes, regular prizes like tiffin boxes and luxury watches were also given to the winners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dh-news-quiz-bumper-prize-winner-drives-home-suv-950560.html
12-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Treat complainants with 'utmost respect', Yediyurappa tells police officials||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Friday asked police officials to be polite and considerate to complainants approaching police stations. "I have a piece of advice to the senior officials that people visiting the police station should be treated with utmost respect and humility. Listen to their grievances and address them sincerely, Yediyurappa told reporters after attending the Karnataka Senior Police Officers Annual Meet here. He said a host of issues was discussed during the meeting ranging from law and order to cybersecurity. Yediyurappa said he was happy to note that the crime rates and atrocities on women and children in the state have come down substantially when compared to other states. This is a matter of pride for the state, he said. However, cybersecurity may pose a big challenge in the coming days, the Chief Minister said. Eight police stations to detect cyber crime, economic offences and narcotics (CEN) have been set up in as many locations in Bengaluru, he said. He further said the state government has set up an anti-terrorism squad to keep a tab on terrorist activities in the city. Yediyurappa told reporters that he unveiled the action plan of the Directorate of Forensic Science Laboratory for the years 2021-2024. He told the senior police officials that initiatives would be taken to strengthen the department so that law and order is maintained and people live peacefully. State Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Additional Chief Secretary Rajneesh Goel and the Director General of Police Praveen Sood were also present at the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/treat-complainants-with-utmost-respect-yediyurappa-tells-police-officials-950414.html
12-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka will become revenue deficit state if Centre does not extend GST compensation period: G C Chandrashekar||Karnataka - which is expected to have a debt of over Rs 4 lakh crore at the end of this fiscal year -  will become a revenue deficit state if the Centre does not extend the GST compensation period, Congress MP G C Chandrashekar said on Friday in the Rajya Sabha.       Participating in a debate on Budget 2021, Chandrashekar pointed out that the GST compensation provided to Karnataka since 2018-19 was very low despite the state being the third highest tax generator in the country. At the time of implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) on July 1, 2017, the Centre had promised to compensate states for loss of revenue for five years at an agreed formula.       Chandrashekar said Karnataka is in a bad financial situation as its debt is rising every year and is expected to cross Rs 4 lakh crore this fiscal year from Rs 3.27 lakh crore in 2019-20. The state's transportation department is struggling to pay salaries of its staff and could pay half salary in December 2020 and is yet to decide for January, he said, adding that in the current situation it can only afford fuel for buses.   Even the Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is considering borrowing Rs 250 crore, while the transportation department has already mortgaged BMTC head office and is mulling mortgaging more assets, he added.       "If this situation continues and the GST compensation period is not extended, then Karnataka will move from revenue surplus state to revenue deficit state. Then money will have to be borrowed to pay salaries and administrative costs leaving development activities," Chandrashekar noted.     Expressing concern over low GST compensation given to Karnataka, the Congress leader said the state had contributed Rs 79,000 crore GST revenue in 2018-19 but in return got only Rs 10,754 crore as compensation. Similarly in 2019-20, the state contributed Rs 84,000 crore GST revenue and received Rs 16,628 crore compensation.     For 2020-21, the revised estimate shows GST compensation to Karnataka at Rs 7,900 crore, less than Rs 28,000 crore budgeted as GST divulsion, he said.     Further, he said the government has not given the special grant of Rs 5,495 crore for 2020-21 despite being recommended by the 15th Finance Commission to offset the losses.     While noting that the Centre has failed to fulfill the promises it made, the Congress leader said suburban rail project to ease Bengaluru traffic was announced in 2018 but work has not yet commenced. The promise of conducting banking exams in regional languages has also not been kept.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-will-become-revenue-deficit-state-if-centre-does-not-extend-gst-compensation-period-g-c-chandrashekar-950442.html
12-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Quarry-affected Karnataka villagers court arrest during protest||Defying the prohibitory orders, the residents of Chandahalli in Maddur taluk are braving an alleged crackdown by the local administration to protest against a quarry crushing rocks for the Bengaluru-Mysuru Highway Project. The villagers have been protesting for the 15 days after the authorities allegedly failed to ensure the safety of their properties and compensation for the losses suffered by them. However, the officials are confident that the ‘logjam’ between quarry owners and locals will be resolved soon to facilitate road construction works. On Friday, the demonstrators continued their protest in a quarry pit amidst heavy police deployment. Though the locals were wary of the police action against them, support from local organisations bolstered their confidence. Contentions Many of the villagers, though not opposed to the quarry, insist that the activity be carried out following all government regulations. Leading the protest, Ramesh Gowda of Kasturi Karnataka Janapara Vedike contended that the authorities and the company, involved in quarrying, has meted out injustice to the locals after assuring them of compensation for the damages caused. “We have held protests five times over the last few months. Previous demonstrations were stopped by slapping fake cases against villagers,” he claimed. Krishnappa is among the residents of the village whose house has borne the brunt of blasting at the quarry. “For the first month, everything was fine. However, for more than six months now, the intensity of the blasts has caused problems for everyone,” he said. Those with kutcha residences fear that continued quarrying will bring down the walls of their homes. Another resident Nagamma accused the authorities of turning a blind eye towards the plight of the villagers. “Despite well-irrigated lands around, Chandahalli is a rain-fed village. If all water sources are contaminated, how are we supposed to live here? Only if the district administration conducts a thorough health check-up will they understand the extent of the problem the quarry has caused over the years,” she said. Premature and aborted birth of calves and lambs, contaminated water sources and constant dust are among the issues faced by the residents. Tahsildar reaction When contacted, Maddur tahsildar Vijaykumar H B said that the quarry was leased to a private firm constructing NH-275 and all guidelines have been followed. “The company has already offered Rs 40 lakh compensation to affected villages. They have also given an undertaking to offer assistance to anyone affected,” he said.  Protesters arrested Mandya police detained Chandahalli villagers who were demonstrating against the quarry on Friday evening. According to locals, 42 residents of the village were detained for protesting despite the prohibitory orders. They were held at Maddur Rural police station, with sources hinting at possible FIRs against the protestors for the blockade against the quarry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/quarry-affected-karnataka-villagers-court-arrest-during-protest-950561.html
12-02-2021||West||'Kisan Mahapanchayat' to be held in Yavatmal on February 20||Amid the farmers’ protest, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait will hold a 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' and a public rally in Yavatmal district in the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra on February 20. Scores of farmers from Vidarbha, the epicentre of agrarian distress, and other regions in the state will be attending the Mahapanchayat. The Yavatmal meeting would be the first Kisan Mahapanchayat outside the North Indian belt. The drought-prone Yavatmal district has seen the maximum suicide by farmers. On March 19, 1986, close to 34 years ago, a farmer Sahebrao Karpe and his entire family comprising wife and four minor children, ended their lives at Cheelgavhan village in Yavatmal district – the first reported suicide by a family because of an agrarian crisis. “Yavatmal is known for cotton farming and is also referred to as the graveyard of the farmers,” said political analyst and activist Jatin Desai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kisan-mahapanchayat-to-be-held-in-yavatmal-on-february-20-950286.html
12-02-2021||West||Chanda Kochhar appears before PMLA court in money laundering case||Former ICICI Bank CEO and MD Chanda Kochhar appeared before a special PMLA court here on Friday in connection with the ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case. The special court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) had on January 30 summoned Chanda Kochhar, her husband Deepak Kochhar, Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot and other accused in the case after taking cognisance of the Enforcement Directorate's (ED) charge sheet. Chanda Kochhar appeared before the special Judge A A Nandgoankarand filed a bail application through her lawyer Vijay Agarwal. The court asked the ED to file its reply on her bail application. The ED had arrested Deepak Kochhar in September 2020 after it filed a criminal case for money laundering based on an FIR registered by the CBI against the Kochhars, Dhoot and others. The ED has alleged that Rs 64 crore, out of a loan amount of Rs 300 crore sanctioned by a committee of ICICI Bank headed by Chanda Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Limited, was transferred to Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd (NRPL) by Videocon Industries on September 8, 2009, a day after the disbursement of loan. NRPL was earlier known as Nupower Renewables Limited (NRL) and is owned by Deepak Kochhar, the ED said. Taking cognisance of the charge sheet, Judge A A Nandgoankar had observed, "After going through the submissions, written complaints and statements recorded under PMLA, it appears that Chanda Kochhar had misused her official position in granting loan to accused Dhoot and/or Videocon group companies." "And (it appears) she got illegal gratification/undue advantage through her husband...through various companies for siphoning off money and proceeds of crime," the court had said. The material produced by the ED constitutes the commission of offence, and it is "sufficient to proceed against the accused persons", the court had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chanda-kochhar-appears-before-pmla-court-in-money-laundering-case-950320.html
12-02-2021||West||Chanda Kochhar gets bail in ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case||Former ICICI Bank CEO and MD Chanda Kochhar was granted bail by a special PMLA court here on Friday in connection with the ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case. The special court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) had on January 30 summoned Chanda Kochhar, her husband Deepak Kochhar, Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot and other accused in the case after taking cognisance of the Enforcement Directorate's (ED) charge sheet. Accordingly, Chanda Kochhar appeared before special court judge A A Nandgoankar. Following her appearance, her lawyer Vijay Agarwal filed her bail application. The court allowed the same on a bond of Rs 5 lakh. The ED had arrested her husband Deepak Kochhar in September 2020 after it filed a criminal case for money laundering based on an FIR registered by the CBI against the Kochhars, Dhoot and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/chanda-kochhar-gets-bail-in-icici-bank-videocon-money-laundering-case-950330.html
12-02-2021||West||Goa tourism department launches crackdown on unregistered hotels||Goa minister Manohar Ajgaonkar on Friday said the tourism department has launched a crackdown on hotels that are operating illegally without registering with themselves. Speaking to reporters, the tourism minister said several tourists check into unregistered accommodation facilities because of which the exact number of tourists arriving in the state could not be calculated properly. According to an initial survey conducted by consultancy firm KPMG, at least 80 lakh tourists had visited the state in the last tourist season (2019-20), Ajgaonkar said. The firm conducted a survey again after going through unregistered hotels and accommodations, which revealed that 1.5 crore tourists had arrived in the state during the same season, he said. Talking about the carnival parades beginning from February 13, the minister said the float parades would be held only for two days keeping in mind the Covid-19 restrictions. Float parades are necessary for economic activity in the state and also to attract more tourists during these days, he said. Carnival revellers should enjoy the festivities while abiding by Covid-19 norms, he added. Carnival float parades would be held in Panaji on February 13 and at Margao on February 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-tourism-department-launches-crackdown-on-unregistered-hotels-950352.html
12-02-2021||West||TRP scam: HC extends Arnab Goswami's interim relief till March 5||The Bombay High Court hearing the TRP scam case on Friday extended till March 5 the interim protection against coercive action granted to journalist Arnab Goswami and other employees of ARG Outlier Media that runs Republic TV channels. The interim relief was extended after the high court adjourned the hearing on ARG's plea challenging the investigation of Mumbai police in the TRP scam case. Friday's hearing was adjourned after the Maharashtra government's counsel, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, pointed out that in its rejoinder affidavit filed last week to counter the police's charge sheet, ARG had relied upon several new documents that were not part of its petition. Sibal said that since he would need time to respond to the new documents, ARG's counsel senior lawyer Harish Salve must not rely upon those documents during his day's arguments. Salve, however, insisted on relying upon those documents. The court then adjourned the hearing after accepting Sibal's statement that the interim protection granted to Goswami and the others will continue till the next date. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale said it will hear the plea through video-conferencing only for its interim prayer of protection on March 5. The bench will hear ARG's main prayers challenging the police's investigation and seeking the transfer of probe to the CBI or any other independent agency, on March 16 via physical hearing. Salve told the court that he had taken the vaccination for Covid-19 recently and was due for the next shot of the vaccine six weeks later. Therefore, he will not be able to travel to attend the physical hearing. The court then intervened on a lighter vein and asked the Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, when the judges and senior lawyers were likely to get the vaccine? "I am deviating, but Mr Singh (ASG), why is vaccination not happening for us also?" the bench asked. ARG media and Goswami had approached the high court last year, filing a bunch of petitions seeking several reliefs in the TRP scam. They alleged that the whole case was malafide and that they have been targeted for Republic TV's reportage in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, and the Palghar lynching case, last year. Last month, the Mumbai police had filed two affidavits in the case through Commissioner of Police Param Bir Singh, and ACP Shashank Sandbhor of the crime branch saying it had not targeted Republic TV or its employees. The police had said its probe was not a result of any political vendetta. The same HC bench on Friday adjourned another petition filed by Goswami, seeking to quash the case lodged against him in a 2018 abetment of suicide case. This plea will also be heard on March 5. Goswami and two others have been accused of abetting the suicide of an interior designer Anvay Naik. The trio were arrested in the case and later released on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/trp-scam-hc-extends-arnab-goswamis-interim-relief-till-march-5-950360.html
12-02-2021||West||Serum Institute of India fire caused by short circuit, says Maharashtra Deputy CM Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the fire that broke out at the Serum Institute of India (SII) here last month, in which five persons died, was caused due to short circuit. Five labourers had died in the fire that broke out in a five-storey building in the SII's Manjari premises in Pune on January 21. However, the Covishield vaccine production was not impacted due to the blaze. Pawar, while addressing the media after the annual general meeting of districts under Pune division ahead of the state budget, said he had visited the institute after the fire in the presence of senior officials, including the collector. "The premises where the blaze erupted was empty and work was going on there. It is a private institute and they are carrying out their audit. The government is also investigating. There is no other cause behind the fire other than short circuit," he said. Speaking about the vaccination drive against Covid-19, Pawar said Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had initially given a statement that the Centre will be providing vaccination to all. "He later gave a statement that they will be providing vaccine to three crore people, including paramedical staff and security forces. And now, he has again given a statement that 30 crore people will be given the vaccine," Pawar said. "The health minister has been giving different statements, but if you ask the state government's opinion, every state feels that it is the Centre's responsibility to provide the vaccine," he added. If all states request the Centre, it will have to accept their demand, he said. Meanwhile, Pawar reiterated that Shiv Jayanti or the birth anniversary of Chhatrapati Shivaji should be celebrated in a simple manner in view of the pandemic. "Not more than 100 people should gather at one place for the celebrations," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/serum-institute-of-india-fire-caused-by-short-circuit-says-maharashtra-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-950401.html
12-02-2021||West||Gujarat local polls: BJP fields 31 Muslim candidates in Bharuch||The BJP has given tickets to as many as 31 Muslim candidates in Bharuch district for February 28 elections to local bodies in Gujarat. According to Marutisinh Atodariya, district BJP chief, this is for the first time that the party has fielded so many candidates from the Muslim community in the district. But he denied that this has anything to do with a rival alliance between the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) and Asaduddin Owaisi's All-India Majlis-e-Ittehadul-Muslimeen. Bharuch district, with a sizable number of Muslim voters, will see elections to the district panchayat, nine taluka (tehsil) panchayats and four municipalities. "Of total 320 candidates declared by the BJP parliamentary board on Wednesday for the district, 31 are Muslim, the highest ever in Bharuch so far," Atodariya said. Some candidates may be replaced if their nominations get rejected by the election authorities, he added. Bharuch district panchayat, which has 34 seats, was ruled by the Congress and Jhaghadia MLA Chhotu Vasava's BTP which was formed following a split in the JD(U). Recently, Vasava announced poll alliance with AIMIM and also held a joint rally with Owaisi last week. But Atodariya denied that this alliance prompted the saffron party to pick more Muslim candidates. "We have not selected candidates just because they belong to a minority community. They were selected on merit. For instance, we have selected a Muslim BJP worker for Valia seat in district panchayat where Hindus are in majority," he said. The BJP's acceptability among Muslims has increased and many of them have joined the party, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-local-polls-bjp-fields-31-muslim-candidates-in-bharuch-950431.html
12-02-2021||West||Fadnavis questions delay in filing FIR in TikTok star's suicide||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday questioned the `delay' by police in filing a First Information Report in the alleged suicide by a 23-year-old woman in Pune city, and sought a thorough probe. He has written to the Maharashtra Director General of Police about the incident and sought his intervention, the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly told reporters. The woman, who hailed from Beed district, died after falling from the balcony of a flat in Hadapsar area of Pune in the wee hours of Monday. Some social media posts had claimed that she was in a relationship with a state minister. The woman was known for her videos on social media platforms such as TikTok and Instagram. After her death, audio clips of her purported conservation with two persons also went viral. "My office received 12 clips of two persons talking about the woman," Fadnavis said, adding that he forwarded these clips to the DGP's office. "It is unfortunate that a young woman who was making her name on social media dies in suspicious manner. I can not understand what is stopping Pune police from filing an FIR," the former chief minister said. BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar had alleged in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday that a state minister was involved in the case. A senior official from Wanwadi police station told PTI on Friday that an accidental death report was registered in the case, and an FIR is registered in such cases only if probe confirms that it was a suicide. "There was no suicide note. But we are probing all angles," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fadnavis-questions-delay-in-filing-fir-in-tiktok-stars-suicide-950488.html
12-02-2021||West||Maharashtra: Sarpanch flies in chopper to take oath||At a time when the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government and Raj Bhavan incumbent Bhagat Singh Koshyari are engaged in a political war over state government’s jet, a newly-elected sarpanch from Ahmednagar district made news when he flew in a helicopter to take charge. Hundreds of people assembled to see the helicopter and welcome Jalinder Gagare at Ambi-Dumala village in Sangamner in Ahmednagar, nearly 200 kms from downtown Mumbai. The 50-year-old Gagare is a local businessman and stays in Pune. He flew in from Pune in a chopper and after landing he sat on a bullock cart to reach the gram panchayat office. The nine-member panel led by Gagare has swept the polls in Ambi-Dumala. “I wanted to work for the village and come back to my village,” he said. Gagare added that he wanted to make this a memorable event in the village’s history – and that was the purpose of coming in a helicopter. Despite being in Pune, he had not lost connection with the village and had given employment to several youths of his village and neighbouring areas. "I want to develop the village and transform it completely," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sarpanch-flies-in-chopper-to-take-oath-950508.html
12-02-2021||West||Maharashtra Congress passes resolution against 'anti-people' Modi government||The Maharashtra Congress on Friday passed a resolution accusing the Narendra Modi government at the Centre of pursuing anti-people policies. After the meeting in which the 'Modi sarkar chale jao' resolution was passed , AICC Maharashtra in charge H K Patil said ministers from his party in the MVA government have been told to ensure the Centre's new farm laws are not implemented in the state. He said steps should be taken to reject the three agricultural marketing laws when the session of the Maharashtra legislature begins on March 1. The Maharashtra Congress resolution said the Modi government was running the country in a dictatorial manner for a few industrialists and its policies, like demonetisation, GST, farm laws etc had brought about large scale unemployment. The resolution said 200 farmers had died since the agitation against the three laws began a few months ago, and those taking part were being wrongly termed "Khalistanis, Naxals and terrorists". Senior Congress leader and former CM Prithviraj Chavan said the MVA government, which also has Shiv Sena and NCP as constituents, was formed to keep the BJP away from power. He said the MVA should work together to defeat the BJP in the upcoming local bodies polls. Newly-appointed state unit chief Nana Patole said the Centre had betrayed farmers, adding that the Congress "would not allow the Modi government to sell the country's assets."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-congress-passes-resolution-against-anti-people-modi-government-950512.html
12-02-2021||West||Free masks, strict Covid-19 SOPs in place for Goa carnival||As Goa gears up to celebrate the popular festival of the carnival on Saturday, festival organisers on Friday said that 10,000 masks would be distributed free of cost to revellers attending the first float parade of the festival which kicks off in Panaji. Goa Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar also said that it was critical for Goa to organise the carnival event in order to keep abreast of tourism destinations like Kerala. "Carnival is a state festival. It gives Goa a national and international profile as a tourism destination," Ajgaonkar told DH on Friday. The minister also said that the Covid-19 SOPs would be strictly implemented. "If we shut down carnival this year on account of Covid, we will regress as far as the tourism sector is concerned and we could lose to competing destinations like Kerala," Ajgaonkar also said, stating that he anticipated a high inflow of tourists claiming flight tickets to Goa had tripled their fares for the upcoming weekend. The Goa Carnival held each year ahead of a 40-day Lent, a period of fasting for Catholics, is the former Portuguese colony's most famous legacy. The traditional carnival is unique to Goa as far as India is concerned, and was introduced by the Portuguese colonists who ruled over Goa for nearly four centuries as a pre-fasting festival. The festival, held in February every year, involves a public celebration with float parades in most towns across the state with dressed-up street performers, musicians and entertainers, involving indulgence in food, drink and general merriment later in the evening. This time, however, the festival's float parade will be limited to just two towns, Panaji and Margao, on account of the pandemic. "We decided to focus only on these two cities because of Covid-19. We hope people will understand the reason behind this decision," Ajgaonkar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/free-masks-strict-covid-19-sops-in-place-for-goa-carnival-950534.html
12-02-2021||West||Nana Patole hit out at PM for 'andolan jeevi' comment||Getting into the driver's seat of a tractor, newly-appointed Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole drove to the historic August Kranti Maidan made his presence felt and hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his ‘andolan jeevi’ comment. He accused Modi of being ‘dhongi jeevi’ – a comment that would not go down well in the saffron party. Patole (57), who hails from the OBC Kunbi community, is an ex-MP and a four-time MLA. A Congressman, he joined the BJP in 2015 and successfully contested the Lok Sabha elections from Bhandara-Gondiya. However, in 2017, he was the first to raise a banner of revolt against Modi on farmers' issue and resigned and rejoined the Congress. Patole took over Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) from state Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat. "People did not vote for the Modi government to sell the country's assets and destroy the country. Farmers interests need to be protected and their agriculture produce should be given a good price. Congress will not allow any of the national assets in Maharashtra to be sold," Patole, a firebrand leader from the Vidarbha region, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nana-patole-hit-out-at-pm-for-andolan-jeevi-comment-950544.html
