13-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Merge Surathkal with Hejamadi toll plaza immediately'||Toll Gate Virodhi Horata Samiti of Surathkal urged officials to merge Surathkal toll plaza with Hejamadi toll gate immediately before making FASTag mandatory at toll plazas. The Samiti will stage a protest and stop the toll collection if FASTag system is made mandatory for all vehicles at Surathkal toll plaza from February 15, Samithi Convener Muneer Katipalla warned while addressing media persons on Friday. Despite government approving the merger of Surathkal toll plaza with Hejamadi toll plaza in January 2018, the Centre has failed to implement the decision. "If the FASTag is made mandatory, then the status quo of providing an exemption for local vehicles should be maintained," he urged. MP and BJP State President Nalin Kumar Kateel had stated that Union Minister Nithin Gadkari had promised to convene a meeting of NHAI officials to discuss closing the toll gate at Surathkal. Katipalla referred to the promise saying it was an attempt to divert people's attention. Katipalla said there is no need for a meeting, officials have to just implement the decision that was taken in 2018. The FASTag will take away the exemption for the local vehicles given at the toll gate. "The exemption from paying toll for the local vehicles at Talapady and Brahmarakootlu toll plazas in Dakshina Kannada should continue," he said. He added that exemption to Padubidri residents from paying toll at Hejamadi toll plaza should be extended to vehicles owned by residents of Mulki, situated just a half kilometre away from Hejamadi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/merge-surathkal-with-hejamadi-toll-plaza-immediately-950638.html
13-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt plans to introduce syllabus for Madrasa students||Karnataka government plans to introduce a syllabus for students studying in Madrasas across the state, Minister for Textiles and Minorities Welfare Srimantha Balasaheba Patil said.  As per this plan, students will receive a certificate equivalent to SSLC which will help enrol in PUC or other courses, Patil said. The Minister said children in Madrasas had been deprived of formal education. "To implement a syllabus for students of Madrasas, consultations were held with members of Muslim community leaders and education experts. In addition to religious education, Madrasa students will also be taught English, Mathematics and other subjects," he added. ITI with job-oriented courses will be set up in each district under the aegis of Minorities Welfare Department, along with polytechnic institutions at the division level. Patil said that five Priyadarshini outlets in Bengaluru were renovated. Measures will be taken to increase the sale of handlooms and textile products in Karnataka through digital marketplaces like Amazon and Flipkart. A meeting of textile experts and entrepreneurs will convene at the Investors meet in Bengaluru on February 23. The department had decided to confer 'Nekara Prashasthi' award to five weavers in the state every year. The award will be presented this year on August 7, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-plans-to-introduce-syllabus-for-madrasa-students-950726.html
13-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||ICAR-CPCRI bags patent for coconut kernel slicing machine||Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (ICAR-CPCRI)-Kasargod has been granted a national patent for its invention, ‘Manually Operated Coconut Kernel Slicing Machine’, from Indian Patent Office. The machine developed by the Institute is for slicing coconut kernel. Coconut chips (also a patented technology of the CPCRI) was made manually using the potato slicer prior to the invention. The process was quite cumbersome and time-consuming. Coconut chips of uniform size and thickness can be made faster using the machine without any drudgery. The patented machine was commercialised by the Institute and is used by many entrepreneurs in the coconut chips processing centres across India, said Dr Anitha Karun, Director (In-charge) of CPCRI.  Another patent granted recently is for ‘A Controlled Release Dispenser,' with ordered pore channels, for delivery of semiochemicals of rhinoceros beetle and red palm weevil’ which was developed jointly by CPCRI and Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Department of Science and Technology, Bengaluru. The CPCRI has already received seven patents for its machineries for coconut processing and value addition previously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/icar-cpcri-bags-patent-for-coconut-kernel-slicing-machine-950737.html
13-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cess on fuel inevitable: Minister Somashekar||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Saturday said that the cess on fuel is inevitable as the Covid-19 has had a serious impact on the economy. The minister was addressing reporters in a press conference, here. He said, there was no tax collection during the lockdown. The cess on petrol and diesel is inevitable to compensate for this shortage and price increase in not to burden people, he said, adding, welfare of the people of the nation is important for the government, but the country’s economy is yet to recover. He also defended the Union budget and said that the Central government concentrated on Karnataka and announced funds for various project like roads, metro and railways. There was no injustice for the state, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cess-on-fuel-inevitable-minister-somashekar-950930.html
13-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt committed to boost tourism sector: CM||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday assured of taking measures to boost tourism and hospitality sector in Mysuru. The CM was addressing after releasing the works of senior journalist Amshi Prasanna Kumar, ‘Mysuru Sutta Mutta Noorondu Pravasi Tanagalu’ and its English version ‘Mysuru, The Tourist Paradise’, translated by R Nagabhushan, at Kalamandira, here. The CM said, "Hotel industry, travel agencies among the others are suffering due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the government is making all possible efforts for the development of tourism by creating a safe policy. The Karnataka Tourism Policy 2020-25 has set an investment target of about Rs 5000 crore." The CM said that the tourism sector is expected to generate 15 % GDP by providing jobs to 30 lakh people directly or indirectly. The CM lauded Amshi Prasanna Kumar for throwing light on tourism in Mysuru region through his work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-committed-to-boost-tourism-sector-cm-950931.html
13-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Singer Janaki to inaugurate Sahitya Sammelana||The sixth T Narasipur taluk Kannada Sahitya Sammelana scheduled to be held on February 26, at Talakad, will be inaugurated by singer S Janaki. Tahsildar D Nagesh said, "S Janaki will inaugurate the stage programme in the presence of another singer B K Sumithra. The sahitya sammelana is held at Talakad after a gap of 30 years. The earlier sahitya sammelana was held in 1990 and C P Krishna Kumar was the president of the event." Taluk Kannada Sahitya Parishat president M Raju said, "The event will be organised in a grand manner and the support of the officials as well as people's representatives will be sought. Sessions on the history of Talakad and Gangas period will be organised. The president for the event will be finalised in a meeting soon."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/singer-janaki-to-inaugurate-sahitya-sammelana-950932.html
13-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kannada sovereign language of Karnataka, says Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Saturday warned against imposition of Hindi. Addressing a gathering, after presenting ‘Dr Hamana award’, at a programme organised at Karnataka Sangha here, Siddaramaiah said, “First, we are Kannadigas and next Indians. Kannada is the sovereign language of Karnataka. There would be bloodshed if Hindi is imposed in Karnataka.” “Hindi is the language of nearly five states of North India. How is it the national language? Hindi will never be the national language. In Karnataka, Kannada is the sovereign language,” he said. Later, speaking to reporters, Siddaramaiah asked, “Where did I claim to organise AHINDA convention? I am in favour of AHINDA as it needs justice.” When asked about Congress leader Mallikarjuna Kharge’s statements that he does not know AHINDA, Siddaramaiah said that it is his personal view. “He has never conducted an AHINDA convention. Thus, he might have issued such a statement,” he said. Siddaramaiah said, “BJP MLC A H Vishwanath, who has been criticising me, is not a serious politician. I will not speak about him often. Vishwanath is afraid of me. Thus, he makes statements against me.” Siddaramaiah said that he has no expectations from the state Budget. “The government has no funds. The treasury is empty. The government has taken Rs 35,000 crore loan. The fuel prices are increasing due to increased excise duty,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kannada-sovereign-language-of-karnataka-says-siddaramaiah-950933.html
13-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Now, agro-industrialists eye on banana for good returns||Innovators, scientists, entrepreneurs and agro-industrialists of Mysuru and its neighbourhood are exploring ideas to add value to get good returns on banana, a perishable horticulture-product. Under Pradhan Mantri Formalisation of Micro food processing Enterprises (PM-FME) Scheme of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, the Union government has selected banana for Mysuru, under ‘One District-One Product’ format. Thus, the focus is on banana, for self-reliance. Mysuru-based CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CSIR-CFTRI) is already conducting a training series, under the PM-FME scheme. The CFTRI is training a total of 500 entrepreneurs in batches of 50 persons each, for six days, from across Karnataka. So far, four batches have been trained. Some Mysureans have been trained on banana-based products. According to P Vijayanand, chief scientist, Fruits and Vegetables Technology, CSIR-CFTRI, banana is one of the largest produced fruit in India and mainly consumed while it is fresh. “The excess production of banana results in drop in price and difficulty in marketing, hence there is a need for development of value-added products. It is a good source of carbohydrates, carotenoids, soluble and insoluble dietary fibre. CSIR-CFTRI has four main products of banana — fortified banana bar; banana pseudo stem beverage and beverage blends; raw banana powder; and banana pulp,” he said. Banana pulp, extracted from mature ripe banana, is used to manufacture Fortified Banana Bar. Banana bar is highly acceptable, with chewy texture, colour and overall quality. The bar can be consumed as confectionary product and can be used as a concentrated source of energy in special rations designed for mid-day meals, expeditions and defence. It is suitable for consumption by children, adults, teenagers and aged people. Shelf-life of the product is about six months. Banana bar is a good source of energy and micro nutrients. Banana pseudostem beverage and beverage blends are made from banana pseudostem, the flower stalk. It is an agricultural waste, after harvesting the fruit. The outer sheath of the stem is used for fibre extraction. The inner central core, packed with phenolics and minerals, can be used for development of different products. Juice from banana stem is a remedy for urinary disorders. It is of great help in the treatment for removal of stones in kidney, gall bladder and prostate. Availability of the stem and extraction of juice are cumbersome. Hence, a technology is developed for preparation of a ready to serve beverage with a shelf life of three to six months, depending on the packaging material. The product can be consumed for its medicinal value. Due to its high content of phenolics, tannins and minerals, its consumption should be limited. Its astringent taste is masked by blending it with suitable fruit juices or spices, to render the product more palatable. Raw banana powder is a rich source of carbohydrates, fibre, minerals and vitamins, free from sugars. CSIR-CFTRI technology facilitates the manufacture of raw banana powder under controlled conditions. Unripe, mature bananas, free from spoilage, with firm texture of any edible varieties, cavendish, nendran, elakki, rasbale, or poovan, can be used. Bananas are washed, peeled, pretreated and dehydrated. Raw banana powder is packed in glass bottles or flexible food grade packaging materials in unit packs. It can be used as a food for different age groups and also in various culinary preparations, thickening agent, bakery products, desserts and other food preparations. It is used to make gruel or soup for children. The powder has a shelf-life of four months. Banana pulp, packed in cans, have a shelf-life of up to one year. Frozen pulp can be used up to three months. Besides, another Mysuru-based premier food research institute, Defence Food Research Laboratory (DFRL), under Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), has developed technology for dehydrated banana and ‘freeze dried fruit slices and bits of banana’. These products serve as energy supplements. Even entrepreneurs have their own vision on banana becoming the pride of Mysuru. “We need to process and pack banana, to increase shelf-life, retaining its taste and nutrition value. Thus, raw banana powder, banana fruit bar, bags from pseudostem and fibre, mats from the fibre, and banana stem juice are proposed,” said the entrepreneurs. “It has to be noted that banana is a source of Vitamin B6, Fibre, Potassium, Magnesium, Vitamin C and Manganese. While popular varieties of banana grown in Mysuru are Yalakki or Elakki; and robusta (cavendish) or pachabaale. Nanjangud plantain is a special variety with Geographical Indication tag,” they point out. K S Suhasini, Assistant Director for Agriculture, nodal officer for implementation of PM-FME Scheme, said, "Banana is grown in all eight taluks of Mysuru district. Our banana production is sufficient to meet the needs of the people of Mysuru and also neighbouring districts. If the produce is processed and marketed in a big way, it will help the farmers and it will also create more jobs.” “This is a five-year project. A discussion is held with officials of Horticulture department and also interested entrepreneurs. Two resource persons have been appointed to provide information to farmers and entrepreneurs. Besides scientists and entrepreneurs are exploring new ideas,” she said. “Bank loans up to Rs 10 lakh is available for new units, based on banana. 35% of the loan amount will be provided by Agriculture department as subsidy. Applications can be submitted online on: http://www.pmfme.mofpi.gov.in/pmfme/#/Home-Page,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/now-agro-industrialists-eye-on-banana-for-good-returns-950934.html
13-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Anti-cow slaughter Bill: Cattle fairs in Mysuru region loses sheen||With the government's Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill 2020, coming into effect from January 18, 2021, the cattle fairs that are quite popular in Mysuru region are losing its attraction. Cattle fairs attract a large number of people, with its display of rare varieties of cattle, and an opportunity to the farmers to sell and buy cattle, as per their demand. The fairs are held regularly in the rural pockets once in a week, and at some places organised once in three months and even annual fairs are organised in a grand manner. Besides, the farmers, who were not able to take care of their unproductive and weak ailing cattle used to sell them at these fairs to traders from other states for a decent money. But not anymore. The violation of the anti-cow slaughter bill tends to attract a penalty of Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh and even three to seven years of imprisonment. The cattle has failed to draw buyers from the neighbouring states with high meat consumption at the weekly-fair held at Terakanambi in Gundlupet taluk, Chamarajanagar district, on Thursdays. Most of the buyers are from the neighbouring state Kerala, where the beef consumption is high. But, the new bill has stopped them from doing business here, fearing violation. Only a handful of people were interested in the cattle, that were on display. The cattle fair at Hemagiri in K R Pet taluk, Mandya district, is being held from February 11 to 19, as part of Kalyana Venkataramanaswamy Brahmotsava on February 19, the Rathasapthami day. The farmers from various parts of the state, with a lot of hope have brought cattle to the fair hoping for a good business. The cattle are available from Rs 50,000 to Rs 10 lakh at the fair. However, cattle for meat will not be available. There were no takers for the cattle at the weekly fair at Channarayapatna in Hassan district, after the bill was implemented on January 18. It is said that a few disappointed farmers had abandoned the cattle. However, the authorities shifted them to the Pinjrapole in Mysuru, according to sources. Besides, cattle fairs are also held at Chunchanakatte and Bannur in Mysuru district. The annual cattle fair in Suttur Jatra Mahotsava draws a great attention every year. The weekly fair in KRS in Srirangapatna taluk is also quite popular.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/anti-cow-slaughter-bill-cattle-fairs-in-mysuru-region-loses-sheen-950936.html
13-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Panchamasali Lingayats are in bad shape; nothing wrong in giving them reservation: Karnataka minister Murugesh Nirani||Karnataka minister Murugesh Nirani on Saturday said there is nothing wrong in giving reservation in government jobs and education to the Panchamasali Lingayats, majority of whom are in a bad socio-economic condition in the state. Of the total 6.5 crore population in Karnataka, Panchamashalis are about 80 lakh. There is a need to empower this community as 90 per cent of its members are into agriculture and deprived of education and job opportunities, he said. "There is nothing wrong to include this community in the 2A category of the backward classes list and entitle them (15 per cent) reservations in government jobs and education," Nirani told reporters here. Nirani, who holds the mines and geology portfolio in the Karnataka government, is an influential Panchamasali leader demanding reservation in the state. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is in favour of reservation for this community, he said, adding that they were to be included in the 2A category of backward classes list when the BJP was in power between 2008 and 2013. But due to legal hurdles, the community was included in the 3B category. "No one should forget that it was done by Yediyurrappa. Had there not been hurdles, Panchamashalis would have been included in the 2A category at that time itself," he added. However, the chief minister has recently ordered the Karnataka Backward Classes Commission to assess the socio-economic condition of Panchamashali Lingayats and submit a report. "The committee will study and submit a report. Thereafter, a decision will be taken by the government," Nirani said. The minister is on an official visit to the national capital and called on Union Minister for Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi to discuss related to state issues including illegal mining issues among others. The minister also shared that the state government will soon bring a new mining policy to bring transparency, revive old mines, speed up approvals of the projects, ramp up capacity of Hutti Gold Mines Company Ltd besides setting up 'mining adalats' for quick resolution of mining-related issues in the state. The government has plans to set up a mining school similar to Dhanbad School of Mining in Jharkhand to enhance skills of the Bhovi community who are largely engaged in stone quarrying activities, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/panchamasali-lingayats-are-in-bad-shape-nothing-wrong-in-giving-them-reservation-karnataka-minister-murugesh-nirani-950817.html
13-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Happy to face challenges: B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday said he feels happy and gets more strength if he gets challenges. The CM was speaking to reporters, at Mysuru Airport in Mandakalli. When asked about a series of protests by different communities demanding reservation, the CM said, “I feel happy and get more strength when there are challenges. It is his duty to give justice to every community,” he said. The CM said, preparation for the Budget is going on and the officials concerned are preparing it. “We will give all the possible benefits for Mysuru after discussion with the District in-charge Minister and others. I have plans to give more concentration for expansion of Mysuru Airport in Mandakalli,” he added. Replying to criticism from the Opposition that the state government has no funds and the government is yet to take off, the CM said, no development works are halted and it is common for Opposition parties to level allegations against the ruling party. Yediyurappa added that the Opposition will get answers through the Budget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/happy-to-face-challenges-b-s-yediyurappa-950884.html
13-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Seer attempts to end life in front of Karnataka minister Sriramulu||Dejected over not becoming head of Yoga Vana Betta Peetha, Sujnana Manatapa Seer Thipperudra Swamy attempted to end his life by consuming poison in the presence of Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu in the district's BJP office, on Saturday. The seer was admitted to the district's general hospital in the city immediately and is out of danger now. The seer had opposed the appointment of Basavakumar Swami as Yoga Vana Betta Peetha head after the death of Siddalinga Swamy. In the death note written to the minister, the seer alleged that Basavakumar Swamy, former MLA of Chitradurga S K Basavarajan and Pavitra had meted out injustice to him. They are responsible for his death. He also urged the government to bring them to justice as they are leading a luxurious life by encroaching property belonging to the government. It may be mentioned here that Yoga Vana Betta mutts are in Aldur of Chikkamagaluru district, Kanakapura of Ramnagar district, Kunigal of Tumkur district and in Chitradurga. Thipperudra Swamy was in charge of Yoga Vana betta in Kunigal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/seer-attempts-to-end-life-in-front-of-karnataka-minister-sriramulu-950909.html
13-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Making sincere efforts for justice to all, says Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa||Amid growing clamour for reservation in government jobs and other sectors by various communities, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday said he has been making a sincere effort towards justice for all. "Being the Chief Minister of the state, it's my responsibility to provide justice to all. I am making a sincere effort for justice to all sections of society," the Chief Minister told reporters at the Mysuru airport. To a question whether there was pressure on him with the growing demand for reservation, he said it gave him happiness when such challenges came before him as they strengthened him to face them. He said raising such demands was the right of the people. The Chief Minister's statement came as the seers of various communities such as Panchamasali Lingayat, Valmiki, Kuruba and Idiga communities intensified the demand for more reservation. The Panchamasali sect has been demanding category 2A status within the category of Other Backward Communities, the Kurubas for Scheduled Tribe status and Idigas for Scheduled Caste status. The Valmiki community wanted their reservation to be increased from three per cent to 7.5 per cent. These agitations were led by the seers of the communities posing a challenge to the Yediyurappa government. The Kudalasangama Panchamasali seer Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami has taken out a march to Bengaluru to press for his demand to give benefits of 2A category to 72 sub-sects of the Lingayat communities, including Panchamasali. Swami Pranavananda, the seer of Sharana Basaveshwara Math in Haveri, said the Idigas, who constitute about 90 lakh people, should be categorised as Scheduled Caste. At a press conference in Haveri, he even threatened to stage protests if the demand to incorporate all the 26 sub-sects of Idigas in the SC category was not met. Meanwhile, the BJP state vice-president and Yediyurappa's son B Y Vijayendra said reminded those agitating for reservation that his father is the only one who respects all the communities and such important issues should not be deliberated on the streets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/making-sincere-efforts-for-justice-to-all-says-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-950913.html
13-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Rewarded for my loyalty, commitment: Mallikarjun Kharge on elevation||Congress veteran Mallikarjun Kharge said on Saturday it was his loyalty and commitment to the party that got him into the Rajya Sabha where he will be the Leader of the Opposition. "I am someone who believes in the party's ideology. I work with loyalty and commitment to the party. It is based on this that the party leaders made me a Rajya Sabha member and now the Leader of the Opposition," Kharge told reporters. Kharge, a Gandhi family loyalist, will replace Ghulam Nabi Azad to lead the Congress in the Upper House of the Parliament. "Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi have given me this responsibility with trust and confidence in me. I am grateful. I will carry out this responsibility honestly," he said. Kharge, 78, was Leader of Congress in the previous Lok Sabha. He was elected to Rajya Sabha in June 2020 after the party leadership decided to accommodate him in the Upper House after his loss in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. "I won elections for 48 years. In the last election, I lost because of the efforts of PM Modi, RSS and the BJP. But, I do not harbour anger," Kharge said, adding that he would work towards saving democracy. Chanting the 'unity' mantra, Kharge urged his party colleagues to stick together. "I've said this before. It shouldn't be that fingers are pointed in defeat and credit is taken in victory. We must understand that defeat or victory is always that of the party. It's wrong to blame one another," he said. In a reference to the apparent one-upmanship between Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar, Kharge said both of them are what they are because of the party. "Siddaramaiah became the CM and Shivakumar the party president because of the Congress. We must support Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi in their fight," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/rewarded-for-my-loyalty-commitment-mallikarjun-kharge-on-elevation-950921.html
13-02-2021||Mysuru||Truck carrying incense sticks gutted in fire in Mysuru-Nanjangud highway||A truck carrying incense sticks gutted on Mysuru-Nanjangud highway after a fire broke out accidentally.  The truck was carrying incense stick from Kadkola Industrial area to Mysuru. According to the authorities, no casualty was reported. Fire and Emergency Services personnel, who rushed to the spot, managed to douse the fire. It is estimated that incense sticks worth Rs 6 lakh were destroyed in the fire mishap.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/truck-carrying-incense-sticks-gutted-in-fire-in-mysuru-nanjangud-highway-950742.html
13-02-2021||Mysuru||AHINDA issue raised to show existence: Somashekar||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Saturday commented that several politicians are raising the AHINDA issue to make their existence felt in the political sphere. In a press conference, Somashekar, without taking the name of Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah, said, the ones who are raising the AHINDA issue have been sidelined. Somashekar added that he has maintained a good rapport with Siddaramaiah. "I worked with him for five years and I respect him," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/ahinda-issue-raised-to-show-existence-somashekar-950769.html
13-02-2021||National||SC upheld AYUSH Ministry's advisory, allowed homoeopathy as add on to Covid-19 care, says Union Minister Kiren Rijiju||The Supreme Court has upheld the AYUSH Ministry's advisory and permitted use of homoeopathy medicine as add on to standard care in Covid-19 treatment, said Kiren Rijiju, who holds the additional charge of the ministry, in the Lok Sabha on Friday. The clarification was in reply to a question asked by ET Mohammed Basheer, MP, the AYUSH Ministry said in a statement. The minister said while homoeopathy treatment is not to be given in standalone mode for Covid-19 treatment, the ministry through an advisory in March last year and the 'Guidelines for AYUSH practitioners for Covid-19' allowed AYUSH interventions, including homoeopathy, as add on to standard care. He also informed the House that the ministry has taken many steps with the help of AYUSH systems of medicine for Covid-19 related treatment, and cited its advisory on 29 January last year on "how to protect oneself from Covid and how to stay healthy", according to the statement. Rijiju also cited a letter dated March 6, 2020, by the ministry to all chief secretaries of states and Union Territories conveying specific suggestions on augmentation of general immunity of people and about possible AYUSH interventions. The self-care guidelines issued by the Ministry on March 31, 2020, for preventive health measures and enhancing immunity with special reference to respiratory health was also mentioned by the minister. The reply also brought out some other information of public interest in the matter of management of Guidelines for Registered Practitioners of respective system of AYUSH, made available in public domain for the benefit of registered AYUSH practitioners including Homoeopathy to help in the management of Covid 19 pandemic uniformly, also found a mention, the statement said. Further, the ministry, through various research organizations and National Institutes under Ministry of AYUSH, has conducted about 105 interdisciplinary clinical studies, including 20 of Homoeopathy, at 136 centres in the country. The clinical research studies are conducted on AYUSH interventions as prophylactic interventions in high-risk population targeting approximately 5 lakh population and as an add-on to standard care to Covid-19 management, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-upheld-ayush-ministrys-advisory-allowed-homoeopathy-as-add-on-to-covid-19-care-says-union-minister-kiren-rijiju-950606.html
13-02-2021||National||PM Modi condoles loss of lives in Andhra road accident||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday condoled the death of people in a road accident in Andhra Pradesh. At least four people died and about 13 others were injured when a bus carrying over 20 passengers fell into a gorge at Anantagiri near Araku in Visakhapatnam district, police said. In his condolences message, Modi said, "Distressed to hear about the accident in Visakhapatnam, AP. Condolences to the families of those who lost their lives. Prayers with the injured. May they recover soon."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-condoles-loss-of-lives-in-andhra-road-accident-950608.html
13-02-2021||National||CBSE extends deadline for private candidates to apply for class 10, 12 exams from Feb 22 to 25||The Central Board of Secondary Education on Friday extended deadline for private candidates to apply for class 10 and 12 exams from February 22 to 25. It also stated that there would be no further extension of the schedule. "As per the request received from several candidates of previous years that they were unable to fill their examination form as private candidates for examination-2021, for classes 10 and 12, CBSE has decided to extend last opportunity to these candidates to fill their form only online," the board said in an official order. "Candidates need to pay a late fee as applicable. No further extension in schedule will be given," it added. The CBSE said in case of the candidates of examination-2020, old practical marks will be taken while computing results. "In case of candidates from examinations prior to 2020, pro rata marks will be awarded while computing results. Other rules and regulations will remain the same. "Candidates should choose examination centre city carefully as no change will be allowed later on," the CBSE said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-extends-deadline-for-private-candidates-to-apply-for-class-10-12-exams-from-feb-22-to-25-950609.html
13-02-2021||National||5 killed in firing at Rohtak wrestling venue in Haryana||Five persons were killed and two others injured in a firing incident at a wrestling venue adjacent to a private college in Haryana's Rohtak on Friday evening, police said. Among the injured, two were stated to be in critical condition, they said. While Rohtak's Superintendent of Police Rahul Sharma confirmed three deaths in the incident, another police official from Rohtak late in the evening said five people have died in the incident. “We have formed police teams which are gathering more information about the incident,” he said. Rohtak Range IG Sandeep Khirwar told PTI that forensic experts and police investigators were at the scene of the crime. Another police official from Rohtak said the dead include a wrestling coach. Some enmity amongst wrestling coaches could have led to the firing in the 'akhara', he said, adding the injured persons include a 3-year-old child of one of the deceased. He said as per preliminary information, a wrestling coach is alleged to have opened fire, but police said they were verifying exact details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-killed-in-firing-at-rohtak-wrestling-venue-in-haryana-950618.html
13-02-2021||National||Cong's Adhir Chowdhury seeks clarification on disengagement between Indian, Chinese troops from Rajnath Singh in Lok Sabha||Raising the issue of disengagement between Indian and Chinese troops in eastern Ladakh, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Friday sought clarification from Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in Lok Sabha on whether the Kailash range would be ceded as part of an agreement. There are certain issues on Ladakh which require further clarification from the defence minister, Chowdhury said during Zero Hour in Lok Sabha. After a lot of efforts by the Army, the Kailash range was brought under Indian control and the Chinese establishment was rattled by this achievement, he said. "I would like to know if we are going to leave this vantage point as part of disengagement... can this kind of quid pro quo can happen as part of disengagement," he said. However, Speaker Om Birla told Chowdhury that this is not an issue of the Zero Hour and a separate notice needs to be served on this. On Thursday, the defence minister, while making a statement in Parliament, said India and China have reached an agreement on disengagement in the north and south banks of the Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh that mandates both sides to cease forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner. In the statement in Parliament, the defence minister said China will pull back its troops to east of Finger 8 areas in the northern bank of Pangong lake while the Indian personnel will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the region. Singh had also assured that India has not conceded anything in the sustained talks with China. India will not allow even an inch of its territory to be taken by anyone, Singh said. The defence minister had said the implementation of the pact will "substantially restore" the situation to the one which existed prior to the standoff that erupted on May 5 last, adding that the two sides have agreed that they should achieve complete disengagement at the "earliest" and abide fully by the bilateral agreements and protocols. Chowdhury also sought clarification on the Depsang plains, an issue which was also raised by former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi earlier in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congs-adhir-chowdhury-seeks-clarification-on-disengagement-between-indian-chinese-troops-from-rajnath-singh-in-lok-sabha-950624.html
13-02-2021||National||Delhi policeman beaten up at Tikri border: Officials||A Delhi policeman was injured after he was allegedly beaten up by some people at the Tikri border where he went on Friday to paste posters of missing farmers, officials said. The policeman, identified as Jitender Rana, is posted at Nangloi police station. He received injuries to his head and other body parts, they said. The policeman had gone to the protest site at Tikri border to paste posters of protesting farmers who had gone missing since the violence that broke out on Republic Day during the tractor parade rally, a senior police officer said. The injured policeman was rushed to a nearby hospital where he is undergoing treatment, he said. An FIR has been registered in the matter and an investigation is underway, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-policeman-beaten-up-at-tikri-border-officials-950626.html
13-02-2021||National||Demand for regulation of contents on OTT platforms raised in Lok Sabha||Two BJP MPs in the Lok Sabha on Friday urged the government to regulate OTT platforms, claiming some of the contents on them promote violence, drug abuse and also portray Hindu deities in poor light. Over-the-top media services (OTT) platforms have spread across the country and the contents on them do not come under the purview of the Censor board. Raising the issue during Zero Hour in the Lok Sabha, Manoj Kotak (BJP) said some web series in the name of freedom of expression promote violence, drug abuse. Some of them also depict Hindu deities in an objectional manner, he said. He demanded the government to have a censorship mechanism and a regulatory authority may be set up to check such kind of objectionable contents which have "adverse impact on the youth of the nation". There are at least 40 OTT platforms, including global ones such as Netflix, Amazon Prime and HotStar (Disney Plus), and hundreds of news content websites. Recently, two scenes were removed from a web series following first information report (FIR) against its makers for allegedly depicting Hindu deities in an objectional manner. Speaking on the issue, Kirit P Solanki (BJP) said "India's ancient culture is being attacked in the name of entertainment" by some of the OTT platforms. Many objectionable contents have adverse impact on the youth of the nation, he said. "I would request the Information and Broadcasting Minister to ban such objectionable contents with immediate effect," Solanki said. Malook Nagar (BSP) said farmers of all communities and not just Jaat are protesting against three new farm laws. Nagar said the government should suspend these laws for three years so that facts come out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/demand-for-regulation-of-contents-on-ott-platforms-raised-in-lok-sabha-950653.html
13-02-2021||National||Indian Railways to roll out Tejas sleeper coaches; 500 to be manufactured in FY 21-22||The railways will roll out Tejas sleeper type trains from February 15 with the introduction of the Agartala Rajdhani Special train, the ministry said on Friday. The railways has decided to replace the rake of Agartala-Anand Vihar Terminal Special Rajdhani Express with Tejas Sleeper coaches with upgraded facilities. It will offer better connectivity with the national capital. "Provided with smart features, the coaches of this New Sleeper Type Tejas Train will offer best in class travel experience. The start of the Tejas service is planned for February 15," the railways said in a statement. With the introduction of this modern Tejas Sleeper type train for long-distance journeys, the Indian Railway is making a paradigm shift in the travel experience for the passengers, it said. It is planned that 500 such Tejas type Sleeper coaches will be manufactured at Integral Coach Factory (ICF) and Modern Coach Factory (MCF), production units of Indian Railways in FY 21-22 which will gradually replace the premium long-distance trains over Indian Railways network, the statement read. The Tejas type Sleeper coaches have automatic plug doors, stainless Steel under-frame, bio-vacuum toilet system, air suspension bogies, fire alarm, detection and suppression system and other smart features.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-roll-out-tejas-sleeper-coaches-500-to-be-manufactured-in-fy-21-22-950657.html
13-02-2021||National||Foreign arbitrators welcome in India: Prasad||The Lok Sabha on Friday passed a bill to amend the arbitration law, with Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad saying foreign arbitrators are welcome in India. The Bill seeks to ensure that all stakeholders get an opportunity to seek unconditional stay on enforcement of arbitral awards where the agreement or contract is "induced by fraud or corruption". Prasad said the Bill seeks to check fly-by-night operators who take advantage of the law to get favourable award by fraud. The Bill intends to replace an ordinance issued on November 4, 2020. Responding to a debate on the bill, the minister said he would like to make it clear foreign arbitrators are welcome in India. India welcomes arbitrators from any nationality," he said. The Bill was passed by a voice vote and statutory resolution opposing the ordinance was rejected by the House. Among other things, the bill, which amends the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, seeks to do away with the 8th Schedule of the Act which contained the necessary qualifications for accreditation of arbitrators. The qualifications for accreditation of arbitrators is proposed to be prescribed by regulations to be framed by an arbitration council to be set up. Till recently, an arbitration award was enforceable even if an appeal was filed against it in the court under Section 36 of the law. But the court could grant a stay on the award on conditions as it deemed fit. As per the proposed amendment, if the award is being given on the basis of an agreement based on fraud or corruption, then the court will not impose a condition to stay the award and grant an unconditional stay during the pendency of the appeal if it has been challenged under Section 34 of the arbitration law. The bill, according to the statement of objects and reasons, provides for "unconditional stay of enforcement of arbitral awards, where the underlying arbitration agreement, contracts or arbitral award is induced by fraud or corruption".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/foreign-arbitrators-welcome-in-india-prasad-950677.html
13-02-2021||National||DH Toon | Farm stir: 'We've been observing silence for months now'||Farmers' protests against the Centre's three contentious laws intensified this week, with Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait claiming that farmers will not go home until their demands are met. In the Budget Session, Opposition parties observed a two-minute silence in the Rajya Sabha for the 194 farmers who had died during protests. The government has been telling farmer unions to consider an option other than the complete repeal of the laws. He said the government will have to talk with the farmer unions' committee spearheading the agitation against the laws. The Centre has been saying these laws will bring in new farming technologies and free the farmers from the clutches of middlemen. The farmers have been rejecting these claims, saying these laws will harm their interest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-farm-stir-weve-been-observing-silence-for-months-now-950682.html
13-02-2021||National||India gifting 2,000 metric tonnes of rice to Syria: MEA||India is gifting 2,000 metric tonnes of rice to Syria following a request from the Arab republic, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Friday. The first consignment of 1,000 metric tonnes of rice was handed over by Indian ambassador to Syria Hifzur Rahman to Syrian Minister of Local Administration Hussain Makhlouf at Latakia Port on Thursday, the MEA said in a statement. The MEA said the remaining 1,000 metric tonnes of rice is expected to reach Syria on February 18. "In response to a request from the government of the Syrian Arab Republic for emergency humanitarian assistance, the government of India is gifting 2,000 MT of rice to strengthen food security in Syria," the MEA said. It said India has always stood in solidarity with the people of Syria, and its bilateral engagement has continued apace even during the years of internal conflict in that country. India had earlier gifted 10 metric tonnes of medicines to Syria in July last year as part of Covid-19 assistance, the MEA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-gifting-2000-metric-tonnes-of-rice-to-syria-mea-950691.html
13-02-2021||National||Covishield vaccine being procured by govt at Rs 210 per dose: MoS Health||The Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, is being procured by the government at a lower price of Rs 210 per dose, the Lok Sabha was told on Friday. Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey was responding to a question on whether the government is aware that the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is being sold to European Union nations at a comparatively lower price than India.   As per available information, the price of Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine across the world is in the range of about $4 to $5.25. For COVAX AMC facility that pools the demand and supplies for 191 participating countries, including European Union nations, the price is $3 per dose to $3.15 per dose, which is largely on account of advance payment done to the vaccine manufacturer, much before their vaccine completed the clinical trial and obtained licensure from the regulator, he said. "The Covishield vaccine (Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine) by the Serum Institute of India is being procured by Govt. of India at a lower price of Rs 210 which is around $2.7 per dose," Choubey said in a written reply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covishield-vaccine-being-procured-by-govt-at-rs-210-per-dose-mos-health-950698.html
13-02-2021||National||97.92 lakh healthcare workers registered on Co-WIN app: Government||A total of 97.72 lakh healthcare workers and 71.64 lakh frontline workers have been registered on Co-WIN application till February 9, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told the Lok Sabha on Friday. Till 9th February 2021, a total of 65.28 lakh beneficiaries have received 1st dose of Covid-19 vaccine, he said in a written reply. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) provides guidance on all aspects of Covid-19 vaccination including prioritization of population groups, procurement and inventory management, vaccine selection, vaccine delivery and tracking mechanism etc.  The NEGVAC has prioritized healthcare workers, frontline workers, people aged 50 years and above, and those aged less than 50 with comorbidities for Covid-19 vaccination.  "As on 9th February 2021, a total of 97.72 lakh healthcare workers and 71.64 lakh frontline workers have been registered on Co-WIN application," Choubey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/9792-lakh-healthcare-workers-registered-on-co-win-app-government-950700.html
13-02-2021||National||PM Modi’s fight with farmers is a pivotal moment in India's growth||By Pratik Parija, Hundreds of thousands of farmers are swelling protests along arterial roads into the capital and other cities across India. The police and paramilitary forces have deployed up to 50,000 personnel, as well as barricades, barbed wire and riot-control vehicles. The United Nations is urging restraint. And each day, more farmers and tractors arrive to join the disgruntled ranks. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is no stranger to sparking public anger with his determination to push through reforms, but this may be his most vital stand-off yet. The farmers are demanding he repeal laws passed in September that they say will ruin their livelihoods. The government insists the new policy will benefit the growers and refuses to withdraw the legislation. After months of protests, more than 10 rounds of talks and a Supreme Court order to temporarily suspend the laws, the government says it would consider some amendments and could delay implementation by as much as 18 months. But the agitators are in no mood for compromise. “We’re not going anywhere. We are ready to sit here for years if needed. The government has to listen,” said Balwinder Singh, 50, who normally grows rice and wheat on 3 acres of land in Punjab. He has been protesting since November 26 on the Singhu border, the epicentre of the demonstrations outside Delhi. “We can survive the coronavirus but not these laws.” Behind the protesters’ fears and the government rhetoric is a reality that the country somehow needs to reshape its agricultural system or face the environmental consequences of overproduction and a fiscal calamity from ballooning farm subsidies. Get the reform right and it could raise millions of agriculture-dependent families out of poverty and propel India to the forefront of global food exports. Get it wrong and it could force tens of millions of people off their land and degrade up to 90 per cent of the nation’s water supply. It’s a problem so titanic that consecutive governments have shied away from making meaningful changes. Not Modi. Emboldened by seemingly unsinkable popular support, even during a devastating pandemic, his administration has weighed in. It’s a classic playbook for the prime minister, whose six years in power have been marked by policy reforms that often set off national protests and occasionally thrown the country into turmoil, such as cancelling 86 per cent of circulating currency and introducing a religion-based citizenship law. But the government’s willingness to compromise of the farm issue shows that this is potentially an even more delicate path — one that risks alienating more than half of the nation’s 1.3 billion people, who rely on agriculture for a living. The two sides are poles apart. The government says the laws will overhaul the way farm goods are produced and sold in the country, opening up a decades-old system of state-run wholesale markets to more private purchases and helping producers earn more. The farmers fear the laws would give companies and large wholesalers the power to dictate prices to small land-holders, who make up the majority of producers. “It’s about unlocking productivity in areas like farming of cereals by applying high-quality farm inputs such as seeds, and using less water to grow the same amount of grain,” said Rahul Bajoria, Mumbai-based chief India economist at Barclays Plc.  “The best way for the farm sector to grow is to focus more on exports, for which the country needs to improve productivity and quality control.” But the nation’s millions of small farmers live a precarious existence and have come to trust a government support system that allows them to survive year to year with enough to get to the next harvest. “Private companies won't pay us on time,” said Singh, the protester. “If we don't get paid on time, how will we prepare for our next crop? We will die of hunger." The root of the conflict lies in a system that evolved over more than half a century after the Green Revolution of the 1960s slowly transformed the nation from a land of frequent famines to an agricultural powerhouse. India is now the world’s biggest exporter of rice and the second-largest producer of wheat and sugar. At the same time, a complex and inefficient system of state support, controlled markets and government welfare grew up that Modi is trying to unpick. Under the present system, the government sets minimum prices for about two dozen crops and buys large volumes of rice and wheat for its welfare programs. While traders aren’t legally obliged to pay the government-set rates, the sheer volume of state purchases creates de facto price support for key grains from small farmers, who sell their produce through licensed traders in designated markets. These markets were set up to open up the industry and prevent exploitation of smallholders, but over time many became effective monopolies, with traders pulling together to stifle competition. As a result, prices of rice and wheat have remained stable over years, while other crops such as soybeans, corn and rapeseed have seen sharp price swings. Farmers like the arrangement because the government provides them with a guaranteed buyer, allowing them to easily secure informal short-term loans to buy farm inputs like seeds in a country where rural banking services are often inadequate. The new rules intend to liberalize trading by allowing farmers to sell crops outside the designated markets. Modi’s administration has promised that the welfare support mechanism will remain, but protesters aren’t convinced. Many believe the reforms are designed ultimately to cut the government’s food subsidy bill — expected to be $33.4 billion in 2021-22 — by allowing market forces to drive down prices. The current support rates reflect the cost of production plus a 50 per cent profit, which, along with assured purchases, has encouraged farmers to overproduce some crops. With India growing more wheat, rice, sugar cane and cotton than it needs, a free-for-all could cause prices to slump. Worse still, 86 per cent of India’s farmers cultivate plots of about 2 hectares (5 acres) or less, while the other 14 per cent own more than half the cultivated land. In an unfettered market, large landowners with lower costs per acre and better access to funds could end up dominating markets, forcing smallholders to sell their land. That’s a shift that took decades in many developed nations as rural residents migrated to cities to work in factories. But an accelerated transition on the scale of India’s population risks a major humanitarian crisis.  Migrating farmers Jokhu Ray, who grew corn and rice in the eastern state of Bihar, has had a taste of what a free market could mean. Bihar abolished its government-managed market in 2006 and Ray says the result was disastrous for him. In the 2019-20 crop year, he could only get 10 rupees (14 cents) a kilogram for his corn, less than the support price of 17.6 rupees or the 15 rupees he got the year before. Like many others, Ray left his village to seek work elsewhere and now works on a construction site in Rajasthan. Stories like Ray’s have fueled farmers’ fears. Protesters around the country held 3-hour “chakka jams” at the weekend, holding up traffic. The government blocked the internet at major protest sites and deployed some 50,000 police and paramilitary, along with riot control vehicles in and around Delhi, according to local media. After violence broke out at a National Day rally in the capital in January, the United Nations urged farmers to keep protests peaceful. “The government has shut down the Internet here out of fear,” said Singh, by phone. “We are not scared. We are informing people through phone calls.” “We are urging those involved in agitation to end protests,” Modi told lawmakers in parliament on February 8. “We should give these agriculture reforms a chance.” Farmers instead are demanding new legislation that makes it illegal to pay less than the minimum support rate, a policy analysts say would distort the market even more. Private buyers could be scared off, forcing the government to have to step in and buy even more. That would worsen a fiscal deficit that is already expected to widen to 9.5 per cent of GDP due to the coronavirus. State-run Food Corp. of India, the nation’s biggest food-grain buyer, is already stretched after buying 39 million tons of wheat and 52 million tons of rice from last year’s crop of about 108 million tons and 118 million tons respectively. Recent bumper harvests have filled many state granaries to bursting. Raising minimum prices each year could also hit exports, said B.V. Krishna Rao, president of the nation’s Rice Exporters Association. “The moment we make minimum prices a legal obligation, we are bound to lose our share in the global market.” He suggested that support prices should be set close to global levels and farmers compensated if needed for any losses. And there are other, even more serious long-term consequences if India doesn’t find an equitable way to reform its agriculture, especially in states like Punjab and Haryana, where the protests began. Green Revolution India’s Green Revolution in the 1960s brought a surge in grain output in Punjab thanks to high-yielding seeds, mechanization and increased application of pesticides and fertilizers. Known as India’s bread-basket, the state supplied about one-third of the 62 million tons of water-intensive paddy that the government purchased from monsoon-sown crops so far this year, according to the food ministry. “States like Punjab grow more rice than they consume despite unfavourable terrain, which has resulted in a drastic depletion of their water tables,” Rini Sen, an economist with ANZ Banking Group, said in a report. India has only about 4 per cent of the world’s fresh water and farmers tap almost 90 per cent of the groundwater available. Growers say they can’t afford to switch from water-intensive crops such as rice and sugar cane unless the government ensures the same kind of price support for more sustainable crops like soybeans, mustard or pigeon peas (used to make dal). Finding a compromise that would reassure farmers they can still making a decent living while dismantling an archaic and inefficient agriculture market may be Modi’s hardest task to date. But as the two sides dig in for what could be a long and bitter stand-off, it’s one that India must solve.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-s-fight-with-farmers-is-a-pivotal-moment-in-indias-growth-950702.html
13-02-2021||National||Ramshackled judiciary: Even former CJI won’t go to Supreme Court||By Upmanyu Trivedi, A former chief justice of India says he won’t go to the country’s top court with his grievances because he would have to wait endlessly for a verdict, a comment that lays bare the nation’s clogged legal system. “You want a 5 trillion dollar economy but you have a ramshackled judiciary,” said Ranjan Gogoi, who retired as the head of the country’s judiciary in November 2019 and is now a member of the upper house of the parliament. Gogoi was speaking at an event organised by the India Today Group, a news network. Gogoi’s remarks calling for an overhaul of the judiciary’s capacity and efficacy highlights India’s troubles with delayed verdicts and enforcing contracts. Court systems in Asia’s third-largest economy are clogged with over 43 million cases and a shortage of judges means that some cases can end up taking years, even decades, to find a resolution. Companies invested in India have a tough time once entangled in a legal dispute. Only corporations, willing to take chances with their millions of rupees go to the Supreme Court, he said. “If you were to go to the court, you’d be only washing your dirty linen in the court. You won’t get a verdict. I have no hesitation in saying it,” Gogoi said. Gogoi made the remarks responding to a question on whether he plans to sue a politician who alleged that he presided over a matter that heard allegations of sexual harassment against him during his tenure as the chief justice. The member also alleged that Gogoi was made a parliamentarian after his retirement after he ruled in favour of Hindus seeking a centuries-old religiously disputed site and rejected a probe against Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in graft allegations involving the purchase of fighter jets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ramshackled-judiciary-even-former-cji-won-t-go-to-supreme-court-950705.html
13-02-2021||National||No critical damage in India after tremors from Tajikistan quake, show initial reports||Government departments on Saturday said there were no initial reports of critical damage to buildings and infrastructure, or casualties, in the northern states after intense tremors from a quake in Tajikistan on Friday night. The US Geological Survey put the quake's magnitude at 5.9 and centred 35 km (55 miles) west of Tajikistan in central Asia. As people prepared to go to sleep on Friday strong tremors were felt by residents in north India and in Pakistan and Afghanistan. "Preliminary reports suggest there has been no destruction or building collapse but we will examine whether cracks have developed in dams, bridges or power plants," said S K Singh, an official at the National Disaster Management Authority in New Delhi. No casualties have been reported so far, he said, adding that the tremors lasted for a long time and could have damaged some parts of residential and public properties. Fire authorities said there were reports of superficial damage to buildings from the quake, which forced tens of thousands of people outside their homes in Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab and New Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-critical-damage-in-india-after-tremors-from-tajikistan-quake-show-initial-reports-950706.html
13-02-2021||National||India will become 'Aatmanirbhar' when defence-related systems are developed in country: DRDO chief||Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) Chairman Dr G Satheesh Reddy said on Friday that India will become self-reliant when all state-of-the-art defence equipment and systems are designed, developed and produced in the country Reddy, while addressing students and teachers at IIT- Bhubaneswar during its 13th Foundation Day ceremony, said the institute could significantly contribute to the country's development with its technological innovations and expertise in various fields. The DRDO chairman urged students to devote their energy and time to learning next-generation technology related to artificial intelligence, and cybersecurity, thereby paving the roadmap for the growth of India. "India will really become Aatmanirbhar (self-reliant) when design, development and production of state-of-the-art systems required by the defence are done within the country, he said. Several teachers and students were felicitated at the ceremony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-become-aatmanirbhar-when-defence-related-systems-are-developed-in-country-drdo-chief-950711.html
13-02-2021||National||Radio a fantastic medium that deepens social connect: PM Modi on World Radio Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday described radio as a fantastic medium which deepens social connect, as he extended his greetings to the countrymen on the World Radio Day.   In a tweet, he said he has personality experienced the positive impact of radio through 'Mann Ki Baat', his monthly broadcast.  "Happy World Radio Day! Greetings to all radio listeners and kudos to all those who keep the radio buzzing with innovative content and music. This is a fantastic medium, which deepens social connect. I personally experience the positive impact of radio thanks to Mann Ki Baat," the prime minister said. Adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 2012 as an international day, February 13 is observed as the World Radio Day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/radio-a-fantastic-medium-that-deepens-social-connect-pm-modi-on-world-radio-day-950713.html
13-02-2021||National||India reports 12,143 new Covid-19 cases, 103 deaths||India's tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 1,08,92,746 with 12,143 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries crossed 1.06 crore, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. The death toll increased to 1,55,550 with 103 daily new fatalities, data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,00,625, which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.32 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The total number of active Covid-19 cases remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,36,571 active cases of Covid-19 in the country, which comprises 1.25 per cent of the total number of cases, data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The 103 new fatalities include 36 from Maharashtra, 18 from Kerala and  8 each from Punjab and Karnataka. A total of 1,55,550 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 51,451 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,408 from Tamil Nadu, 12,259 from Karnataka, 10,889 from Delhi, 10,229 from West Bengal, 8,698 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,162 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-12143-new-covid-19-cases-103-deaths-950716.html
13-02-2021||National||3 Indian race walkers qualify for Tokyo Olympics; new national records in men's & women's 20 km event||Three Indian race walkers qualified for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics during the National Open Race Walking Championships on Saturday, with Sandeep Kumar and Priyanka Goswami shattering national records in the men's and women's 20 km events respectively. The National Open Race Walking Championships are the first major athletics event after the end of a Covid-19 lockdown, which had caused the entire domestic calendar to be wiped out last season. With the three new entrants, the total number of Indian race walkers who have qualified for the Tokyo Games has swelled to five as K T Irfan (men's 20km) and Bhawana Jat (women's 20km) have already made the cut earlier. Sandeep clocked 1 hour 20 minutes and 16 seconds to win the men's group A 20km event while Goswami emerged victorious in the corresponding women's group A event with a time of 1:28:45. Rahul, who finished second in the men's group A 20km race walk event with a time of 1:20:26, also qualified for the Tokyo Olympics. The Tokyo Olympics qualification time for men's and women's 20 km race walk event are 1:21:00 and 1:31:00 respectively. A country can send a maximum of three athletes to an individual event. Sandeep, who represented India in the 2016 Rio Olympics in the 50km race walk event, bettered the earlier national record of 1:20:21, which was jointly held by Irfan and Devender Singh. On Saturday, Irfan could not finish the race. He had qualified for the Tokyo Olympics way back in March 2019 during the Asian Race Walking Championships in Nomi, Japan. Goswami, on the other hand, erased the earlier women's national record of 1:29:54 which was in the name of Bhawana, who finished second on Saturday with a time of 1:32:59. Bhawana had qualified for the Olympics by winning the women's 20km event in the last edition of the National Race Walking Championships here just before the pandemic struck. Besides the five race walkers, javelin throwers Neeraj Chopra and Shivpal Singh, 3000m steeplechaser Avinash Sable and the 4x400m mixed relay team have so far qualified for the Olympics in the track and field. The Olympics are scheduled to be held in July-August this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-indian-race-walkers-qualify-for-tokyo-olympics-new-national-records-in-mens-womens-20-km-event-950732.html
13-02-2021||National||Parliamentary panel on defence intends to visit Galwan Valley, Pangong in eastern Ladakh: Sources||The parliamentary standing committee on defence intends to visit the Galwan Valley and the Pangong lake in the eastern Ladakh region which has been witness to a violent stand-off between the troops of India and China, sources said. However, it may seek the permission of the government before visiting the strategically-located areas, they said. The 30-member committee, chaired by senior BJP leader and former Union Minister Jual Oram and of which Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is a member, intends to visit the eastern Ladakh region in the last week of May or June, the sources said on Friday. The decision to visit these areas was taken in the panel's latest meeting, they said. Gandhi did not attend it. The panel's visit to the Line of Actual Control (LAC) depends on the approval from the government, the sources added. After a nine-month standoff, militaries of Indian and China reached an agreement on disengagement in the north and south banks of Pangong lake that mandates both sides to cease forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner. On Thursday, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh made a detailed statement in Parliament on the disengagement pact. According to the agreement, China has to pull back its troops to east of Finger 8 areas in the northern bank while the Indian personnel will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the region. Similar action will take place on the south bank of the lake as well, Singh said. India has not "conceded" any territory to China by firming up an agreement on the disengagement process in Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh, and other outstanding "problems" including in Depsang, Hot Springs ad Gogra will be taken up at the upcoming talks between military commanders of the two countries, the defence ministry said on Friday. The statement by the ministry came hours after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged that the government has "ceded" Indian territory to China and raised questions over the agreement on the disengagement process. The ministry also dubbed as "categorically false" the assertion that Indian territory is up to Finger 4 in the Pangong Tso area, adding the permanent posts of both sides in the area are "longstanding and well-established". "India has not conceded any territory as a result of this agreement. On the contrary, it has enforced observance and respect for LAC and prevented any unilateral change in the status quo," the ministry said in the strongly-worded statement. The MEA also said the two countries have agreed to convene the 10th round of senior commanders meeting within 48 hours after complete disengagement in the Pangong Lake area to address the remaining issues, and added that no date has been set for Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. The agreement on disengagement in the north and south banks of Pangong lake mandates both Chinese and Indian sides to "cease" forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-on-defence-intends-to-visit-galwan-valley-pangong-in-eastern-ladakh-sources-950733.html
13-02-2021||National||PM Modi works for common people not for crony capitalists, says FM Nirmala Sitharaman in Lok Sabha||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said the Union Budget 2021-122 has set the pace for India to become 'Aatmanirbhar'. Replying to debate on the Budget in Lok Sabha, the minister also said the challenges of pandemic did not deter the government from undertaking reforms for maintaining long term goals of the country. The reforms undertaken will lay the path for India to become one of those fastest-growing economies in the world, she said, adding the Budget has set the pace for India to become 'Aatmanirbhar' or self-reliant. Earlier this month, the Finance Minister presented a Rs 34.5 lakh crore Budget for 2021-22 in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Budget has laid emphasis on increasing capital expenditure, raising allocation for healthcare capacity building and development of agriculture infrastructure, among others, which are expected to have a multiplier effect on the economy. With regards to increasing allocation for rural job guarantee scheme, the finance minister said the government will allocate more funds for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee (MGNREGA) scheme for 2021-22, if needed, as against Budget estimate of Rs 73,000 crore. Hitting out at the Opposition, Sitharaman said the government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi works for common people and not for crony capitalists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-works-for-common-people-not-for-crony-capitalists-says-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-in-lok-sabha-950736.html
13-02-2021||National||Toll plazas suffer loss of Rs 1.8 crore per day due to farm stir, says Gadkari||The ongoing farmers' protests in New Delhi, Punjab and Haryana has led to the suspension of toll tax collection across the regions since December 2020. Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari has pointed out that public-funded toll plazas at highways are facing an estimated loss of Rs 1.8 crore per day. Earlier, a report by rating agency ICRA claimed that the farmers' protests will cause a Rs 600-crore loss to toll collections. While the impact on fee collection at some toll plazas began from October 2020 onwards, the same has intensified to no fee collection with the free movement of vehicles at all toll plazas in Haryana, Punjab and Delhi-NCR since December 12, 2020. A total of 52 toll plazas, including both public-funded and BOT (built, operate and transfer), on national highways (NHs) in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi-NCR have been directly or indirectly affected due to farmers protests, the ICRA report had noted. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of three contentious laws, which they feel would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the Centre has maintained that the laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toll-plazas-suffer-loss-of-rs-18-crore-per-day-due-to-farm-stir-says-gadkari-950738.html
13-02-2021||National||Death toll rises to 3 in Gujarat tile factory mishap||The death toll in the accident at the tile manufacturing factory in Gujarat's Morbi rose to three after the body of a missing woman labourer was recovered after nearly thirty hours of the rescue operation, officials said on Saturday. Six to seven silos containing ceramic clay had fallen at the factory located in Rangpur village of Morbi district on Thursday evening. The bodies of two persons were recovered from the debris on Friday. "The body of a woman labourer, who had gone missing after the mishap, was found late night on Friday after 30 hours of rescue operation," fire officer Hitesh Dave said. The deceased woman was identified as Sonamben Purabia, he said. Two others were injured in the mishap and admitted to a hospital for treatment. On Friday afternoon, the bodies of two victims, including that of the factory owner's business partner, were pulled out from the debris. The silos, each containing around 60 tonnes of clay used for manufacturing tiles, had fallen on the victims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-rises-to-3-in-gujarat-tile-factory-mishap-950740.html
13-02-2021||National||Deep Sidhu, Iqbal Singh taken to Red Fort to recreate vandalism scene on Republic Day||The Delhi Police's Crime Branch on Saturday took actor-activist Deep Sidhu and another accused Iqbal Singh to Red Fort to recreate the scene of events that unfolded at the historic monument on Republic Day during the farmer's tractor parade, a police officer said. Sidhu, according to police, was a "prominent player" behind the January 26 violence and vandalism at the Red Fort. He was arrested from Karnal bypass in Haryana on Monday night by a team of Delhi Police's Special Cell. On Tuesday, Sidhu was sent to seven-day police custody by a city court here A senior police officer said Sidhu and another accused arrested in the case Iqbal Singh were taken to the Red Fort by a crime branch team to recreate the scene of events that unfolded on Republic Day at the monument. The team probing the case will inspect the spot to ascertain and corroborate the route taken by them, their activities at the Red Fort and how things unfolded at the monument on Republic Day when the violence broke out, the officer added. Iqbal Singh, who was carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his arrest, was nabbed from Hoshiarpur in Punjab on Tuesday night by the northern range of Delhi Police's Special Cell. The Delhi police had announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information that can lead to the arrest of actor Sidhu, Jugraj Singh, Gurjot Singh and Gurjant Singh who hoisted flags at the Red Fort or were involved in the act. A cash reward of Rs 50,000 each was also announced for Buta Singh, Sukhdev Singh, Jajbir Singh and Iqbal Singh for allegedly instigating protesters. Of them, Sidhu, Iqbal Singh and Sukhdev Singh have been arrested. Police said raids are being conducted to nab the other accused. Thousands of farmers protesting the Centre's new agriculture laws had clashed with the police during their tractor parade on January 26. Many of the protesters, driving tractors, reached the Red Fort and entered the monument. Some protesters even hoisted religious flags on its domes and a flagstaff at the ramparts, where the national flag is unfurled on Independence Day. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protestor died on that day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deep-sidhu-iqbal-singh-taken-to-red-fort-to-recreate-vandalism-scene-on-republic-day-950748.html
13-02-2021||National||Indian-origin employee at UN announces her candidacy for its Secretary-General||An Indian-origin employee at the UN has announced her candidacy to be its next Secretary-General, the first person to throw her hat in the ring against incumbent Antonio Guterres, who is seeking a second five-year term beginning January 2022 as chief of the world organisation. Arora Akanksha, 34, working as an audit coordinator for the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), said she will run for the post of the world’s top diplomat and launched her campaign #AroraForSG this month. “People in my position aren’t supposed to stand up to the ones in charge. We are supposed to wait our turn, hop on the hamster wheel, go to work, keep our heads down and accept that the world is the way it is,” Akanksha said in a two and half minute campaign video posted online. The video shows Akanksha walking inside the sprawling UN headquarters, as her voiceover says that people who have come before her have failed to hold the UN accountable. “For 75 years, the UN has not fulfilled its promise to the world - refugees haven’t been protected, humanitarian aid has been minimal, and technology and innovation has been on the back-burner. We deserve a UN that leads progress," she said. “That is why I am running for the Secretary-General of the United Nations. I refuse to be a bystander. I will not accept this is the best the UN can do,” she said in the video. Last month Guterres, 71 had confirmed that he will seek a second five-year term as chief of the world organisation. Guterres’s first term ends on December 31 this year and the term of the next Secretary-General will begin on January 1, 2022. Guterres assumed office on January 1, 2017, after a reformed selection process that included a public informal dialogue session in the General Assembly. Guterres is the 9th Secretary-General of the United Nations and no woman has held the position of the world’s top diplomat in the 75-year history of the United Nations. The Secretary-General is appointed by the General Assembly, on the recommendation of the Security Council, making the Secretary-General's selection subject to the veto of any of the five permanent members of the Council. Stephane Dujarric, Spokesman for the Secretary-General, responding to a question at the daily briefing on the UNDP staffer announcing her candidacy for Secretary-General, said "Antonio Guterres is a candidate for the selection process. It's not for him to comment on other people who may want to come forward. "This is a process run by Member States. So, I'm not aware of any issues or problems with that….I speak for the incumbent candidate, but we have no comment on anyone else who may wish to put their hat in the proverbial ring,” Dujarric said. The spokesperson for UN General Assembly President Volkan Bozkir, Brenden Varma was asked at the press briefing whether Akanksha had written to the President on her candidacy. Varma said the President’s office had not received any formal communications on this matter. Varma had earlier said that so far the General Assembly President had not received any notifications of candidacies for the position of Secretary-General from Member States. He added that candidates have traditionally been presented by Member States. In the video, Akanksha adds that it is time that the UN stop serving politicians and start serving people. “It is time for a new UN - a UN that is a guardian for refugees, takes humanitarian crises through to completion and gets technology and education in the hands of all.” She said these ideas are not impossible and don’t need another 75 years to accomplish. “It takes someone being bold, being a first - first to speak up, first to take action, first to make a difference and now first to challenge the UN. I’m no longer waiting for the torch to be passed down, I’m taking it because I am part of the generation of change where we don’t just talk about change, we cause change,” she said. According to her profile on her website UNOW.org, Akanksha graduated from York University, Toronto with a Bachelor of Administrative Studies. She received her Master in Public Administration from Columbia University. Her profile states that she was recruited at the UN to “help with the financial reforms of the organisation” and her work included updating financial regulations and rules of the UN and managing the internal and external audits at UNDP. A report in news site PassBlue said India-born Akanksha has an Overseas Citizenship of India and a Canadian passport. She “hasn’t asked either country for an official endorsement. She is nevertheless hopeful that her candidacy could shake up the selection process,” the PassBlue report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-origin-employee-at-un-announces-her-candidacy-for-its-secretary-general-950752.html
13-02-2021||National||Jailed ex-DU professor G N Saibaba tests Covid-19 positive||Former Delhi University professor G N Saibaba, who is serving a life term in Nagpur Central Prison for Maoist links, has tested coronavirus positive, a jail official said on Saturday. Along with him, three other inmates of the jail were found to have contracted the infection, he said. "G N Saibaba tested positive for Covid-19 yesterday. He will be taken for a CT scan and other tests, after which doctors will decide whether to shift him to the Government Medical College and Hospital for treatment," jail superintendent Anup Kumre said. Earlier this week, gangster Arun Gawli and four other inmates of Nagpur jail had tested positive for the infection. Saibaba is wheelchair-bound with 90 per cent physical disabilities. In 2017, a court in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli had convicted him and four others for Maoist links and indulging in activities amounting to waging war against the country. Ever since his conviction, Saibaba is lodged in the Nagpur jail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jailed-ex-du-professor-g-n-saibaba-tests-covid-19-positive-950753.html
13-02-2021||National||Death toll rises to 19 in Tamil Nadu firecracker factory fire||At least 19 people were killed and dozens hurt in a blast at a fireworks manufacturing unit near Sivakasi in Virudhunagar district in Tamil Nadu, authorities told news agency AFP on Saturday. The blast on Friday was one of the worst such incidents in years in the state. Local official R Kannan told AFP that the death toll was likely to go up in the next few hours. "So far 34 people have been injured and are undergoing treatment. Some of them are severely burnt," he said. Kannan said there were around 74 people in the factory at the time of the incident. Safety inside the fireworks manufacturing units in and around Sivakasi, the fireworks capital of the country, has been a concern with activists alleging that the authorities did not have adequate measures in place to prevent such incidents. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced a compensation of Rs 2,00,000 to the families of the deceased. (With AFP inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/death-toll-rises-to-19-in-tamil-nadu-firecracker-factory-fire-950755.html
13-02-2021||National||Fuel prices hiked for 5th straight day; petrol dearer by up to 40 paise||Petrol and diesel prices soared to record highs on Saturday after rates were hiked for the fifth day in a row. As the benchmark Brent crude price crossed $62 a barrel mark, oil marketing companies raised the price of diesel by up to 36 paise per litre and petrol by up to 40 paise per litre across the country. As of now, petrol costs Rs 88.44 a litre and diesel Rs 78.74 a litre in the national capital. In Mumbai, petrol prices are inching closer to the Rs 95 per litre mark. Currently, petrol costs Rs 94.93 a litre in the financial capital, while diesel is priced at Rs 85.70 a litre.  In Bengaluru, petrol now costs Rs 91.40 per litre, and diesel Rs 83.47 per litre. In five days this week, the price has gone up by Rs 1.51 per litre for petrol while the diesel rate has risen by Rs 1.56 a litre. The relentless hike in prices has been criticised by the opposition parties, including Congress that has demanded an immediate cut in taxes to ease the burden on the common man. However, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Wednesday had told Parliament that the government is not considering a reduction in excise duty to cool rates from their record highs. Rates have risen as international oil prices touched USD 61 per barrel for the first time in more than a year on improving demand outlook amid the global rollout of COVID-19 vaccines, he had said. Central and state taxes make up for over 61 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and about 56 per cent of diesel. The Union government levies Rs 32.9 per litre of excise duty on petrol and Rs Rs 31.80 a litre on diesel. Retail petrol rates have risen by Rs 18.87 per litre since mid-March 2020 after the government raised taxes by a record margin to mop up gains arising from fall in international oil prices. Diesel rates have gone up by Rs 16.45. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-prices-hiked-for-5th-straight-day-petrol-dearer-by-up-to-40-paise-950756.html
13-02-2021||National||Amit Shah-led committee approves Rs 3,113 crore for 5 states as disaster relief||A high-level committee headed by Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday approved around Rs 3,113 crore to five states that faced natural disasters and pest attacks in 2020. The states and union territory that will get the additional central assistance from the National Disaster Risk Management Fund (NDRMF) are Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Madhya Pradesh, a home ministry statement said. The committee, under the chairmanship of the home minister, has approved the additional central assistance to the five states and UT, which were affected by floods, cyclones (Nivar and Burevi) and pest attack during 2020. Andhra Pradesh will get Rs 280.78 crore and Bihar Rs 1,255.27 crore for floods during the South-West monsoon. Tamil Nadu will get Rs 63.14 crore for cyclone 'Nivar' and Rs 223.77 crore for cyclone 'Burevi' -- a total Rs 286.91 crore The Union Territory of Puducherry will get Rs 9.91 crore for cyclone 'Nivar'. Madhya Pradesh will get Rs 1,280.18 crore for the pest attack during the Kharif season, the statement said. The central government had deputed Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs) immediately after the calamities without waiting for the receipts of memorandum from the affected state governments. While approving the additional central assistance, the home minister said the union government under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has resolved to help the people of Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Madhya Pradesh who braved these natural disasters. In addition, during the financial year 2020-21, till date the central government has released Rs 19,036.43 crore to 28 states from the State Disaster Risk Management Fund (SDRMF) and Rs 4,409.71 crore to 11 states from NDRMF, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-led-committee-approves-rs-3113-crore-for-5-states-as-disaster-relief-950758.html
13-02-2021||National||BSF shoots dead Pakistani intruder along IB in Punjab's Tarn Taran||A Pakistani intruder was shot dead by the Border Security Force along the International Border in Punjab's Tarn Taran district, an official of the force said on Saturday. BSF troops noted suspicious activity near the border fence at around 2:30 am. Sensing threat, they opened fire, he said A search operation was carried on Saturday morning and the body of a Pakistani intruder was found, the official said. Fourteen packets of heroin, one pistol magazine, six rounds and two mobile phones were recovered from near the body, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsf-shoots-dead-pakistani-intruder-along-ib-in-punjabs-tarn-taran-950761.html
13-02-2021||National||Right to protest cannot be anytime and everywhere, says Supreme Court||Amid ongoing sit-in by farmers at Delhi borders for over two months, the Supreme Court has once again emphasised the right to protest cannot be anytime and everywhere.  "There may be some spontaneous protests but in case of prolonged dissent or protest, there cannot be continued occupation of public place affecting rights of others," a three-judge bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said. The court dismissed a plea made by a dozen activists led by Kaniz Fathina for review of the October 7, 2020 judgement, which termed anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protest at Shaheen Bagh here as illegal. The bench, also comprising Justices Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari, declined to reconsider its previous judgement, saying it does not suffer any error apparent warranting its reconsideration. The court also rejected their request for an oral hearing of the review petition in open court.  “We have considered the earlier judicial pronouncements and recorded our opinion that the Constitutional scheme comes with a right to protest and express dissent but with an obligation to have certain duties," the top court said. The court's order passed on February 9 comes at a time when farmers unions have been organising protests and sit-in at Delhi borders since the end of November demanding repeal of three farm laws. In its October 2020 judgement, the court had then declared that public roads and spaces can't be occupied in an indefinite manner for protests, causing inconvenience to the people, as such demonstrations must be organised at designated places only. In a critical observation, the court had then said, “The Shaheen Bagh protest perhaps no longer remained the sole and empowering voice of women, who also appeared to no longer have the ability to call off the protest themselves.”  The Shaheen Bagh protest, predominantly by women and children, started in December 2019 to oppose the CAA-NPR-NRC, was replicated across the country. The sit-in was lifted after about 100 days as "the hand of God subsequently intervened and overtook the situation" in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the court had then said. The court had then said it cannot accept that an indeterminable number of people can assemble whenever they choose to protest, and referred to the distinction between the manner of dissent against the colonisers and the expression of dissent in a democratic system.  In their review petition, the petitioners claimed the judgement appeared to be giving way to an unrestricted sanction to the police to take action by misusing these observations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/right-to-protest-cannot-be-anytime-and-everywhere-says-supreme-court-950763.html
13-02-2021||National||Budget Session: Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 tabled in Lok Sabha||A bill to replace an ordinance to merge the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) cadre of civil services officers with the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre was introduced in the Lok Sabha on Saturday. Introducing 'The Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021', Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy said the government was working to take Jammu and Kashmir on the path to development. He said around 170 central laws are being implemented in Jammu and Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution that gave a special status to the erstwhile state. The government is implementing different development projects and schemes in Jammu and Kashmir, he added. "I request the members to pass the bill," he added. Raising objections on the bill, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury asked, "What was the need to bring an ordinance for this?" He said regularly promulgating an ordinance is not good for a parliamentary democracy as an ordinance should be preceded by an emergency situation or any urgency. "Our point of contention is loud and clear," he said, adding after abrogating Article 370, the government showed a "dream" to the people that they would "make heaven" in Jammu and Kashmir and create jobs there. Introduction of this bill reflects that the government took the step of abrogating Article 370 without any preparation, Chowdhury alleged. The Congress leader said Jammu and Kashmir is a sensitive state and the cadre should be local and officers having ground knowledge should be appointed there. He alleged that militancy is still prevalent in the union territory and people are living in an atmosphere of fear. The government tried to turn Jammu and Kashmir into a large prison, the opposition leader said, adding they blocked telecommunication services and failed to normalise the situation there. "There is unemployment, restriction, lost avenues and total confusion," Chowdhury added. He further said the government had promised to bring back Kashmiri Pandits to the Kashmir valley but has failed to ensure their return. "Please think for Jammu and Kashmir with new ideas and do not take adhoc measures," he said, adding the government should make Jammu and Kashmir a state and create a cadre to appoint officers there. Speaking against the bill, Hasnain Masoodi (J&K NC) said this bill is akin to an assault on the people of Jammu and Kashmir. "You are continuously increasing confusion...What is the objective of this bill? ...You are taking Jammu and Kashmir towards uncertainty through this bill," he said, adding appointed officers should have connect with the ground realities. He added that the government should restore the position of Jammu and Kashmir to that prior to August 5, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/budget-session-jammu-and-kashmir-reorganisation-amendment-bill-2021-tabled-in-lok-sabha-950776.html
13-02-2021||National||Covid vaccine beneficiaries in India get second doses||The vaccination drive against Covid-19 picked up pace on Saturday as many beneficiaries who had received their first shots on day one of the exercise four weeks ago turned up to get their second dose. The second dose delivery began at LNJP Hospital as well and over 20 persons had received the second shots by noon, a senior official at the facility said. The state-run hospital, currently a partial coronavirus facility, had played a critical role in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi. Under the nationwide mega vaccination drive launched on January 16, a total of 4,319 (53 per cent) health workers against a target of 8,117, were administered the shots at 81 centres across the city on day one. The number of centres where vaccination was carried out on Friday stood at 257, with a turnout of about 57 per cent, as over 14,800 people received Covid-19 vaccine shots in Delhi on the fourth week of the inoculation drive. Authorities said they were all geared up for the delivery of the second dose of vaccination for the beneficiaries who were given jabs in the beginning of the exercise. As per doctors, the second dose is to be given to a beneficiary after a gap of 28 days. A senior doctor at the Centre for Chest and Respiratory Illness, BLK Super Speciality Hospital received his second Covid vaccine shot on Saturday, a spokesperson of the hospital said. A senior doctor at the Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital said, "We are all geared up for the second dose delivery." On the second scheduled day after the roll-out of the exercise on January 16, the figures had stood at 3,598 (44 per cent of the target). The sharp fall had come after one severe and 50 minor adverse effect cases were reported on the opening day of the vaccination drive. The count on the third schedule day was much higher at 4,936 (48 per cent). After a sluggish start, since the exercise was kicked off on January 16, the inoculation drive had picked up pace in the last several days. "On Friday, 14,843 people were administered coronavirus vaccine,  and AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) was reported in seven persons," a senior official of the Delhi Health Department had said. Delhi recorded 141 fresh Covid-19 cases and three deaths on Friday, even as the positivity rate stood at 0.22 per cent, authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-vaccine-beneficiaries-in-india-get-second-doses-950777.html
13-02-2021||National||No new Covid-19 deaths in 17 states, UTs in 24 hours||The distribution of daily deaths among states and union territories in a span of 24 hours reflects a significant decline, with 17 of them not reporting any new Covid-19 fatality, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday. A total of 17 states and union territories that have not reported any new deaths in the last 24 hours are Telangana, Odisha, Jharkhand, Puducherry, Chandigarh, Nagaland, Assam, Manipur, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Tripura, Lakshadweep, Arunachal Pradesh and Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. While a total of 13 states and UTs have reported between 1-5 new deaths due to Covid-19. Meanwhile, India has vaccinated close to 80 lakh beneficiaries against Covid-19, the ministry said. Till 8 AM on February 13, a total of 79,67,647 beneficiaries have been administered shots under the countrywide Covid-19 vaccination exercise. Out of these, 5,909,136 are healthcare workers and 2,058,511 are frontline workers. A total of 1,64,781 sessions have been conducted so far. On day 28 (February 12) of the vaccination drive, 4,62,637 beneficiaries (healthcare workers - 94,160 and frontline workers - 3,68,477) were vaccinated across 10,411 sessions, the ministry said. The number of beneficiaries being vaccinated every day has shown a consistent enhancement, it underlined. Eight states account for 60 per cent (59.70 per cent) of the total beneficiaries vaccinated in India.  These eight states have vaccinated over 4,00,000 beneficiaries each. Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 10.8 per cent (8,58,602 beneficiaries) of the total beneficiaries in India. India's total Covid-19 active caseload currently stands at 1.36 lakh (1,36,571) comprising just 1.25 per cent of the total infections. A total of 1,06,00,625 people have recovered so far with 11,395 patients getting discharged in a day. The ministry said 81.93 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in six states. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries, with 5,332 newly-recovered cases. A total of 2,422 people recovered in Maharashtra in the past 24 hours, followed by 486 in Tamil Nadu. A total of 12,143 daily new cases registered in a span of  24 hours, it said, adding that 86.01 per cent of the new cases are from six states. Kerala continues to report the highest daily new cases at 5,397, followed by Maharashtra with 3,670, while Tamil Nadu reported 483 new cases. Further, 103 deaths were recorded in a span of 24 hours. Six states account for 80.58 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw a maximum of 36 casualties. Kerala follows with 18 daily deaths, while Karnataka and Punjab reported 8 deaths each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-new-covid-19-deaths-in-17-states-uts-in-24-hours-950778.html
13-02-2021||National||NGT directs closure of illegal brick kilns in Rajasthan's Sri Ganganagar district||The National Green Tribunal has directed the authorities to take action against the illegal operation of brick kilns in Sri Ganganagar district of Rajasthan and shut down the units that are running without permission. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel also ordered recovery of environmental compensation for the period of illegal operation following due process of law. "For those not having consents, closure can be immediately, particularly when show-cause notice has already been given. For those having consents, it is necessary to verify whether they are meeting the prescribed pollution norms and the siting norms," the bench said. The tribunal directed that a joint committee of the Central Pollution Control Board, state pollution control board and the District Magistrate may look into these aspects and furnish a factual report within three months. "The state pollution control board and District Magistrate may take remedial action against kilns operating without consent forthwith and for assessment and recovery of compensation, after following due process. "Similarly, action be taken, in accordance with law, against those found non-compliant, and action taken report filed. Notice is not being issued to individual kilns, as the statutory authorities will follow due process while taking action, in exercise of their statutory powers, for which hearing by this tribunal is not required," the bench said. Advocate Pushpinder Singh, appearing for the petitioners, submitted that 225 brick kilns are operating without any consent to operate and should be closed immediately. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by Hakam Singh and others seeking compliance of environmental norms by the brick kilns in Sri Ganganagar district in Rajasthan. The plea alleged absence of requisite consents under the Air and the Water Acts and siting criteria resulting in air pollution||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-directs-closure-of-illegal-brick-kilns-in-rajasthans-sri-ganganagar-district-950784.html
13-02-2021||National||BSP backs govt on J&K bill, lashes out at Congress||The Bahujan Samaj Party on Saturday supported the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill in the Lok Sabha and lashed out at the Congress for its opposition to the government's measures that it said are in "support" of the poor, Dalits and other deprived communities in the union territory. Its MP Malook Nagar said backward communities like Gujjar and Backarwal had been deprived of their rights in Jammu and Kashmir for long and are now getting their due, a reference to the Modi government's move to roll out reservation for them in line with the national quota after the erstwhile state's special status was revoked with the annulment of Article 370 of the Constitution in 2019. Mayawati-led BSP had also backed the government on its move to abrogate Article 370. Her party is not part of the BJP-led alliance and had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in alliance with the SP against the BJP. It has since nuanced its position. Participating in the discussion on the bill, Nagar was spirited in support of the government and was equally strong in his criticism of the Congress, saying its leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra eat meals in poor households but oppose the Centre's pro-poor policies. They are not opposing the government but the poor, he alleged. He also mocked Rahul Gandhi for his speech during a discussion on the Union budget, saying he delivered his address and then left as a professor does after giving a lecture to students. "We (BSP) are also in the opposition but are getting a bad name," he said, as the treasure benches repeatedly cheered at his remarks. What is the harm if good officers from other parts of the country serve Jammu and Kashmir, he asked, supporting the bill that seeks to replace the ordinance to merge the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) cadre of civil services officer with the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre. DMK's T Sumathy Thamizhachi Thangapandian opposed the bill and alleged that the government has imposed a host of "draconian" laws on the country. It is a serious blow to a state's rights, she asserted. BJP's Satya Pal Singh said the proposed law will help the Centre usher in all-round development of the union territory and push its full integration with the rest of the country. This will allow the government to punish those officers who do not act properly by transferring them outside. TMC's Saugata Roy opposed the bill, saying it is against the principles of the Constitution. It will also affect the career prospects of the J&K cadre officers, he said. He also spoke about the revocation of Article 370, wondering what it has brought to Jammu and Kashmir and noting that for the first time a state was reduced to the status of a union territory. Democratic rights of people were taken away, he said. YSR Congress' Chinta Anuradha supported the bill "wholeheartedly", and said it will allow the government to fill up the big deficiency of officers there and boost development activities. JD(U)'s Rajiv Ranjan Singh supported the bill and took a dig at the opposition members who brought up the issue of revocation of Article 370, dubbing it as "vidhwa wilap" (a widow's cry). "Whatever had to happen has happened, and there is no point raking it up now," he said, noting that his party had also not supported the measure then. Development is taking place at a fast pace in Jammu and Kashmir, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsp-backs-govt-on-jk-bill-lashes-out-at-congress-950789.html
13-02-2021||National||Lashkar-e-Taiba militant ‘involved’ in killing three BJP workers held in Jammu||A Lashkar-e-Taiba militant, allegedly involved in the killing of three BJP workers and a policeman in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district last year was arrested by the police in Samba district of Jammu region on Saturday. Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir range, Vijay Kumar said that a police team from Anantnag district acting on lead laid a siege in Samba area of Jammu region and arrested Lashkar (The Resistance Front), militant Zahoor Ahmed Rather alias Khalid alias Sahil. “He (Rather) has killed three BJP workers in Kulgam last year and one policeman at Furrah in Kulgam. The arrested militant is being brought to Kashmir for further investigations,” he said. The Resistance Front (TRF) is an offshoot of the Lashkar-e-Taiba militant outfit. Three BJP workers - Fida Hussain Yatoo, Umer Rashid Beigh and Umer Ramzan Hajam, were killed in YK Pora locality of Kulgam on October 29 last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lashkar-e-taiba-militant-involved-in-killing-three-bjp-workers-held-in-jammu-950795.html
13-02-2021||National||Editors Guild of India webinar disrupted by unknown persons||The Editors Guild of India on Saturday said its virtual webinar on reporting challenges from Naxal areas was subjected to relentless attacks and disruptions by unknown persons. Calling the incident shocking, the Guild said it had organised the webinar as part of its series 'Unheard Voices: Reporting from Conflict Zones' and its speakers included some of the most seasoned Indian journalists who have been reporting from Naxal areas. Within a few minutes since the start of the webinar, some of the participants started posting frivolous song videos, the Guild said in a statement. "The meeting host tried shutting down the window of each such guest, but the number of such disruptors kept on increasing. Soon, some of them started posting obscene messages on group chat as well as shared screens with pornographic content and abusive language. Eventually, the meeting had to be ended without even one of the guest speakers getting a chance to speak," it said. Calling it a blatant attack on the freedom of speech, the Guild demanded that the Cyber Crime Cell investigate this violation. "The Guild is shocked and disturbed by this unprecedented attack by those who clearly did not want the speakers' voices to be heard. Naxal infested areas have been subjected to some of the most horrifying and gruesome instances of state excesses. The webinar speakers have been at the forefront of chronicling the conflict and the human rights abuses over the last few decades," it noted.  The Guild said it sees this as a blatant attack on the freedom of speech. It demanded that the Cyber Crime Cell investigate this attack on free speech and book the guilty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/editors-guild-of-india-webinar-disrupted-by-unknown-persons-950798.html
13-02-2021||National||Ashok Gehlot hails radio as effective medium to reach out to masses||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday hailed the medium of radio in reaching out to the masses, especially those residing in remote areas. Speaking on World Radio Day, he noted that he himself listens to radio and feels that the medium plays an important role despite the presence of various other state-of-the-art communication platforms. “Radio is also an important means of spreading awareness in society,” he said. “Radio has a worldwide reach and this powerful and very cheap medium of communication is suitable for residents of rural and remote areas, which provides them a platform for public discussion,” the chief minister added. Gehlot said the medium also helped in making people aware, providing necessary information and alerting them against rumours during the coronavirus-induced lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashok-gehlot-hails-radio-as-effective-medium-to-reach-out-to-masses-950799.html
13-02-2021||National||Shri Ram Sene to counter V-Day with 'Mata-Pita' pooja||Right wing outfit Shri Ram Sene on Saturday said it would counter Valentine's day by observing 'Mata-Pita' pooja on February 14. The organisation would deploy its members in various parts of Karnataka, where there would be chances of 'vulgarity' in public places, in the name of Valentine's day celebrations. "Every year we organise the 'Mata-Pita' pooja across the state. We would organise the event at 50 to 60 places," the outfit chief Pramod Muthalik told PTI. The fringe outfit President said there will be volunteers of the organisations at the probable places such as pubs, bars, malls, ice cream parlours and parks to ensure that there is no vulgarity in public places. He, however, pointed out that the members of the outfit will not take law into their hands but would work in tandem with the police to prevent such incidents. In a press release, the Hubballi unit of Shri Ram Sena said, "The western culture is trying to attract the youth towards it, which has an adverse effect on our invaluable heritage and leads to unacceptable drugs, sex and love jihad. Valentine's day is a clear example of it." Meanwhile, Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said, "We will not allow anyone to take law into their hands." "If anyone has any grievances, let them come to us," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shri-ram-sene-to-counter-v-day-with-mata-pita-pooja-950801.html
13-02-2021||National||Modi-critic Mahua Moitra claims 'surveillance' over police deployment at her Delhi residence||Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra on Saturday said that police personnel have been deployed at her residence here without her seeking security and suspects that she is under "some sort of surveillance". In a letter to police, Moitra, , a vocal critic of the Narendra Modi government, demanded that the personnel, including those from the BSF, be withdrawn immediately. The letter addressed to the Station House Officer of Barakhamba Police Station and copied to Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava said the former had come to her house at 6:30 PM on Friday and at around 10 PM, three BSF personnel armed with assault rifles had been deputed at her residence. "The conduct of these armed officers indicate that they are making notes of movements to and from my residence, it appears to me that I am under some sort of surveillance. I wish to remind you that Right to Privacy is a fundamental right guaranteed to me as a citizen of this country under the Constitution of India, 1950," the West Bengal MP wrote. 3 BSF men w/ assault rifles outside my home. Say they are from Barakhamba Road police station for my “protection”. Still outside my home.Am a free citizen of India - people will protect me. "Upon making inquiries, I was informed that the armed officers had been deputed from the police station, Barakhamba Road for my protection. However, I being an ordinary citizen of this country, did neither ask nor want any such protection. Therefore, you are requested to kindly withdraw these officers," Moitra said in the letter.   The Krishnanagar MP also tweeted pictures of the personnel deployed at her residence saying that they told her that they were sent by the local police station. "I am a free citizen of India, people will protect me. Request Home Minister Amit Shah and the Ministry of Home Affairs to remove (the personnel) immediately," she tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-critic-mahua-moitra-claims-surveillance-over-police-deployment-at-her-delhi-residence-950802.html
13-02-2021||National||Parliament passes J&K Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill||A bill to merge the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) cadre of all-India services officers with the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre was passed by Lok Sabha on Saturday by a voice vote. The Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 has already been passed by Rajya Sabha. The statutory resolution, opposing the ordinance which the bill has replaced, was rejected by the House. An amendment too was defeated by a voice vote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-jk-reorganisation-amendment-bill-950804.html
13-02-2021||National||Minority affairs ministry to organise 'mushaira' on 'Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat' on February 20||The Union Ministry of Minority Affairs will organise a 'mushaira' on the theme 'ek Bharat, shrestha Bharat' (one India, great India) here on February 20 in which renowned poets from across the country will recite their poems and couplets. In a statement, the ministry said Wasim Barelvi, Shabeena Adeeb, Manzar Bhopali, Popular Meeruthi, Saba Balrampuri, Naseem Nikhat, Mumtaz Naseem, V P Singh, Alok Shrivastava, Surendra Singh Shajar, Khursheed Haider, Aqeel Nomani, Nayyar Jalalpuri and Sikandar Hayat Gadbad will participate in the 'mushaira', to be organised at the Ambedkar International Centre. Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the poets will present their poetry full of commitment to 'Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat' and 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. He noted that 'mushaira' and 'kavi sammelan' have a rich cultural legacy which strengthens the fabric of unity in diversity. Programmes like this will spread the message of peace and also strengthen social harmony and brotherhood in the society, he said. Such programmes on the one hand give message of social and cultural harmony and on the other, they also make the younger generation aware of country's art, culture and legacy of decency and etiquette, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/minority-affairs-ministry-to-organise-mushaira-on-ek-bharat-shrestha-bharat-on-february-20-950808.html
13-02-2021||National||NIA files chargesheet against ex-J&K cop who joined Hizbul ranks for attack on CRPF convoy||The NIA on Saturday filed a supplementary chargesheet against a former Jammu and Kashmir policeman, who deserted the force and joined the Pakistan-based terrorist group Hizbul Mujahideen, for his alleged involvement in attacking a CRPF convoy in 2019, an official said. Naveed Mushtaq Shah, an ex-constable of Jammu and Kashmir police, had decamped with arms and ammunition in 2017 when he was posted as a guard at the Food Corporation of India (FCI), Budgam, an official of the premier investigation agency said. After deserting the force, he joined the outlawed Pakistan-based and Kashmir-focused Hizbul-Mujahideen terror group and became an active terrorist, according to the NIA official. The chargesheet was filed against Shah before a special NIA court in Jammu under sections of the Remote Procedure Call (RPC), the Explosive Substances Act, the Jammu and Kashmir Public Property (Prevention of Damage) Act and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act or UAPA. The case relates to the attack on the CRPF convoy at Tethar in Banihal area of Ramban district by a terrorist who had exploded a car laden with explosives on March 30, 2019 with the intention of killing security personnel and waging a war against the government of India. A case was registered on March 30, 2019 in Ramban. The NIA re-registered the case on April 15, 2019 and took over the investigation. The NIA had earlier filed a chargesheet against six Hizbul-Mujahideen terrorists for their role in the attack. The special NIA court has framed charges against the six accused. Shah was actively involved in the planning and execution of the attack on the CRPF convoy in Banihal along with other terrorists Riyaz Ahmed Naikoo, Rayees Ahmed Khan and Dr Saifullah Mir, who were subsequently killed in encounters with security forces, according to the NIA official. The deceased terrorists -- Sahil Abdullah Bhat, Adil Bashir Sheikh and Zubair Ahmed Wani -- were actively involved in preparation of the explosives that went into the making of the improvised explosive device (IED), the official said. Charges have been abated against the deceased terrorists involved in the conspiracy, the NIA official said, adding that further trial in the case continues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-files-chargesheet-against-ex-jk-cop-who-joined-hizbul-ranks-for-attack-on-crpf-convoy-950812.html
13-02-2021||National||Centre pursuing reforms to make India one of world's top economies, says FM Nirmala Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said that the government, undeterred by the Covid-19 pandemic, has been pursuing reforms for achieving sustained long-term growth in a bid to make India one of the top economies of the world in the coming decades. Replying to debate on Budget 2021-22 in Lok Sabha, she said, the Prime Minister did not lose any opportunity to continue with the reforms and this Budget has set the pace for India to become self-reliant or Aatmanirbhar. Earlier this month, the Finance Minister presented a Rs 34.5 lakh crore Budget for 2021-22, in the backdrop of the pandemic. The Budget has laid emphasis on increasing capital expenditure, raising allocation for healthcare capacity building and development of agriculture infrastructure, among others, which are expected to have a multiplier effect on the economy. She said her Budget for 2021-22, has provided the highest capex growth of 34.4 per cent by providing more money to railways, roads and defence. Referring to a series of measures taken to stimulate the economy hit by the pandemic, she said, Covid-19 did not deter the government from taking up reforms, which are going to be necessary for sustaining long-term goals for this country. Emphasising that sustained commitment to reform is blended in the Budget, she said, "reforms are going to lay a path for India to be one of the top economies of the world in the coming decades." On handling of Covid-19 pandemic, the Finance Minister said, "The death rates are the lowest in the world, active cases have come down... we have actually managed to bend the curve. And as a result, the revival of the economy looks a lot more sustainable and this Budget gives necessary impetus." Responding to the charge of crony capitalism, the minister said, the government under Narendra Modi works for common people and not for cronies. Reeling out statistics to show the government's pro-poor policies, she said, measures of providing toilets, houses and MUDRA Yojana, rural roads were not meant for cronies. "We don't do work for any cronies, we work for the common citizen who believes in the Prime Minister," she said. She also took on Congress for accusing that the government is favouring certain industrialists and asked the opposition party to explain how a particular project in Kerala was awarded on invitation basis to one of the industrialists. Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Ltd, India's largest port developer and part of the Adani Group, in December 2015 formally began development of the international transhipment project in Vizhinjam in Kerala. With regards to increasing allocation for rural job guarantee scheme, the Finance Minister said the government will allocate more funds for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee (MGNREGA) scheme for 2021-22, if needed, as against Budget estimate of Rs 73,000 crore. Compared to the previous regime, the Finance Minister said the government has always raised expenditure on MGNREGA scheme at the Revised Estimate level right since 2014-15. MNREGA under Congress was a "mess" with utilisation far less than budget provision, she said. The Modi government "removed ills out of the scheme and effectively utilised it." In the current 2020-21 fiscal that ends on March 31, Rs 61,500 crore was provided in the Budget but the provision was increased to Rs 1.1 lakh crore in view of the support needed to help those in distress during the pandemic. On the cash dole scheme of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana providing Rs 10,000 crore less in current and the next fiscal, she said this was because of "rationalisation" of expenditure following the West Bengal government not providing the list of 69 lakh beneficiaries. On criticism of cut in spending on defence for the fiscal beginning April 1, she said it has increased both on revenue and capital side and there is a decline only in provision for pensions as the previous year's spending included payment of arrears for the one-rank-one-pension (OROP) scheme. On defence, she said revenue expenditure budgeted for 2021-22, is 1.3 per cent more than the previous year and capital spending is 18.8 per cent higher. She justified including water and sanitation under health to show more than doubling of expenditure on that head by pointing to a World Health Organization (WHO) report that sanitisation was part of healthcare. Actual allocation for the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has gone up by 9.6 per cent for next year and that of Ayush Ministry by 40 per cent, she said. Hitting at the economic models adopted by the Congress regime in the past, the Finance Minister said India used to follow a model based on proximity with some country or other. "We (Congress) were socialist at one particular point of time, communist at another point of time, licence quota, crony capitalism another point of time, and finally even opening of Indian economy, it was us," she quipped. However, she said, BJP since Jan Sangh days believed in Indian entrepreneurial skills, Indian managerial skills and Indian trade skills. Unless business creates wealth, the government has nothing to distribute to the poor and migrant labour, she said, adding, wealth creators, honest taxpayers are therefore respected in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-pursuing-reforms-to-make-india-one-of-worlds-top-economies-says-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-950814.html
13-02-2021||National||Custodial violence unacceptable, abhorrent, causes fear in society: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court has said custodial violence is abhorrent and not acceptable in the civilised society, as the beating of a person in the police station is the concern for all and causes a sense of fear in the entire society. "People go to the police station with the hope that their person and property will be protected by the police and injustice and offence committed on them shall be redressed and the guilty be punished," a bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan and comprising Justice Ajay Rastogi said However, the court said, when the protector of people and society himself adopts brutality and inhumanly beat the person who comes to the police station, it is a matter of great public concern.   The court directed two accused policemen from Odisha, Pravat Chandra Mohanty and Pratap Kumar Choudhury, to pay higher compensation of total Rs 7 lakh to a man who died of injuries sustained during beatings in a police station in 1985. The compensation was in addition to the direction by the High Court, which ordered them to pay Rs 3 lakh to the legal heirs of the deceased. "The offence committed by the accused is a crime not against the deceased alone but was against humanity and clear violations of rights guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution," the court said. Dealing with the appeal filed by two retired police officers, the bench, however, reduced their sentence from one year to six months, keeping in mind the fact that they were above 75 years of age.  The court rejected their contention for compounding of the offence, "which affect the public in general and create fear are serious of nature".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/custodial-violence-unacceptable-abhorrent-causes-fear-in-society-supreme-court-950816.html
13-02-2021||National||J&K's development Modi govt's top priority: Amit Shah||Home Minister Amit Shah asserted in the Lok Sabha on Saturday that the Modi government has done more for Jammu and Kashmir since Article 370 was scrapped in August 2019 than those who ruled it for generations, as he reeled out statistics to assert that its development has been the government's top priority. Replying to a discussion on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, he also slammed some opposition members for their claim that the proposed law negates the hopes of the region getting back its erstwhile statehood. This legislation has nothing to do with statehood, and Jammu and Kashmir will be accorded the status at an appropriate time, Shah said. He said the region's union territory status is temporary and then took a swipe at the Congress and other parties -- which had backed Article 370 of the Constitution that gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir -- saying this was a temporary provision but they continued with it for over 70 years before the Modi government annulled it in August 2019. Jammu and Kashmir has been a top priority for the current government since it took power in 2014, he said. Decentralisation and devolution of power have taken place in the union territory following the revocation of Article 370, Shah said, noting that panchayat elections saw over 51 per cent voting. Panchayats have been given administrative and financial powers for local development, something they lacked earlier, he added. Now people chosen by the masses will rule Jammu and Kashmir, not those born to "kings and queens", he said, attacking dynastic parties in the region. Even our rivals could not allege any wrongdoing in these polls which were conducted fairly and peacefully, he said. Work on two AIIMS in the region has begun, and the Kashmir Valley will be connected to the railways by 2022, the Union Home Minsiter said. He also gave the assurance to the people of Jammu and Kashmir that "no one will lose their land". The government has sufficient land for development works, Shah said. The bill seeks to replace the ordinance to merge the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) cadre of civil services officer with the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre. Shah said the government expects that around 25,000 government jobs will be created in Jammu and Kashmir by 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jks-development-modi-govts-top-priority-amit-shah-950819.html
13-02-2021||National||Delhi Police chief reviews arrangements at border points in view of farmers' protest||Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Saturday reviewed the law and order situation and arrangements at various borders points of the national capital in view of the agitation by farmers protesting the three agri laws, officials said. During the crime review meeting held with senior officers of the force, the police chief also took stock of action taken against criminals involved in burglary, and other cases related to Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS), Excise Act and gambling, they said. To reduce such crime, Shrivastava stressed the need to take effective and sustained steps. He insisted on carrying out regular checking of listed criminals, including jail/bail/parole released, temporal and special analysis of crime incidents as well as optimal use of available human resources and technology. He also stressed the need to assess the performance of anti-snatching teams and use of crime teams regularly. During the meeting, Special Commissioner of Police (Operation) also briefed Shrivastava about the progress in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination of Delhi Police personnel, said Anil Mittal, Additional PRO, Delhi Police. Shrivastava also rewarded the police team involved in cracking the "Reliance jewellery showroom dacoity" case that took place under the Maurya Enclave police station in January. Eight people who were found involved in the crime and six receivers (who bought the stolen articles from the accused) were nabbed through technical and local intelligence. The police team had also recovered 6.5 kg of robbed jewellery articles besides, two cars from the accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-chief-reviews-arrangements-at-border-points-in-view-of-farmers-protest-950820.html
13-02-2021||National||Congress leaders, workers should 'wash off their sins' in Ganga: UP minister||Uttar Pradesh Minister of State Mohsin Raza on Saturday questioned the Prayagraj visit of Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra saying that their party leaders and workers should take a bath in the Ganga to "wash off their sins". Speaking to reporters here, Raza said, "Those who had hesitation in the slogan of Jai Shree Ram, are now running to take a dip in Ganga, and taking rounds of temples." He added, "It is good that Priyanka (Gandhi Vadra) visited Prayagraj, but she should have given attention that the house of her grandfather is situated there, and she should have visited it. Priyanka had shown sympathy towards farmers, but before that she should get the land returned to farmers from her husband Robert Vadra." Attacking Rahul Gandhi who was an MP from Amethi for many years, the UP minister said, "Rahul Gandhi considers Amethi as a small city in Italy that has nothing to do with the development of Amethi and comes here to tour." He added that Amethi is developing and moving forward at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leaders-workers-should-wash-off-their-sins-in-ganga-up-minister-950833.html
13-02-2021||National||First phase of Budget Session concludes, Lok Sabha to reconvene on March 8 for second phase||Lok Sabha was adjourned on Saturday as the first phase of the Budget session concluded. The House would reconvene on March 8 after recess. The Budget Session usually is held in two phases. In the first phase, the President addresses the two Houses as it is the first session of the year. The Union Budget is also introduced in phase one. The recess allows department-related standing committees to examine demands for grants of various ministries. The Finance Bill and related demands for grants are passed in the second phase of the Budget session. The session would conclude on April 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-phase-of-budget-session-concludes-lok-sabha-to-reconvene-on-march-8-for-second-phase-950835.html
13-02-2021||National||AIMPLB moves SC against PIL on uniform grounds for divorce||All India Muslim Personal Law Board has approached the Supreme Court to oppose a plea for uniform grounds for divorce for all citizens irrespective of their faith. In an application, the non-governmental organisation working for implementation of Muslim personal laws, sought to intervene into a PIL by BJP leader Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, saying personal laws cannot be tested on the anvil of Articles 14, 15 and 44 of the Constitution. It asked the court to dismiss the PIL on the ground that it was not maintainable. "The laws related to marriage and divorce were not uniform amongst the Hindus themselves as the customs and practices have been protected under the law," it pointed out. The organisation also contended the personal laws stood excluded from the definition of laws in force under Article 13 of the Constitution. On December 16, 2020, the court had asked the Union government to respond to the PIL by Upadhyay for uniform grounds for divorce and maintenance and remove discriminatory procedure prevailing in different communities for being violative of fundamental rights to equality, among others. Maintaining that divorce is among the most traumatic misfortunes for men and women, the petitioner said even after 73 years of independence, divorce procedures continued to remain very complex and were neither gender-neutral nor religion-neutral. Hindus Buddhists Sikhs and Jains have to seek divorce under the Hindu Marriage Act 1955. Muslim, Christian and Parsis have their own personal laws. Couple belonging to different religion have to seek divorce under the Special Marriage Act, 1956. If either partner is foreign national then he has to seek divorce under Foreign Marriage Act 1969, he pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aimplb-moves-sc-against-pil-on-uniform-grounds-for-divorce-950837.html
13-02-2021||National||Railways yet to decide resumption of passengers train service in full scale ||Indian Railways on Saturday said it has not fixed any date to restart all passenger trains. The national transporter issued a clarification after some media reports said that the Railways is planning to resume all passenger trains from April. "There have been a series of reports in the media about the resumption of full passenger train services from a given April date. Clarification is constantly being given to the media about it for the last few days. It is being reiterated again that no such date has been fixed for resumption of all passenger trains operations," the Railways said in a statement. "Railways has been increasing the number of train services in a graded manner. Already more than 65% of trains are running. More than 250 plus were added in January alone. More will be added gradually. All factors need to be taken care of and the inputs of all stakeholders are to be factored in. All are requested to avoid speculation. Media and public will be duly informed as and when such a decision is taken," the statement said. The railways suspended all passenger trains on March 23 last year to check the Covid-19 spread. The railways started operating some passenger trains in a graded manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-yet-to-decide-resumption-of-passengers-train-service-in-full-scale-950847.html
13-02-2021||National||India accounts for 10% of global road crash victims, claims World Bank report||India, which has one per cent of the world's vehicles, accounts for 10 per cent of all road crash victims, the latest World Bank report on road safety said on Saturday. Hartwig Schafer, World Bank’s Vice President for South Asia, said the Indian government in recent years has taken significant steps to address the issues related to road safety. “For India, it's one per cent of the world's vehicles and 10 per cent of the crash victims. This is something where, in particular in India, we have to pay attention,” Schafer told PTI in an interview on the occasion of the release of the report on road safety in New Delhi on Saturday. While the attention in the last year has shifted due to Covid-19, there is an interesting link between road safety and pandemic right now, he noted. “Unfortunately, the road crashes have not been going down and any time 10 per cent of the capacity in hospitals is being used for the treatment crash victims,” he said. Schafer said road crashes actually hit the poorest and the most vulnerable segments of the populations. "The financial impact of the crash is much more on poorer households than on better-off households. It is much higher on women who have to take care of the burden of caregiving. It is much higher on those who rely on foot and also in the informal sector," he said. However, according to Schafer, the good thing is that India was doing quite a bit on road safety. Last year, India amended its Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Act, which is “bringing a lot of innovation” in terms of financing, protection and enforcement to the fore, he said. Responding to a question, Schafer said that Tamil Nadu is one of the states which has reduced the number of crash fatalities by 25 per cent. “For us in the bank, this is a major part of our engagement in the transport sector -- rural transport, urban transport -- the focus on new mobility post-Covid is something that we are doing,” he said. In South Asia, he said, the World Bank is helping in road safety standards and institutional aspects of it as well. Building a safe infrastructure is one of the key aspects of addressing this major challenge, he said. “We need to make sure that we have adequate roadside barriers. We need to make sure that traffic calming areas are being put in. The roads have to be safe. The vehicles have to be safe too,” he said. “If we don't have an appropriate vehicle inspection system then you have unsafe vehicles on the road, and it's clearly documented that unsafe vehicles are actually contributing to crashes,” he said. Emergency health care facilities in the vicinity of highways make a huge difference in addressing the challenge of road safety. “When we plan highways now, we need to make sure that crash victims are getting care within the first hour of the crash. That very often makes the difference between life and death,” he said. Highway corridors in India that have a very coordinated healthcare and emergency health care of access, in terms of hospitals, trauma centres for emergency treatment, make a huge difference in terms of whether a crash victim recovers or passes away, he added. Enforcement is another key aspect of road safety. In the countries having credible enforcement, the number of roads and traffic accidents is going down, he said, adding that data collection and generation related to it is also important. The Indian government is working on all these aspects, he said, exuding confidence that moving forward there will be a reduction in the crash fatalities in India. Minister for Road Transport & Highways Nitin Gadkari is “personally, very much committed to road safety,” Schafer said, adding that the prospects of reducing road crashes in India are very good. The goal of reducing the road crashes by half by 2030, is achievable, he asserted, noting that the foundation for this has been laid out in India. Responding to a question, Schafer said that the global auto manufacturers should equip their vehicles in India with the same safety standards that they do in the United States and Europe. “The UN Special Envoy for Road Safety is working with the vehicle manufacturers association, to not have doubled standards,” he said, adding that this has to be addressed from both sides. “I know that the Indian government is looking into raising those standards and setting standards, but it also has to come with a global pressure. It is important," it said. "You look at things that are available in terms of, starting with antilock brakes to go to automatic computerized lane retention. Those are things that we should see as standard across the world because they make a huge difference,” Schafer said. Indian roads witness 415 deaths per day in accidents, the highest in the world, Union Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari said last month. According to the Road Accident Report for 2019, a total number of 449,002 accidents took place in India during the calendar year 2019, leading to 151,113 deaths and 451,361 injuries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-accounts-for-10-of-global-road-crash-victims-claims-world-bank-report-950852.html
13-02-2021||National||Skill Development Ministry extends Mahatma Gandhi National Fellowship to all districts||The Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship on Saturday said it is rolling out the Mahatma Gandhi National Fellowship (MGNF) programme in all the districts of the country. So far the programme was working across 69 districts, and the ministry "is now expanding MGNF to all remaining districts in the country," the ministry said in a statement. Fellows under MGNF will acquire academic expertise and technical competency in understanding the overall skill ecosystem along with being attached to District Skill Committees, it added. The ministry has also partnered with Kerala Institute of Local Administration to conduct capacity building programmes for district officials from Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Lakshadweep. "Our partnerships going forward will be more focused on strengthening the overall quality of skill training. With the recent launch of Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana 3.0 and today’s academic partnerships with IIMs, IITs, GIZ-IGVET, KILA under our SANKALP scheme, together we will empower the districts ensuring demand-driven skilling," Skill Development and Entrepreneurship Minister Mahendra Nath Pandey said. SANKALP (Skills Acquisition and Knowledge Awareness for Livelihood Promotion) is a World Bank loan assisted programme to strengthen the district skill administration and the District Skill Committees (DSCs).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/skill-development-ministry-extends-mahatma-gandhi-national-fellowship-to-all-districts-950856.html
13-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Parliament passes J&K Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill||In your evening news brief, Supreme Court says custodial violence is abhorrent and not acceptable in the civilised society; Rescue teams begin widening a hole drilled into an approach tunnel inside a choked tunnel of the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project and A bill to merge the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) cadre of all-India services officers passed.  Here is the top news of February 13, 2021: A bill to merge the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) cadre of all-India services officers with the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre was passed by Lok Sabha on Saturday by a voice vote. The Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 has already been passed by Rajya Sabha. The statutory resolution, opposing the ordinance which the bill has replaced, was rejected by the House. An amendment too was defeated by a voice vote. The Supreme Court has said custodial violence is abhorrent and not acceptable in the civilised society, as the beating of a person in the police station is the concern for all and causes a sense of fear in the entire society. "People go to the police station with the hope that their person and property will be protected by the police and injustice and offence committed on them shall be redressed and the guilty be punished," a bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan and comprising Justice Ajay Rastogi said Rescue teams on Saturday began widening a hole drilled into an approach tunnel on the way to the possible location of over 30 people trapped inside a sludge-choked tunnel of the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project after a flash flood ravaged the area on Sunday. General Manager of the NTPC project, R P Ahirwal, told PTI. A hole with a diameter of one feet will help send in a camera to ascertain their location and a pipe to flush out accumulated water from the tunnel, Ahirwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-parliament-passes-jk-reorganisation-amendment-bill-950858.html
13-02-2021||National||Lok Sabha Budget Session clocks 99.5% productivity||First leg of the Budget Session of Lok Sabha clocked a whopping 99.5 per cent productivity with the House sitting 49 hours and 17 minutes against the stipulated time of 50 hours.  The discussion on the Motion of Thanks on President’s Address took place for 16 hours and 39 minutes and 130 MPs participated in the debate. The House crossed the stipulated 10 hours allocated for General Discussion on Union Budget 2021-2022 as 117 MPs took part in the debate that extended to 14 hours and 40 minutes. 49 women MPs participated in the discussion on Motion of Thanks on President’s Address and Budget in Lok Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-budget-session-clocks-995-productivity-950870.html
13-02-2021||National||Bill to modify list of Scheduled Castes in Tamil Nadu introduced in Lok Sabha||A bill to modify the list of scheduled castes in Tamil Nadu was introduced in Lok Sabha on Saturday. According to the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021, introduced by Union Minister Krishan Pal Gurjar in the lower house, the Tamil Nadu government has proposed certain modifications in the list of Scheduled Castes by way of grouping of seven castes which presently exist as separate castes. The Registrar General of India has conveyed concurrence to the proposed modifications, the bill said. To give effect to the changes, it is necessary to amend the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950 by Parliament. Six Presidential Orders were issued specifying Scheduled Castes in respect of various states and Union Territories. These Orders have been amended from time to time by Acts of Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bill-to-modify-list-of-scheduled-castes-in-tamil-nadu-introduced-in-lok-sabha-950871.html
13-02-2021||National||Rape accused gets bail in Delhi High Court as victim had tattoo of his name||The Delhi High Court granted bail to a man, accused of repeatedly raping a married woman, as she had got his name tattooed on her forearm. Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar allowed a plea for bail moved by Sanjay on Friday after noting his contention that the woman was in love with him. Though the victim claimed the tattoo was forcefully engraved by the man when she was in captivity in his house from January 25, 2020, to April 15, 2020, the judge said: "In my opinion, making of tattoo is an art and special machine is required for it. Moreover, it is also not easy to make such a tattoo on the forearm of the complainant if there is some resistance from the other side." The court also pointed out that it was not everybody’s job and it was also not the case of the victim that the petitioner had anything to do with the tattoo business. It also relied upon the police charge sheet, which said the complainant herself had taken the house on rent and was residing there alone. The man, who was in judicial custody since June 23, 2020, claimed that he was falsely implicated. He said it was a consensual relationship which is evident from the fact that the woman has got his name tattooed on her forearm, which showed her love for him. The court also said at the time of arrest the mobile phone of the accused was seized, but no nude photographs were found, which according to the victim led to her sexual exploitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rape-accused-gets-bail-in-delhi-high-court-as-victim-had-tattoo-of-his-name-950881.html
13-02-2021||National||NC to challenge DDC chairperson's election in J&K's Budgam||The National Conference on Saturday said it would mount a legal challenge against the election of District Development Council chairperson in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir, accusing the administration of "murdering democracy" in the Union territory. NC vice-president Omar Abdullah said an independent candidate was made the chairman of District Development Council (DDC) despite his party having eight members, out of the total strength of 14, in the council. He added that his party also had the support of a member of the Jammu and Kashmir People's Movement, a part of People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD). "Talk about murdering democracy in J&K. I met 8 of our DDC members of Budgam district. There is at least 1 more alliance member of Javaid Mustafa Mir's party so 9 out of a total strength of 14 & yet in an 'election' an independent member was made the chairman (sic)," he tweeted. Abdullah alleged that all this was done with the "active involvement" of the district administration which "issued blatant threats" about powers to detain people for two years. "Early next week we will challenge this undemocratic action in the courts of law," he said in another tweet. Meanwhile, in a statement later, the party said Abdullah rued the "unfair mode of selection" of DDC chairman Budgam, terming the entire exercise a clear violation of law and rules. Interacting with a delegation of the party's eight DDC members from Budgam who had called on him at his residence here, the party vice-president rued the active involvement of the district administration which, he said, "issued blatant threats" about the power to detain people for two years. "The administration is playing partisan to curry favor with particular DDC members; the mode and manner in which the election of DDC chairman was conducted is a point in case," he said. Abdullah said the manner in which the normal course of election of DDC chairman in Budgam was "fiddled" with is an "indictment of the aversion the ruling dispensation nurtures for due democratic values". "What is more alarming is the manner in which the J&K administration benefits a particular candidate. The entire exercise has already been brought to light by nine DDC members of Budgam district with the media the other day. Out of the nine members, 8 belong to NC and one to PAGD. Such inequitable occurrences will discredit the entire election process and will prove counter-productive," he said. "The mechanism framed for the selection of DDC chairman, it goes without saying, is to facilitate horse-trading and defections," Abdullah added. The NC vice-president said the party would challenge the "undemocratic action" in the court of law. “The party MPs raised the issue in the lower house of the parliament; in addition to that the dubious mode and manner in which the elections for DDC chairman were held at Budgam was also brought to the notice of the J&K SEC KK Sharma. “The party has also brought the issue in public domain through the media. We will take a legal recourse as well and challenge the undemocratic exercise in the court of law," he said. The National Conference (NC) has already taken up the issue with State Election Commissioner K K Sharma. The party's Member of Parliament Hasnain Masoodi had raised the issue of "unfair mode of selection" of DDC chairman Budgam with Sharma, terming the entire exercise a "clear violation of law and rules". "It is the betrayal of people''s mandate. The mode and manner in which the entire exercise was conducted has already been brought to light by nine DDC members of Budgam district with the media," he said. The group of nine elected DDC members from Budgam had held a protest here on Tuesday, demanding re-election for the post of chairperson. Earlier this week, Nazir Ahmad Khan -- an independent DDC member -- was elected as the chairperson, while Nazir Ahmad Jahara of NC was elected as the vice-chairperson of the council.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nc-to-challenge-ddc-chairpersons-election-in-jks-budgam-950900.html
13-02-2021||National||Road accidents amount to 3.14% of GDP; cost of a death in an accident around Rs 91.16 lakh: Gadkari||Terming road accident scenario in India more "dangerous than COVID-19 pandemic", Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Saturday said there could be a saving of Rs 90 lakh per person by preventing deaths and reducing injuries to minor ones in such incidents. The minister stressed that the accident cost as a tremendous burden to society and the nation and the estimated cost of a death in a road accident is around Rs 91.16 lakh. Releasing the World Bank report on 'Traffic Crash Injuries And Disabilities: The Burden on India Society', prepared in association with Save Life Foundation, Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister Gadkari said in this alarming scenario his ministry will formulate policies to protect the interest of the poor and embark on several reformative steps. India accounts for the highest number of road accidents globally, with 1.5 lakh people being killed and more than 4.5 lakh crippled annually in 4.5 lakh road accidents with losses amounting to 3.14 per cent of the GDP. "For Government, each life is precious whether that is from poor or rich family, urban or rural area, male or female and at any level of society. The situation is alarming... there are more deaths than in COVID-19...It is more dangerous than COVID-19," Gadkari said terming the World Bank report an eye-opener. In India cost per seriously injured person comes at Rs 3.64 lakh while cost per minor injured person stands at Rs 77, 938 and the cost per death is estimated at Rs 91.16 lakh, he said. "So death cost is 100 times more than injury cost. It shows that if we succeed in preventing deaths in a road accident and restrict the life of accident victims to minor injuries only, we can save around Rs 90 lakh per person," the minister said addressing the event. "We needed to change law and make special policies. Accident cost as a tremendous burden to society and nation. There are lots of lapses in the legal system, police system. We need to protect the poor," he said adding that policy interventions are on the anvil apart from a number of steps, already initiated by his ministry. Around 70 per cent of deaths are in the working-age group of 18 to 45 years old while India accounts for 415 deaths per day in road accidents. Emphasising road safety audits, besides audit of detailed project reports, engineering plans and schemes pertaining to the injured, the minister said various audits can correct deficiencies causing accidents. Earlier, 40,000 km of highways have been brought under auditing. The minister said IITs and engineering colleges could take up highway stretches for road safety audit with some financial aid while third-party road safety audits will help in finding engineering faults and correcting them. Emphasising that his ministry was one such ministry which did not believe in protecting the wrong-doers and was transparent, the minister said there is a need that DPRs should be proof-checked and revised by competent authorities, third-party agencies, and educational institutions before implementation. He urged states to replicate Tamil Nadu model which could reduce road accidents by 38 per cent and deaths by 54 per cent and added 78 per cent of road accident deaths are of two-wheeler riders, bicyclists and pedestrians and protection and safety of these vulnerable road user groups is the foremost priority of the Centre. Gadkari further said the chairman of the National Road Safety Council will be announced soon as this body will be responsible for collecting accident data and suggesting measures to further reduce road accidents. Stressing that 70 per cent of accident deaths In India are due to over-speeding, the minister said fitness check of all vehicles has been mandated through Automated Vehicle Inspection and Certification (I&C) centres. Gadkari also said it is essential that automobile manufacturers should further enhance safety features. Broadly, the Report says that road accidents are a tremendous burden to society and the nation and states and reducing accident deaths and injuries can boost income growth and large welfare gains can be achieved from proven cost-effective road safety interventions. The minister said road accident deaths and injuries strike down prime working-age adults in low and middle-income countries and added that accidents are a public health issue and challenge in countries like India. Gadkari said the government is working with the World Bank on various projects, one of which is to streamline the road crash database that is iRAD. Pointing out that one of the key findings of the report is that the number of accident deaths is double in poor families as compared to rich ones, he said it is very important to have a streamlined and robust and accessible legal, insurance and healthcare ecosystem. The minister said that recommendations of the report on the safety of vulnerable road users, cashless treatment, improvement of civic and health infrastructures, penetration and compensation mechanism of insurance, post-crash response ecosystem and integration of stake-holders would help in revising the Motor Vehicle Amendment Act 2019 and Motor Vehicle rules. The World Bank report comes even as the country is observing an extended first-ever “Road Safety Month” currently to build awareness of road safety.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/road-accidents-amount-to-314-of-gdp-cost-of-a-death-in-an-accident-around-rs-9116-lakh-gadkari-950902.html
13-02-2021||National||PM lauds Shah's, Sitharaman's speeches in Lok Sabha||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday lauded Home Minister Amit Shah's address in Lok Sabha while piloting a bill related to Jammu and Kashmir and said his "wonderful speech" was extensive in detail and highlighted the government's efforts for Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh. In tweets, Modi also praised Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's "comprehensive" reply in Lok Sabha to a discussion on the Union Budget, saying she talks about how it benefits every section of society as well as giving an impetus to the 'Aatmanibhar Bharat' movement. Replying to a discussion on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill, Shah said the government has done more for Jammu and Kashmir since Article 370 was scrapped in August 2019 than those who ruled it for generations, even as he assured that the Centre will grant full statehood to the union territory at an appropriate time. The prime minister said, "A wonderful speech by Home Minister Shri Amit Shah in the Lok Sabha. Extensive in detail and rich in content, it highlights our efforts for Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-lauds-shahs-sitharamans-speeches-in-lok-sabha-950923.html
13-02-2021||National||7,668 get 2nd Covid-19 vaccine dose; total 80 lakh vaccinated so far||Beneficiaries of the nationwide Covid-19 immunisation drive began receiving second dose with over 7,000 healthcare workers getting the jab on Saturday, 28 days after their first shot on the inaugural day. The Union Health Ministry said the cumulative number of healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated against coronavirus in the country surpassed 80 lakh on Saturday. It said 80,52,454 beneficiaries have been vaccinated through 1,69,215 sessions, according to the provisional report till Saturday 6 pm. These include 59,35,275 healthcare workers and 21,17,179 frontline workers. "The second dose of Covid-19 vaccination started from today for those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receipt of the first dose. The approval provided by DCGI accords a window of four to six weeks for the second dose. As many as 7,668 healthcare workers received the second dose of vaccine today," the ministry said. On Saturday, 84,807 beneficiaries were inoculated till 6 pm, the 29th day of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination as per provisional data. As many as 4,434 sessions were organised on Saturday till 6 pm, the ministry said. Thirty-four states and Union Territories conducted Covid-19 vaccinations on Saturday. Twelve states UTs have vaccinated more than 70 per cent of the registered heathcare workers. These are -- Bihar, Lakshadweep, Tripura, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Rajasthan, Mizoram and Sikkim. On the other hand, seven states and UTs have reported less than 40 per cent coverage of registered healthcare workers. These are Meghalaya, Punjab, Manipur, Tamil Nadu, Chandigarh, Nagaland and Puducherry. Ten states that recorded the highest number of vaccinations are Jammu and Kashmir, West Bengal, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Bihar, Uttarakhand, Tripura and Delhi. Total 34 people have so far been hospitalised after being administered Covid-19 vaccine. It comprises 0.0004 per cent of the total vaccinations. Of these cases of hospitalization, 21 were discharged after treatment, while 11 died and two are under treatment, the health ministry said. In the last 24 hours, no person has been hospitalized, it stated. "Total 27 deaths have been recorded till date. These comprise 0.0003 per cent of the total vaccinations. Of these, 11 died in the hospital while 16 fatalities were recorded outside the hospital. "No case of serious/severe adverse effect after immunisation or death is attributable to vaccination till date," the health ministry said. In the last 24 hours, three new deaths have been reported. A 38-year-old person of Harda in Madhya Pradesh died due to myocardial infarction nine days after vaccination. Another is a 35-year-old resident of Panipat in Haryana who suffered from pneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome and died eight days after vaccination. A 58-year-old resident of Dausa in Rajasthan, who had received vaccine, collapsed on duty and was brought dead to a hospital. Post-mortem details of all are awaited. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan reviewed in detail the status and progress of Covid-19 vaccination drive and urged all states and Union Territories to adhere to timelines for covering all healthcare and frontline workers with first dose of vaccines and schedule their mop-up rounds. The standard operating procedure for second dose scheduling on Co-WIN software have been shared with states and Union Territories. In a letter to all states and UTs, Bhushan pointed out that according to the rapid assessment system only 88.9 per cent beneficiaries have indicated that they were provided information regarding adverse event following immunization (AEFI) at the session site. The states and UTs have been advised to ensure that all vaccination officers are trained and informed regarding AEFI and they should provide such information to all beneficiaries. In order to strengthen surveillance following Covid-19 vaccination, the Union health secretary has also urged states and UTs to ensure that AEFI committees at the state and district levels meet regularly to oversee the overall performance of AEFI Surveillance System.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7668-get-2nd-covid-19-vaccine-dose-total-80-lakh-vaccinated-so-far-950958.html
13-02-2021||National Politics||Proud that my father, grandmother died defending something: Rahul Gandhi||Responding to criticism over dynastic politics, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday said it has been over 30 years that a member of his family was prime minister, and asserted he would not stop fighting for his ideological view just because he is the son of an ex-PM. In a candid free-wheeling discussion with University of Chicago professor Dipesh Chakrabarty, Gandhi said trolls are "almost a guide" telling him what to stand for. Gandhi said he was proud that his father Rajiv Gandhi and grandmother Indira Gandhi got killed while standing and defending something. "It helps me understand them and my place and what I should be doing. There are no regrets," he said during the live chat session. The Congress leader also said a battle of ideas is going on and as the other idea attacks him, it helps him refine himself. "For me, trolls sharpen my senses about what I have to do. They are almost a guide to me. They tell me exactly where I have to go and what I have to stand for. So it's a refinement, it's an evolution," he said. Chakrabarty asked Gandhi that when the decline of the Congress is discussed, the question of dynasty is raised and how does he relate to this as someone who is seen as belonging to a dynasty. Gandhi replied, "It is interesting to me because the last time a member of my family was a prime minister was 30 plus years ago". Rahul Gandhi's father Rajiv Gandhi was the prime minister from 1984-89. He was the last member from the Gandhi family who held the post. Rajiv's Gandhi's mother Indira Gandhi and grandfather Jawaharlal Nehru have also been prime ministers. "No member of my family was in the UPA government. I do have an ideological view. I fight for certain ideas. Now, if you are going to say to me that just because your father was Rajiv Gandhi, you are not allowed to fight for those ideas, I am going to say sorry, I don't care who my father was. I don't care who my grand father was, my great grandfather was. These are the ideas that I consider valuable, and I am going to fight for them," Gandhi said. The MP from Wayanad also talked about the the UPA government losing popularity, saying that for big systems like India, one has to provide a vision for a certain period of time. "We gave a vision for the first part of the century... we gave a vision in green revolution, we gave the nation a vision of liberalisation. In 2004, we gave a vision for the country, it was a version of the 1990s vision and was designed to pull large numbers of people out of poverty," Gandhi said. He said the vision ran out its course in 2012 and a new vision was needed. Noting that 10 years is a long time for a government in India, Gandhi said some mistakes were made and the country was also hit by the worst economic disaster in 2008. "The Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) came with a new vision. You can see the result of that vision it is a disaster. Our job now is to construct the vision going forward from here," he said. During the discussion, Gandhi also slammed the Centre over the three farm laws and said the government needs to back down on this. He said if not resolved, the agitation would spread and would not be good for the country. Agricultural reform is required, but the destruction of the agriculture system is not acceptable, he said. He said the bills need to be withdrawn and for agriculture reform, fresh discussion be initiated in Parliament. Gandhi also interacted with students during the live chat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/proud-that-my-father-grandmother-died-defending-something-rahul-gandhi-950692.html
13-02-2021||National Politics||Great friends with Narendra Modi, Amit Shah: TMC turncoat Dinesh Trivedi to join BJP?||Amid an exodus of members of Trinamool Congress (TMC) to join the rival Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) ahead of assembly polls, West Bengal Chief Minister and party head Mamata Banerjee received a new jolt when senior MP Dinesh Trivedi announced his resignation from Rajya Sabha saying that he feels "suffocated" and cannot remain silent while West Bengal faces political violence. He alleged that the TMC is not controlled by Mamata Banerjee anymore with corporate professionals taking over the decision-making process. On top of that, he accused the party leaders of insisting that he "abuse Prime Minister Narendra Modi", which he cannot do. Trivedi (70), a former Railway Minister, announced his decision in the House during the debate on Budget, snapping his 22-year-old ties with Trinamool Congress, amid speculation that he may join BJP. He added, "If everywhere people have accepted them, then they are doing something right for the country." These words are sure to add salt to Mamata Banerjee's injury, who is vigorously branding BJP as an 'outsider' and a threat to Bengal's culture and tradition. Like many former turncoats, Trivedi indirectly lashed out at the party's decision of hiring poll strategist Prashant Kishor and his outfit I-PAC.  "We formed the party (Trinamool) together. Mamata Banerjee, Ajit Panja, Mukul Roy, myself. That was the soul of the party. We even struggled for 5,000 to 7,000 to 10,000 to buy a ticket to go to Delhi. Today that soul, that aatma is gone. If you give 100 crores to a consultant...On one hand, you say you are a poor party and on the other, you give hundreds of crores to a consultant," he said. Accusing I-PAC of becoming the 'owners of the party', he tried to remind everyone, especially Mamata Banerjee, that she did not need any 'consultant' to dislodge Left Front government who ruled the state for 34 long years. He said that he did not get a chance to talk with the chief minister about his complaints, something echoed by many outgoing TMC members. "She also knew I don't support this kind of culture...But there was no opportunity to talk. For example, on the Kisan (farmer protests) — I don't think five of us got together and said ok, what should be done...It was just go to the well of the house...so everybody went to the well of the house. That's not the way," he said. He finally quoted Rabindranath Tagore to explain his 'intention' of holding his head high and keeping his self-respect intact, which he said is impossible to do in TMC. "Where the mind is without fear and the head is held high...If the mind is full of fear and the head is in the gutter, then that's not Rabindranath Tagore's culture? My head, like hers, has been held high, but not with ego..." With Assembly polls just around the corner, the ruling TMC is facing an uphill battle. Eyebrows were raised when Suvendu Adhikari, the man behind the Nandigram agitation that catapulted Mamata Banerjee to the top rung of Bengal politics, decided to join BJP. Later, Rajib Banerjee, the former Minister for Forest Affairs of the state and Bardhaman Purba MP Sunil Mondal followed suit. Apart from these big names, many low-level and mid-level TMC leaders have also joined the saffron party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/great-friends-with-narendra-modi-amit-shah-tmc-turncoat-dinesh-trivedi-to-join-bjp-950721.html
13-02-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi becoming 'doomsday man' for India, says Nirmala Sitharaman in Lok Sabha||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday hit out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi saying he is becoming a "doomsday man" for India by constantly insulting constitutional functionaries and creating fake narratives on various issues. Replying to the general discussion on Budget in Lok Sabha, she said the former Congress chief was creating fake narratives but does not have the patience to listen to replies to allegations levelled against the government. "We need to recognise these two tendencies of the Congress party... this makes it clear that their belief in a democratically elected Parliamentary system is completely finished," Sitharaman said. Responding to Rahul Gandhi's speech on Thursday, during which he talked about farm laws but declined to speak on the Budget, she said, "he is probably becoming a doomsday man for India." The Minister further said that Gandhi laid the "foundation" but did not speak about the Budget during the discussion on it. Sitharaman said she wanted Gandhi to speak on 10 issues but was disappointed as the Congress leader made no mention of them. "I wanted to know from the Congress why it took a U-turn on the farm laws but no reply came," she said, adding that Gandhi did not tell the House why Congress governments in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh did not waive farm loans promised in their manifesto. Sitharaman further said Gandhi did not talk about the farmers' issue in Punjab where Congress is in power and the steps being taken by the government with regard to stubble burning. Gandhi also did not refer to any clause in three farm bills which was against the farmers, she said. Congress party is only concerned about "Hum Do and Hamare Do," Sitharaman said adding that she expected Gandhi to return the land which "Damadji" had taken from farmers at a pittance. Also, she added, Gandhi did not say anything about the statement of former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh who had advocated reform of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC). She also accused Gandhi of insulting constitutional authorities recalling the incidence when the Congress leader tore an ordinance promulgated by its own government led by the then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. Regretting that the Congress has joined the break India fringe group and continuously creating a false narrative to demean India, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-becoming-doomsday-man-for-india-says-nirmala-sitharaman-in-lok-sabha-950760.html
13-02-2021||National Politics||Congress MP Prathapan submits breach of privilege notice against Nirmala Sitharaman||Congress MP T N Prathapan on Saturday submitted a breach of privilege notice against Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for describing Rahul Gandhi as 'Doomsday Man of India' and accusing him of joining the fringe groups, soon after she made the remarks during her reply to the Budget discussion in Lok Sabha. Rahul is also facing breach of privilege notices submitted by four BJP MPs on Friday for asking members during his speech on Budget to observe silence to mourn the death of farmers during agitation without the permission of the Chair was a contempt of the House. In his letter, Prathapan alleged that Sitharaman "abused" Rahul and her remarks were "utter breach of privilege". He claimed she falsely accused Rahul with serious allegations like "demeaning India" among others. "Using words like 'Doomsday Man of India' to address a member of the House is also an attack on the pride and privilege of the Parliament. We cannot entertain a tendency of branding dissent voices and criticisms as fringe or destructive or anti-national. We cannot encourage it in the House for what matter it is," Prathapan wrote in his notice. During her reply to the discussion on Budget, Sitharaman said Rahul is probably becoming a "doomsday man" for India by constantly insulting constitutional functionaries and creating fake narratives on various issues. She was responding to Rahul's speech on Thursday, during which he refused to talk about budget and instead focussed on farm laws. In his speech, Rahul had attacked the government saying it goes by the slogan "Hum Do and Hamare Do," inferring that the Modi government favours corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-mp-prathapan-submits-breach-of-privilege-notice-against-nirmala-sitharaman-950821.html
13-02-2021||National Politics||Farmer unions seek high level inquiry into January 26 violence, false cases against farmers||Protesting farmer unions on Saturday demanded a high-level judicial inquiry into the violence that took place during the tractor rally in Delhi on January 26 and the alleged 'false" cases slapped on the farmers. Addressing a press conference at the Singhu border, Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders asked farmers who are getting police notices not to appear before the force directly and, instead, approach the legal cell constituted by the unions for any assistance. Kuldeep Singh, a member of SKM's legal cell, alleged that a retired judge of the Supreme Court or high court should probe the incidents to unravel the "conspiracy" behind the January 26 violence and the alleged "false cases" against the farmers. According to SKM leaders, 16 farmers who had participated in the tractor parade are still untraceable. Another leader Ravinder Singh said that 122 farmers had been arrested by Delhi Police in connection with 14 of the 44 FIRs, adding that SKM will provide legal and financial aid to all the arrested farmers. The Morcha leaders claimed that "false" cases were being slapped on farmers charging them with serious offences like dacoity and attempt to murder to "harass" them. Singh said that the Morcha will provide Rs 2,000 to every arrested farmer for spending in prison canteen. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points, demanding a repeal of the three agri laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmer-unions-seek-high-level-inquiry-into-january-26-violence-false-cases-against-farmers-950869.html
13-02-2021||National Politics||Chinamma returns to Chennai: Sasikala fights to reclaim AIADMK||On January 27, V K Sasikala, the close confidant of former Tamil Nadu Chief Minister late Jayalalithaa, was released from the Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru after serving a four-year jail term in a corruption case. Her final prison days were spent in Victoria Hospital, where she was being treated for Covid-19. When she was discharged from the hospital, Sasikala chose to ride in a car bearing an AIADMK flag. And when she reached Chennai a few days later, the expelled AIADMK leader told her supporters that she will plunge into active politics, jolting the AIADMK top brass. Sasikala's meteoric rise, fall from grace and eventual return could be a script from a Tamil potboiler. That her fairy tale of a life unfolded in close proximity to a film star-turned-politician in movie-obsessed Tamil Nadu was quite apt. Even though she never held any formal position in the AIADMK, Sasikala was no ordinary woman. She was Jayalalithaa's shadow for over 30 years, having been her closest friend, companion and an indispensable advisor. Sasikala addressed Jayalalithaa as akka (elder sister), wielded enormous power without any responsibility in the AIADMK, and managed the Poes Garden residence where the late Chief Minister lived for nearly half-a-century, deciding who gets access to her and who does not. In return, Jayalalithaa termed Sasikala as her 'udanpirava sagodhari' (sister who is not related by blood). As Jayalalithaa's death left a huge leadership vacuum in the AIADMK, everyone in the party put their weight behind Sasikala, eventually catapulting her as the General Secretary, the top-most post in the 48-year-old party. But things turned topsy-turvy when she attempted to attain the chief minister's post overthrowing Panneerselvam, the man chosen by Jayalalithaa to stand-by for her twice in the past when she had to quit owing to court cases. Panneerselvam rebelled against Sasikala, ostensibly at the behest of the BJP, applying brakes to her chief ministerial aspirations. And fate would have it that Sasikala had to spend four years at the Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru in a disproportionate assets (DA) case in which Jayalalithaa was also convicted. Things changed dramatically as Sasikala cooled her heels in the prison. Edappadi K Palaniswami, hand-picked by her as chief minister, patched up with Panneerselvam and removed her as the general secretary. Eventually, the party slipped out of Sasikala's hands. Jaya-Sasikala bonding The friendship between Jayalalithaa and Sasikala dates back to the 1980s. Introduced to Jayalalithaa by seasoned bureaucrat V S Chandralekha, Sasikala, wife of government PRO M Natarajan, was running a video rental outlet and was looking for clients for her fledgling business. Soon, Sasikala began video-graphing Jayalalithaa's political events and both developed a close bonding over the years. Though Sasikala was Jayalalithaa's closest companion, their relationship did have ups and downs. Jayalalithaa threw Sasikala out of the Poes Garden residence and expelled from AIADMK twice – in 1996 and 2011 – for “conspiring against her” only to take her back within a few months. Sasikala: The power woman Sasikala was a balm to Jayalalithaa's loneliness, especially when she was coming to terms with the untimely death of her mother Sandhya. The politically shrewd Natarajan helped successfully manoeuvre Jayalalithaa's hold over the AIADMK as successor to M G Ramachandran after his death, checkmating the claim of his widow V N Janaki. Sasikala went on to become the most powerful woman in the AIADMK and the party-led governments, next only to Jayalalithaa. As Jayalalithaa chose to be inaccessible, Sasikala became the bridge between her ministers, party leaders, and even government officials, who took the CM's instructions from her No. 2. That is how she became 'chinamma'. Sasikala controlled the party, hand-picking people and placing them in powerful positions, thereby earning their loyalty. Can Sasikala rally the party behind her once again? But much water has flown down the bridge since then. People whom Sasikala carefully placed in higher positions are against her and her nephew T T V Dhinakaran. Moreover, today's AIADMK is not the same as it was when Jayalalithaa was alive – it is no secret that the BJP now takes decisions for the regional party, which is vulnerable to the pressures exerted by the saffron outfit. As expected, she has vowed to “reclaim” the AIADMK but there has not been much support from ministers or senior leaders of the party so far. It would be a herculean task for Sasikala to take control of the party now unless the majority of the leaders put their weight behind her or she brokers peace with the BJP. Also, several cases regarding Sasikala are still pending before various investigating agencies and they may come to haunt her any time. In the given scenario, it remains to be seen whether Sasikala can ultimately take over her akka's party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chinamma-returns-to-chennai-sasikala-fights-to-reclaim-aiadmk-950889.html
13-02-2021||National Politics||China 'forced' to buckle down under PM Modi, says Anurag Thakur||Union Minister Anurag Thakur on Saturday asserted that under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India has strengthened its defence sector and even "forced" China to buckle down. Addressing women entrepreneurs at a Delhi BJP Mahila Morcha event, the Union Minister of State for Finance also claimed that the Congress did not do much for the defence sector during its 10-year rule. "The Congress says what has been done for the defence sector. They (Congress) could not buy a single bulletproof jacket in their 10-year rule while the Modi government provided 2 lakh jackets to the soldiers. They could not buy a fighter jet while we provided 36 Rafale jets. "That China was forced to buckle down and India showed its might, it happened under Modi's leadership. Modi Hai to Mumkin Hai (everything is possible as Modi is there)," Thakur said. This is power and the strong leadership that enhances pride and prestige of the country, he said. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry even as the two sides continued military and diplomatic talks. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced in Parliament on Thursday that India and China have reached an agreement on disengagement in the North and South banks of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh that mandates both sides to "cease" forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner. Thakur said in this year's Budget, an increase of more than 18.8 per cent has been done for purchases like fighter jets, tanks and ammunition. Referring to the new farm laws, the minister alleged that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has been "spreading lies". "I asked Congress MPs in the Parliament to name the provisions in the new law that scraps Mandis or MSP but they failed to do so. I have blasted Rahul Gandhi's lies in a manner that he will not forget in his entire life," Thakur claimed. Rahul Gandhi has been attacking the government over the new farm laws, border stand-off with China among other issues. A Congress MP in Rajya Sabha submitted that there was no clause in the new laws that scrapped Mandis, he claimed further. "On one hand a Congress MP (Rahul Gandhi), who is the former Congress president, says Mandis will be scrapped and on the other hand another MP of Congress says it will not. Congress is moving in two directions. If things remains like this, the Congress will split while moving in two streams." Thakur claimed that Rahul Gandhi "cannot tell the difference between wheat and barley" like his father Rajiv Gandhi also was unable to the "differentiate between red and green chilies." "What should I ask from such a leader. They come and tell lies," he said. Terming Gandhi as a "novice" in politics, Thakur claimed that he brought down Congress's strength from 400 seats in Lok Sabha to 40, claiming that was an outcome of "dynasty politics". The minister asserted that the Budget was aimed at turning India into an economic and manufacturing powerhouse and it served the interests of all sections of the society including women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/china-forced-to-buckle-down-under-pm-modi-says-anurag-thakur-950910.html
13-02-2021||National Politics||Uttarakhand Floods | Rescuers boring wider hole in tunnel; temporary lake on Rishi Ganga starts releasing water||A temporary lake formed at river Rishi Ganga has started discharging water, reducing the risk of another flash flood in the region, while rescuers on Saturday began boring a wider and deeper hole into the tunnel at the flood-ravaged Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project in an attempt to reach the over 30 people trapped inside for nearly a week. “The Silt Flushing Tunnel (SFT) was punctured on Friday night itself by drilling a 75mm-diameter hole into it but now it is being widened to 300 mm so that a camera and a water flushing pipe could be inserted into the tunnel where the trapped are possibly located,” General Manager of the NTPC project R P Ahirwal said The hole will have a depth of 12 metres, he said. Ahirwal said muck removal from the intake Adit tunnel, below which the SFT is located, has been done up to 136 metres. Rescuers said they were still hopeful of finding survivors, notwithstanding the numerous challenges like the muck and the water from Dhauli Ganga constantly flowing into the tunnels. The river had deviated from its path after the flash floods that have left 38 people dead and 166 missing. The State Emergency Operation Centre here said scientists of the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing during an aerial survey of the Rishi Ganga found that the glacial lake formed due to the avalanche over it has begun to release water, which reduces chances of it breaching or causing a fresh flash flood during the rescue operations. The lake is at the confluence of Raunthi Gad and Rishi Ganga. According to Central Water Commission (CWC) chairman Saumitra Haldar, it is 400 metres in length, 25 metres wide and 60 metres deep. The CWC is examining possibilities of what can be done if the water rises to a "critical" level. It is conducting simulation studies and also examining the possibility of carrying out a controlled blast to drain out the water. "We are assessing what could be the impact if the water level rises following rains and snowfall as predicted by the IMD. We are also studying what volume of water would be released if the lake bursts and how much time it would take to reach downstream," Haldar told PTI. Ahirwal said making an approach road to the desilting basin from downstream and diverting the course of the Dhauli Ganga river from left to right are also in progress. P K Tiwari, Commandant of the National Disaster Response Force, said that based on their experience, they are optimistic about saving lives and mentioned the possible presence of air ducts and gaps in the tunnel. He said the situation had seemed irretrievable initially as the whole project had been damaged, but since then a lot of progress has been made and they will continue their efforts to reach the trapped people. When asked whether an attempt could also be made to send rescue personnel to the possible location of those trapped inside the tunnel through the hole, Ahirwal said it will need to be widened further for that and will be done if the need arises. "More than 100 of our scientists are on the job. They are devising strategies and having them implemented," he said. He said all resources and mechanical equipment required for the operations are available at the project site. However, citing the conditions inside the tunnel, he said, "We can operate only with a few machines at a time. The rest of them have to be kept on standby because our strategy is to keep the operations underway round the clock." If for some reason equipment stops working, there are alternatives on standby to ensure that the operations do not stop, he said. He said many experienced workers of the project went missing in the calamity and those put on the job are new people. Still, they are working with total dedication. Talking about the biggest challenge being faced by the rescue team, the NTPC official said, "The rescue personnel are going to the tunnel where the men are likely to be trapped via HCC Adit where muck is constantly coming down from the NTPC barrage and its desilting basin to hamper the rescue efforts. "The water of Dhauli Ganga too is coming into our tunnels through the desilting basin as it has tilted to the left after the avalanche." "Hence, restoring the flow of the Dhauli Ganga to the right is a big part of our strategy," Ahirwar said. The sludge choked contours and conduits of the barrage's desilting basin can also be removed more effectively only if the flow is restored to its earlier position. So far, 38 bodies have been recovered from the affected areas while 166 are still missing. DIG Nilesh Anand Bharne said 11 of the dead have been identified. Eighteen body parts had also been recovered from the flood-hit areas, of which 10 have been cremated after taking their DNA samples so far, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttarakhand-floods-rescuers-boring-wider-hole-in-tunnel-temporary-lake-on-rishi-ganga-starts-releasing-water-950920.html
13-02-2021||National Politics||Uttarakhand Floods | CWC conducting simulation studies on new glacial lake; examining possibility of controlled blast||The Central Water Commission (CWC) is conducting simulation studies on the artificial lake formed in the upper stretches of the Rishiganga river after the catastrophic Uttarakhand flood early this week, and also examining the possibility of carrying out a controlled blast to drain out the water. CWC chairman Saumitra Haldar on Saturday said studies are being conducted keeping in mind the forecast of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) that the area could receive a rainfall of 1 cm and snowfall of 10 cm on February 15 and 16. The CWC is also examining possibilities of what can be done if the water to rises to "critical" level. "We are assessing what could be the impact if the water level rises following rains and snowfall as predicted by the IMD. We are also studying what volume of water would be released if the lake bursts and how much time it would take to reach downstream," Haldar told PTI. He said the lake is 400 metres in length, 25 metres wide and 60 metres deep. "We don't want the size of the lake to increase any further. We are examining all possibilities that also include controlled blast at the lake," Haldar said. He, however, pointed out that the site is not accessible and it has not been decided which agency will execute the controlled blast. "So in case if the controlled blast is not possible, we are also exploring other ways to tackle the situation," he added. Haldar said several agencies/ institutes like the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology, Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO), ISRO's Indian Institute of Remote Sensing and Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority have conducted studies on the lake. The temporary water body was formed after sediments that the Sunday's flash floods brought down, blocking the mouth of a stream that joins the Rishiganga river. The CWC chairman said as of now there is no increase in the water level from Joshimath to Haridwar. "We are continuously monitoring the water levels downstream," he said. In a tweet on Friday, the CWC said, "An artificial Lake has formed on river Rishiganga in Chamoli district, Uttarakhand, with a length of 350 m height of 60 m with slope of 10 deg." The Himalayas has more than 2,000 glacial lakes of 10 hectares or more. The CWC monitors 477 glacial lakes of a size more than 50 hectares. These lakes also feed the Himalayan rivers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttarakhand-floods-cwc-conducting-simulation-studies-on-new-glacial-lake-examining-possibility-of-controlled-blast-950929.html
13-02-2021||National Politics||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman harmful for Indian economy, says Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||The Congress on Saturday alleged that Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman was harmful for the economy of the country and had pulled down the economic indicators while profiting a few capitalists. Reacting to the FM's reply to the Union Budget discussions in the Lok Sabha on Saturday, Congress leader in the Lower House Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also said that the FM, instead of answering queries, kept hurling "derogatory remarks at Rahul Gandhi". "Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is harmful for the economy of the country. How does she explain Oxfam report revelations which said the lockdown made India's billionaires 35 per cent richer, while 84 per cent of households' support income suffered a loss and 1.7 lakh people lost their jobs every hour in April, 2020 alone," Chowdhury said. The Congress leader asked how does the FM explain that income increase for India's top 100 billionaires since March 2020, which is enough to give each of the 13.8 crore poorest people a cheque of over Rs 94,000 each. "The finance minister's misplaced priorities include tax concession for corporate in financial year 2019-20 that amounted over Rs 1.4 lakh crores. Instead of creating jobs, they used the money for trimming up their balance sheets," alleged Chowdhury, asking how does she explain reducing the outlay for agriculture. He said the budget for agriculture had been reduced from Rs 1.54 lakh crore in the previous budget to 1.48 lakh crores in this budget, a cut of 6 per cent. "It has been reduced from 5.1 pc to 4.3 pc of overall budget. What could be the possible explanation for slashing the MGNREGA fund in her budget? The allocation to MGNREGA has been cut from Rs 1.66 lakh crores this year to Rs 96,773 crores in 2021, a cut of around 42 per cent," Chowdhury said, attacking the FM for petroleum subsidy which, he said, had hit everyone. The Congress leader said that instead of answering their queries, the FM "kept hurling derogatory remarks at Rahul Gandhi". "This is the government which does not honour the leaders and workers of the opposition party. By riding roughshod over the opposition, they have been trampling each and every demand of our party," said Chowdhury. Asked about whether Rahul Gandhi would visit the LAC if a related proposal of the parliamentary standing committee on defence goes through, Chowdhury said when the opposition wanted to visit Jammu and Kashmir after the abrogation of Article 370, they were not allowed. "When we sought that the government send an all-party delegation to J&K after the abrogation of Article 370 we were not allowed to go. But the government allowed European Union leaders under an orchestrated visit. Even later they kept sending ambassadors of other countries to Kashmir for picnics but did not allow their own MPs to go," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-harmful-for-indian-economy-says-congress-leader-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-950959.html
13-02-2021||North and Central||Haryana's Budget for 2021-22 to focus on education, health security, says CM Manohar Lal Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said the state's Budget for 2021-22 would focus on education, health security, employment and self-reliance. The budget, to be presented in the state Assembly when the session starts next month, will take care of all sections of the society, Khattar, who also holds the finance portfolio, told reporters. He said this after presiding over the monthly meeting of the District Public Relations and Grievance Redressal Committee, held at Gurugram. Interacting with mediapersons in Gurugram, Khattar said that like last year, this time also, the state budget would be prepared and presented after holding discussions and seeking suggestions from various stakeholders, MLAs and MPs. "Keeping in view the coronavirus pandemic, various stakeholders, MLAs and MPs have been asked to send their suggestions in writing to the state government by February 20. Their valuable suggestions will be incorporated in the budget," said the chief minister. Last year, Khattar had held pre-budget consultations with MLAs, MPs from state and other stakeholders including industry experts seeking their suggestions on various issues related to agriculture, health and education, among others. He said that like last time, this time too, the state budget would focus more on education, and the Budget allocation for this sector will be increased. Besides this, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, health allocations will also be increased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryanas-budget-for-2021-22-to-focus-on-education-health-security-says-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-950607.html
13-02-2021||North and Central||Disengagement process on in Pangong Tso areas: Sources||Chinese and Indian militaries continued to pull back armoured elements and thinning down of troops in areas around Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh as part of an agreement reached between the two sides on the disengagement process, military sources said on Friday. While armoured elements like battle tanks and armoured personnel carriers are being withdrawn from friction points in the south bank of Pangong Tso, troops are being pulled back from the north bank areas, they said. The sources said withdrawal of armoured elements from the south bank of Pangong Tso is almost complete and temporary structures erected by both sides will be demolished in the next few days. "The disengagement process will take time as both sides are together carrying out verification of the withdrawal of troops and military hardware," said a source. The disengagement of troops and armoured elements is limited to the friction points where the two sides were on an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation, sources said. After a nine-month standoff, the two militaries reached the agreement on disengagement in the north and south banks of Pangong lake that mandates both sides to cease forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner. According to the agreement, China has to pull back its troops to east of Finger 8 areas in the northern bank while the Indian personnel will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the region. Similar action will take place on the south bank of the lake as well, Singh said in Parliament. Last year, the Chinese military built several bunkers and other structures in the areas between Finger 4 and 8 and had blocked all Indian patrols beyond Finger 4, triggering strong reaction from the Indian Army. In the nine rounds of military talks, India was specifically insisting on withdrawal of Chinese troops from Finger 4 to Finger 8 on the North bank of Pangong Lake. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. The sources said following completion of the disengagement process, the two sides will hold talks on the de-escalation process. They said field commanders of both the armies have been holding talks on a daily basis in the last few days to coordinate the disengagement process. The defence minister said the implementation of the pact started on Wednesday and it was agreed to convene the next meeting of senior commanders of both sides within 48 hours of completion of the disengagement in the Pangong lake area so as to resolve all other remaining issues. On Friday, the defence ministry said other outstanding "problems" including in Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra will be taken up at the upcoming talks between military commanders of the two countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/disengagement-process-on-in-pangong-tso-areas-sources-950621.html
13-02-2021||North and Central||Mangolpuri murder: Delhi Police arrests fifth accused||The Delhi Police has arrested the fifth accused in the killing of 25-year-old Rinku Sharma allegedly by a group of men following a quarrel at a birthday party in outer Delhi's Mangolapuri area, police said. Sharma's brother Mannu (19), however, alleged that Rinku was killed as he was actively participating in the donation drive for the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. However, the Delhi Police denied any communal angle to the murder and said the fight at a birthday party took place over a business rivalry. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta also met the family of Sharma on Friday to provide an assistance of Rs 5 lakh to them and claimed the victim was also associated with collecting contributions for the construction of Ram temple. Saffron outfits including Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) have claimed that Sharma was killed due to his involvement in collection of donation for Ram temple construction in Ayodhya. The fifth accused has been identified as Tazuddin (29) who worked as a home guard earlier, police said. Tazuddin's arrest comes a day after four other men -- Zahid, Mehtab, Danish and Islam -- were arrested. All of them are related to each other, police said. Police said a CCTV footage of the incident showed a group of men walking towards the victim's house with sticks. The deceased worked as a lab technician and since the incident, police personnel have been deployed in the locality to avoid any untoward incident. Chinmoy Biswal, Delhi Police (PRO) said on February 10, some youth of a locality gathered at a restaurant in Mangolpuri area for a birthday party. During the celebrations, a fight broke out among the youth in connection with shutting down a restaurant. It was an old business rivalry. After the fight, they left the place and went back to their houses, he said. "Following the incident at the birthday party, some men, who were part of the celebration, gathered outside Sharma's house and another fight took place again during which Sharma received stab injuries. He was taken to a hospital for treatment where he succumbed to his injuries,” he said. Denying allegations of any communal angle to the incident, Biswal said, "So far what has emerged from the investigation is that the fight began at a birthday party over business rivalry and this led to stabbing of Sharma. But we are talking to the family and looking into allegations." Sharma was stabbed to death on Wednesday night. According to the police, on Wednesday night, when both the victim and the accused men were attending the birthday party, an argument broke out between them over their food joints in Rohini. They also slapped and threatened each other at the party following which they left. The two parties had similar tussles over the same issue sometime back as well, police said. Later, the four men went to Sharma's house where the victim along with his elder brother were already standing outside with sticks. A scuffle broke out between the two sides again during which the accused stabbed Sharma and fled from the spot, a senior police officer had said on Thursday. Mannu, however, said his brother was killed because he was actively participating in Ram Mandir donation drive. "My brother was actively participating in the donation drive. Last year during Dussehra, the men were angry over the Ram Mandir event in the locality and threatened us. On Wednesday night, they came to our house with sticks and thrashed me and my parents. They also tried to set the kitchen cylinder on fire and stabbed my brother in the back with the knife," he said. He added that his family always shared good relationship with neighbours and that his brother Rinku had even donated blood to one of the family members of the accused when she was pregnant. The police have maintained that both the parties had a rivalry over their eatery business which ran into losses and had to be shut down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mangolpuri-murder-delhi-police-arrests-fifth-accused-950651.html
13-02-2021||North and Central||Mangolpuri murder: Delhi Police transfer case to crime branch||A day after the fifth accused was arrested in connection with the killing of a 25-year-old man allegedly by a group of men in outer Delhi's Mangolpuri area, police on Saturday said the case has been transferred to the crime branch. The deceased, Rinku Sharma, worked as a lab technician, and since the incident police personnel have been deployed in the locality to avoid any untoward incident.  Additional Public Relations Officer (Delhi Police) Anil Mittal said that the case has now been transferred to the crime branch for further investigation. According to police, on Wednesday night, when both the victim and the accused men were attending a birthday party, an argument broke out between them over their food joints in Rohini. They also allegedly slapped and threatened each other at the party, following which they left. The two parties had similar tussles over the same issue sometime back as well, police said.  Later, the four men went to Sharma's house where the victim along with his elder brother were already standing outside with sticks. A scuffle broke out between the two sides again during which the accused stabbed Sharma and fled from the spot, a senior police officer had said on Thursday. Sharma's brother Mannu (19), however, alleged that Rinku Sharma was killed as he was actively participating in the donation drive for the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. However, the Delhi Police denied any communal angle to the murder and said the fight at the birthday party took place over a business rivalry.  So far, Tazuddin, Zahid, Mehtab, Danish and Islam have been arrested in connection with the incident, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mangolpuri-murder-delhi-police-transfer-case-to-crime-branch-950722.html
13-02-2021||North and Central||Six killed as car rams into stationary truck in UP's Kannauj||Six members of a family were killed when their car rammed into a stationary truck in Kannauj district of Uttar Pradesh early on Saturday, police said. "The accident took place around 4 am when a car moving on the Lucknow-Agra Expressway hit a stationary truck," Inspector General, Kanpur range, Mohit Agarwal told PTI. There were six passengers in the car and all of them died in the crash, which took place due to dense fog, he said. Police reached the spot immediately after learning about the incident, Agarwal said. Station House Officer of Talgram police station Krishna Lal Patel said the six members of a family from Gudhaulia village under Kakori police station in Lucknow were going to Balaji temple in Mehdipur in Dausa district of Rajasthan. "When the vehicle reached Talgram, it hit a stationary truck. The accident took place as the driver was sleepy and due to fog rammed the car into a stationary truck," Patel said. He identified the deceased as Gyanendra Yadav (32), Sonu Yadav (31), Pramod Yadav (35), Satyendra Yadav (18), Suraj (15) and Mohit (36). The bodies have been sent for post-mortem, he added. The state chief minister expressed grief over the incident. "UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed deep grief over the loss of lives in the accident at Talgram in Kannauj on Agra Expressway. The Chief Minister has directed that the injured should get adequate treatment," the Chief Minister's Office tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-killed-as-car-rams-into-stationary-truck-in-ups-kannauj-950759.html
13-02-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir will be given statehood, assures Amit Shah||Insisting that development of the Jammu and Kashmir is NDA government's top priority, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday the state will get full-scale statehood at an "appropriate" time. Replying to a discussion on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill in Lok Sabha, he also slammed some Opposition members for their claim that the proposed law negates the hopes of the region getting back its erstwhile statehood. The Bill seeks to replace the ordinance to merge the Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) cadre of civil services officer with the Arunachal Pradesh, Goa, Mizoram Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre. The Bill was passed in a voice vote. Responding to claims that passing an amendment to the 2019 Bill - which split the former state into two union territories after Article 370 was withdrawn - meant the Centre had no intention of restoring statehood, a furious Shah said this legislation has nothing to do with statehood. Jammu and Kashmir will be accorded the status at an appropriate time, Shah said. After the abrogation of Article 370 in August, more development works were implemented by the Modi government than those who ruled Jammu and Kashmir for generations. Reading out statistics of development works executed in the union territory, he said the government expects that around 25,000 government jobs to be created in Jammu and Kashmir by 2022. Taking a swipe at the Congress and other parties — which had backed Article 370 of the Constitution that gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir, Shah said this was a temporary provision but they continued with it for over 70 years before the Modi government annulled it in August 2019. Now people chosen by the masses will rule Jammu and Kashmir, not those born to "kings and queens", he said, attacking dynastic parties in the region. Even our rivals could not allege any wrongdoing in these polls which were conducted fairly and peacefully, he said. He also gave the assurance to the people of Jammu and Kashmir that "no one will lose their land". The government has sufficient land for development works, Shah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-will-be-given-statehood-assures-amit-shah-950775.html
13-02-2021||North and Central||Won't tolerate inhuman behaviour: MP CM on dumping of homeless||A fortnight after Indore civic body's staff dumped homeless people out of the city amid cold weather, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that inhuman behaviour will not be tolerated. He made the statement during his visit to night shelter homes in Indore on Friday night. Officials said that Chouhan reached the night shelter homes in Sukhaliya and Jhabua Tower areas and asked the homeless people staying there if they were facing any problems at these facilities in terms of food and other things. According to eyewitnesses, the people staying there expressed satisfaction over the arrangement at the shelters. Last month, two temporary employees of the Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) were removed from service and a deputy civic commissioner was suspended after Chouhan expressed displeasure over the dumping of homeless people on January 29. On Wednesday this week, IMC Commissioner Pratibha Pal terminated the services of six more temporary employees on the basis of an inquiry report submitted by a three-member committee headed by an additional civic commissioner, the official said. During a visit to the night shelters, the reporters asked the chief minister that although the temporary staff has been dismissed from service, senior officers have been spared. In his reply, Chouhan said, "No inhuman behaviour (with the elderly) will be tolerated." According to a civic official, six elderly people were taken out of Indore in the January 29 incident and later brought back to the city. He said that at present, three of these people are in an old age home in Indore, while three other elders left the city on their own. A video that went viral on social media last month, showed municipal workers dumping some homeless elderly persons outside the city, drawing sharp criticism from various quarters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wont-tolerate-inhuman-behaviour-mp-cm-on-dumping-of-homeless-950787.html
13-02-2021||North and Central||NIA files supplementary charge sheet in 2019 Banihal attack case||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) Saturday filed a supplementary charge sheet against Hizbul Mujahideen commander Naveed Babu before a special court in Jammu for an attempted attack on CRPF convoy in Banihal area of Jammu in March 2019. On March 30, 2019, Hizbul Mujahideen operative Owais Amin tried to ram explosives-laden Santro car into the CRPF convoy at Banihal on the pattern of February 14, 2019, Pulwama attack. However, no damage or casualty was caused except for minor damage to one of the buses as the explosion occurred prematurely. A spokesperson of the NIA the probe agency filed a supplementary charge sheet in the case in Special NIA Court in Jammu against Naveed Mushtaq Shah alias Naveed Babu alias Babur Azam. The NIA had earlier filed a charge sheet against six Hizbul militants for their role in the attack. “Accused Naveed is an ex-constable of J&K Police. He had decamped with arms and ammunition in 2017, when he was posted as a guard in FCI, Budgam. After deserting the force he joined Hizbul Mujahideen and became an active militant,” he said. “Investigation has established that accused Naveed was actively involved in the planning and execution of the attack on the CRPF convoy in Banihal along with other militants Riyaz Ahmed Naikoo, Rayees Ahmed Khan and Dr Saifullah Mir who were subsequently killed in encounters with security forces,” the spokesperson added. The deceased militants Sahil Abdullah Bhat, Adil Bashir Sheikh and Zubair Ahmed Wani were actively involved in the preparation of the explosives that went into the making of the IED, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-files-supplementary-charge-sheet-in-2019-banihal-attack-case-950791.html
13-02-2021||North and Central||25 people injured as double-decker bus falls into gorge in Uttar Pradesh||At least 25 people were injured after a double-decker bus fell into a 20-ft deep gorge at Ata-Bibiyapur here, police said on Saturday. The bus was carrying 80 passengers, they said. “The bus was heading to Delhi from Shahjahanpur when the accident took place Friday midnight. Twelve ambulances were sent to the spot to take the injured to hospitals,” Dharmendra Kumar, SHO, CB Ganj Police Station said. He said the accident took place after the driver lost control of the vehicle due to thick fog.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/25-people-injured-as-double-decker-bus-falls-into-gorge-in-uttar-pradesh-950793.html
13-02-2021||North and Central||72-year-old farmer from Punjab protesting farm laws dies of cardiac arrest at Singhu border||A 72-year-old Punjab farmer who was participating in farmers' agitation at Delhi’s Singhu border has died of cardiac arrest, police said on Saturday. Hansa Singh was a resident of Moga district, a police official posted at Kundli police station in Haryana's Sonipat said. Singh died of heart attack Thursday night, police said, adding his post-mortem was conducted on Friday. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the Centre has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/72-year-old-farmer-from-punjab-protesting-farm-laws-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-at-singhu-border-950811.html
13-02-2021||North and Central||Rescuers start widening hole in Tapovan tunnel to reach trapped people||Rescue teams on Saturday began widening a hole drilled into an approach tunnel on the way to the possible location of over 30 people trapped inside a sludge-choked tunnel of the NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project after a flash flood ravaged the area on Sunday. "We are working under a three-pronged strategy to reach to those trapped in the tunnel. The hole we drilled yesterday is being widened to one feet so as to reach a camera and a pipe inside the silt flushing tunnel where the trapped are said to be located, General Manager of the NTPC project, R P Ahirwal, told PTI. A hole with a diameter of one feet will help send in a camera to ascertain their location and a pipe to flush out accumulated water from the tunnel, Ahirwal said. The other two parts of the strategy are clearing the desilting basin of the NTPC barrage through which muck is constantly flowing into the tunnels and restoring the flow of the Dhauliganga to the right which has tilted to the left after the flash flood hampering the sludge clearing operation, he said. Describing the rescue of people as a priority, he said the NTPC has put more than 100 of its scientists on the job. When asked whether an attempt could also be made to send rescue personnel to the possible location of those trapped inside the tunnel through the hole, the GM said it will need to be widened further for that and will be done if the need arises. "More than 100 of our scientists are on the job. They are devising strategies and having them implemented," Ahirwal said. He said all resources and mechanical equipment required for the operations are available at the project site. However, citing the conditions inside the tunnel, he said, "We can operate only with a few machines at a time. Rest of them have to be kept on standby because our strategy is to keep the operations underway round the clock." If for some reason an equipment stops working, there are alternatives on the standby to ensure that the operations do not stop, he said. He said many experienced workers of the project went missing in the calamity and those put on the job are new people but still they are working with total dedication. Talking about the biggest challenge being faced by the rescue team, the NTPC official said, "The rescue personnel are going to the tunnel where the men are likely to be trapped via HCC Adit where muck is constantly coming down from the NTPC barrage and its desilting basin to hamper the rescue efforts. The water of Dhauliganga too is coming into our tunnels through the desilting basin as it has tilted to the left after the avalanche." "Hence, restoring the flow of the Dhauliganga to the right is a big part of our strategy," Ahirwar said. The sludge choked contours and conduits of the barrage's desilting basin can also be removed more effectively only if the flow is restored back to its earlier position. 350-meter long lake formed upstream Rishiganga river Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/350-meter-long-lake-formed-upstream-rishiganga-river-950537.html The work on restoring the flow of Dhauliganga has begun already with the help of heavy machines, he said. So far, 38 bodies have been recovered from the affected areas while 166 are still missing. DIG Nilesh Anand Bharne said 11 of the dead have been identified. Eighteen body parts had also been recovered from the flood-hit areas, of which 10 have been cremated after taking their DNA samples so far, he said. The State Emergency Operation Centre here said scientists of the Indian Institute of Remote Sensing during an aerial survey of the Rishiganga found that the glacial lake formed due to the avalanche over it has begun to release water which reduces chances of its breaching or causing a fresh flash flood. The lake which has formed over the Rishiganga after the flashflood had increased the concern of experts on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-flash-floods-rescuers-start-widening-hole-in-tapovan-tunnel-to-reach-trapped-people-950818.html
13-02-2021||North and Central||Some people agitating just for sake of protest: Khattar on farmers' stir||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said some people are agitating just for the "sake of protest" against the Centre’s farm laws, which reflects their "vested political intent". He, however, said the Centre will be ready for any amendement in the laws if required. According to a statement, Khattar said this after a meeting with state MPs in New Delhi, in which their suggestions were sought for the next state budget to be presented in the Haryana assembly in March. Commenting on the agitation against the farm laws, Khattar said the Centre is clearly of the view that the three laws are for the benefit of farmers and will give a boost to the agricultural sector. Some people are protesting just for the “sake of protest” and it shows their “vested political intent”, the chief minister said according to the statement. However, if through a positive dialogue, any amendment in these laws is required, then the Union government will always be ready for it, the CM said, adding that he is hopeful that the issue will be resolved soon. In the meeting held at the residence of Union minister Rattan Lal Kataria on Friday, the CM said suggestions and expectations of the MPs regarding the development of their constituencies will be looked into during the preparation of the state budget. He said like the previous year, this year too the state’s budget will be prepared after holding discussions with the Haryana MPs. The valuable suggestions given by the MPs will definitely be incorporated in the upcoming budget, the CM said. The meeting was attended by Rattan Lal Kataria, MPs Arvind Kumar Sharma, Dharambir Singh, Ramesh Chander Kaushik, Nayab Singh Saini, Sanjay Bhatia, Brijendra Singh and Sunita Duggal. Rajya Sabha MPs Lt Gen D P Vats (retd), Dushyant Gautam and Ram Chander Jangra were also present, as per the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/some-people-agitating-just-for-sake-of-protest-khattar-on-farmers-stir-950873.html
13-02-2021||North and Central||Congress MLAs joined us last year to save Madhya Pradesh: state BJP chief||The 22 Congress MLAs who joined the BJP in March last year did so to save Madhya Pradesh which was being "ruined" by the Kamal Nath government in place at the time, the latter's state unit chief VD Sharma said on Saturday. The rebellion by 22 MLAs, many of them loyalists of Congressman-turned Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, led to the fall of the Nath government. "The Congress leaders got wedded to the saffron culture and joined the BJP. They did so to save MP. During 15 months of Congress rule, the state was ruined," Sharma told reporters on the sidelines of his party's two-day training session here. He said these legislators joined the BJP after being swayed by the public-centric welfare programmes of the party's governments in the state under Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. He said the public had endorsed these leaders, who had to face bypolls after quitting the MP Assembly, by voting for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-mlas-joined-us-last-year-to-save-madhya-pradesh-state-bjp-chief-950875.html
13-02-2021||North and Central||Farmers would have died even while staying back home: Haryana minister on farmers' deaths at protest sites||In a controversial remark over farmers' death at various protest sites, Haryana Agriculture Minister J P Dalal on Saturday said they would have died even if they had stayed back home. Dalal made the remark in Bhiwani in response to a reporter’s query over the “death of 200 farmers”. “Had they been at their homes, they would have died there also,” Dalal said. “Listen to me, out of one to two lakh, do not 200 people die in six months?” he asked in response. “Someone is dying of a heart attack and someone after falling ill,” he added. Several Punjab and Haryana farmers, participating in farmers' agitation against the Centre's three farm laws at various Delhi border points, have died of different reasons including cardiac arrest. Hours after making the statement, the Haryana agriculture minister said he has seen “twisted” statements, attributed to him, on social media. He said “wrong meaning” was given to his statements. “If anybody is hurt by it, I tender my apology,” he said, adding he would continue to work for farmers’ welfare. He said it is painful if anyone dies. Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala attacked Dalal over his remarks and said such a statement can only be made by an “insensitive” person. “These words can only be used by an insensitive man for agitating 'annadatas',” said Surjewala in a tweet. आंदोलन में संघर्षरत अन्नदाताओं के लिए इन शब्दों का प्रयोग एक संवेदनहीन और संस्कारहीन व्यक्ति ही कर सकता है। शर्म, मगर इनको आती नहीं। Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja too slammed Dalal for his statement. “This reaction and laughter of the Haryana agriculture minister on the sacrifice of our farmer brothers are very sad,” she said in a tweet. Punjab Congress leader Raj Kumar Verka also demanded Dalal’s ouster from the Haryana Cabinet over huis “insensitive” remarks. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have been expressing fear that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporate houses. The Centre, however, has been insisting that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-would-have-died-even-while-staying-back-home-haryana-minister-on-farmers-deaths-at-protest-sites-950963.html
13-02-2021||Opinion||Political labelling: An important dimension we miss||‘Andolanjeevi’ is the latest entry in a long list of labels and coinages of these times. The others, from the likes of ‘bhakt’, ‘jihadi’, ‘Khan Market gang’, ‘sanghi’, ‘sickular’, ‘tukde-tukde gang’, ‘Urban Naxal’ and so on are already part of the country’s political vocabulary.  Sure, there is some flinching in some circles at their utterance but many aren’t squeamish about the lingo even when they sense it is tasteless and worse. Users throwing these terms know what they are conveying and aren’t coy about it. Those at the crosshairs know what they are being charged with and have learnt to live, often proudly, with the badges.  For instance, self-proclaimed ‘bhakts’ are easily spotted on social media, and many unhesitatingly declared themselves ‘andolanjeevi’ within minutes of its mention by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  It isn’t difficult to figure why these are fertile times label-wise. The Hindutva agenda has come to enjoy sizeable and unapologetic popular approval, the Modi cult has found fiercely enamoured followers, and the challenge to them, stiffer than they would’ve liked, is most cleverly portrayed as a conspiracy of now-emasculated ‘elites’ and ‘anti-national forces’. The resultant polarisation, detractors of Hindutva-Moditva ranged against their backers, needs biting, bite-sized characterisations of the Other to nourish itself. With such characterisation – labelling, where individuals are sheared down to aspects of their existence convenient to the labeller – there’s the chance of challenging not just the adversary’s position but tainting the adversary herself. For good. With prospects of further hardening the faithful.  The option other than labelling – of marshalling coherent arguments to persuade the other side of one’s positions, or of reviewing one’s own positions in view of feedback from others – is harder (demanding on the intellect and patience) and riskier (the troops are edgy and won’t take concessions well), more so since a number of issues are queued up on the playlist. Take the example of ‘Urban Naxal’. It has become shorthand for an intelligentsia supposedly at war with the government because its feasting on India’s challenges, poverty, human rights abuses, and so on stands stalled.  Dubbing an individual an ‘Urban Naxal’ slots her as a perennial, selfish grumbler, someone whose character, loyalties, and motives are suspect, and, hence, someone whose arguments on any issue, at hand or in pipeline, merit no engagement except dismissal. The doors then are shut for good on ‘Urban Naxals’, much to the delight of their detractors.  That political labelling can serve as a cue for demonisation, de-legitimisation, and targeted violence is something that has been spoken of. Worrying as this is, but there’s another dimension to it that we miss, the limiting nature of labels and how they mould behaviour and constrain conversations. Labelling of any kind, psychology suggests, is limiting. In two ways. A: In consciously and subconsciously shaping self-perceptions and behaviours, labels prompt individuals into conducting themselves in a certain way, consistent with what is expected from the label stuck on them and at risk of not expressing themselves honestly. This is why some film stars reluctantly put on starry airs, and divas feel compelled to behave like, well, divas. B: Labels prompt the world into pre-judging others, making assumptions about their nature, potential, and motives, without recognising that labels, if at all, cover only a subset of these. So, slow learners are given up on in schools, feminists come to be viewed as difficult people, and non-vegetarians get denied homes because they are perceived as untidy and cruel.  The end result of labels is that they stimulate and reinforce label-confirming public behaviour and/ or delude us about how well we understand others. Political labels then could be pressuring individuals into harder public stances than their inner selves feel and blinding them to the possibilities of debate and reconciliation. (How many times have we been struck by how someone sounded saner, more reasonable in real life than they do on social media?) Given the scale at which such labels are currently in play and the temperatures in echo chambers in which they are being cooked, things can only worsen. Avoiding labels will aid honest expression, encourage less hostile posturing, reveal hitherto invisible flexibilities, trigger conversations rooted in fact, logic, respect for different perspectives and experiences, not imagined intents. It is in the stunting of such conversations that the principal problem with labelling lies. Imagine how differently the CAA-NRC conversations would have gone if protestors weren’t viewed as saboteurs but genuinely worried citizens. Let us concede that the idea of a conversation with those demonised as ‘bigots’ or ‘anti-nationals’ is very difficult. There will be doubts around whether their souls are redeemable in the first place, whether the very act of entering into such a conversation amounts to ideological dishonesty, and whether any headway can be made with them without compromising on basic principles.  These could be valid doubts, but the reality is that neither liberal or extremist strains in society can be wished away, and that ideologies flourish only when they explore new catchments. Letting labels create distances with the Other is unhelpful. If unconvinced, think whether unleashing ‘andolanjeevi’ has brought the government and protesting farmers any closer to a solution.  (Manish Dubey is a policy analyst and writer) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/political-labelling-an-important-dimension-we-miss-950800.html
13-02-2021||South||CPI in Kerala to not give tickets to 3-term MLAs in assembly polls||CPI members in Kerala who have been elected to the state assembly thrice would not get tickets to contest the coming polls as the party wanted to give opportunities to the younger generation. The state council of the CPI, a major partner in the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala, at a meeting here on Friday took a decision to this effect, the party said. As a consequence, ministers V S Sunil Kumar representing Thrissur, P Thilothaman (Cherthala) and K Raju (Punalur) would not be able to contest the assembly elections likely in April-May as they had been MLAs for three terms. Three other sitting legislators, including senior leaders C Divakaran and Mullakkara Ratnakaran, would also lose their chance to contest the polls because of the same reason. "We have decided to implement the three-term policy strictly and the decision was taken to give opportunity to the youngsters and there will not be any exemption in these criteria," CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran told reporters. He also said office-bearers of the party will have to step down from the position if they wanted to contest the assembly polls and made it clear there will not be any exception. Currently, the party has 19 MLAs in the 140-member assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpi-in-kerala-to-not-give-tickets-to-3-term-mlas-in-assembly-polls-950679.html
13-02-2021||South||Customs commissioner probing Kerala gold smuggling case alleges threat to life||Commissioner of Customs (Preventive) in Kerala Sumit Kumar, who is probing the ongoing gold smuggling case in the state, on Friday, alleged threat to his life The local police have registered a case and launched a probe. They suspect the involvement of those linked with the smuggling of gold through diplomatic baggage cover. Sumit, who initially revealed the incident through social media, later told a section of media that some persons in a car and couple of two-wheelers chased his official car when he was proceeding to Kozhikode from Kalpetta in Wayanad. They chased his car for about 20 kilometres at Koduvally - Kondotty areas in Malappuram - Kozhikode border in a rash manner. Later, the vehicles disappeared. Incidentally, many persons from this locality were accused in the gold smuggling case. Koduvally is even considered as a hub of gold business in Kerala and there were also allegations that a good chunk of smuggled gold used to be sold in Koduvally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/customs-commissioner-probing-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-alleges-threat-to-life-950730.html
13-02-2021||South||NCP faction quits LDF coalition, to join UDF||Ahead of the Assembly polls in Kerala, the opposition UDF on Saturday got a shot in its arm with a faction in the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), a constituent in the ruling LDF, announcing its decision to part ways with the CPI(M)-led alliance and join the Congress-led front. Mani C Kappen MLA, who is heading the faction, said he would attend the 'Aiswarya Kerala' Yatra led by senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala when it reaches his constituency Pala in Kottayam district on Sunday. Kappen, who won the Pala seat as an LDF candidate in the bypoll held in 2019, claimed support of seven district presidents and nine state office-bearers of the NCP. He revolted against the state LDF leadership following the reported move by the CPI(M) to hand over Pala Assembly seat to Kerala Congress (M)-led by Jose K Mani which recently joined the ruling front after severing its decades-old alliance with the UDF. Talking to reporters, Kappen expressed hope that the UDF will take his faction in its fold. Kerala Transport Minister A K Saseendran, who heads the NCP rival faction, condemned the move by Kappen to join the UDF, alleging that he did injustice to the people of Pala who elected him in the bypoll. However, the NCP national leadership has not reacted to the development. Kappen had defeated Kerala Congress leader Jose Tom, who contested as UDF candidate in the 2019 bypoll necessitated due to the demise of veteran Kerala Congress leader and former minister K M Mani. K M Mani had represented the Pala seat in the Assembly for over 50 years. Kappen had held discussions with the national leaders of the NCP in New Delhi this week about the "injustice" being meted out to him by the LDF over the Pala seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ncp-faction-quits-ldf-coalition-to-join-udf-950741.html
13-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu rolls out Rs 12,110 crore crop loan waiver scheme||Marking the rollout of the Rs 12,110 crore crop loan waiver scheme for over 16 lakh ryots in Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Saturday gave away certificates to nine farmers. The certificates state that loans taken from cooperative banks and due on January 31, 2021, have been waived. Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, Agriculture Minister K P Anbalagan and senior officials led by Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan participated in the event at the state secretariat, a government release here said. On February 5, Palaniswami had announced waiver of Rs 12,110.74 crore crop loans availed by 16,43,347 farmers from cooperative banks. The move was considering the damage to crops following back to back cyclones 'Nivar' and 'Burevi' last year, besides the heavy unseasonal rains. The waiver would pave the way for farmers to continue cultivation without any hassles, Palaniswami had said. Following the announcement, Government Orders were issued on February 8, setting the stage for the scheme's implementation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-rolls-out-rs-12110-crore-crop-loan-waiver-scheme-950792.html
13-02-2021||South||Second dose of Covid-19 vaccination for heathcare workers begins in Tamil Nadu||The second dose of Covid-19 vaccination for health care workers in Tamil Nadu commenced on Saturday, 28 days after they took the first shot, with a senior official saying that it would soon be available to members of the public. Health Secretary J Radhakrishnan, who inspected the administering of the second dose to healthcare workers at the Government Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here, said the vaccination drive would soon be extended to the public. Speaking to reporters, he said nearly 2,27,340 people, including 1.9 lakh health workers, 19,405 frontline workers and 9,789 police personnel have so far been vaccinated. "One need not have any apprehensions over the vaccine being administered. We have given time till February 17 for the frontline workers to register. Soon, the vaccination drive will be extended to other sections of people," Radhakrishnan said. He urged all those who had taken the first dose to avail the second shots after a gap of 28 days. Also, with few cases of dengue fever being reported from Alangulam and certain pockets in Tenkasi district, the health department has advised all District Collectors to take preventive steps in their districts, Radhakrishnan said. Tamil Nadu began administering the first shots to health workers from January 16 and the drive was inaugurated by chief minister K Palaniswami at the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. Bharat Biotechs Covaxin and Serum Institutes Covishield vaccines require a two-dose schedule to be administered through the intramuscular route. As of February 12, Tamil Nadu has logged 8,44,173 lakh cases, while the toll stands at 12,408. A total of 8,27,480 people have recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccination-for-heathcare-workers-begins-in-tamil-nadu-950827.html
13-02-2021||South||PM Modi to launch several projects in his trip to Kochi on Feb 14||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate a series of development projects in Kochi on Sunday and will also hold discussions with BJP leaders in the state on the preparations for Assembly elections. A Rs 6,000-crore propylene derivatives petrochemical project at BPCL's Kochi refinery with a production capacity of five lakh metric tons per annum, new cruise terminal at Cochin port that could handle up to 5,000 cruise ship passengers at a time, Rs 20 crore project of reconstructing coal berth of the port and knowledge and skill development centre of Cochin Shipyard are the projects to be inaugurated by Modi during his one day visit. Afterwards, he would have meetings with BJP senior leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-to-launch-several-projects-in-his-trip-to-kochi-on-feb-14-950841.html
13-02-2021||South||CAA won’t be implemented, reiterates Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that the state was firm on its stand that Citizenship (Amendment) Act will not be implemented. Inaugurating a state-wide march of the Left Democratic Front in Kerala as a prelude to the upcoming Assembly election campaign from Kasargod, Vijayan said that at present there were some announcements that CAA would be implemented after Covid-19 vaccination drive was over. Kerala already clarified its position on the matter that CAA would not be implemented and there was no change in it. Vijayan highlighted the achievements of his government over the last five years and said that all assurances made in the manifesto were fulfilled by his government. He also said that the people of Kerala have realised that only LDF could take forward development of the state.  The LDF is organising state-wide marches, titled 'Vikasanna Munneta Yatra' (Development surge march), in two legs. While CPI(M) state secretary-in-charge A Vijayaraghavan is leading the march that began from Kasargod on Saturday, Rajya Sabha MP Binoy Viswam of CPI will lead the march that will begin from Kochi on Sunday. Both marches will end on February 26 in Thrissur and Thiruvananthapuram respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/caa-won-t-be-implemented-reiterates-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-950859.html
13-02-2021||South||Political parties in Kerala request ECI for single-phase polling||Political parties in Kerala on Saturday requested the Election Commission of India to conduct a single-phase polling for the elections in the state, which are due in April-May. Representatives of all political parties met a high-level EC delegation, held discussions and put forth their request. The EC delegation, headed by Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora and Commissioners Sushil Chandra and Rajeev Kumar and other senior officials, arrived in the state on Friday to assess the poll preparedness in the state. "We asked the ECI to conduct a single-phase election before the Vishu festival. We sought a date before April 12," Anathalavattom Anandan, senior CPI(M) leader, told reporters. The Congress delegation said they had requested the EC to conduct a single-phase election without affecting the Easter and Vishu festivals in April. "Since many festivals are there in April, the most convenient time would be between April 6 and 12," P C Chacko, senior Congress leader told the media. The Indian Union Muslim League too put forth a similar request. The BJP delegation also requested that polling be held in a single phase, but wanted it to be held in May. The EC team will meet the state's Chief Electoral Officer Tikaram Meena, Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta and the state police chief Loknath Behra on February 14 and discuss the poll preparedness of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/political-parties-in-kerala-request-eci-for-single-phase-polling-950861.html
13-02-2021||South||DMK Chief MK Stalin asks Tamil Nadu voters to 'punish' AIADMK govt in polls||Launching a scathing attack on the ruling AIADMK, DMK chief M K Stalin on Saturday described its rule as "anti-people" and "corrupt" and urged the people to punish it in the coming Assembly polls. The government facilitated job opportunities through the "backdoor" to people from other states affecting Tamil Nadu people's interests, he alleged during a poll campaign at Virudhachalam near here. Responding to a woman's plea in an interactive session, which was a part of the campaign, he alleged that people from outside Tamil Nadu were favoured in employment opportunties in departments like the railway too and not only in sugar mills. The woman complained local people had difficulties in getting jobs in sugar mills since workers from other states were being employed. Blaming the government for such a 'scenario,' Stalin said his party has already brought before the people the "betrayal" of the AIADMK government and held protests as well. "A change of government is however the only comprehensive solution," he said and appealed to the people to dislodge the AIADMK government. The DMK leader alleged,"there is a government today which has forgotten the people. This is an anti-people regime which punished the people. Public should punish the AIADMK government." Accusing Palaniswami of "copying" his poll assurances to the people like waiver of farm loans availed by farmers from cooperative banks, the leader of opposition alleged the Chief Minister's crop loan waiver scheme has been rolled out eyeing the polls. The DMK leader said he had assured ryots about loan waiver on January 13 and Palaniswami came up with the loan waiver announcement this month. Stalin said people's standard of living has "fallen" and small and micro enterprises have "lost" their livelihood, while the ruling AIADMK indulged in "corruption" during the coronavirus pandemic as well. Be it procurment of drugs, bleaching powder for sanitation or providing food to those infected by the virus, all such activities were marked by corruption, he claimed. "The AIADMK government's functioning was worse than the pathogen and it looted," he alleged. Exhorting the people to dislodge the government, Stalin said they had a "duty" as well to end the AIADMK rule. He assured the people that their grievances would be addressed. Stalin has been visiting Assembly segments across Tamil Nadu as part of his 'Ungal Thogudhiyil Stalin' (Stalin in your constituency) campaign for the Assembly polls likely to be held in April-May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-chief-mk-stalin-asks-tamil-nadu-voters-to-punish-aiadmk-govt-in-polls-950965.html
13-02-2021||State||Classes for grades 6 to 8 in Karnataka from third week of February||The state government is set to reopen schools for grades 6 to 8 under all boards from the third week of February and has reportedly instructed district officials to make adequate preparations. Sources in the state Department of Public Instruction revealed to DH that schools are likely to reopen from February 18 or 19. Further, the department had even favoured holding regular classes from 10 am to 4 pm, during a meeting with the Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee that was scheduled on Friday, but was put off. "There is a lot of pressure from stakeholders and we have also received representations from parents, managements, teachers and educationists to reopen schools for all grades. We plan to present this at the meeting to obtain permission from the Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee," explained an official source. Clarifying that off-line classes for grades 9, 10, 11 and 12 were running smoothly, the official said, "The government is also mulling reopening anganwadis. Hence, we have also decided to reopen schools for grade 6 to 8." Meanwhile, officials explained that there will be a separate schedule to conduct classes for upper primary grades, along with the Covid-19 protocols. "Attending off-line classes will not be mandatory and a consent letter from the parents is a must. Teachers will continue to hold both offline and online classes," the officer clarified. Currently, for grades 6 to 8, off-line classes are held under Vidyagama programme and children are allowed to come for a few hours to consult teachers on academic issues.  Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar, in a press briefing, said they will hold a meeting on February 16 with the Health and Family Welfare Department, Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee on reopening of schools for all grades. The department has decided not to reopen schools for classes from 1 to 5 for this academic year. But the government is mulling extending the Vidyagama programme for these grades from the third week of February.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/classes-for-grades-6-to-8-in-karnataka-from-third-week-of-february-950613.html
13-02-2021||State||Karnataka govt to bring new mining policy, says Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani||Karnataka government will bring a new mining policy to promote sustainable development in the mining sector soon, the state's Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani said on Saturday. Nirani, who met with Union Minister for Coal and Mining Pralhad Joshi to discuss issues related to mining sector here, told reporters that the mining policy will focus on several issues related to mining including introducing single-window clearance for bring transparency in the sector, speed up approvals of the projects and holdings Lok Adalats to resolve mining-related problems. The state also plans revival of defunct, old mines and ramp up capacity of Hutti Gold Mines Company Ltd, he said. The government has plans to set up a mining school similar to Dhanbad School of Mining in Jharkhand to enhance skills of the Bhovi community who are largely engaged in stone quarrying activities, he added. Illegal mining complaints coming from every place and the government wanted to address the issue on top priority, he said. The government is also allowing the transportation of sand through two-wheeler and three-wheeler foe those who construct their own houses. The state could not utilise district mineral fund due to various issues including pending cases in the Supreme Court. These issues have been discussed with Joshi also sought help from the Central Government to solve this. The issues related to forest and environment clearances to the mining sector, he said he will discuss with Union Minister for Environment Prakash Javadekar and try to resolve problems, he said. The state government will set up single-window clearances for mining sector for speedy approval. Around Rs 25,000 crore will be collected in district mineral funds and an action plan will be prepared to take development in mining activities districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-to-bring-new-mining-policy-says-mines-and-geology-minister-murugesh-nirani-950851.html
13-02-2021||State||Karnataka govt seeks 750-acre defence land for IT park in Belagavi||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Saturday requested Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to hand over 750 acres of defence land in Belagavi to set up a software technology park. The DCM, who holds the IT and BT portfolio, met Singh here explained the need for land. He said if the Defence Ministry provides the land, the state plans to set up an IT park to house both software and hardware companies there. Since the said land is close to NH-8 in Belagavi, it is ideal for a software park, the DCM is reported to have told Singh. With Belagavi being an education hub, it would be good to set up such a park there, said a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-seeks-750-acre-defence-land-for-it-park-in-belagavi-950878.html
13-02-2021||State||Now, Veerashaiva-Lingayats threaten Karnataka govt over central OBC status||Over 200 seers from the influential Veerashaiva-Lingayat community congregated in the city on Saturday and mounted pressure on the government for their inclusion under the central OBC list.  Under the central OBC list, Veerashaiva-Lingayats will get a share in 27% reservation in jobs and educational institutions.  Among the attendees was Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's aide B S Paramashivaiah, the chairperson of the recently formed Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Corporation. He joined the seers in threatening to intensify the agitation if the Centre failed to respond to their demand.  The show of strength came at a time when the Panchamasali community (a numerically strong sub-sect) is seeking Category 2A reservation in Karnataka. Dingaleshwara Swami warned the BJP that it will "not see power anywhere in South India" if their demand was not met. "Soon after constituting the Veerashaiva-Lingayat corporation, Yediyurappa took up the issue of seeking OBC status to the community, in the Cabinet meeting. However, he was not able to take it forward. We hear that the Centre is behind him taking a step back. If this is true, the BJP will not see power anywhere in South India. You used the community's name and came to power here. What is your contribution to the community," he asked.   Paramashivaiah said there are 106 sub-sects among the Veerashaiva-Lingayats. "The Centre has given OBC status only for 30 sub-sects. If the Centre doesn't respond to our demand, we will further intensify our struggle," he said.  Saturday's congregation of seers was seen as a counter to the Panchamasalis' agitation. The Yediyurappa camp will look to keep his support base intact by uniting the community for the central OBC status demand. Acceding to the Panchamasalis's demand for Category 2A could split the Veerashaiva-Lingayats, a disadvantage to the BJP.  Also, the Yediyurappa camp will hope that this will solidify his hold over the community even as a section of Panchamasalis are attacking him.  Srisaila Jagadguru Channasiddarama Panditaradhya, however, denied this. "Our demand is not a counter to the Panchamasalis. It is complementary to it. This is a long-pending demand. Sub-sects of Veerashaiva-Lingayats from other states such as Kerala, Goa and Andhra Pradesh are under the central OBC list, which isn't the case in Karnataka," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/now-veerashaiva-lingayats-threaten-karnataka-govt-over-central-obc-status-950903.html
13-02-2021||State||Special Investment Region Bill draft ready for Cabinet approval: Shettar||Large and Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said his department has drafted a bill for the formation of Special Investment Region (SIR), keeping Dharwad, Shivamogga, and Kalaburagi as the centres for setting up industries in surrounding districts. Speaking at an awareness programme on ‘New Industries policy 2020-25’ organised by Karnataka Small-Scale Industries Association (KASSIA) and District Industries Centre in Hubballi on Saturday, he said his department has studied the pros and cons of the Gujarat-based SIR model and has drafted a bill that will be soon placed before the Legislative Assembly. “Once it gets the Cabinet approval, it will be a game-changer for the state, as it will give more thrust to industries in that particular region,” he said. The minister also said that they are working with Urban Development Department to draft plans for creating at least five to six townships in Karnataka this year, including one at Tarihal in Hubballi, and Peenya in Bengaluru. The file is with the Finance Department, he added. He claimed that the legislative reforms brought in by the government have helped in attracting the highest foreign direct investment (FDI) in the state. During the eight months of Covid-19 pandemic last year, the state had succeeded in garnering 41% of the country’s total FDI of Rs 3.76 lakh crore, he noted. Of the total 1,180 proposals that India received between January and October 2020, Karnataka alone received 95 proposals worth Rs 1.54 lakh crore, he said. Shettar said the government is contemplating to reform the laws related to industries further to improve the ease of doing business. As part of this, the government will soon introduce a policy of reserving at least 30% of the total land in the industrial area for the MSMEs. Shettar said, as per Niti Aayog, the government is developing the Tumakuru Industrial Node at an estimated cost of Rs 1,700 crore, of which Rs 600 crore will be utilised for land acquisition and the remaining amount will be shared 50:50 by the state and Central governments for providing world-class basic facilities for the industries. Nearly 4,000 acres of land will be acquired for this, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/special-investment-region-bill-draft-ready-for-cabinet-approval-shettar-950924.html
13-02-2021||State||Karnataka: Boat damaged as huge fish hits it||In a rare instance, a fishing boat fishing in the deep sea was damaged after being hit by a huge fish in wee hours on Saturday.  The huge sized fish, which hit the boat in local Tulu language is known as ‘Madal Meen’ (Needle Fish). As the fish had hit the boat hard, its mouth suffered injury and blood had flowed out profusely. The fishing boat was also damaged as the fish had come in contact with it with enormous force.  The video of the incident has gone viral on social media. The boat, with a dozen fishermen on board, had left for fishing from Mangaluru Old Port, asources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-boat-damaged-as-huge-fish-hits-it-950939.html
13-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 380 Covid-19 infections, 8 fatalities||Karnataka on Friday logged 380 Covid-19 cases and eight fatalities, taking the total number of cases and toll to just above 9.44 lakh and 12,259 respectively, the health department said. Four new cases of the UK strain of the coronavirus were confirmed on Friday, taking the total number to 25. As many as 405 people were discharged after being cured of the virus as cumulative recoveries rose to 9.26 lakh, leaving 5,925 active cases. Bengaluru Urban district accounted for 318 of the fresh cases, followed by Dakshina Kannada 33, and Mysuru 31 while the remaining was scattered over the state. Cumulatively 9,44,437 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which include 12,259 deaths and 9,26,234 discharges, the bulletin said. Of the active cases,137 are in Intensive Care Units Seven out of the eight deaths were reported from Bengaluru Urban and one in Dharwad Five of the 31 districts --Gadag, Kodagu, Koppal, Yadgir and Ramanagara -- reported nil infections and fatalities. A total of over 1.78 crore samples have been tested so far, with 68,993 on Friday, the bulletin said. It said 12,879 of the targetted 1,10,871 Covid warriors were vaccinated today. Four cases of Adverse Events Following Immunisation (AEFI) were reported It said 4,89,854 out of total of 11,07,353 corona warriors, comprising healthcare personnel and frontline workers have so far been vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-380-covid-19-infections-8-fatalities-950629.html
13-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||4 Bengaluru-based engineers die in road accident near Channarayapatna||Four Bengaluru-based engineers, including a probationary Excise Inspector, died on the spot as the car hit a container from behind at D Chikkagondanahalli, near Channarayapatna, early on Saturday. Chetan (28), also probationary Excise Inspector, Manjunath (29), Vikram (29) and Abhishek (29), of Bengaluru, are deceased. All the four were friends and heading towards Chikkamagaluru from Bengaluru in a car. The car hit the container from behind and the contained towed the car for a few distance. According to the Police, a total of eight friends in two cars were bounding Chikkamagaluru and the friends coming in another car, stopped the container, which was towing the car. District in-charge Minister K Gopalaiah visited mortuary where the dead body were kept.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/4-bengaluru-based-engineers-die-in-road-accident-near-channarayapatna-950815.html
13-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Tesla to open manufacturing unit in Karnataka, says CM B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday said Elon Musk-owned Tesla will set up its electric car manufacturing unit in Karnataka, in the first clear statement by the government on the American firm zeroing in on the state for its vehicle unit. “American firm Tesla will open its electric car manufacturing unit in Karnataka,” Yediyurappa said in a statement about the project that had attracted the attention of several other states as well. The reference to Tesla came immediately after the CM said an industrial corridor is coming up at Tumakuru at a cost of Rs 7,725 crore that would generate 2.8 lakh jobs.  Last month, Tesla registered its subsidiary Tesla India Motors and Energy Private Ltd in Bengaluru. Yediyurappa had then tweeted that the electric car giant would open its R&D unit in the state capital. But the tweet was quickly deleted. Yediyurappa's statement comes days after Maharashtra Industries Minister Subhash Desai claimed that his state had not lost Tesla to Karnataka. Maharashtra, too, is trying to woo Tesla. The company, Desai claimed, had decided to set up only a workshop and a showroom in Karnataka. The CM also listed out at least nine benefits the state has been promised in the Union Budget.  Yediyurappa, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Housing Minister V Somanna separately lauded the Union Budget, listing out the benefits it had for Karnataka. This, after the administration, is said to have spent the past couple of days reading through the fine print of the Union Budget.  According to Yediyurappa, Karnataka will get Rs 10,904 crore for 33 national highway projects spanning 1,197 km. In north Karnataka, 13 highway projects worth Rs 21,000 crore have been cleared.  In 2021-22, Yediyurappa said Karnataka will get basic infrastructure updates worth Rs 1.16 lakh crore.  Bengaluru alone has received Rs 14,788 crore for Phase 2 of the Namma Metro project and Rs 23,093 crore for the suburban rail. For other railway projects, the state will get Rs 4,870 crore, he said.  While the Kochi-Mangaluru gas pipeline has been launched, Yediyurappa said the tunnel project at Shiradi Ghat connecting Bengaluru and Mangaluru had been approved. He said Rs 10,000 crore was released for the 13-km tunnel.  “This is a historic budget,” Yediyurappa said. "It will complement farm output increase, creation of infrastructure and improvement of the health sector," he said, adding that the Union Budget would help "comprehensive" development of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tesla-to-open-manufacturing-unit-in-karnataka-says-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-950842.html
13-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||This calculator estimates when you may get your coronavirus vaccine||A team of Indo-Polish developers has created a tool to show ordinary Indians where they stand in the vaccination queue. As per the calculator, a person aged 26-45, who does not qualify for vaccination in the first three phases of the vaccination programme, can expect to be vaccinated sometime in mid-March. But there are certain conditions, explained one of the developers, Farhan Khan, a New Delhi researcher who now lives in Poland. “This timetable only works if the Karnataka government brings into play all 28,427 vaccination centres identified in the state,” he said. But during phase 1 of the programme, the government employed only 235 centres. Worse, vaccine hesitancy has badly delayed government timetables to wrap up Phase 1. As of February 13, official data showed that the state had vaccinated about 4,31,111 healthcare and 86,074 frontline workers out of the intended target of 11,08,558 workers - which comprises about 30% of target totals. When asked when the vaccination programme would be concluded in total, the Minister of Health, Dr K Sudhakar called for patience. “We still have to finish Phase 1 of the programme, which includes a second dose 28 days after the first dose,” he said. Our analysis is based on pure mathematics and the analysis will change if the governments amend field practices and protocols, explained Dr Aleksandra Zając, a medical educator. She added that deployment of a similar calculator for Poland had possibly helped to reduce vaccine hesitancy in Poland. “On 28 December, a national poll showed that only 47% of Poles said they wanted to get vaccinated. However, by January 11, after our calculator received press attention, a second nationwide poll showed 66% saying they wanted to get vaccinated,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/this-calculator-estimates-when-you-may-get-your-coronavirus-vaccine-950846.html
13-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah blaming RSS to hide embarrassment: Shettar||Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Saturday said that uncertainty over his leadership role in the Congress and his inability to attend programmes organised by the Kuruba community is forcing the Leader of the Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah to wrongly target the RSS and the BJP. Speaking to mediapersons here, he said, "Siddaramaiah has been claiming to be the leader of the Kuruba community, and the AHINDA (a Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes, and Dalits). However, he (Siddaramaiah) could not attend a recent convention of the Kuruba community, to which he was invited." “To hide his embarrassment, Siddaramaiah is trying to find an escape route by blaming the RSS,” he said. Shettar said that the fight for reservation didn't start today and that religious and mutt heads of those particular communities have been raising those demands regularly. “There is a set procedure to accord reservation for any community, and the state government would follow the same by sending a report to the Central government,” he said, adding that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has written a letter to the Union government, which will soon take a suitable decision. No decision on AIIMS in Hubballi-Dharwad Refusing to react to the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) unit in Hubballi-Dharwad, Shettar said, no decision has been taken yet regarding this. "Let it first come to Karnataka, then the state government will decide where to house it," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-blaming-rss-to-hide-embarrassment-shettar-950912.html
13-02-2021||West||Bombay HC judge who delivered controversial verdicts gets 1 year fresh term as additional judge||A Bombay High Court additional judge, who had delivered two controversial verdicts in sexual assault cases, was on Friday given a fresh one-year term as an additional judge, instead of two years as recommended by the Supreme Court collegium. Justice Pushpa Ganediwala's fresh tenure would be effective from February 13. Her earlier tenure as an additional judge was to end on Friday. Last month, the Supreme Court collegium had withdrawn its approval to a proposal for the appointment of additional judge, Justice Ganediwala as a permanent judge of the court following her two controversial verdicts. The collegium had recommended that she be given a fresh term as an additional judge for two years. But the government issued a notification on Friday saying she has been given a fresh term as an additional judge for one year. Instead of asking the collegium to reconsider its recommendation of a fresh two year term, the government decided to extend the period by only one year, sources pointed out. Additional judges are usually appointed for two years before being elevated as permanent judges. The decision was taken after the judge faced flak for her interpretation of sexual assault under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Justice Ganediwala recently acquitted a man accused of groping a 12-year-old girl's breast because he did not make skin-to-skin contact and days earlier, ruled that holding the hands of a five-year-old girl and unzipping the trousers do not amount to "sexual assault" under the POCSO Act. On January 27, the Supreme Court stayed the Bombay High Court order acquitting the man after Attorney General K K Venugopal said the order would set a dangerous precedent. The collegium headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, at a meeting held on January 20, had okayed the proposal for making Justice Ganediwala a permanent judge. Besides the CJI, justices N V Ramana and R F Nariman are part of the three-member collegium, which takes decisions with regard to high court judges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-judge-who-delivered-controversial-verdicts-gets-1-year-fresh-term-as-additional-judge-950708.html
13-02-2021||West||Constitutional validity of Gujarat Land Grabbing Act challenged in High Court||A petition has been filed in Gujarat High Court challenging the constitutional validity of Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act, 2020, a special law implemented recently by the Vijay Rupani-led BJP government that has many stringent provisions including jail term from 10 to 14 years, registration of offences with retrospective effects, among others. The petitioners, while challenging the Act, have contended that they have been booked for a land transaction that actually took place nearly 50 years ago. The petition argues that many of the provisions under the Act such as amalgamation of civil and criminal law, setting up of special court and appointment of judges by the state government, booking suspects in the cases even when the law was non-existent are "unconstitutional" and should be quashed. The petition is likely to be heard on February 18. Two residents of Sabarkantha, Kamlesh Dave and Pankaj Patel, have filed the petition through advocates Virat Popat and Maulik Shah. Dave and Patel have been booked under the new law for a land transaction that occurred in 1972. In 2007, Dave sold the land in question to Patel. Later on, the original sellers' relatives started claiming rights. The complainant against the duo alleged that at the time of the sale deed, she was a minor but her right over the land could not have "disturbed". The land had been sold by her mother and brother. She had filed a civil suit to claim her right. The petition states that she withdrew her case in 2011. However, another claimant appeared and filed another civil suit. The petitioners have said that the circle officer, after an inquiry, found that no case was made out against them, yet FIR was filed under the new law. A similar opinion was given by the Mamaltdar despite FIR registered against the petitioners. On the law point, the petitioners have argued that special law being the "subject matter of concurrent list, the enactment requires the assent of the President under Article 254 of the Constitution of India which is sine qua non. Thus, the Act is enacted and enforced in the absence of legislative competence". Besides, the petitioners have submitted that "The act has retrospective applicability and it makes the past innocent act as an offence by the post facto law which violates the fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 20 of the Constitution." Article 20 says that no one can be convicted for an offence which was not in force at the time of the commission of the particular act. The state government, last month, said that over 600 land-grabbing cases were under probe and 16 FIRs had already been filed after the law came into force. The government abolished the Special Investigation Team (SIT) which was set up during the time of former chief minister, Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Under the new law, a committee headed by the district collector has to evaluate complaints and forward them to prant officer who, in turn, will report back and within 21 days, a decision has to be taken as to whether or not a complaint should be filed. Based on this report, FIR will be filed. The law has a provision for special court and burden proof will be on the land grabber.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/constitutional-validity-of-gujarat-land-grabbing-act-challenged-in-high-court-950725.html
13-02-2021||West||FIR against eight for duping investor of Rs 18.50 lakh in Maharashtra||Police in Maharashtra's Thane have registered an FIR against eight persons, four of them suspected to be from the UK, for allegedly cheating a man of Rs 18.50 lakh by making him invest in a company, an official said on Saturday. The case was registered at Vartak Nagar police station in the city, he said. "The accused had formed a shell company in the healthcare sector. They posted details about the company on various social media platforms and sought investments from people," the official said. They lured the complainant, a 49-year-old contractor from Thane, and made him invest in the company in February last year by promising him good returns, he said. "The victim made investment by transferring money to their bank accounts on different occasions. However, as the victim did not get any response from the company after that, he realised that he had been cheated," the official added. Police have registered the case of cheating against the accused, identified as Grace Jackson, Davind Tom, Ralince Owen, Ashley Michel, Ajay Mishra, Manish Jain, Sharif Piru Mohammad and Ajay Shah. Investigation into the case is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fir-against-eight-for-duping-investor-of-rs-1850-lakh-in-maharashtra-950734.html
13-02-2021||West||65% pvt hospitals in Thane lack fire safety measures: TMC||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) on Saturday said that 65.20 per cent private hospitals in the city have not complied with fire safety regulations despite repeated reminders. In an official release, the civic body said that there are 347 private hospitals in the city. The TMC recently conducted a fire audit of these facilities. However, 28 of them were found to be shut. Of the remaining 319 hospitals, 111 found to have complied with the fire safety regulations and submitted the certificates, it said. The remaining 208, which comes to 65.20 per cent are yet to comply with the fire safety norms and submit their certificates, the release said. The civic body has given time till February 22 to these 208 hospitals for compliance, in the absence of which they will face severe action, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/65-pvt-hospitals-in-thane-lack-fire-safety-measures-tmc-950743.html
13-02-2021||West||Recall Governor from Maharashtra, Shiv Sena urges Centre||Amid regular confrontation between Raj Bhavan and the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, the Shiv Sena on Saturday urged Centre to recall Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. “The Governor is acting as a puppet of the Centre... You cannot fire at the State from the shoulders of the Governor," the Shiv Sena said, adding that the MVA is strong and would remain strong. "The Governor of a state should pursue the agenda of Government of the day and not that of the Opposition,” said an editorial that appeared in Marathi daily Saamana and its Hindi tabloid version Dophar ka Saamana, the mouthpieces of the Shiv Sena. The editorial assumes significance in the wake of the Chief Minister’s Office denying permission to Koshyari to fly in the State government-owned jet to Uttarakhand. In the strongly-worded editorial, the Shiv Sena also referred to the fact that Koshyari has not yet cleared the 12 names submitted by the MVA government to be nominated as members of Maharashtra Legislative Council from the Governor’s quota. "This is against established norms and rules," the editorial stated. It went on to add that the Governor cannot play to the tunes of BJP. “If the Union Home Ministry wanted to hold constitutional values and norms, it should recall the Governor before he is completely exposed," it said. On the BJP charge that the MVA government is egoistic and arrogant, it added: “The use of word arrogance doesn't suit BJP leaders. The entire country knows who is indulging in politics of arrogance. If the farm laws are not repealed despite opposition to them, who is being arrogant?” The editorial said that the Maharashtra Governor is an “honourable person” but he also needs to uphold the principles and values of his office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/recall-governor-from-maharashtra-shiv-sena-urges-centre-950762.html
13-02-2021||West||Goa government starts giving second dose of Covid-19 vaccine||The Goa government on Saturday started administering the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine to the healthcare workers in the state, an official said. Those healthcare workers who had taken the first dose of the vaccine 28 days ago were given the second shot on Saturday, state immunisation officer Dr Rajendra Borkar said. Ranganath Bhojje, a healthcare worker from Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), near here was the first person to get the vaccine shot on January 16, when the nationwide vaccination programme had started. He was again the first person to get the second dose of the vaccine, the official said. Those who received the second dose of the vaccine will develop immunity against the infection after 14 days, he said. Out of the total number of 19,952 healthcare workers in the state, 10,341 have received their first dose so far, while the remaining will receive it by February 20, Dr Borkar said. The state has covered 52 per cent of the healthcare workers in the vaccine drive so far, Dr Borkar said. "Initially, we had set the deadline of February 12 to cover all healthcare workers, but now it has been extended to February 20 to ensure maximum coverage," he said. Earlier this week, the state government also began vaccinating Covid-19 frontline warriors, including police personnel, home guards, civic employees, staffers of revenue and panchayat departments, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-government-starts-giving-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-950796.html
13-02-2021||West||Mumbai Police seize 1,800 kgs of Ganja worth Rs 3.6 cr||The Mumbai Police arrested two people and seized 1,800 kg of ganja worth Rs 3.6 crores in one of the biggest narcotics seizures in recent times. The breakthrough was made by the Anti-Narcotics Cell (ANC) of the Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai Police. A truck has been seized by the ANC’s Ghatkopar unit from the Eastern Express Highway. “This is one of the biggest seizures. We were on it for weeks...there was surveillance, technical intelligence and chasing,” Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Milind Bharambe said. The entire operation was being regularly overseen by Mumbai Police chief Parambir Singh. The source of Ganja was Ganjam district of Orissa and was being sent by Laxmikant Pradhan, who is at large. Pradhan used to send Ganja to Mumbai Metropolitan Region’s Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Bhiwandi, Vasai-Virar areas along with Maharashtra’s Pune and Solapur districts and Surat in neighbouring Gujarat. The transactions were in cash and hawala, the ANC investigations have revealed. “The drugs were hidden in consignment of coconut and came from Orissa via Andhra Pradesh,” said Bharambe, adding detailed investigations are in progress vis-a-vis the inter-state Ganja racket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-seize-1800-kgs-of-ganja-worth-rs-36-cr-950797.html
13-02-2021||West||Recall Governor from Maharashtra, demands Shiv Sena to Centre||Amid regular confrontation between Raj Bhavan and the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, the Shiv Sena on Saturday urged to recall Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. “The Governor is acting as a puppet of the Centre....you cannot fire at the State from the shoulders of the Governor," the Shiv Sena said, adding that the MVA is strong and would remain strong. "The Governor of a State should pursue the agenda of Government of the day and not that of the Opposition,” said an editorial that appeared in Marathi daily Saamana and its Hindi tabloid version Dophar ka Saamana, the mouthpieces of the Shiv Sena. The editorial assumes significance in the wake of the Chief Minister’s Office denying permission to Koshyari to fly in the state government-owned jet to Uttarakhand. In the strongly-worded editorial, the Shiv Sena also referred to the fact that Koshyari has not yet cleared the 12 names submitted by the MVA government to be nominated as members of Maharashtra Legislative Council from the Governor’s quota. "This is against established norms and rules," the editorial stated. It went on to add that the Governor cannot play to the tunes of BJP. “If the union home ministry wanted to hold constitutional values and norms, it should recall the Governor before he is completely exposed," it said. On the BJP charge that the MVA government is egoistic and arrogant, it added: “The use of word arrogance doesn't suit BJP leaders. The entire country knows who is indulging in politics of arrogance.  If the farm laws are not repealed despite Opposition to them, who is being arrogant?” The editorial said that the Maharashtra Governor is an “honourable person” but he also needs to uphold the principles and values of his office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/recall-governor-from-maharashtra-demands-shiv-sena-to-centre-950839.html
13-02-2021||West||Delhi-Mumbai expressway will ease traffic load: Nitin Gadkari||Once completed, the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway will ease the current traffic load on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway, Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Saturday after reviewing various road projects in Pune and western Maharashtra. Addressing a press conference after inspecting the under-construction multi-level flyover project at Chandni Chowk in Pune, Gadkari said he had instructed officials concerned, contractors and local civic bodies to prepare a plan to ensure that the work gets completed during the next one year. The BJP MP also reiterated that motorists would have to pay road tax if they need "good services". "The Delhi-Mumbai Expressway work is going on. (Once completed), it will ease the traffic load on Pune-Mumbai Expressway as a bulk of traffic between northern and southern states currently pass through the Mumbai-Pune expressway," he told reporters. The Delhi-Mumbai Expressway is a proposed 1,250-km long controlled-access highway connecting the national capital with the commercial capital of the country. Gadkari said the main reason behind heavy traffic on the Pune-Mumbai expressway is that vehicles coming from northern states pass through this highway to travel further towards southern states. "But the proposed 12-lane Delhi-Mumbai Expressway will ease the traffic congestion on Mumbai-Pune expressway and other westerly highways," he said. Gadkari said once the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway reaches Surat in Gujarat, the south-bound traffic can be diverted using a new alignment (Surat - Nashik - Ahmednagar- Solapur). "This will ease the traffic load on Pune-Mumbai Expressway and other highways, and also bring down vehicular pollution," he added. Talking about the development and four-laning of the route from Pune that is used for walking palkhis or palaquins of Sant Dnyaneshwar and Sant Tukaram by devotees of Lord Vitthal, Gadkari said the work was going on at high speed. "Since the project is close to my heart, I think that beautification of the route should be done with the help of putting the couplets from 'abhangs' and songs devoted to Lord Vitthal along this route," he said. He said devotees can also suggest some ideas which can be implemented for beautifying the palkhi road. After inspecting the work of the multi-level flyover project at Chandni Chowk, Gadkari said, "I was told that the deadline to complete this project is 2023, but looking at the hardships and inconvenience caused to the public due to the ongoing work, it is not feasible to wait till 2023". "I have asked all officials concerned and contractors to prepare a plan to complete the project in the next one year," he added. He said the modalities regarding the acquisition of land for the flyover project stood completed and efforts will be made to complete the project at the earliest. Gadkari said Axis Bank, which was the financier for the project, has violated norms. "What this bank used to do is that it used to get the money collected in the form of toll (and) deposited it in its own account. Due to this, the concerned contractor did not get funds to finish the work. I requested the bank to hand over the funds to the contractors but it did not relent. The bank actually betrayed.... It violated the norms for the (flyover) project. "It is because of the actions of Axis Bank, that the common people got inconvenienced as the contractor could not complete the work," said Gadkari. He said he had written to Pune rural police and Pune collector that because of the bank's action, the contractor is not getting money and the work is getting delayed. The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) is now giving money to contractors to complete the flyover work, he said. When asked about the people's reluctance to pay the toll in cases where road works are pending completion, Gadkari said the road tax has to be paid if people want good services. "The way Chandrakant Patil (when he was PWD minister in the previous BJP-led government in Maharashtra) waived the toll, we won't do it," he quipped. Patil was also present when Gadkari referred to him. Gadkari said the work of Katraj flyover near Pune will be started in the next one month. He said works on road projects for Talegaon-Chakan- Shikrapur and Pune-Shirur-Ahmednagar will start soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/delhi-mumbai-expressway-will-ease-traffic-load-nitin-gadkari-950849.html
13-02-2021||West||BJP seeks arrest of Maharashtra minister Sanjay Rathod||Mounting pressure on the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, the opposition BJP on Saturday demanded the arrest of state’s forest minister Sanjay Rathod whose name has cropped up vis-a-vis the death of social media star Pooja Chavan. A four-term Shiv Sena MLA from Yavatmal district, Rathod is a prominent leader of the Banjara community. Hailing from Parli in Beed district, Pooja (23), a popular TikTok star, was staying in Pune and attending an English speaking course.  She was staying in the Wanawadi area with her cousin brother and friend – and was found dead on 7 February night. Initial reports from Pune said that she could have died by suicide. “Sanjay Rathod should not be merely removed from Cabinet but he should be arrested immediately,” senior BJP leader Kirit Somaiya said. He wanted to know whether Thackeray was awaiting a nod from NCP supremo Sharad Pawar. Thackeray has called for a report from Pune Police chief Amitabh Gupta. Meanwhile, Thackeray, when asked, said, "A thorough probe will be done and truth will come out before the people. The guilty will be punished but innocent need to suffer....truth will not be hidden." Rathod remained incommunicado throughout the day, however, his official car was seen in Mantralaya, the state secretariat complex.  On Friday, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis shot off a letter to state’s director general of police Hemant Nagrale and demanded investigations into the incident and also submitted 12 audio clips – that may have relation with the incident. The New Delhi-based National Commission for Women too has sought a report from the state government. Senior Shiv Sena leader and Thackeray aide Eknath Shinde, who is the urban development minister, said: “What has happened is unfortunate, but we should not link anyone’s name without any proof...it is not proper for me to speak without proper details.” When asked, state education minister Uday Samant of Shiv Sena said: “When the chief minister himself has sought a report...it is not at all proper for me to comment.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-seeks-arrest-of-maharashtra-minister-sanjay-rathod-950866.html
13-02-2021||West||Covid-19 takes the zing out of Goa's carnival parade||Less number of colourful floats, a slender crowd against the traditional gathering of lakhs, and low enthusiasm marked the annual Goa Carnival float parade held here on Saturday, thanks to the coronavirus pandemic. The parade was led by the float of State Tourism Department carrying the mythological character King Momo. Only 12 floats, as against the usual number of 30 to 40 floats, participated in the parade led by the float of state Tourism department which was taken out on D B Bandodkar Road. The procession was flagged off by state Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar in the presence of dignitaries including Corporation of City of Panaji Mayor Uday Madkaikar. The parade culminated at the Goa Kala Academy after covering a distance of 3 km. While some floats displayed traditional Goan culture and verve, many others gave the message of conserving the environment. In view of the pandemic, the state Tourism department had curtailed the number of the float parades to two from seven this year. The second parade would be held at Margao city on Sunday. The Goa carnival parade usually begins on Fat Saturday evening every year with a procession headed by King Momo. Traditionally, balloons, horse-drawn carriages, decorated bullock carts and elaborate floats mark the carnival parade. Participation of dancing troupes, revellers wearing masks and costumes, live music, food and drinking etc are some of the festivities associated with this parade. Goa's cumulative Covid-19 caseload stands at 52,831 as on Saturday, with 584 active cases, as per the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-takes-the-zing-out-of-goas-carnival-parade-950892.html
13-02-2021||West||3 reported missing after fire breaks out at offshore supply vessel Greatship Rohini||Three seamen were reportedly trapped and missing while one was rescued after a fire broke out in offshore supply vessel Greatship Rohini off the Mumbai shore in the Arabian Sea on Saturday. The fire broke out in the OSV, nearly 92 nautical miles off a platform of Mumbai High, according to the Indian Coast Guard (ICG). On receipt of the information, Coast Guard Operation Centre diverted offshore patrol vessel Samarth to the scene of action. Simultaneously, a Dornier aircraft was launched for the assessment of the situation. The Coast Guard ship reached the area at 1330 hrs and took over as on-scene coordinator - MV Albatross-5 operating in the vicinity, tied up a hawser from the forecastle of Greatship Rohini and pulled it out to a safe location from the NQO platform rig.  Indian Coast Guard Ship Samarth, with its advanced external fire-fighting system in coordination with OSV Priya 27, established boundary cooling for controlling the spread of fire. Due to excessive heat and smoke, the crew of Greatship Rohini was unable to enter the engine room, where the fire started.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/3-reported-missing-after-fire-breaks-out-in-offshore-supply-vessel-greatship-rohini-950922.html
