14-02-2021||First Edit||Don’t bring religion in sports, please||Sports has largely been unaffected by the communal virus but unfortunately, this area is also getting infected. A sign of this is the attempt to run down veteran cricketer Wasim Jaffer and the levelling of allegations against him which have a bearing on his religion. The former Test player resigned as the coach of the Uttarakhand team after stating in public that the officials of the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand, including its secretary and selectors, had been "pushing non-deserving players" to be selected in the team. The response to this from the officials was an attack on him on open communal lines. It has been claimed that he promoted Muslim players and tried to create communal disharmony in the team, called a maulvi to say prayers in the dressing room and changed the chanting of the team which had the names of Hindu gods in it.  Jaffer has denied the charges and no evidence has been presented by those who levelled them. No enquiry has also been instituted. He has said that if the charges were true, he would have been sacked but instead, it was he who decided to quit for the reasons he made public. An attack was mounted on him to destroy his credibility and to show that the charges he made were false. Wasim Jaffer has played 31 Tests for the country, has till recently played domestic cricket and has been a respected and admired player. There has not been any blemish in the record of his professional, public or personal life. To make serious allegations against him without making even an enquiry is wrong and unethical. These charges have not come from unrelated individuals but from responsible persons holding positions in the cricket establishment and that makes it especially bad. Taking a cue from it sections of the social media have started a vilification campaign.  Our social and political life has been badly vitiated by communal attitudes and sentiments. But areas like sports, science and business where individual merit is more important than any other attributes and qualifications, should be kept free of communal considerations. Cricketers from all religions and communities have played for the country and made great contributions. It is wrong to identify them by their religion and to weigh their contributions and to praise or criticise them on the basis of their religion, place of birth, language or other narrow considerations. This will lead to not only the poisoning of another field of national life but also to discrimination and exclusion in national activities. It is unfortunate that Wasim Jaffar has not got any strong support from the senior cricketing fraternity, except former India captain Anil Kumble and a couple of other cricketers. That is also a sign of the times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/don-t-bring-religion-in-sports-please-951295.html
14-02-2021||First Edit||Move to impose fines wrong||The Karnataka government might have got poorer due to the shortfall of revenue as a result of Covid-19, but the common man has not got any richer. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s move to impose heavy penalties and shore up non-tax revenue at a time when almost everybody is suffering from loss of income or job cuts will only increase the burden not only on businesses but also on the general public. The sectors in focus include commercial tax department, transport, real estate and traffic. While nobody grudges collection of fines from violators,  imposing heavy penalties at a time like this definitely needs reconsideration. Businesses, especially small enterprises which bore the brunt of the lockdown, are slowly recovering and chocking them any further will only spell their doom. The government needs to be more empathetic instead of donning the robe of Shylock to demand its pound of flesh.  Already, motorists, especially those in Bengaluru, are facing acute harassment with the traffic police flagging them down on street corners to scrutinise vehicle documents even when they have not violated any rules. Now, Bengaluru Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) B R Ravikanthe Gowda has issued orders directing policemen to randomly stop vehicles and collect pending fines. The police hope to recover Rs 390 crore from 95 lakh violations committed in the past three years. While there is nothing wrong in recovering dues, the timing is not right considering the suffering that the people are already undergoing.  Today, with collection of fines and dues becoming the primary duty of policemen rather than traffic regulation, the already chaotic roads have turned into a motorist’s nightmare. With the prices of all essential commodities and fuel increasing exorbitantly, the heavy fines have come as an additional load on the common man. In addition, the government proposes to increase the already high excise duty on liquor, which could be counterproductive as it may force the lower income groups to turn to hooch and other spurious brew. Karnataka is facing a financial crisis due to the shortfall in GST compensation from the Centre and revenue deficit. The state has decided to increase its borrowing by an additional Rs 33,000 crore this year to make good this gap and fund developmental work. While increasing the borrowing marginally instead of harassing the public for a few hundred crores of rupees more is one option, the government should lead by example by curtailing all wasteful expenditure, plugging leakages, ushering better fiscal discipline and going on an austerity drive. Charity should begin at home, for, every penny saved is a penny earned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/move-to-impose-fines-wrong-951296.html
14-02-2021||In Perspective||WFH and profits of IT firms||The Covid pandemic has undoubtedly changed the world permanently in many ways. More visibly, people have increasingly started to work from home, even though common wisdom requires workplaces to make employees productive. Besides, informal `water cooler chats’ as a break from work, conversation with colleagues to improve morale and infinite meetings conducted throughout the day, keep employees challenged to deliver.  While work from home protocols were inevitable,  IT services companies have declared spectacular December 2020 quarter (Q3 FY21) results compared to the same period a year ago.  The HCL Technologies reported a 31.1% YoY rise in net profit for the December quarter, for  Infosys it was a 23.7% rise while Wipro reported a 20.8% growth, MindTree a 65.7% rise even as Larsen & Toubro Infotech reported a 37.85%  jump compared to the year-ago period. Delving a little deeper into the Statement of Consolidated Audited Results of the IT companies, even considering a  nine-month period, roughly corresponding to the spread of the pandemic when employees were forced to work from home,  substantial savings in employee-related costs appear behind the impressive increase in company profits. The IT companies, with coronavirus impacting the continuity of operations, ensured health and safety, business continuity, customer support and communications during the global pandemic, deservedly got undivided attention. Companies continued operations even while imposing restrictions on travel and suspending internal events and gatherings even as customers were contacted to secure remote working approval and prepared to receive projects with remote protocols. Understandably, some customers needed to be reassured that despite working from home,  compliance requirements would not be diluted.  Collaborative platforms like Microsoft Teams ensured minimal roadblocks to quality delivery while video and chats facilitated collaborative support to customers. Company staffers too were encouraged to follow their usual daily routines, remaining as active as possible online,  connecting with teammates. While customer satisfaction was ensured and projects were delivered effectively, substantial and immediate savings on travel costs were made. Employees had to perforce stay put in their base and Zoom meetings became the norm.  Entertainment, canteen, transportation costs due to cabs and buses ferrying employees to and from homes, were tapered off as there was no need for companies to spend on these accounting heads.  Vacant campuses do not need  24 hour air-conditioning and lighting, and this resulted in substantial savings on power costs. All these factors reflected on outstanding December quarter (Q3 FY 21) statements. The productivity of employees working from home is undoubtedly higher. The employee works much beyond the statutory 10 am to 6 pm timing, with the Zoom platform ensuring crisp regulated meetings in comparison to the several never-ending meetings of yore. The daily commute to and from the office invariably caused employee fatigue resulting in time wasted in bumper-to-bumper traffic with near-zero output. Recent newspaper reports have confirmed petrol consumption has tapered off, public transport revenues have fallen and metro ridership declined, all pointers to less people on the road, leading to less congestion and cleaner cities with  declining pollution levels. Smaller campuses On a longer-term, employees observing the work from home protocol will result in the need for smaller campuses with lesser infrastructure and buildings that will not need to be depreciated over time. Depreciation costs would not figure as expensed items in the profit and loss statement, resulting in even more profits for the company. Equally importantly, more and more women will be coming into the workforce. While earlier women did go out to earn cash, with falling poverty levels a woman staying at home had become the new status symbol. It is, however, difficult to remove societal reasons behind low female participation running deep in the workforce. Work from home is a sure shot opportunity to change this culture. Zoom and  Google meetings and other teleconferencing facilities mean that women are now on par with men and can work from home minus lack of safety. Without leaving their homes now and with slashed commuting times, it is feasible for women to do both office and family chores through an efficient networking apparatus from home. Women employees are talented and sincere and an asset to every workplace, and the diversity they bring to the table will only increase the benefits of demographic dividend. It is nobody’s case that a pure work from the home environment will have zero impact on customer deliverables and be the way forward. A combination of work from home with one or two days spent physically in the office is necessary to enhance profit trends of Q3 FY 21 of IT companies.  The old order has changed, there is now a new normal and  it is for the IT firms to quickly adapt to the new reality. As the December quarter results have shown, resultant financial results are indeed welcome.  (The writer is a former Executive Director and Member, Board of Directors, BEML)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/wfh-and-profits-of-it-firms-951293.html
14-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Temple committees will be constituted in three months: Minister||Muzrai Minister and Dakshina Kannada District In-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said that the process of setting up management committees for B and C category temples across Karnataka will be completed within three months. Under the deputy commissioner, Jilla Dharmika Parishat will finalise the management committees for B and C categories while the Hindu Religious Institutions and Charitable Endowments Department will handle A category temples, the minister told media persons. Of the 205 A category temples, 84 temples already have committees. The committee for Mangaluru's A category Kadri Manjunatha Temple will be finalised within a week. The Jilla Dharmika Parishat members had complained that deputy commissioners were not convening the Parishat meeting every month. Following this, the State Dharmika Parishat issued a circular to all the DCs to convene on the fifth of every month. If the deputy commissioner is unavailable, the additional deputy commissioner can take charge. The state government in 2011 had passed an order to register private temples under the Endowments Act. Following a furore, the minister said the circular had been withdrawn. The district department had initiated Sapthapadi, a mass marriage programme wherein officials were asked to fix four to five muhurats every month and conduct marriages. Accordingly, muhurats had been fixed in March, April and May respectively in the Muzrai temples. Poojary, welcoming the Union Budget, said it focused on basic infrastructure facilities, agriculture and health care sector. Shiradi Tunnel project was approved at a cost of Rs 10,000 crore. The 13 km tunnel will have six-lane and 10 bridges, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/temple-committees-will-be-constituted-in-three-months-minister-951060.html
14-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Sangh parivar fanning agitations of various communities demanding reservations, says ex-CM Siddaramaiah||Former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Sunday alleged that Sangh Parivar leaders were fanning the agitation of various communities in the state demanding reservation, to 'mislead' their struggle for social justice. Various communities led by their seers have intensified their ongoing agitation in Karnataka, demanding reservation and categorisation as Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribes. In a series of tweets, the Congress stalwart advised people not to fall prey to the "mischievous misdeeds' of the Sangh Parivar" who are trying to create conflict in society." "Always opposed to reservation, is the BJP leaders' outcry for reservation to various communities a genuine one? Or is it another political tactic to mislead the struggle for social justice?" Siddaramaiah asked. It was not clear who the outfits, allegedly backed by BJP, were targetting, since it was the party-led government at the state and Centre, he said. "Why is the Sangh Parivar sponsoring the congregation of various castes which had organised a Hindu Samajotsava", he asked. Various communities such as Panchamasali Lingayat, Valmiki, Kuruba and Idigas have intensified their demand for more reservation in government jobs and other sectors. The Panchamasali sect has been demanding Category 2A status within Other Backward Communities, the Kurubas for ST status and Idigas, for SC status. The Valmiki community wants reservation for them to be increased from three per cent to 7.5 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sangh-parivar-fanning-agitations-of-various-communities-demanding-reservations-says-ex-cm-siddaramaiah-951222.html
14-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||H D Deve Gowda to restrict himself to advisory role in JD(S)||JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda said he would confine himself to an advisory role, citing his inability to travel and organise the regional party. "I will only advise the party (henceforth). I cannot travel everywhere for party organisation," said the 87-year-old former prime minister. Speaking at a convention organised by the state JD(S) unit ahead of zilla panchayat and taluk panchayat elections, Deve Gowda said state leaders have chalked out plans to revive the party. District and taluk JD(S) units will be reorganised, he said. Deve Gowda, a Rajya Sabha MP, said he could only offer advice for the party from now on. Recently, he had expressed his desire to rebuild the party, especially after the JD(S) suffered a drubbing in the Assembly bypolls held last year for Sira and RR Nagar constituencies. "Though we have strength, we have no unity," he said, urging party cadres and leaders to set aside differences and build the party. The objective of the JD(S) is to fight two national parties, Deve Gowda said. "Someone has predicted that the JD(S) will end after the next Assembly elections. He has spoken lightly about the party," he said, adding that he would respond after the next Assembly polls. Deve Gowda was attacking Congress leader Siddaramaiah — without naming him — over his past remarks about the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/h-d-deve-gowda-to-restrict-himself-to-advisory-role-in-jds-951230.html
14-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||BSY, son want to divide Veerashaiva-Lingayats: Yatnal||Rebel BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Sunday alleged that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, his son B Y Vijayendra, the BJP state vice president, were making a systematic attempt to divide the dominant Veerashaiva-Lingayat community for their political gain. "Whenever Yediyurappa gets an indication from the top that there is a threat to his chair (position), he uses the Veerashaiva-Lingayat issue for his benefit. His son (Vijayendra) too does so on similar lines. They have the ill-intention of not granting OBC status to the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community," Yatnal told reporters in Tumakuru. He alleged that Vijayendra and Minister Murugesh Nirani were trying to systematically divide the community and said they would never succeed. Yatnal has often been taking part in the agitation by Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami of Kudalsangama mutt for OBC (2A category) status to the Veerashaiva-Lingayat community. The seer last week started on a padayatra from Kudalasangama to Bengaluru to press for the demand and is supported by various seers and leaders of the Veerashaiva and Lingayat communities. Yatnal alleged that Yediyurappa, a Lingayat himself, was not keen on granting 2A status to the community. The Vijayapura MLA said no government order has been issued or a gazette notification published on the OBC-2A status to the Lingayat-Veerashaiva community. To a question on the show cause notice issued by the BJP high command for speaking against the Chief Minister and others, he said he was yet to receive it. He alleged that issuing the notice was part of a false propaganda to stop other BJP MLAs from speaking. Yatnal has been up in arms against the Chief Minister and his son Vijayendra and has even said that Yediyurappa would be 'removed' from his position shortly. Yatnal's outburst against the CM intensified after the cabinet expansion when he was not included in it,despite being a senior party functionary and a former union minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bsy-son-want-to-divide-veerashaiva-lingayats-yatnal-951307.html
14-02-2021||National||Road accidents in India increase poverty, says World Bank report||More than 75% of poor households in India reported a decline in their income as a result of a road crash, says new World Bank report. The financial loss for the poor amounted to more than seven months of household income, while it was equivalent to less than one month’s income for rich households, says the report titled 'Traffic Crash Injuries and Disabilities: The Burden on Indian Society', released by Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari. The study was done in collaboration with SaveLIFE Foundation — a national non-governmental organisation focusing on road safety. The study conducted across Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Bihar found that 30% of the respondents from low-income families in Tamil Nadu sold or mortgaged their assets to tide over the income loss and the burden of debt. In Maharashtra, 44% of such families had to borrow money for similar reasons. The study, which covered 2,400 respondents from low and high-income families across both urban and rural areas, found that 44% of households in rural areas reported at least one death after a road accident compared to 11.6% of households in urban areas. The total average costs (direct and indirect costs combined) borne by high-income households is close to Rs 1.98 lakh after the crash was higher than the total costs borne by low-income households (Rs 1.53 lakh). It said medical costs constituted a bulk of the total costs of low-income households (52% of total costs) followed by loss of productivity or loss of income costs (25% of total costs). The survey shows that the income decline for low-income rural households (56%) was the most severe compared to low-income urban (29.5%) and high-income rural households (39.5%). Women bore the burden of road crashes across poor and rich households. About 50% of women were severely affected by decline in their household income after an accident. About 40% of women reported a change in their working patterns post-crash, while around 11% reported taking up extra work to deal with the financial crisis. The report recommends policy-oriented approaches for saving lives and improving the ability of victims and their families to get back on their feet, including providing immediate financial, medical and legal aid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/road-accidents-in-india-increase-poverty-says-world-bank-report-951008.html
14-02-2021||National||PM Modi's parasite reference has deeply hurt farmers: Union leaders||Prime Minister Narendra Modi referring to farmers as “parasites” has deeply hurt the farming community, leaders of unions protesting against the Centre’s agriculture laws said on Saturday. They also called on the farming community to respond to the “diplomatic abuses” with “diplomatic punishment” by rejecting the government. The remarks came as farmer leaders Darshan Pal, Balbir Singh Rajewal, Gurnam Singh Chaduni and Rakesh Tikait of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha held an interaction with the press at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. The farmer leaders also announced that on Sunday torch processions and candle marches will be organised across the country to pay homage to the soldiers who have laid down their lives in line of action and the farmers who have died during the ongoing stir on the Delhi borders since November. “The event will be held from 7 pm to 8 pm,” the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said in a statement. Farmer leader Darshan Pal said through the "kisan panchayats", they are trying to put pressure on the government so that it accepts their demands and the protest could end. “Farmers of the entire country are involved in the movement,” he said. Referring to a discussion on the farmers' movement in the British Parliament, Pal said, “The government should understand our problem.” Balbir Singh Rajewal said the prime minister has given “diplomatic gaaliyan” (abuses) to farmers in Parliament. “By calling the farmers parasites, he has deeply hurt the entire farming community. The prime minister, through his statement, has given wounds to the farmers of the country that would be remembered for generations,” Rajewal said. He added that the government has given “diplomatic abuses” to farmers, who should reject it and give a “diplomatic punishment”. Chaduni claimed that with the new laws, the entire business of farming will go to big corporates and the farmers would be left to fend for themselves. He was also apprehensive that the big corporates would hoard grains in warehouses and control price of crops according to their will. “Farmers are not going to leave the borders of Delhi without having their demands met by the government,” he added. Tikait said the protesting farmers are “guests of Delhi” who will keep coming to the national capital and going back to their homes to look after their farms. “We are holding farmers’ meetings across the country and will keep doing it until the demands are met. We are ready for talks with the government but the channel would remain same–the Singhu border," Tikait said. He also said the Samyukta Kisan Morcha will provide a list of questions to farmers who will pose these to their elected representatives. He called on farmers to keep the momentum of the protests going, along with keeping an eye on their farms. The farmer leaders also expressed concern over protesters “missing” since the January 26 violence in Delhi and those arrested by police in connection with the probe into the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-parasite-reference-has-deeply-hurt-farmers-union-leaders-951014.html
14-02-2021||National||Delhi violence aimed at discrediting farmers' stir, says NCP supremo Sharad Pawar||In a veiled attack on the BJP, NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Saturday cited "complaints" to claim that people close to the ruling party were associated with the January 26 violence during a tractor rally in New Delhi, which he said was aimed at "discrediting" the stir. Speaking at an event here, Pawar slammed the Narendra Modi government for not considering the demands of the agitating farmers who have been demanding scrapping of the three contentious agri-marketing laws. "Farmers from Haryana, Punjab and UP have been protesting peacefully (at Delhi borders). No farmer took law into hands. One incident (of January 26) happened to discredit the ongoing agitation. Farmers were not involved. As per complaints, those associated with the violence were close to the ruling party," he alleged. The former Union agriculture minister said farmers have been demanding an assured minimum support price (MSP) for their produce and a legal provision for the same from the government. "The Centre should consider this demand of farmers, but it is not happening. During the Manmohan Singh government, farmers never took to streets because the government used all its might to protect their interests," he said. Speaking in Jejuri twon in Pune district after inaugurating the statue of Ahilyabai Holkar, Pawar said, "some people" were not happy when he, as a chief minister of Maharashtra, had taken the decision to allocate 50 per cent seats to women in local bodies. "When I was holding the responsibility of Maharashtra, I had taken the decision to allocate 50 per cent seats in local bodies to women. But some people were not happy. Then I asked them if they can tell me one person who raised our country's pride after Jawaharlal Nehru and Lal Bahadur Shastri. They told me it was (former PM) Indira Gandhi," he said. "If women get an opportunity, they can show their potential. Ahilya Devi Holkar had shown us the same," he said. On Friday, BJP MLC Gopichand Padalkar's attempt to unveil the statue of Ahilyabai Holkar was foiled by the police. He was booked along with 60of his supporters, an official said on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-violence-aimed-at-discrediting-farmers-stir-says-ncp-supremo-sharad-pawar-951015.html
14-02-2021||National||Haryana govt mulling law to make protesters pay for damage to public properties: CM Manohar Lal Khattar||Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday said the state government is considering to enact a strict law to make protesters pay for damage to public properties during their agitations. Khattar made the remark after meeting Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Parliament House in Delhi, a government release said on Saturday. During the meeting, the chief minister also apprised the home minister of various aspects of the ongoing farmers' agitation, it said. Khattar also discussed various other issues with Shah, it added. Responding later to a reporter’s query over damage caused by rioters to government properties, Khattar said the state government is already considering to enact a strict law to recover losses from protesters. Haryana ministers J P Dalal and Anil Vij had on February 11 said that they were in favour of law for recovering damages to public and private properties from rioters and protesters in the state. “In Uttar Pradesh, if anyone damages public or private property, it is not only a punishable offence, but recovery is made from the accused person," Dalal had told reporters here on Thursday. In August last year, the state assembly in neighbouring UP had passed the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Properties Bill, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-govt-mulling-law-to-make-protesters-pay-for-damage-to-public-properties-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-951017.html
14-02-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Govt committed to free speech'||Comedian Munawar Faruqui and five others involved in organising a comedy show in Indore were arrested following a complaint by Eklavya Singh Gaud, son of local BJP MLA Malini Laxman Singh Gaud. Faruqui is now on bail. In another development, Twitter blocked 1,400 accounts out of 1,435 accounts related to farmers' protest, which the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology asked to block. Now only 35 accounts have not been blocked and the process of blocking these accounts also on, Twitter informed the government, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-govt-committed-to-free-speech-951023.html
14-02-2021||National||Nitish takes serious note of reported irregularities in Covid-19 testing||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Friday said that strong note has been taken of reports in a section of the media about irregularities in the testing of Covid-19 in the state. Talking to reporters upon his return from a two- day visit to Delhi, Kumar said he had telephoned the principal secretary of the health department upon reading the reports in newspapers. He (the principal secretary) told me that the department has swung into action and records of 22 districts have been examined. In one district some anomalies appear to have taken place," the chief minister said. "I have called for speedy investigation and fixing of accountability. Those found responsible shall not be spared, he added. The reports said that data was being fudged in the state, where the government had been initially accused of keeping the Covid-19 testing rate deliberately low so as to conceal the severity of the spread of the contagion. In the last few months, the rate of testing has, however, gone up drastically and Bihar now stands behind only Uttar Pradesh in terms of the number of people who have been tested for the dreaded coronavirus. Kumar insisted that overall testing of samples in Bihar has been very good and that he has been paying close attention to the records presented before him on a daily basis. Reams of documents are with me which show that our performance with regard to testing has been commendable. Those who want to cross check are most welcome to come to my place and do so, he said. Kumar, who is the de facto leader of JD(U), claimed that he had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah among others in Delhi but the talks did not touch upon his partys inclusion in the union cabinet. JD(U) had declined to join the Narendra Modi ministry after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls contending that it did not believe in token representation and should get a number of berths commensurate with its standing in both houses of the Parliament. Now JD(U) is also expected to raise objections over any attempt to accommodate Chirag Paswan-led LJP in the union council of ministers. LJP has been left with no representation following the death of its founder Ram Vilas Paswan. LJP's rebellion against JD(U) in the last assembly polls had caused its tally to plummet. Moreover, Chirag Paswan has been relentless in his attacks on the chief minister for some time. He has been accusing Kumar of failure to contain the pandemic, curb corruption and control law and order. Asked whether the coming West Bengal state elections figured in his talks with the top brass of the saffron party which has emerged as the principal challenger to the ruling Trinamool Congress in that state, Kumar replied I did not discuss Bengal with BJP leaders. "But the matter is being discussed within our party (JD-U). I have asked the party national president to be in touch with prospective allies and let me know he said. Kumar had stepped down as the JD(U) chief last month and anointed his key aide and Rajya Sabha member RCP Singh to the post. The JD(U) has already made it clear that it will contest the assembly polls in West Bengal where it hopes to cash in on Kumar's popularity among Bihari migrants. JD(U) has so far maintained that its alliance with BJP was confined to Bihar and the party has contested assembly elections in most states separately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitish-takes-serious-note-of-reported-irregularities-in-covid-19-testing-951031.html
14-02-2021||National||India reports 12,194 new Covid-19 cases, 92 deaths||India's tally of Covid-19 cases surpassed 1.09 crore with 12,194 new infections, while the daily deaths were recorded below 100 for the eighth time this month, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The total coronavirus cases rose to 1,09,04,940. The death toll increased to 1,55,642 with 92 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.    The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,11,731 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of  97.31 per  cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent.   There are 1,37,567 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.26 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh  on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on  November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,62,30,512 samples have been tested up to February 13 with  6,97,114 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-12194-new-covid-19-cases-92-deaths-951042.html
14-02-2021||National||FASTag must from February 15 midnight; violators to pay double toll fee||The government has made the use of FASTag mandatory across all toll plazas on the National Highway network from February 15 (Monday) midnight. Vehicles not fitted with them will have to pay double the toll charge, said the Union Ministry of Road Transport. "It has been decided that all lanes in the fee plazas on National Highways shall be declared as FASTag lane with effect from the midnight of February 15/16," it said. As per NH Fee Rules 2008, any vehicle not fitted with FASTag or any vehicle without valid, functional FASTag entering into the FASTag lane of the fee plaza shall pay a fee equivalent to two times of the fee applicable to that category, the statement said. The government had earlier made FASTags mandatory for motor vehicles from January 1 but deferred it to February 15. The ministry also sought support from all enforcement agencies across states to implement the mandatory use of FASTag.  Road Transport and Highways Secretary Giridhar Aramane, in his letter to chief secretaries, said the usage of FASTag has led to reduction in waiting time, fuel consumption and pollution at toll plazas. Earlier, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) had decided to do away with the minimum balance requirement in FASTag wallets. With more than 2.54 crore users, FASTag contributes 80% of the total toll collection. Daily toll collection through FASTags has crossed the Rs 89-crore mark. According to the NHAI, two crore eligible vehicles — four-wheelers and bigger vehicles — are yet to be fitted with FASTags.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fastag-must-from-february-15-midnight-violators-to-pay-double-toll-fee-951061.html
14-02-2021||National||M-cap of 7 of top-10 most valuable firms jump over Rs 1.40 lakh cr||Seven of the top-10 most valuable companies together added Rs 1,40,430.45 crore in market capitalisation last week, in line with a bullish broader market trend with Reliance Industries emerging as the biggest gainer. During the week, the BSE benchmark surged 812.67 points or 1.60 per cent. The companies that witnessed gain in their valuation include Reliance Industries, Tata Consultancy Services, Infosys, HDFC, ICICI Bank, State Bank of India and Bajaj Finance, while HDFC Bank, Hindustan Unilever and Kotak Mahindra Bank's market capitalisation declined. The market valuation of Reliance Industries jumped by Rs 74,329.95 crore to Rs 12,94,038.34 crore, the most among the top-10 companies. ICICI Bank added Rs 22,943.86 crore to Rs 4,47,323.82 crore in its valuation and Infosys witnessed a jump of Rs 15,888.27 crore to Rs 5,57,835.85 crore. The market valuation of HDFC rallied Rs 12,439.33 crore to Rs 5,02,316.66 crore and that of Tata Consultancy Services gained Rs 12,420.4 crore to Rs 11,97,442.25 crore. Bajaj Finance added Rs 2,274.77 crore to take its valuation to Rs 3,36,032.83 crore and State Bank of India's market capitalisation gained Rs 133.87 crore to Rs 3,50,915.73 crore. In contrast, HDFC Bank's valuation declined Rs 8,015.87 crore to Rs 8,71,719.64 crore and that of Hindustan Unilever Limited dipped Rs 6,684.48 crore to Rs 5,26,747.02 crore. The market capitalisation of Kotak Mahindra Bank plunged Rs 6,160.88 crore to Rs 3,86,580.16 crore. In the ranking of ten most valued firms, Reliance Industries remained the most valued company followed by TCS, HDFC Bank, Infosys, Hindustan Unilever, HDFC, ICICI Bank, Kotak Mahindra Bank, State Bank of India and Bajaj Finance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/m-cap-of-7-of-top-10-most-valuable-firms-jump-over-rs-140-lakh-cr-951063.html
14-02-2021||National||HM Amit Shah pays tributes to Pulwama martyrs||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday paid tributes to the security personnel killed in the terrorist attack in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019 and said their sacrifice would not be forgotten by the people of India. Forty CRPF personnel were killed in the terrorist attack carried out by Pakistan-based terror group Jaish-e-Mohammad. "I bow down to the brave martyrs who lost their lives in the gruesome Pulwama attack on this day in 2019. India will never forget their exceptional courage and supreme sacrifice," Shah tweeted. I bow down to the brave martyrs who lost their lives in the gruesome Pulwama attack on this day in 2019. India will never forget their exceptional courage and supreme sacrifice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hm-amit-shah-pays-tributes-to-pulwama-martyrs-951067.html
14-02-2021||National||Labour Ministry finalises rules under four codes, reforms to be a reality soon||The Ministry of Labour and Employment has finalised rules under the four labour codes paving the way for making reforms a reality by notifying those for implementation soon. The four broad codes on wages, industrial relations, social security and occupational safety, health & working conditions (OSH) have already been notified after getting the President's assent. But for implementing these four codes, the rules need to be notified. Now the ministry has completed the process of consultation on draft rules on the four codes and firmed up those for notification. Talking to PTI, Labour Secretary Apurva Chandra said, "We have finalised the rules under the four codes which are required to implement the four labour codes. We are ready to notify these rules. The states are doing their work to firm up rules under the four codes." Parliament had passed four codes on four broad codes on wages, industrial relations, social security and occupational safety health & working conditions (OSH) which would ultimately rationalise 44 central labour laws. The Code on Wages was passed by Parliament in 2019 while the three other codes got clearance from both the Houses in 2020. The ministry wants to implement all four codes in one go. After firming up of rules, now four codes can be notified in one go. Earlier on February 8, 2021, Chandra had said in a press conference, "Rule-making process is already underway and likely to be completed in the coming week. All stakeholders are also consulted in the framing of rules. This ministry would soon be in a position to bring into force the four Codes, viz., Code on Wages, Industrial Relations, Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions (OSH) and Social Security Codes." Since labour is a concurrent subject, certain rules would also be framed by the states under the four codes. The states are also in the process of notifying draft rules and holding tripartite consultations to firm up those for implementation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/labour-ministry-finalises-rules-under-four-codes-reforms-to-be-a-reality-soon-951071.html
14-02-2021||National||Petrol crosses Rs 99/litre in Rajasthan, diesel at Rs 91 as prices rise for 6th day||Petrol price crossed the Rs 99/litre mark in Rajasthan on Sunday while diesel topped Rs 91 after rates were increased for the sixth day in a row. Petrol price was increased by 29 paise per litre and diesel by 32 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This pushed retail rates, which differ from state to state depending on incidence of local sales tax or VAT and freight charges, to their highest level. In the national capital, petrol climbed to Rs 88.73 a litre and diesel soared to Rs 79.06, the notification showed. Rajasthan, which levies the highest VAT on fuel in the country, had the highest petrol and diesel prices. In Sriganganagar town of the state, petrol soared to Rs 99.29 and diesel jumped to Rs 91.17 per litre. The Rajasthan government had late last month cut VAT on petrol and diesel by 2 per cent. Despite this, the state has the highest VAT at 36 per cent plus Rs 1,500 per kilolitre road cess on petrol. On diesel, the state levies 26 per cent and Rs 1,750 per kl road cess. Branded or premium petrol at Sriganganagar was priced at Rs 102.07 a litre and similar grade diesel at Rs 94.83. The main difference between regular and premium fuel grades is the octane number. Regular fuel has a lower octane number -- 87, while premium fuel generally gets a 91 octane rating or higher. Octane number is a measure of the ignition quality of fuel -- higher the number, the less susceptible is the fuel to 'knocking' when burnt in a standard engine. Regular petrol in Delhi comes for Rs 88.73 per litre while premium fuel is priced at Rs 91.56. Against Rs 79.06 a litre price of regular diesel, branded fuel comes for Rs 82.35. In Mumbai, regular petrol price soared to its highest-ever level of Rs 95.21 and that of diesel rose to Rs 86.04. Premium or branded petrol in the city comes for Rs 97.99 and same grade diesel for Rs 89.27 a litre. In six straight days, prices have gone up by Rs 1.80 per litre for petrol and Rs 1.88 for diesel. The relentless hike in prices has been criticised by the opposition parties including Congress that has demanded an immediate cut in taxes to ease the burden on the common man. However, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan last week had told Parliament that the government is not considering a reduction in excise duty to cool rates from their record highs. Rates have risen as international oil prices touched USD 61 per barrel for the first time in more than a year on improving demand outlook amid the global rollout of Covid-19 vaccines, he had said. Central and state taxes make up for over 61 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and about 56 per cent of diesel. The union government levies Rs 32.9 per litre of excise duty on petrol and Rs Rs 31.80 a litre on diesel. Retail petrol rates have risen by Rs 19.16 per litre since mid-March 2020, after the government raised taxes by a record margin to mop up gains arising from fall in international oil prices. Diesel rates have gone up by Rs 16.77.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-crosses-rs-99/litre-in-rajasthan-diesel-at-rs-91-as-prices-rise-for-6th-day-951073.html
14-02-2021||National||PM Modi remembers Pulwama martyrs in Chennai||The Prime Minister arrived in Chennai on Sunday to hand over the Arjun Main Battle Tank (MK-1A) to the Indian Army. He also paid tribute to the 40 CRPF martyrs who were killed in the Pulwama terror attack on February 14, 2019. "No Indian can forget this day. Two years ago, the Pulwama attack happened. We pay homage to all the martyrs we lost in that attack. We are proud of our security forces. Their bravery will continue to inspire generations," PM Narendra Modi said at an event in Chennai. He added that one of the two defence corridors is in Tamil Nadu. "It has already received an investment commitment of over Rs 8,100 crore. Today, I am proud to dedicate to the nation the indigenously designed and manufactured Arjun Main Battle Tank (MK-1A)," he said. "Tamil Nadu is already a leading automobile manufacturing hub of India. Now, I see, Tamil Nadu evolving as the tank manufacturing hub of India," the PM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-remembers-pulwama-martyrs-in-chennai-951077.html
14-02-2021||National||Passenger vehicle exports recover marginally in January||Passenger vehicle shipments from India rose last month for the first time post-Covid-19 pandemic, pointing towards demand recovery in some of the major export markets for Indian automakers. According to the Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) data, passenger vehicle exports rose by 1.15 per cent to 37,187 units in January compared to 36,765 units in January 2020. In April-January, passenger vehicle shipments were still down by 43.1 per cent at 3,28,360 units as against 5,77,036 units in the same period of 2019-20 financial year. "While exports of passenger vehicles for the April-January 2021 period is down by 43.1 per cent, the growth of 1.15 per cent in January 2021 over the previous year, makes it the first month of growth in passenger vehicle exports, post the pandemic," SIAM Director General Rajesh Menon told PTI. Economic recovery in the export markets will be critical for revival of exports and continuity in growth momentum, he noted. In January, Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) led the segment with the export of 12,345 units, up 29.92 per cent. It was followed by Hyundai Motor India which shipped 8,100 units last month, down 19 per cent from the same month last year. Nissan Motor India exported 4,198 units in January, followed by Kia Motors and Ford India with 3,618 and 2,983 units respectively. During the April-January period this fiscal, Hyundai is leading the segment with the dispatch of 82,121 units, down 47.01 per cent from the year-ago period. Maruti has shipped 72,166 units in the period under review, down 15.55 per cent as compared with April-January period of 2019-20 fiscal. Ford India (42,758), Kia Motors (32,138), General Motors India (28,619), Volkswagen India (28,368) and Nissan (21,938) were the other major passenger vehicle exporters from the country during the current fiscal so far. In the domestic market, passenger vehicle wholesales increased by 11.14 per cent to 2,76,554 units last month as compared with 2,48,840 units in January 2020. In the April-January period, the segment sales stood at 20,54,428 units, down 13.2 per cent from 20,54,428 units in the same period of 2019-20 fiscal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/passenger-vehicle-exports-recover-marginally-in-january-951085.html
14-02-2021||National||Nirmala Sitharaman to address post-Budget RBI board meet on Tuesday||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman is scheduled to address the post-Budget meeting of the RBI's central board on Tuesday and highlight key points of Union Budget 2021-22, including the fiscal consolidation roadmap. Fiscal deficit — the excess of government expenditure over its revenues — is estimated to hit a record high of 9.5 per cent of the gross domestic product (GDP) in the current fiscal ending March 31 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. For the next 2021-22 fiscal, the deficit has been pegged at 6.8 per cent of GDP, which will be further lowered to 4.5 per cent by the fiscal ending March 31, 2026. The meeting will be held virtually for the first time due to Covid-19 protocol, sources said. Earlier this month, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das said the central bank will able to manage the high quantum of government borrowings at Rs 12 lakh crore for the next fiscal in a "non-disruptive" manner. The governor had said the extraordinary event of the pandemic has resulted in deviation from the fiscal consolidation roadmap but declined to comment on what view the rating agencies will be taking on the high fiscal gap at 9.5 per cent in FY21 and 6.8 per cent in FY22. Das had said the RBI, being the debt manager for the government, did discuss the borrowing with the Ministry of Finance even before the Budget. The government was earlier committed to getting the fiscal deficit down to 3 per cent in the medium term as per the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act mandate, and now plans to touch 4.5 per cent by FY26. A wider deficit generally entails bigger borrowing by the government. The finance minister would also apprise the board of various other announcements made in the Budget to revive growth by spending more on infrastructure and attending to the needs of the healthcare sector. The Indian economy is expected to contract by 7.7 per cent in the current fiscal ending March, hit by the Covid-19 crisis. The Budget has estimated nominal GDP growth rate of 14.4 per cent and revenue growth at 16.7 per cent for the next financial year. Real GDP growth is expected to be in the range of 10-10.5 per cent. To boost growth, the finance minister in the Budget increased spending on capital expenditure to Rs 5.54 lakh crore from Rs 4.12 lakh crore, while the health sector allocation has been hiked to Rs 2.23 lakh crore from Rs 94,000 crore in the Budget estimate for 2020-21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirmala-sitharaman-to-address-post-budget-rbi-board-meet-on-tuesday-951093.html
14-02-2021||National||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu pays homage to martyrs of Pulwama attack||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Sunday paid tributes to the martyrs of the Pulwama terror attack, saying he stood in solidarity with the families who lost their loved ones in the incident. Two years ago on this day, Pakistan-sponsored Jaish-e-Mohammed carried out the dastardly attack on a CRPF convoy of 70 vehicles resulting in the death of 40 jawans.  "I join the nation in paying my humble tributes to the CRPF personnel who were martyred in the dastardly Pulwama terror attack. The grateful nation will always remember their patriotism & supreme sacrifice," the Vice President Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. "My solidarity with the families who lost their loved ones in the attack," the vice president said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-pays-homage-to-martyrs-of-pulwama-attack-951096.html
14-02-2021||National||India's Covid-19 recovery rate among highest in world||India has been recording a steady decline in the number of daily new deaths since October 1, 2020, while the national recovery rate is amongst the highest in the world, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. "Since October 1, 2020, the nation has seen an unabated decline in Case Fatality Rate. The Case Fatality Rate today stands below 1.5 (1.43%). India's Case Fatality Rate is one of the lowest in the world," it said. The recoveries have surged to 1,06,11,731 with 11,016 patients getting discharged in a span of 24 hours.  "India's Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.31 per cent is amongst the highest in the world. The difference between the recovered and active cases has grown to 1,04,74,164 as on date," the ministry highlighted. Till date, the cumulative number of healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated against Covid-19 in the country has surpassed 82 lakh. A total 82,63,858 beneficiaries have been vaccinated through 1,72,852 sessions, as per the provisional report till 8 am on Sunday. These include 59,84,018 HCWs (1st dose), 23,628 HCWs (2nd dose) and 22,56,212 FLWs (1st dose). The 2nd dose of Covid-19 vaccination started on Saturday for those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receipt of the 1st dose. As of Day-29 of the vaccination drive (February 13), a total of 2,96,211 beneficiaries received vaccines. Out of which, 2,72,583 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 8,071 sessions for 1st dose and 23,628 HCWs received 2nd dose of vaccine. "The country is witnessing a progressive increase in the vaccination day by day," the ministry said adding 68.55 per cent of total vaccinated beneficiaries are from 10 states. It said 81.58 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 6 States. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 5,835 newly recovered cases. A total of 1,773 people recovered in Maharashtra in a span of 24 hours followed by 482 in Tamil Nadu. India's present active caseload of 1.37 lakh now consists of just 1.26 per cent of India's infections. The ministry said 86.25 per cent of the new cases are from 6 states. Kerala continues to report the highest daily new cases at 5,471. It is followed by Maharashtra with 3,611, while Tamil Nadu reported 477 new cases. Six states account for 78.3 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (38). Kerala follows with 16 daily deaths. Tamil Nadu and Chhattisgarh have 5 new deaths each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recovery-rate-among-highest-in-world-951104.html
14-02-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi affirms India's support for Sri Lankan Tamils||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said his government has always taken care of the welfare of Sri Lankan Tamils and 'consistently' flagged the issue of their rights with the leaders in the island nation. India was always committed to ensuring that the Tamils there lived with equity, equality, justice, peace and dignity, he said here, after launching various government projects in railways and defence sectors. Modi recalled the various welfare initiatives taken by the Centre in the housing and health sectors aimed at benefiting the Lankan Tamils and said he was the first Indian Prime Minister to visit Jaffna (in 2015) in northern Sri Lanka. "Our government has always taken care of the welfare and aspirations of Tamil brothers and sisters in Sri Lanka. It is my honour to have been the only Indian PM to visit Jaffna. Through development work, we are ensuring the welfare of the Tamil community," he said. India has constructed 50,000 houses for displaced Tamils in northeastern Sri Lanka and another 4,000 in the plantation areas while "we hope to open soon" the Jaffna Culture Centre, he added. "The issue of Tamil rights has also been taken up consistently with Sri Lankan leaders. We are always committed to ensuring that they (Tamils) live with equity, equality, justice, peace and dignity," Modi said. The Sri Lankan Tamils issue has always had an emotional connect in Tamil Nadu and has often dominated the political space here. Modi also pointed to India's efforts in railway projects for Jaffna and Mannar, air connectivity from Chennai to Jaffna and the initiatives in the health sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-affirms-indias-support-for-sri-lankan-tamils-951105.html
14-02-2021||National||Change in SOPs averted Pulwama like attacks: CRPF IG||Two years after February 14 deadly car bomb attack in Kashmir’s Pulwama district killed 40 CRPF personnel, changes in standard operating procedures (SOPs) by the paramilitary force has ensured that such attacks couldn’t be repeated by the militants. On 14 February 2019, a suicide bomber of Jaish-e-Muhammad outfit, 21-year-old Adil Dar, rammed his explosive laden vehicle into a CRPF convoy at Lethpora in southern Pulwama blowing himself up and killing at least 40 paramilitary personnel. It was the deadliest attack by the militants since the eruption of militancy in 1990. Officials said since that dreadful incident, the CRPF has bettered their capability for training, improved quality of equipment, tactics, mobility and navigation which has ensured no such attacks were repeated. They said that better coordination and synergy between police, army and CRPF also helped in keeping militants at bay. Inspector General of Central Reserve Police Force, Deepak Ratan said that over the past two years a lot of changes have been made, including the SOPs, equipment and training. “We have modified and amended the mode of training in such a way that if there is any contingency or on being challenged by the militants, they will be given a befitting reply,” he told reporters while paying rich tributes to the slain CRPF personnel. He said that to ensure the safe passage of the convoy movement on the highways they have provided training to the road opening parties (ROPs) on modern lines and have framed new SOPs. “To prevent such attacks in the future, convoy limits have also been contained as a lot of movement of jawans is being carried out via air traffic,” Ratan said. The IG CRPF also said that CCTV cameras have been installed at various points on Srinagar-Jammu national highway and drone surveillance is being carried out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/change-in-sops-averted-pulwama-like-attacks-crpf-ig-951110.html
14-02-2021||National||EU delegation likely to visit J&K next week over ground situation in region after scrapping of Article 370||A delegation of European Union (EU) Members of Parliament is likely to visit Jammu and Kashmir next week to see first-hand the ground situation in the region after the scrapping of Article 370, which gave the erstwhile state special status. The delegation is likely to be landing in Srinagar next week and from there they will be visiting Jammu, a local English daily quoting a senior official in J&K administration said and added during the two-day visit they will be holding interactions with a cross-section of people including traders, members of civil society and newly elected DDC members. He said that a “preliminary visit of a team from the government of India will take place prior to the visit of the European delegation. This preliminary visit will be held to take stock of the arrangements for the visiting group which will be here.” It may be recalled that in October 2019, a group of largely right-wing European Union parliamentarians had visited Kashmir, prompting outrage from opposition parties, who had not been allowed to go. The parliamentarians were given a tightly controlled tour of Srinagar. They met about 15 hand-picked delegations, including traders and students, before being taken for boat ride in famous Dal Lake in Srinagar. However, the government had said the delegation was on a “private visit” to the country. Later in January last year, 16 envoys including US ambassador to India had visited Jammu and Kashmir and met over 100 people, including senior Valley-based politicians, top newspaper editors and grassroots representatives. The latest visit of EU delegation will be the second government organised visit since August 2019 when Center revoked Article 370 and bifurcated the erstwhile state into two union territories. A Valley-based political observer said the idea to allow the EU delegation to visit J&K seems to be an effort to control the conversation around what is happening in the region. “The BJP government has repeatedly stated that situation in Kashmir was normal after abrogation of Article 370 and they want to portray the same through the visit of the foreign delegation,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eu-delegation-likely-to-visit-jk-next-week-over-ground-situation-in-region-after-scrapping-of-article-370-951113.html
14-02-2021||National||Peter Mukerjea pens memoir, says it's not a set of kiss-and-tell stories||Beleaguered media baron Peter Mukerjea has come out with his memoir, which he says is just a personal recollection of his experiences in the satellite television industry in India and is neither intended to open a can of worms nor is a set of kiss-and-tell stories. "It is intended purely to share my journey, to highlight and showcase the plenty of mistakes made and the plenty of lessons learnt over almost three decades," says the former chief executive of Star India, who was media mogul Rupert Murdoch's right-hand man once in the television industry of the region. "Starstruck: Confessions of a TV Executive" is the story of the Indian television industry, authored by the man who was at the forefront of it all. "This book is a memoir. No more than that. It is a personal recollection of my experiences at the coalface in the formative years of the satellite television industry in India and a super-fast-changing media landscape. This is not intended to open a can of worms, nor is it a set of kiss-and-tell stories," Mukerjea says. "It is intended purely to share my journey, to highlight and showcase the plenty of mistakes made and the plenty of lessons learnt over almost three decades," he writes. The early '90s marked an age of American TV dominating the world, from Baywatch to Cheers to The Jerry Springer Show. Only that approach wasn't working so well in India, where access to one billion TV viewers was dominated by a powerful terrestrial network. Sensing a once-in-a-generation opportunity, Murdoch gave Mukerjea a seemingly impossible task -- to grow a tiny foreign-owned TV channel in India into one of the biggest in the world. Mukerjea was instrumental in transforming a loss-making Star TV into a billion-dollar network. According to Mukerjea, neither Star founder Richard Li nor Murdoch had considered India to be a worthy market for their business model. "The adoption of India as a key market was a completely new element and fell into their laps by default… The Indian consumer was changing rapidly and television was one of the main catalysts of this change. Ready access to a television and an international standard of content meant consumers were glued to their sets," he writes. The book, published by Westland, also talks in detail how Amitabh Bachchan was hired as a host for "Kaun Banega Crorepati". The author says that KBC was originally conceived as Kaun Banega Lakhpati with a prize of Rs one lakh. But Murdoch believed that the prize money was way too little to trigger any interest from viewers. Murdoch, who was in India that time, then decided to increase the prize to Rs one crore. "Had Rupert not been in town that week and turned KBL into KBC, I doubt if Star TV would have been able to make a go of it in India," Mukerjea says. "Amitabh would rise from the ashes like the proverbial phoenix and Star TV would propel itself off the back of KBC to heights that the television industry in India had never seen," he goes on to say about the deal. Soon, everyone at Star "focussed their attention on KBC and used it like a battering ram to knock a hole through their competitors' doors". "We had helped recreate and revive the legend of Amitabh Bachchan, and in turn he had carried Star Plus on his back, turning it into the most watched, most discussed and most profitable television channel in the country," says Mukerjea. He also writes about how Star roped in Ekta Kapoor and how her "soaps were able to touch on sensitive issues that Indian television shows either avoided or swept under the carpet".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/peter-mukerjea-pens-memoir-says-its-not-a-set-of-kiss-and-tell-stories-951115.html
14-02-2021||National||Greta Thunberg toolkit case: Court sends 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi to 5-day custody||A Delhi court on Sunday sent a 21-year-old climate activist to five days police custody in connection with allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest. Disha Ravi, arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on Saturday, was produced before a court here and police sought her seven days' custody. The police said her custody was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement.  During the hearing, Ravi broke down inside the courtroom and told the judge that she had edited only two lines and that she wanted to support the farmers' protest.  Duty Magistrate Dev Saroha allowed the Delhi Police to quiz Ravi for five days. While seeking her custody, the police told the court that the activist had allegedly edited the "toolkit" on February 3 and many other people are involved in the matter.   It also informed the court that they have recovered the mobile phone of the activist.  A "toolkit" is a document created to explain any issue. It also provides information on what one needs to do to address the issue. This might include information about petitions, details about protests and mass movements. Earlier, the Delhi Police had asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about email id, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the "toolkit" shared by Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers' protest. The Cyber Cell had lodged an FIR against "pro-Khalistan" creators of the "toolkit" for waging a "social, cultural and economic war against the government of India". The case against unnamed persons was registered on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and various other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The "toolkit" was aimed at spreading disaffection and ill-will against the government of India and creating disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups, the police had claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/greta-thunberg-toolkit-case-court-sends-21-year-old-climate-activist-disha-ravi-to-5-day-custody-951138.html
14-02-2021||National||'Did not forgive', 'will not forget', CRPF says on Pulwama attack anniversary||The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) that lost 40 troopers in the 2019 Pulwama terror attack said on Sunday that the country "did not forgive" and "will not forget" the supreme sacrifice made by the personnel. A wreath-laying ceremony was held at CRPF camp in Lethpora in Jammu and Kashmir to mark the second anniversary of the deadly attack. Senior officers of the paramilitary based at its headquarters in Delhi participated in the event in the virtual mode, CRPF spokesperson deputy inspector general (DIG) Moses Dhinakaran said. "Did not Forgive, will not Forget: Salute to our brothers who made the supreme sacrifice for the nation in #PulwamaAttack. "Indebted, we stand with the families of our valiant Bravehearts," the force said in a Twitter post. Soon after the Pulwama attack, the Indian Air Force had carried out an airstrike in Pakistan's Balakot on February 26, 2019, targeting terrorist camps. CRPF Director General A P Maheshwari also unveiled a video book dedicated to the 40 personnel killed in the line of duty. "We have inherited bravery which flows like blood in our veins," he was quoted as saying by the spokesperson. "The video book has a content of 80 episodes and 300 minutes. A copy of the book will also be sent to the families of each of the personnel killed in the Pulwama suicide bombing attack," Dhinakaran said. A CRPF bus in the fifth position of a 78-vehicle convoy was targeted by a Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) suicide bomber who detonated his explosives-laden SUV near it on the Jammu-Srinagar highway in Pulwama on February 14, 2019. The convoy was ferrying over 2,500 personnel and all 39 in the ill-fated bus and a sub-officer stationed on the ground, as part of a road sanitisation party, were killed in the blast. CRPF Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) Mohan Lal, 50, who had "chased and fired" at the explosives-laden car, was named for the highest police medal for bravery, the President's Police Medal for Gallantry (PPMG), this Republic Day. The around 3.25 lakh-personnel-strong force is the world's largest paramilitary with about 65 battalions or about 70,000 personnel deployed in the Kashmir Valley for undertaking counter-terrorism operations and rendering law and order duties. As per official data, a total of 2,224 CRPF personnel have been killed in action till now. The force was raised in 1939 as the Crown Representative's Police (CRP) during the British Raj and was re-named the Central Reserve Police Force a decade later in 1949.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/did-not-forgive-will-not-forget-crpf-says-on-pulwama-attack-anniversary-951140.html
14-02-2021||National||Over 5,600 prison inmates in India are techies||As many as 1,32,729 (27.37 per cent) of the 4,78,600 prison inmates in the country are “illiterate” while 5,677 hold a technical degree or diploma, according to Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) data. The prison statistics presented by Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy recently in Parliament were based on a compilation of data by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) updated till December 31, 2019. The data on education of prison inmates showed that the maximum number of 1,98,872 (or 41.55 per cent) prisoners are educated below class 10 level. It showed that 1,32,729 (27.37 per cent) prison inmates were illiterate, while 1,03,036 (or 21.52 per cent) studied beyond class 10 but below graduate level. According to the data, 30,201 (6.31 per cent) prison inmates were graduates, while 8,085 (1.68 per cent) were postgraduates and as many as 5,677 (1.18 per cent) held a technical degree or diploma, etc. Uttar Pradesh, the country's most populous state, houses the maximum number of prisoners at 1,01,297. Uttar Pradesh also houses the maximum number of prison inmates who are illiterate (31,927), educated up till class 10 (36,390), beyond class 10 but below graduation (21,269), graduates (8,151), post graduates (2,635) and techies (925), it showed. West Bengal had not furnished prison statistics for 2018 and 2019 because of which its figures from 2017 were used in the data, while Maharashtra's category-wise break up was 'not available', the data mentioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-5600-prison-inmates-in-india-are-techies-951141.html
14-02-2021||National||IMA announces petition movement against govt’s move allowing ayurveda doctors to perform surgery||The IMA on Sunday announced a mass petition movement from February 15-March 31 against a Central Council of Indian Medicine notification that authorises post-graduate practitioners in specified streams of ayurveda to perform general surgical procedures. The doctors' body also said that this notification will lead to "mixopathy" and demanded its immediate withdrawal. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) had held a pan-India relay hunger strike from February 1-14 on the issue. The "impractical, unscientific and unethical notification" should be immediately withdrawn, it said in a statement, adding that besides the petition movement, it will also spread awareness among the people on the notification. The IMA also said that it will submit a list of 1,000 modern medicine doctors willing to serve in remote areas of the country to counter the “false” claim of lack of doctors. "All IMA members, all specialty organisations, all modern medicine students, all women doctors across the country will educate people about this retrograde and unscientific mixing of different systems of healthcare. All modern medicine hospitals will promote the importance of scientific ethical surgical expertise," the doctors' body said. The IMA also announces non-cooperation movement "henceforth in which modern medicines surgeons and anesthesiologists shall not cooperate with AYUSH persons training and performing surgery", it said. The doctors' body has been opposing the notification by Central Council of Indian Medicine, a statutory body under the Ministry of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy). The notification authorises post-graduate practitioners in specified streams of Ayurveda to be trained to perform surgical procedures such as excisions of benign tumours, amputation of gangrene, nasal and cataract surgeries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ima-announces-petition-movement-against-govt-s-move-allowing-ayurveda-doctors-to-perform-surgery-951142.html
14-02-2021||National||Farmer hangs himself over inflated power bill in UP's Aligarh||A 50-year-old farmer here hanged himself after allegedly being slapped by Electricity Department officials and served an inflated power bill, according to the victim's family. The incident took place at Sunaira village in Atrauli tehsil on Saturday when the officials turned up at Ramji Lal’s house and handed over a power bill of Rs 1,50,000. In protests against the incident, people placed the body in front of the local Electricity Department office and refused to proceed with the last rites until a case is filed against the SDO and junior engineer, who allegedly had gone to the victim’s house. They had allegedly slapped the victim in front of his family members after he explained to them that he did not have the money to pay the inflated bill. Police assured the protesters that action will be taken after necessary procedures. The victim's nephew, Ramcharan, and other family members complained at the Barla police station that the amount of Rs 1,500 had erroneously been shown as Rs 1,50,000 in the bill. Since the past several days, Ramji Lal has been running from pillar to post to get the bill rectified but in vain, they said. Atrauli SDM Pankaj Kumar told reporters on Sunday that necessary action will be taken against those found guilty and a case will also be filed against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-hangs-himself-over-inflated-power-bill-in-ups-aligarh-951152.html
14-02-2021||National||Vehicle owners should immediately adopt FASTag, deadline won't be extended: Gadkari||Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday said the deadline for implementation of FASTag would not be extended further, and the vehicle owners should immediately adopt the e-payment facilty. FASTags, which facilitate electronic payment of fee at toll plazas, was introduced in 2016. Making the tags compulsory would also help in ensuring that vehicles pass seamlessly through the toll plazas, as the fee payment would be done electronically. Replying to a query on FASTags, Gadkari said the government had extended FASTag registration date limit two-three times before and now, it would not be extended further. Now, everybody should immediately buy FASTags, he added. The FASTag registration has gone up to 90 per cent on some routes and only 10 per cent people are left. FASTag is also available on toll nakas and people should purchase and use it for seamless traffic, he told reporters at the Nagpur airport. The central government extended the FASTag deadline for the vehicles from January 1, 2021, to February 15, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vehicle-owners-should-immediately-adopt-fastag-deadline-wont-be-extended-gadkari-951153.html
14-02-2021||National||BJP leader Sanjiv Minhas' vehicle attacked in Punjab's Hoshiarpur||A BJP leader's vehicle was allegedly attacked here on Sunday by some unidentified people when a group of farmers was protesting against the Centre's farm laws. According to police, the incident took place at Garhdiwala town, about 30 km from Hoshiarpur. The vehicle of district BJP president (rural) Sanjiv Minhas was attacked when around 100 farmers were protesting against the Centre’s farm laws outside a shop of another party leader, Jogesh Chopra, police said. At that time, Minhas was present in the shop, said officials. As the leader was being taken to a safer place, some unidentified people scuffled with police personnel. They also smashed windowpanes of Minhas's vehicle. Minhas was taken to a community health centre for a check-up, from where he was discharged after providing first aid. Minhas accused Congress workers of attacking his vehicle. Superintendent of Police (Headquarter) Raminder Singh said they are verifying facts and action will be taken accordingly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leader-sanjiv-minhas-vehicle-attacked-in-punjabs-hoshiarpur-951163.html
14-02-2021||National||With no toilet, Bihar woman dumps her husband’s house||This one seems to be a straight lift from the Akshay Kumar-starrer ‘Toilet - Ek Prem Katha’. A woman in Bhagalpur district dumped her hubby’s house precisely because there was no toilet on the premises and no effort was made by the family to construct one despite the government’s support on this front. The enraged woman told her husband Surendra Mandal, a native of Pirpainti in the district, that she will not return to his residence till he gets a toilet constructed on the campus. The matter reached woman’s helpline where the Protection Officer Dr Swetnisha Sharma reportedly summoned the couple and separately counselled them. The aggrieved woman told the counsellor that when she got married, she was asked to go to the nearby field for open defecation. “But, of late, many more houses have been constructed there. And this created problems for women like me. During my pregnancy, I realised that if my child is born as a daughter, she too will face a similar problem in the years to come. So I told my husband that I am leaving for my parent’s place and will return only if the toilet is constructed,” the aggrieved woman told the helpline official. Sharma again summoned Mandal and apprised him of the matter. This time, Mandal promised to get a toilet constructed within five days and bring his wife back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-no-toilet-bihar-woman-dumps-her-husband-s-house-951164.html
14-02-2021||National||Put Electricity Amendment Bill in public domain: AIPEF||The All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) has demanded that the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021 must be put in the public domain before starting a discussion on the same. The AIPEF shot off a letter to the Prime Minister on Friday last week and pushed for placing the bill in public domain for stakeholders' comments. The draft bill is not available on the power ministry website, AIPEF Spokesperson V K Gupta said in a statement. According to the statement, the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2021 is included in the list of 20 new bills to be placed in the current budget session of Parliament. The union power minister is to hold a video conference on February 17 with power secretaries of states and CMDs (chairman and managing directors) of discoms to discuss the proposed amendments to the Electricity Act 2003, it said. AIPEF Chairman Shailendra Dubey, in a letter to the union power minister, has said this is a short cut and rushing through amendments without due consideration or deliberations is not acceptable. There have been reports that the power ministry has circulated a draft Electricity Amendment Bill proposing changes to the Electricity Act, 2003. The proposed amendments entail de-licensing of the distribution business, among others. Gupta said the reports are unauthenticated and deserve to be discarded, particularly as the amendments would introduce a drastic policy of separating carriage and content which was earlier rejected by as many as 20 states. The outcome of the various suggestions of stakeholders on the Electricity Amendment Bill of 2020 remains undisclosed and a new draft bill has been leaked to a select few, the body said. The present approach of the Ministry of Power is non-transparent and secretive, and it seems the government is trying to hide critical facts, it added. AIPEF further said all the stakeholders, including associations/ unions of employees and engineers, consumers and others must be given sufficient time to present their viewpoints and the state governments are not the only stakeholders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/put-electricity-amendment-bill-in-public-domain-aipef-951170.html
14-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: 21-year-old activist arrested in Bengaluru for sharing Greta Thunberg's 'toolkit'||In your evening news brief, Rahul Gandhi says Congress will never implement Citizenship (Amendment) Act if voted to power in Assam; 7 kg of Improvised Explosive Device (IED) recovered near crowded general bus stand area in Jammu city and a 21-year-old climate activist arrested from Bengaluru.  Hi, you are listening to, From The Newsroom — your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here is the top news of February 14, 2021: Accusing the BJP and RSS of dividing Assam, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said that his party will protect every principle of the Assam Accord and will never implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act if voted to power in the state. Addressing his first public rally in Assam ahead of the assembly elections due in March-April, Gandhi said that the state needs its "own chief minister" who will listen to the voice of the people and not one who listens only to Nagpur and Delhi. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- A major tragedy was averted with the timely detection of a seven-kg Improvised Explosive Device (IED) near the crowded general bus stand area in Jammu city on Sunday. Police said the IED was detected acting on specific information and a man from south Kashmir’s Pulwama district has been arrested in connection with the recovery. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- A 21-year-old climate activist has been arrested from Bengaluru for being allegedly involved in sharing the "toolkit" related to the farmer's protest on social media, police said on Sunday. Disha Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru on Saturday, a senior police officer said. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Source: DHNS/ PTI ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-21-year-old-activist-arrested-in-bengaluru-for-sharing-greta-thunbergs-toolkit-951187.html
14-02-2021||National||Alleging illicit relationship without proof amounts to mental cruelty: Delhi HC||Making unsubstantiated allegation by wife leading to character assassination of a man would constitute cruelty allowing him to seek a divorce, the Delhi High Court has said. In a decision, a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli dismissed a petition by the wife against a decree of divorce allowed by a family court as she made allegations of husband's illicit relationship with her 'Bhabhi' (sister-in-law). The court noted she admitted making the allegations, saying it was a known thing in the family and others were also talking about it. "Unsubstantiated allegations made by a wife, which tantamount to character assassination of the husband, amount to causing mental cruelty to the husband," the bench said. The court rejected, saying factum of she had made these allegations against the man was also evident from her admission during the cross-examination. "We are of the view that the Principal Judge, family court, was justified in passing the decree for divorce after holding that such a serious allegation accusing the respondent of illicit intimacy with the appellant’s sister-in-law, which could not be established by the appellant by adducing any cogent or reliable evidence, would amount to mental cruelty," the bench said. The man, in the instant case, sought divorce on the grounds of desertion by the wife and cruelty due to false allegations of an illicit relationship.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/alleging-illicit-relationship-without-proof-amounts-to-mental-cruelty-delhi-hc-951193.html
14-02-2021||National||Uttarakhand Flash Floods: Border Roads Organisation works overtime to restore road link to China border||A team of engineers of the Border Road Organisation (BRO) are racing against time to build an iron bridge across the river Rishi Ganga to restore road connectivity leading to the India-China border, about 120 kms away. “We aim to build an iron bridge within three to four days,” a BRO engineer told DH at Raini, Uttarakhand, even as earth excavators cleared the debris from last Sunday’s landslide triggered flash floods that washed away a hydroelectric project here and buried several persons. Nature’s fury on the morning of February 7 had also swept away one concrete bridge providing road connectivity to eight villages across the Rishi Ganga river and several establishments of the Army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police and the BRO leading to the India-China border. Also washed away were four suspension bridges across the river Dhauliganga further downstream snapping links to several villages. “Restoring road connectivity is a priority given the strategic importance of the road,” the BRO engineer said adding that suspension bridges too would be built soon. The BRO had also shortlisted a couple of locations to build a concrete bridge, he said adding that iron bridge would enable movement of trucks and other vehicles in the region. Rescue workers had set up a zipline to provide immediate relief and supply daily essentials to the stranded villagers, while helicopters were pressed into service for airdropping food packets and evacuating those in need of medical help. Besides the concrete bridge, four cable-stayed suspension bridges – a common feature in these mountain ranges – were also washed away. Raini Chak Lata, Pang, Suki, Bhallagaon, Suraithota, Tolma, Long Segdi (Tamak) and Jumma –located across the river Rishiganga had lost road connectivity. Villages Jugju, Juwagwad, Bhanyal, Gahar and Aira across the river Dhauliganga too have no road connectivity. Several installations of the army, ITBP and Border Roads Organisations too are located across the two rivers and currently have no road connectivity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-flash-floods-border-roads-organisation-works-overtime-to-restore-road-link-to-china-border-951200.html
14-02-2021||National||Narendra Modi assures equality and justice for Tamils in Sri Lanka||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said that India has been consistently taking up the issue of the rights of Tamils living in Sri Lanka with the neighbouring country's government and gave an assurance that his administration is committed to ensuring that” they live with equality, justice, peace and dignity.” In his address after inaugurating a slew of development projects in Tamil Nadu, Modi said his government has always taken care of the welfare and aspirations of 'Tamil brothers and sisters' in Sri Lanka and recalled that he is the only Indian Prime Minister to have visited Jaffna, the capital of the Tamil-dominated northern province. “Through development works, we are ensuring welfare of Sri Lanka’s Tamil community. The resources given by our government for Tamils have been much more than what it were in the past,” he said, listing the projects like 50,000 houses for displaced Tamils in North-Eastern Sri Lanka, 4,000 houses in the plantation areas. railway network to Jaffna, and resumption of flight services from Chennai to Jaffna. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had during his recent campaign in Tamil Nadu accused the BJP and Modi of showing 'no respect' to Tamil culture. While AIADMK and BJP have already announced that they would fight the assembly elections together, Sasikala's camp, steered by Dhinakaran, have been staking claim to the party and harping on its retrieval. Quoting verses of Tamil poet of yore, 'Avvaiyar', Modi said it was also an inspiration to the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' (Self-reliant India) goals. The popular lines underscore that water is the basic element that could lead to the nation's prosperity. Stressing water conservation, the PM urged the people to do work towards that goal and underlined that it was not only a national issue, but also had global implications. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-assures-equality-and-justice-for-tamils-in-sri-lanka-951201.html
14-02-2021||National||Maharashtra should slash fuel prices like Assam: Raosaheb Danve||The Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government should follow the example of the Assam government and slash the prices of fuel, Union minister and BJP MP Raosaheb Danve said on Sunday. The Assam government has withdrawn an additional cess on petrol and diesel, making the fuel cheaper by Rs 5 per litre, especially at a time when fuel prices have been touching new highs across the country. "Like the Assam government, the Maharashtra government should also slash the prices of fuel by reducing taxes on petrol and diesel, which will provide relief to the people," the BJP MP said. Seeking to defend the BJP-led government at the Centre amidst criticism over the rising prices of fuel, the MoS for Consumer Affairs also said the rates of petrol and diesel are linked to the international market and not decided in a Union Budget. "The taxes earned by the government from fuel are used for the public welfare," he added. In view of the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government's order toning down the celebrations to mark the forthcoming birth anniversary of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, Danve said no restrictions should be imposed. He said a good amount has been allocated for Maharashtra in the Union Budget 2021-22. "Allocation of funds for schemes related to health, farming etc. will prove beneficial for Maharashtra," he said. Danve said Rs 350 crore has been spent on the ongoing dry port project in his Lok Sabha constituency, Jalna. "The railway track for goods trains to connect to the dry port is being laid. There is no need to give more funds for this project. We are planning to make this project operational this year," the Union minister said while replying to a query. The proposed dry port will come up near Aurangabad in Marathwada region of Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-should-slash-fuel-prices-like-assam-raosaheb-danve-951208.html
14-02-2021||National||Times Group sends legal notice to BARC, demands Rs 450 crore in damages||Media giant Times Group on Sunday said it has sent a legal notice to Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), alleging the TV rating agency "deliberately reduced" its English news channel's viewership at the behest of a rival launched in 2017 and demanded compensation of Rs 450 crore. The notice, which follows the probe by the city police into the fake TRP case, in which former officials from BARC and the Arnab Goswami-promoted Republic News have been arrested, was sent by MZM Legal LLP on behalf of Bennett, Coleman and Co (BCCL) on February 11. "Times Now's viewership numbers were deliberately and in a concerted manner, reduced for giving benefit to the newly launched Channel, which has considerably and adversely impacted the revenue, growth, reputation, goodwill and image of Times Now channel and the Times Group at the national and international level,” the notice, a copy of which was seen by PTI, said. It also said that the BARC wilfully and deliberately did not take action on the findings of a July 2020 report commissioned following whistleblower allegations about TRP (television rating points) manipulation. When contacted, BARC declined to comment on the story. The notice said BARC should compensate Times Group with Rs 431 crore in damages and also pay back license fees of Rs 21.83 crore which has been paid by the group till date. The notice, which follows alleged chats between the arrested former chief executive of BARC Parto Dasgupta and Republic's promoter and editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, said BARC should also publish a statement stating that Times Now was the leader in the English news genre between 2017-2019. Mentioning details from the chat between Goswami and Dasgupta where both speak about suppressing Times Now's numbers, the notice also demanded the BARC to publish Acquisory Risk Consulting's forensic audit report dated July 24, 2020, and also initiate disciplinary action against errant broadcasters/channels and BARC officials involved in the fraudulent activities. Giving seven-days time to comply, the legal notice warned that the media group will be constrained to adopt criminal and also civil action against the BARC. It also quoted from a press conference by the joint commissioner of police (crime) in December 2020, which said that apart from English news genre TRP manipulation also happened in the Telugu news channels category. “The press conference makes it evidently clear that activities resulting in viewership malpractices and TRP manipulation were undertaken by BARC with a malafide intention to biasedly cause wrongful losses to some of its subscribers whilst other co-conspiring subscribers benefitted of the malicious acts,” the legal notice said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/times-group-sends-legal-notice-to-barc-demands-rs-450-crore-in-damages-951219.html
14-02-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi takes advice from Arabic speaking people: Himanta Biswa Sarma||Senior Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday claimed that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi takes advice from "Arabic speaking people", apparently hinting at AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal, and that is why his first election rally in the state was "wasted". The Congress has teamed up with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) and four other political parties to form a Grand Alliance against the ruling BJP for the assembly election in the state due in March-April. Sarma, the convenor of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), the regional arm of NDA, also dared the Congress to take a stand against illegal Muslim immigrants. Talking to reporters on the sidelines of an official function in Guwahati, the BJP leader claimed that the capacity of Boarding field in Sivasagar district, where Gandhi addressed a public rally during the day, is about 12,000- 15,000 people, indicating that it was not well-attended. A Congress spokesperson, however, asserted that over 50,000 people gathered at Boarding field for the rally of Gandhi, who said that his party will protect every principle of the Assam Accord and will never implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act if voted to power in the state. "He (Gandhi) could have addressed the rally through a video conference. He came by a chartered flight, then took a chopper to reach the venue. The CRPF cover was there, administration people worked tirelessly for it. So, it was an expense of around Rs 35 lakh. And I feel this money is wasted," Sarma said. Sarma, who was once a close confidante of Gandhi while being in the Congress, said that he would have advised the Lok Sabha MP to visit the Kamakhya temple and 'satras' (Vaishnavite places of worship) at Batadrava and Majuli to meet people. "In this way, he would have met more people than he did in today's rally. He is a busy man and has lots of important work like running the farmers' protests. He is taking advice from the Arabic speaking people and that is why the plans have gone wrong," he said. By "Arabic speaking people", Sarma apparently meant Ajmal, the Lok Sabha member from Dhubri. His party, the AIUDF, has 14 MLAs, mostly from the minority Muslim dominated areas of Assam. "It would have been better if he was advised by Assamese people," Sarma said. On the Congress' 'Assam Bachao Ahok' bus yatra campaign across the state, the BJP leader said that the opposition party leaders are just enjoying the bus ride and moving around places. "They are saying 'Assam Bachao'. But from whom Assam needs to be saved? From the immigrant Muslim people who came from Bangladesh and are destroying Assamese culture and identity, Sarma alleged. He also claimed that Congress leaders are encouraging those illegal immigrants. "So, how will Assam be saved? If they want to save Assam, let them take a stand against immigrant Muslims and say that they will protect Assamese culture," Sarma said. To a question on the frequent visits of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda to Assam, Sarma said that the Congress should not feel bad if the saffron party leaders meet the people of the state. "During the time of Congress, it had a culture of not meeting people. Narendra Modi, Amit Shah and JP Nadda have developed a culture of meeting people. After all, it is democracy. What is wrong in this?" he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-takes-advice-from-arabic-speaking-people-himanta-biswa-sarma-951224.html
14-02-2021||National||Price of LPG rises by Rs 50 per cylinder||Price of LPG gas cylinder (14.2 kg domestic cylinder) has been hiked by Rs 50 per cylinder, according to ANI. People in Delhi will have to pay Rs 769 per cylinder from 12 am Monday.   Price of LPG gas cylinder (14.2 kg domestic cylinder) hiked by Rs 50 per cylinder; to be at Rs 769 per cylinder in Delhi from 12 am tomorrow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/price-of-lpg-rises-by-rs-50-per-cylinder-951225.html
14-02-2021||National||AIMPLB opposes PIL on uniform ground of maintenance, alimony||After opposing a plea for uniform grounds for divorce, the All India Muslim Personal Law Board has approached the Supreme Court to contest a PIL for uniform grounds of maintenance and alimony.  In an intervention application, the non-governmental organisation contended that there were multiple remedies available under already existing provisions of law for an aggrieved Muslim woman. "There should be the right to choose the requisite remedy or to avail simultaneous remedies as per choice and need without being bound by a single applicable law," it said. The plea said the petition filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay for uniform grounds of maintenance and alimony was not maintainable and should be dismissed with exemplary cost. Maintaining that personal law cannot be tested on the anvil of Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution, the applicant organisation said that there were comprehensive provisions under which protected interests of the Muslim wife or divorcee. A Muslim woman can avail appropriate remedy under the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Divorce) Act, 1986, Section 125 of the Criminal Procedure Code and the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, it pointed out. Earlier, the AIMPLB has approached the top court to oppose a plea for uniform grounds for divorce for all citizens irrespective of their faith.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aimplb-opposes-pil-on-uniform-ground-of-maintenance-alimony-951226.html
14-02-2021||National||Transporters' body threatens strike over diesel prices, seeks resolution for GST-related issues||Protesting against rising diesel prices and excessive taxation among other issues, transporters' apex body AIMTC on Sunday said it would suspend transport operations if the government fails to address their issues. The All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) claims to represent about 95 lakh truckers and about 50 lakh bus and tourist operators. "Rising diesel prices, excessive taxation, issues related to e-way bill... present state of scrapping policy...rationalisation of presumptive tax were the key issues discussed and deliberated upon" by governing council of AIMTC, the transporters' umbrella body said in a statement. The AIMTC's national leadership has decided to issue a 14-day notice to the government for starting the process towards resolution of the demands. The demands include immediate reduction of diesel prices and uniformity in it, resolution of issues related to e-way bill and GST, and discussion on scrapping policy with transport fraternity before its roll-out. "It is decided that if the government fails to address and /or start the process to resolve the above demands of the industry in a positive way, then another governing council meeting will be convened," the statement said. It added that they will be compelled to surrender their vehicles and declare nationwide suspension of transport operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/transporters-body-threatens-strike-over-diesel-prices-seeks-resolution-for-gst-related-issues-951228.html
14-02-2021||National||Covid-19: Govt issues fresh SOPs for offices||The Union health ministry has issued new 'SOPs to contain spread of Covid-19 in offices' and according to these, if one or two cases are reported, the disinfection procedure will be limited to the areas occupied and visited by the patient in the last 48 hours. Work can resume after disinfection has been completed as per laid down protocols, the standard operating procedures (SOPs), which were issued on Saturday, stated. If a larger number of cases are reported at workplace, the whole block or building should be disinfected before work is resumed, the ministry said. Officers and staff residing in containment zones should inform the same to their supervisory officer and not attend office till the containment zone is denotified. Such staff should be permitted to work from home, the new SOPs stated. Offices in containment zones shall remain closed except for medical and essential services and only those outside will be allowed to open up, the document said. The SOPs stated that only asymptomatic staff or visitors shall be allowed entry, individuals must maintain a minimum distance of six feet in common places as far as feasible, and use face covers or masks at all times. "They must be worn properly to cover the nose and the mouth. Touching the front portion of the mask or face cover to be avoided," the ministry said. It also underlined practicing frequent handwashing with soap for at least 40 to 60 seconds, even when hands are not visibly dirty, and use of alcohol-based hand sanitiser for at least 20 seconds wherever feasible. Meetings, as far as possible, should be done through video conferencing and large physical gatherings continue to remain prohibited, the SOPs stated. "Offices and other workplaces are relatively close settings, with shared spaces like workstations, corridors, elevators and stairs, parking places, cafeteria/canteens, meeting rooms and conference halls etc, Covid-19 infection can spread relatively fast among officials, staffs and visitors," according to the procedures. "There is a need to prevent spread of infection and to respond in a timely and effective manner in case suspect case of Covid-19 is detected in these settings, so as to limit the spread of infection," the SOPs said. Entrances of offices should have mandatory provisions for hand hygiene like sanitiser dispensers, thermal screening. These should be proper cleaning and frequent sanitisation, at least twice a day, of the workplace, particularly of the frequently touched surfaces, according to the document. The number of people in elevators shall be restricted, duly maintaining physical distancing norms for which proper markings should be made on the floor of the elevators, the SOPs stated. For air-conditioning and ventilation, the guidelines of Central Public Works Department must be followed and these mention that the temperature setting of all air conditioning devices should be in the range of 24-30 degrees Celsius, relative humidity should be in the range of 40-70 per cent, intake of fresh air should be as much as possible and cross ventilation should be adequate, they said. Cleaning and regular disinfection using one per cent sodium hypochlorite of frequently touched surfaces such as doorknobs, elevator buttons, handrails, benches, washroom fixtures, must be done in office premises and in common areas at least twice a day, the new SOPs stated. The document said that any shop, stall, cafeteria or canteen outside and within the office premises must ensure physical distancing norms are being followed at all times. Staff should take their temperature regularly and check for respiratory symptoms and must see a doctor if they feel unwell or show flu-like symptoms. Besides, staff and waiters should wear mask and hand gloves and take other required precautionary measures. The seating arrangement has to be done to ensure a distance of at least six feet, the SOPs stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-govt-issues-fresh-sops-for-offices-951246.html
14-02-2021||National||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani collapses during rally in Vadodara; rushed to hospital||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani collapsed on stage on Sunday while addressing a rally for upcoming civic polls in Nizampura area of Vadodara, BJP leaders said. Rupani was given first aid on the stage. He was later seen descending the stairs of the stage on his own. This was Rupani's third political rally during the day in Vadodara. "The chief minister collapsed while he was addressing the public meeting. His security guards caught hold of him when he fell. He was given first aid and is being taken to airport from where he will go to a hospital in Ahmedabad," BJP leader Bharat Danger told a news channel. "Rupani's health was not proper for the last two days, but instead of cancelling his public meetings held in Jamnagar on Saturday and in Vadodara on Sunday, he preferred to go ahead," Danger said, adding that Rupani is fine now. Elections to six municipal corporations including Vadodara will be held on February 21 while those for municipalities, districts and taluka panchayats will be held on February 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-collapses-during-rally-in-vadodara-rushed-to-hospital-951249.html
14-02-2021||National||Gogoi's remarks on judiciary shocking, worrisome: Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Sunday termed the reported remarks by former Chief Justice of India (CJI) and Rajya Sabha member Ranjan Gogoi about the judiciary as "shocking and "worrisome". Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said in Nashik that Gogoi's statement should be taken seriously, and added that the former CJI should have explained with "examples from his tenure" as to why he thinks so. Gogoi had reportedly said that the judiciary is in a "ramshackle" state and expressed concern over the pendency of cases. Speaking on the sidelines of an event in Pune, Pawar said, "Last week, I read somewhere that Prime Minister (Narendra Modi) in one of the meetings of Supreme Court judges, stated that the standard of the Indian judiciary is very high. We all felt good. "But the statement made by former Chief Justice of India, who has been now sent to Parliament, is a very shocking kind of a statement. I do not know if he tried to explain the truth of judiciary." The NCP patriarch added that the remarks made by Gogoi are "worrisome" for all. Pawar was speaking to reporters at the musical event 'Khayal Yagya' organised to celebrate the birth centenary of Pandit Bhimsen Joshi. Talking to media persons in Nasik, Sanjay Raut said Gogoi was making the remarks after being a part of the judiciary for years. "Gogoi's remarks should be taken seriously. There is a precedent that the judiciary shouldn't be criticised... Had Gogoi explained with examples during his tenure as to why he thinks so, the country would have been enlightened." "But he is a Rajya Sabha member with BJP's blessings...You have been part of the judiciary for several years and after retirement, you say this," the Sena MP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gogois-remarks-on-judiciary-shocking-worrisome-pawar-951250.html
14-02-2021||National||JeM planning terror attacks in Delhi, weapons sourced from Bihar, says Jammu and Kashmir DGP||Following the arrest of a top terrorist who had made a video of National Security Advisor Ajit Doval’s office, it has come to light that Pakistan-based terror outfit Jaish-e-Mohammad is planning a strike in Delhi, J&K police chief Dilbag Singh said on Sunday. The Jammu and Kashmir DGP also disclosed that the terrorists in Kashmir have begun procuring weapons from Bihar and are using some students from Kashmir, studying in Punjab, for smuggling these illegal arms into the Valley. DGP Singh made these revelations in a news conference over the arrest of self-styled chief commanders Hidayatullah Malik and Zahoor Ahmad Rather, respectively of terror outfits Lashkar-e-Mustafa (LeM) and The Resistance Front (TRF). Malik was arrested on February 6 by the Anantnag police from Kunjwani in Jammu district while Rather was apprehended on February 13 from Bari Brahmana area of Samba district. The UT’s police chief said these two groups, LeM and TRF, are frontal organisations of Pakistan-based JeM and Lashker-e-Toiba (LeT) to give “Kashmiri name' to their terror activities. “Malik has been leading LeM floated last August although he had been an active militant for a long time. He had worked as an overground worker and floated the group on the directions of JeM,” said Singh. Malik was also planning to set up a base in Jammu to carry forward terror activities in the region besides receiving arms and ammunition, being smuggled from Pakistan through underground tunnels on the border or being dropped by drones before being smuggled to Kashmir, he said. Singh said JeM was involved in various terror activities in 2018 and Malik’s interrogation revealed that he was also a close associate of JeM commander Ashiq Nengroo who used to receive arms consignments from Pakistan in Jammu before escaping to the neighbouring country along with his family through an underground tunnel on the international border. The BSF has detected six underground tunnels along the IB in Jammu region over the past six months. After escaping to Pakistan, Nengroo alias doctor had been directing terror activities in Kashmir at the behest of Pakistani agencies, said the DGP, adding that Malik visited Delhi on Nengroo’s orders and forwarded him a video of the NSA's office after recceing it. That means JeM is planning attacks on targets in Delhi as well, he said, adding that Malik’s arrest is a big breakthrough for police as it has exposed the terrorist group’s plan. Malik, a resident of south Kashmir, had also set up a network to get weapons from Bihar and sourced seven pistols from there till now and got them distributed among militants, the DGP said. “He had also roped in some students from Kashmir, studying in Punjab, and had been using them for any action in Kashmir or Jammu or transporting weapons from outside,” said Singh. In this context, the DGP also cited the example of a Kashmir-based nursing student in Chandigarh college who was arrested along with a 7kg improvised explosive device from Jammu’s general bus stand area. The DGP said Malik was also involved in the looting of Rs 60 lakh from a bank’s cash van last November. This was established after the arrest of his four accomplices, including his wife, in this crime, he added. Terming TRF chief Rather’s arrest as another “major achievement”, Singh said he is a Pakistan-trained terrorist and is known by aliases “Sahil” and “Khalid” among militants. “He was also an active overground worker before crossing into Pakistan in 2002, where he underwent arms training and returned with five foreign terrorists through Rajouri route,” DGP Singh said. “He, however, had surrendered in 2006 and remained inactive before resuming his activities in 2019,” the police chief said, adding his handlers in Pakistan know his potential and that is why made him the TRF’s chief. The DGP said he had set up a vast network in Kashmir and so far eight members of the group have been identified at his disclosure and some have also been arrested whose interrogation is on in Kashmir. Being a terrorist, who had surrendered earlier helped Rather escape security agencies’ suspicion, said the DGP, adding that the TRF chief was directly involved in the killing of three BJP workers in Kulgam and a policeman in Kokernag areas of south Kashmir last year. Rather is being questioned at present and his interrogation is likely to reveal new things, the DGP said. The Union Territory’s police chief also complimented his men for three major successful operations which led to the arrest of two self-styled commanders and recovery of IED to avert a major tragedy besides attempts by Pakistan to revive Al-Badr group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jem-planning-terror-attacks-in-delhi-weapons-sourced-from-bihar-says-jammu-and-kashmir-dgp-951253.html
14-02-2021||National||Mend your ways or face retribution: BJP's Dilip Ghosh to TMC workers||Those trying to harm BJP workers in West Bengal should mend their ways or face retribution, the party's state unit president Dilip Ghosh warned on Sunday. Addressing a public meeting at Keshpur in the West Midnapore district during the BJP's 'Parivartan Yatra', Ghosh accused the ruling TMC of atrocities against workers of his party at different places of the state. "There is two-three months' time before the elections and by then they (TMC workers) should start behaving like gentlemen, else they will face retribution," he said. "Your game has ended, now we will play and you will watch from the gallery," he said, in an indirect reference to the popular "khela hobe" slogan of the TMC, meaning game on. "There will be change and also retribution," Ghosh asserted at another rally in the district, claiming that the BJP will win the upcoming assembly elections in the state. Former state minister Rajib Banerjee, who recently switched over to the BJP from the TMC, claimed that the slogan 'khela hobe' indicate that the ruling party is trying to play a "dirty game" during the upcoming elections, which he said is against the culture of Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mend-your-ways-or-face-retribution-bjps-dilip-ghosh-to-tmc-workers-951262.html
14-02-2021||National||India hopes to completely end stand-off with China at LAC ahead of BRICS summit||The government hopes to completely resolve the military stand-off between India and China within the next two or three months in order to create a conducive atmosphere for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to host Chinese President Xi Jinping for the BRICS summit later this year. Though it may take years to narrow trust deficit created by China’s aggressive moves along its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India over the past 10 months, New Delhi is keen to restore some degree of cordiality in bilateral relations ahead of the BRICS summit, which the prime minister is set to host and the Chinese President is expected to attend. The BRICS – a bloc comprising Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa – on November 17 last had its last annual summit virtually in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, with Russian President Vladimir Putin chairing it from Moscow. Though the stand-off along the disputed boundary between India and China was on, both prime minister and the Chinese President participated in the virtual summit. It is now the PM's turn to host the 2021 BRICS summit and it may be held with all other BRICS leaders physically attending it, of course, if the Covid-19 situation does not worsen in India. “It will be a bit awkward if the prime minister has to host Chinese President for the BRICS summit even when the soldiers of India and China are engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball stand-off along the LAC,” a source told the DH in New Delhi. He pointed out that unlike the 2020 virtual conclave, a BRICS summit with all leaders attending it physically would have to have a bilateral meeting between the prime minister, who would be the host and the Chinese President. “A conducive atmosphere for such meetings could be created only if the stand-off could be resolved before the summit”. The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Amy (PLA) of late agreed on a mutual disengagement process from the face-off points on the northern and southern banks of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh. The two sides started withdrawing forward deployments from both banks of the lake in a “phased, coordinated and verified manner” last Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-hopes-to-completely-end-stand-off-with-china-at-lac-ahead-of-brics-summit-951265.html
14-02-2021||National||Tripura CM Biplab Deb says Amit Shah plans to form BJP govt in Sri Lanka, Nepal: Report||In yet another shocking statement, Tripura CM Biplab Kumar Deb reportedly said that ruling party president Amit Shah has plans to form BJP government in Nepal and Sri Lanka. “We were talking in the state guest house when Ajay Jamwal (North-East Zonal Secretary of BJP) said that BJP has formed its government in several states of India, in reply Shah said, Now Sri Lanka and Nepal is left. We have to expand the party in Sri Lanka, Nepal and win there to form a government,” the report quoted Deb as saying. The Tripura CM further said that under the leadership of Shah, BJP has become the "largest party in the world". Meanwhile, taking note of the latest claims made by Deb on Shah planning to form BJP government in Sri Lanka and Nepal, CPIM and Congress has demanded clarification from the Centre, the report added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tripura-cm-biplab-deb-says-amit-shah-plans-to-form-bjp-govt-in-sri-lanka-nepal-report-951275.html
14-02-2021||National||Centre's stubborn stand responsible for deadlock with farmers: Sanyukt Kisan Morcha||Holding the Centre's "stubborn attitude" responsible for the deadlock over the new farm laws, Sanyukt Kisan Morcha's coordination panel member Shiv Kumar Sharma on Sunday said despite Prime Minister Narendra Modi's assurance in Parliament on holding talks with farmers, no date is conveyed by the government for the next round of talks. The SKM, which is an umbrella body of 40 farmer organisations, has been steering the protests of farmers for the scrapping of the three agri marketing laws at borders of Delhi. "The main reason for the deadlock on the new farm laws is the 'adiyal ravayya' (stubborn attitude) of the Centre. We have already held 12 rounds of talks with the government, but it is not yet ready to give a legal guarantee to farmers on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of crops," said Sharma, popularly known as 'Kakkaji', who heads the Rashtriya Majdoor Mahasangh (RMS), a part of the SKM. He told reporters at a press conference here that Prime Minister Narendra Modi repeatedly told Parliament that the door of the government is always open for talks with farmers. "But we have neither been told by the government to enter this door, nor has any date been given or we invited for the next round of talks," Sharma said. Describing the three agri-marketing laws as a "death warrant" for farmers, he said, "If the government really cares to protect the interests of farmers, then it should accept our demand for the withdrawal of the new farm laws". Referring to recent tweets by American pop star Rihanna and Sweden's environmental activist Greta Thunberg in support of the farmers' movement and the tweets by cricketer Sachin Tendulkar and singer Lata Mangeshkar backing the government, Sharma said, "we all are nationalists". "We will sort out the issue of new farm laws together with the government. We won't tolerate the interference of external powers in this matter," he added. Taking a potshot at Tendulkar, Sharma asked whether he had done any farming...What he knows about farmers? Sharma said 'mahapanchayats' will be held by farmers in every district of Madhya Pradesh against the new farm laws, beginning at Khargone on Monday. "We will also start 'One village 20 farmers' ('Ek Gram-20 Kisan') campaign in Madhya Pradesh under which 20 peasants from each village (in MP) will be roped in for participation in the ongoing agitation at the borders of Delhi," he added. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points - Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur - for nearly 80 days, demanding a repeal of the three agri laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-stubborn-stand-responsible-for-deadlock-with-farmers-sanyukt-kisan-morcha-951284.html
14-02-2021||National||PFI student wing leader remanded in judicial custody for a day||Campus Front of India leader Rauf Sheriff, brought here from Kerala on a production warrant for allegedly funding a journalist and three others for fuelling a stir after the death of gangrape victim of a Hathras village, was produced before a Mathura court on Sunday. Arrested by the Enforcement Directorate in Kerala in December in a money laundering case, Sheriff was flown to Delhi from Ernakulam on a production warrant of a Mathura a court and brought here by road. He was produced before duty magistrate Swati Singh, who remanded him in judicial custody for a day, Mathura’s District Government Counsel Shiv Ram Singh. “Accused Sheriff will be produced before Additional District and Sessions Judge Anil Kumar Pandey on Monday,” he said. Sheriff’s counsel Madhuban Datt Chaturvedi opposed the duty magistrate’s decision to remand him in judicial custody arguing that there was absolutely no evidence against his client. He also questioned the duty magistrate’s jurisdiction to remand him in judicial custody. The Mathura court had issued production warrant for Sheriff on UP STF’s charge that he was involved in funding Delhi-based Kerala journalist Siddique Kappan, allegedly a PFI activist, and his three associates to foment trouble after the death of a gangrape victim of a Hathras village. Kappan and his alleged accomplices Atiqur Rahman, Alam and Masood were arrested by the UP police on October 5 when they were on their way to Hathras. The four were arrested earlier on the apprehension of causing a breach of peace but were later slapped with stern charges of sedition and being involved in various terror offences. Sheriff is alleged to be a central leader of the Campus Front of India, the student wing of Popular Front of India, a radical outfit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pfi-student-wing-leader-remanded-in-judicial-custody-for-a-day-951286.html
14-02-2021||National||DH Deciphers | Parliamentary privilege and why our legislators love it||Several breach of privilege notices have been submitted in Parliament in the last few days. Parliamentary privilege is a set of distinct rights enjoyed by legislators in the Westminster form of democracy. India is one of them. A legislator can issue a breach of privilege notice against a fellow legislator or public person if he/she feels that his/her parliamentary privilege has been breached. Here's what you need to know about it:  What is parliamentary privilege? Parliamentary privilege is the sum of certain rights enjoyed by each House collectively and by members of each House individually, without which they cannot discharge their functions, and which exceed those possessed by other bodies or individuals, according to British constitutional expert Erskine May. The objective of parliamentary privilege is to safeguard the freedom, the authority and the dignity of the legislature. In India, these rights have been enshrined in Articles 105 and 194 of the Constitution. Parliamentary privilege does not apply outside the House.  What is a breach of privilege? When rights and immunities accorded to legislators are disregarded, it is called a breach of privilege. An action that impedes the free functioning of the legislators falls under the breach of privilege. Any action casting reflections on legislators, the House or its committees, freedom from judicial action on issues spoken in the House and the way one votes are among breaches of privilege. It also includes the publication of news items, editorials or statements in newspapers, magazines, TV interviews or public speeches that denigrate the House and legislators. What is the procedure of submitting a breach of privilege notice? Only a legislator can submit a breach of privilege notice against a fellow legislator or public person to the secretariat of the House concerned. The speaker or chair can take a decision to pursue or reject the notice. With the consent of the speaker/chair, the legislator can raise the question of breach of privilege in the House. If the speaker/chair allows raising the issue, it only means that he/she is enquiring whether the matter is fit for further inquiry and whether it should be brought before the House. If the House decides that it may be sent to the Committee on Privileges, the panel will consider it and take a decision, which will be tabled in the legislature.  What is the punishment for breach of privilege? Depending on the gravity of the offence, the House can imprison, reprimand, impose fines and prosecute the offenders. The action can be taken against a legislator as well as an outsider. Which breach of privilege notices have been submitted recently? Four BJP MPs have submitted a breach of privilege notice against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for asking members during his speech on the union budget to observe a two-minute silence to mourn the death of farmers during the ongoing protest. The notices state that Rahul's failure to take the permission of the Chair before observing silence was a contempt of the House. Congress' Thrissur MP T N Prathapan submitted a notice against Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for describing Rahul as the "Doomsday Man of India". Ernakulam MP Hibi Eden, also from the Congress, submitted a breach of privilege notice stating that he was not accorded proper protocol at an event attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his constituency. BJP parliamentarian P P Chaudhary submitted a breach of privilege notice against Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra for her remarks in the Lok Sabha on Rajya Sabha member and former CJI Justice (retired) Ranjan Gogoi. RSP parliamentarian N K Premachandran submitted a breach of privilege notice against Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar for proposing to the protesting farmers amendments in the three agricultural laws passed by Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-parliamentary-privilege-and-why-our-legislators-love-it-951291.html
14-02-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi should apologise for calling PM Modi coward: Rajasthan BJP chief||Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia on Saturday asked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to apologise for calling Prime Minister Narendra Modi a coward. "Rahul Gandhi should apologise for the comments made on Friday against the prime minister of the country and calling him a coward on the issue of China," Poonia told reporters at a press conference here. Poonia said what Rahul Gandhi said during a meeting on Friday on the issue was objectionable. This comment about the prime minister of the world’s largest democracy cannot be justified, the BJP leader said. Gandhi on Friday had called PM Modi a coward “who cannot stand up to the Chinese”. Gandhi had said the PM has not fulfilled the responsibility of protecting India's territory and has instead ceded territory to China. Poonia said perhaps Rahul does not remember the history of his great grandfather. They forget how China occupied Indian land by misleading people by a slogan ''Hindi-Chini, Bhai-Bhai'', Poonia said referring to the 1962 War between both nations when Rahul Gandhi’s great grandfather Jawaharlal Nehru was the PM of the country. The Indian Army fought with high morale but the will power of the government was weak when his great grandfather was the prime minister, the state BJP chief said. Poonia said Rahul Gandhi promised debt waiver to farmers but he did not say anything on this during his visit to the state, leaving people disappointed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-should-apologise-for-calling-pm-modi-coward-rajasthan-bjp-chief-950986.html
14-02-2021||National Politics||Protesting farmers to hold candle march to remember Pulwama martyrs on February 14||On Sunday, farmers will hold candle marches and other programmes to remember the "sacrifice of martyred soldiers in Pulwama attack". On February 14, 2019, terrorists drove an explosive-laden SUV into a convoy of CRPF personnel killing 40 personnel in Jammu and Kashmir's Pulwama. This is part of a slew of events that have been planned to intensify farmers' protests across the country. Farmers will also organise a solidarity show on February 16 on the occasion of birth anniversary of Sir Chhoturam. On February 18, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha also called for a 'rail roko' agitation across the country from 12 pm to 4 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/protesting-farmers-to-hold-candle-march-to-remember-pulwama-martyrs-on-february-14-951027.html
14-02-2021||National Politics||Congress fights polls to help BJP win, alleges Manish Sisodia||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday alleged the Congress fights elections to help the BJP win and asserted the main contest in the upcoming local body polls in Gujarat is between the ruling BJP and the Aam Aadmi Party. Talking to reporters ahead of his roadshow in Surat, Sisodia claimed the people of Gujarat are looking at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) as a "strong political alternative" and with a hope to defeat the BJP, which has ruled various local bodies in the state for more than two decades. Elections to six municipal corporations - Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar - will be held on February 21. Besides, polls to various other municipalities, district panchayats and taluka panchayats in Gujarat will be held on February 28. The Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP has for the first time fielded candidates across various local bodies in Gujarat, and Surat is the third city in the state where Sisodia held a roadshow after Ahmedabad and Rajkot. "I am happy to see the contest in the local body polls in Gujarat is between the BJP and AAP. People want to give a chance to Kejriwal's politics after looking at his governance in Delhi," Sisodia said. The AAP leader further said he visited Ahmedabad, Rajkot, and now Surat, where people told him how they are "fed up with the BJP and want it to be defeated". He claimed people told him that they earlier wanted to defeat the BJP, but the Congress was their only alternative. "The Congress contests elections to help the BJP win. Its strategy is to help the BJP win," Sisodia alleged. Today, people have got an alternative. They are not just looking at the AAP as an alternative, but also as a hope, he said. Sisodia further claimed people understand it is the AAP, and "not the Congress", which can defeat the BJP. "We will get full majority. Our target is to defeat the BJP," he said. Sisodia said people of Gujarat are comparing the 25- year-old rule of the BJP in the state's local bodies to the five-year rule of the AAP in Delhi and they can "clearly see a difference". He said people can see how in just a short period of five years, Delhi Chief Minister Kejriwal ensured government schools are developed in a such a way that they can compete with private schools. On the other hand, in Gujarat, government schools are being shut down, he claimed. "If private schools in Delhi can be stopped from raising fees in an arbitrary manner, then why can't the BJP do the same in Gujarat?" he sought to know. "If in just five years, government hospitals in Delhi can be turned fabulous, then why are hospitals in Surat, Ahmedabad, Rajkot in shambles?" he further asked. Sisodia said if the Kejriwal government in Delhi can ensure free electricity to 70 per cent citizens and free drinking water to them, then why can't the same be done in Gujarat. "We hope that very soon, the BJP will start getting defeated," he said. Sisodia also questioned the silence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah over the killing of 25-year-old Rinku Sharma allegedly by a group of men following a quarrel at a birthday party in Delhi on February 10. While Sharma's brother has alleged that he was killed as he was actively participating in the donation drive for the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, the Delhi Police have denied any communal angle to the murder and said the fight at the birthday party took place over a business rivalry. "We are hurt, because in the country, people are being murdered for chanting 'Jai Shri Ram', and Delhi Police, who are responsible for the safety of people in the national capital, and Union Home Minister Amit Shah are least concerned about the law and order of Delhi," Sisodia alleged. All he (Shah) is worried about is the (forthcoming) West Bengal elections, the AAP leader claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-fights-polls-to-help-bjp-win-alleges-manish-sisodia-951103.html
14-02-2021||National Politics||Dinesh Trivedi allowed to use floor of House to announce resignation for devious political ends: TMC||Trinamool Congress has demanded an inquiry into the circumstances leading to the Rajya Sabha allowing Dinesh Trivedi to announce his resignation on the floor of the House, alleging that he took the House "for a ride" to achieve his "devious political ends". Snapping his 22-year-old ties with Trinamool Congress and amid a number of Trinamool leaders joining BJP, Trivedi (70) on Friday announced his resignation from the Upper House during the debate on Budget, claiming that he cannot remain silent when West Bengal is facing political violence. On Saturday, Trinamool Chief Whip in Rajya Sabha Shukhendu Shekhar Ray shot off a letter to the Upper House's Secretary-General raising the issue and demanding an enquiry to find out the reasons behind "unprecedented illegality" being committed in the House to "malign" his party. He said the Trinamool Congress had recommended two names as speakers for the discussion on Budget -- himself and Abir Ranjan Biswas. Trivedi's name was not on the list but was allowed to speak for four minutes despite there being no time left for the party, he said. Ray said Trivedi was allotted a seat in the Rajya Sabha Gallery, as part of Covid-19 protocol, but he came down inside the Council Chamber to speak and started "rambling on his personal political motives, etc. from a seat of his choice and the Chair did not take any action to stop such unauthorised intervention in the Budget discussion." He also said Trivedi spoke against the party he belonged to and made "certain wild allegations against the Trinamool Congress to substantiate his proposed resignation" from the House. The incident and the manner in which Trivedi "grossly misutilised the floor of the House for his devious political ends and also the way he was allowed to have taken the House for a ride is absolutely unprecedented, unwarranted and is devoid of not only decorum and etiquette as envisaged in 'Rajya Sabha at Work', but also against all rules, norms and traditions of this august House," Ray said. It is a "matter of great concern that although there were adequate mechanisms" under the rules to restrain the unruly member, it was not adopted for reasons not known to them, he claimed. Ray said there is a "specific rule to use for resigning from Rajya Sabha by a Member, but there doesn't exist any rule" by which a Member is authorised to announce his resignation on the floor of the House. The "entire development that took place on February 12 was absolutely beyond the scope of the rules, regulations, practices and traditions of this august House", he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dinesh-trivedi-allowed-to-use-floor-of-house-to-announce-resignation-for-devious-political-ends-tmc-951177.html
14-02-2021||National Politics||Congress has strengthened India's unity and integrity, rebuts Chhattisgarh CM Baghel to BJP's jibe||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday said the BJP keeps on asking what the Congress has done in its decades in power and his answer to that is it strengthened the country's unity and brought people of different castes and religions together. Addressing a rally here that kickstarted the Congress' poll campaign in Assam, Baghel said that from the time of the independence movement, there have been two ideologies at work -- one that divides and the other which unites. Earlier, on one hand there were the Britishers who implemented their 'divide and rule' policy, and on the other side were those, who under the leadership of Mahatma Gandhi, united workers, farmers, women and youth to take on the British, he said in the presence of former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi. There was one ideology that was led by the likes of Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru, Abul Kalam Azad and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, while on the other hand the Britishers were following the 'divide and rule' policy, making brothers fight and pitting castes and religions against one another. Today, Rahul Gandhi is providing leadership to those who are working to unite people, while those sowing discord are being led by the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he alleged. "There is a need to unite the country. The BJP always asks what the Congress has done in the last 70 years, I would like to reply that they strengthened India's unity and integrity," Baghel, who has been appointed as a senior observer by the Congress for the upcoming Assam Assembly polls, said. The Congress kept the people of different religions and castes together and, therefore, gave the slogan 'Hindu, Muslim, Sikh, Isaai, aapas mein sab bhai bhai', the Chhattisgarh chief minister said. The BJP says the Congress did not do anything, so who made the railway stations and airports that they are "selling", Baghel said. For 70 years, the Congress united the people, he asserted. Slamming the BJP for allegedly making "false promises" to the people for the sake of polls, he alleged that it is a "party of jumlas (rhetoric)". "On one side, there are the 'jumlebaaz' who only know how to defraud and loot, and on the other hand is Rahul Gandhi, who walks on the path of truth and does what he promises," Baghel said. Rahul Gandhi had promised loan waiver in Chhattisgarh and did it within 10 days of the Congress government being formed, Baghel said, adding that Rs 10,000 crore of 19 lakh farmers was waived soon after his swearing-in. Gandhi also ensured the return of land to Adivasis in Chhattisgarh, he said. Baghel urged the people of Assam to repose their trust in Rahul Gandhi and bring the Congress to power for the development of the state. Besides Gandhi, senior Congress leaders such as Congress' Assam unit chief Ripun Bora, AICC in-charge of the state Bhanwar Jitendra Singh, Congress' deputy leader in Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi, Debabrata Saikia, party MP Abdul Khaleque and Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev were also present at the rally. The election to the 126-member Assam Assembly is likely in March-April. The Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) has announced that it will contest the forthcoming state polls in alliance with five parties -- AIUDF, the CPI, CPI(M), CPI(ML) and the Anchalik Gana Morcha -- to oust the ruling BJP from power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-has-strengthened-indias-unity-and-integrity-rebuts-chhattisgarh-cm-baghel-to-bjps-jibe-951185.html
14-02-2021||National Politics||BJP govt at Centre should step down, says Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||Expressing shock at statements of senior BJP leaders on the farmers who died at the Delhi borders protesting against the farm laws, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday said the party has lost the moral ground to rule at the Centre and in Haryana. “The Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre should step down in the interest of the nation, as should the M L Khattar government in Haryana,” said the chief minister slamming statements of Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar and Haryana Agriculture Minister J P Dalal. Amarinder Singh lashed out at Tomar over what he called was his “outrageous statement” citing Delhi Police information that only two farmers have died and one has committed suicide. “Even the media has released details of more than 200 farmers who have lost their lives in this agitation,” the CM said in a statement. He also criticised Haryana minister J P Dalal, who had stoked a controversy on Saturday, saying the farmers would have died even if they had stayed back home. Dalal made the remark in Bhiwani in response to a reporter's query over the death of farmers. However, hours after making the statement, the Haryana agriculture minister said he had seen “twisted” statements attributed to him on social media. "If anybody is hurt by it, I tender my apology," Dalal had said. The Punjab chief minister also slammed Tomar for answering in the negative to a query in the Rajya Sabha recently whether the government will provide financial assistance from the Kisan Kalyan Fund to the families of the dead farmers. “It was deplorable that a government that can spend Rs 8 crore on publicity campaign for the new farm laws cannot give compensation to the families of the farmers who have sacrificed their lives in fighting for their rights,” he said, adding that Punjab alone has paid compensation to 102 families. “These statements of Tomar and Dalal reflect a shocking lack of concern on the part of the BJP leadership towards the farmers who have been braving the elements and the lathis of the Delhi and Haryana Police in their fight for survival,” the CM said. The chief minister said it is appalling that a government which claimed to be working in the interest of farmers does not even know how many farmers had died in the protests against the farm laws, “just as they had no idea, some months ago, on how many migrants had died in the country during the lockdown”. “What kind of government is this that has no data (or so it claims) of people dying on the streets in their own country,” Amarinder Singh asked. “Either the agriculture minister deliberately lied on the floor of the House or simply does not care to even ascertain the facts and figures,” said the chief minister, adding that this was not the first time a central minister had made a “false statement in Parliament on the issue of the farm laws or the farmers' agitation”. “Another minister had earlier stated falsely in the House that Punjab had been taken on board on the farm laws in its capacity as a member of the agricultural reforms committee, which was also a blatant lie,” the CM said, adding that not once were these legislations even mentioned in that committee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-govt-at-centre-should-step-down-says-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-951257.html
14-02-2021||National Politics||Congress leader A K Antony slams Modi govt for 'surrendering' India's rights to China||The Congress on Sunday accused the Modi government of "surrendering” India’s rights to China while agreeing to disengagement in areas in eastern Ladakh. Former Defence Minister A K Antony said both the disengagements – in Pangong Tso and Galwan Valley, though welcome for reducing tensions, amounted to “surrender” of India’s rights. “Both disengagements in Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso are a surrender,” Antony told a press conference here on the second anniversary of the Pulwama attack that had left 40 CRPF personnel dead in a terror attack in 2019. “We have lost rights to areas that are historically and traditionally controlled by India. If this pattern repeats itself in areas like Gogra Hot Springs and Arunachal Pradesh, I don’t know what will happen. This government doesn’t realise the dangers this precedent of disengagement and creating a buffer zone has set,” Antony said. “We are surrendering our rights,” he claimed, noting that Galwan Valley as Indian territory was never a disputed land even in 1962. Antony also slammed the Modi government for the “meagre” increase in the defence budget at a time when India was facing multiple challenges at the border and a two-front war-like situation. The senior Congress leader said he was sad that the Modi government was not giving proper priority to national security at a time when China was getting belligerent and Pakistan continued to promote terrorism. He warned that China can play mischief anytime by helping Pakistan in Siachen. "We want to know from this government when there will be a status quo ante as of mid-April 2020 in the entire India-China border," he said, asking what was the government's plan in this regard. He also said that the government must take the country and the people into confidence on restoration of the status quo ante at the borders. He said the government always consulted leaders of all political parties before taking such a decision and must keep national security in mind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-a-k-antony-slams-modi-govt-for-surrendering-indias-rights-to-china-951273.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||Mehbooba hits back at Shah over his dynastic politics jibe||PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday hit back at Home Minister Amit Shah over his allegation of dynastic politics in Jammu and Kashmir till abrogation of Article 370 provisions, saying it "pales in comparison" to 'Hum do, Hamare do' approach of the Centre. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had on Thursday stepped up the attack against the government over the three farm laws, alleged that these legislations would damage country's food security system as also "break the spine of farmers" and that the nation is being run by only four people with a 'Hum do, Hamare do' approach. On Saturday, Mufti took to Twitter to say, "HM's allegations that J&K was run by three families pales in comparison to the country being run by 'hum do humaray do' (sic)." In the Lok Sabha on Saturday, Shah said only three families ruled Jammu and Kashmir until Article 370 was scrapped in August 2019. "Article 370's existence suited them," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mehbooba-hits-back-at-shah-over-his-dynastic-politics-jibe-951018.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand glacier disaster: Three bodies recovered from Tapovan tunnel, toll now at 41||Three bodies were recovered on Sunday from the Tapovan tunnel following a seven-day operation to rescue around 30 people trapped in it after a flashflood-hit Joshimath area of Chamoli district, senior officials said. These are the first bodies to have been recovered from the tunnel where people were at work when the calamity occurred last Sunday. The recoveries take the toll in the disaster to 41.    A massive search and rescue operation has been underway in the tunnel at Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project site. NDRF Commandant RK Tiwari said the three bodies recovered on Sunday were found in the Adit tunnel where muck clearing has been going on. Two of the bodies have been identified. One hails from Narendra Nagar in Tehri district and another from Kalsi in Dehradun district, Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadauria said.   She said a helicopter has been kept ready at the site to provide medical help to survivors if any.     The NTPC's Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project had suffered extensive damage in the flashflood which also demolished the Rishiganga hydel project. Rescue teams continued widening a hole into the Silt Flushing Tunnel at the project site in Tapovan where around 30 people are believed to be trapped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-glacier-disaster-three-bodies-recovered-from-tapovan-tunnel-toll-now-at-41-951047.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||Government to resettle all displaced Kashmiri Pandits in the Valley by 2022: Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday said that the government has decided to resettle all displaced Kashmiri Pandits in the Valley by 2022. Replying to the discussion on the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Amendment) Bill in the Lok Sabha, he said that the government provides Rs 13,000 per month to the families of 44,000 Kashmiri Pandits who have relief cards. "The government also provides free ration and has plans to settle them back in their houses in the Valley by 2022," he said. He added that 25,000 government jobs will be created for the youths of Jammu and Kashmir by 2022 among which almost 3,000 jobs have already been given in the last 17 months. He also assured people of Jammu and Kashmir that no one will lose their land as the government has enough land for development work. "The biggest hurdle in the industry in Jammu and Kashmir was that they did not get land if they wanted to set up any industry there. After the withdrawal of (Art)370, we changed the law of the land. Now the situation is such that the industries will be established inside Kashmir," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-to-resettle-all-displaced-kashmiri-pandits-in-the-valley-by-2022-amit-shah-951051.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||J&K police contradicts Omar Abdullah’s claims of house arrest||The former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and regional National Conference (NC) leader Omar Abdullah Sunday claimed that he and his family, including his father and MM Farooq Abdullah, have been put under house arrest by authorities. J&K Police, however, countered his claims saying that “movement of VIPs and Protected Persons has been discouraged” due to the anniversary of the 2019 Pulwama terror attack in which 40 paramilitary CRPF personnel were killed. “This is the “naya/new J&K” after Aug 2019. We get locked up in our homes with no explanation. It’s bad enough they’ve locked my father (a sitting MP) & me in our home, they’ve locked my sister & her kids in their home as well (sic),” Omar wrote on Twitter, sharing pictures of armoured police vehicles outside his Gupkar residence. In another tweet, he said: “Chalo, your new model of democracy means that we are kept in our homes without explanation but on top of that the staff that works in the house aren’t being allowed in and then you are surprised that I’m still angry & bitter.” Chalo, your new model of democracy means that we are kept in our homes without explanation but on top of that the staff that works in the house aren’t being allowed in and then you are surprised that I’m still angry & bitter. In response to the NC leader’s tweets, Srinagar police wrote: “Today is 2nd Anniversary of dreaded Lethpora Terror incident. There shall be NO ROP on ground. Due to adverse inputs, movement of VIPs/Protected Persons has been discouraged and all concerned were informed in advance NOT to plan a tour today. @OmarAbdullah.” Omar shot back and asked the police to share the written communication about his detention with him. “Please share the written communication address to me & acknowledged by me (or my office) informing us in advance of these restrictions. Surely this anniversary didn’t come as a surprise to the administration,” he tweeted. In response to Omar’s assertions, J&K police released two official documents to counter his claims on preventing his movement. “With reference to your communication regarding the visit of ex CM J&K Sh Omar Abdullah, no VIP movement is to be allowed tomorrow (February 14) in view of an imminent IED threat….,” SSP Police Control Room (PCR) in a signal message wrote to SSP security and Deputy Director Special Security Group, Srinagar. On Saturday, PDP president and another former CM Mehbooba Mufti had also claimed that she was placed under house arrest ahead of her visit to the family of Athar Mushtaq, one of the three alleged militants killed in an encounter in Hokersar locality on outskirts of Srinagar city in December last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-police-contradicts-omar-abdullah-s-claims-of-house-arrest-951059.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||What Uttarakhand floods mean for the Char Dham project||The February 7 Uttarakhand floods that claimed 38 lives, caused destruction in many villages of the state and disrupted two power projects in the area, have cast a shadow on the Char Dham road project in the area worth Rs 12,072 crore. The Char Dham project is not one but a group of 53 road projects in Uttarakhand. The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways clubbed a majority of highway projects in the state under this project to redevelop existing a network of roads nearly 825-km long. This aimed to provide better connectivity from Rishikesh to Janki Chati for Yamunotri, Gangotri, Gaurikund for Kedarnath and Mana. The whole project was scheduled to be completed before the Kumbh Mela in March this year, which is nearly impossible viewing the events in Chamoli. A Ministry source told the publication that there are no new deadlines for the projects as of now. The controversial road stretching 94 km from Uttarkashi to Gangotri may be impacted, but the avalanche on February 7 did not affect it directly since this is located on the other side of the mountain. The Char Dham project was under the scrutiny of the Supreme Court in 2019 when the top court appointed a committee to evaluate the feasibility of the project with respect to environmental concerns. This was done after public interest litigations filed by environmental activists in Dehradun. The government had filed affidavits with the court justifying the project in the state. Concerns around development projects in the area are bound to increase after the disaster last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/what-uttarakhand-floods-mean-for-the-char-dham-project-951078.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||Two years after Pulwama attack, J&K Police recover 7 kg IED at Jammu||A major tragedy was averted with the timely detection of a seven-kg Improvised Explosive Device (IED) near the crowded general bus stand area in Jammu city on Sunday. Police said the IED was detected acting on specific information and a man from south Kashmir’s Pulwama district has been arrested in connection with the recovery. The recovery comes on a day when the nation is remembering 40 CRPF jawans, who were killed when a suicide bomber of Jaish-e-Muhammad outfit rammed his explosive-laden vehicle into a paramilitary convoy at Lethpora in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district on the same day in 2019. Two years after the deadly attack, security had been heightened across Kashmir. A police officer said it seems the militants had chosen Jammu to carry out an attack “as security in Kashmir was foolproof.” “Most likely a major terrorist attack was being planned in Jammu to coincide with the second anniversary of Pulwama attack," he added. In the last week, police have arrested two militants in Jammu in two separate operations. The arrested militants include Hidayatullah Malik, chief of lesser-known militant outfit Lashkar-e-Mustafa, which is a believed to be a front organisation of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed (JeM) in Kashmir and Zahoor Rather, affiliated with TRF (The Resistance Force), a front organisation of the Lashker-e-Toiba (LeT).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-years-after-pulwama-attack-jk-police-recover-7-kg-ied-at-jammu-951084.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||Sushma Swaraj's statue to be installed in Vidisha: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday announced that a statue of former Union minister Sushma Swaraj will be installed in Vidisha, the Lok Sabha constituency represented by her. On the occasion of Swaraj's birth anniversary on Sunday, Chouhan paid tribute to the late BJP leader at his residence here in the presence of some state ministers and senior party leaders. "Swaraj's contribution to the development of Vidisha is incomparable. A statue of Swaraj would be installed at the Town Hall in Vidisha," Chouhan said, while paying tribute to the former external affairs minister. Swaraj won from Vidisha, located about 58 km from Bhopal, in the 2009 and 2014 Lok Sabha polls. She died on August 6, 2019 at the age of 67. Madhya Pradesh Assembly's protem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma, state Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang and other BJP leaders also paid respects to Swaraj on her birth anniversary on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sushma-swarajs-statue-to-be-installed-in-vidisha-madhya-pradesh-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-951094.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand disaster: 5 bodies recovered from Tapovan tunnel||A week after the landslide-triggered flash floods, rescuers pulled out dead bodies from the tunnel of the NTPC power plant at Tapovan in Uttarakhand, where there was some hope of finding survivors. Five dead bodies were recovered from the tunnel at the under-construction 520 MW NTPC-Vishnugad project site, six bodies were pulled out from the Rishi Ganga project site upstream, while one was washed up at Rudraprayag. As of now, 50 dead bodies and 22 body parts have been recovered since the February 7 flash floods, believed to have been triggered by an avalanche, that washed away two hydel power projects and left a trail of death and destruction. At least 37 persons were feared trapped in the tunnel at the Tapovan project site while at least 100 have been feared buried under slush. Uttarakhand Director General of Police Ashok Kumar said rescue efforts were on at the tunnel. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand Police has registered reports related to 66 persons who have been missing since February 7 and DNA samples of 55 relatives have been taken for establishing the identity of the dead. As many as 24 persons and one body part have been identified so far, while DNA samples of the rest have been taken to help establish their identity. Some relatives have held protests near the Tapovan tunnel against the alleged delay in the rescue efforts and sought stepping up of search operations at sites other than the tunnel. Meanwhile, a team of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel, who had visited the site of a lake that had formed at 14,000 feet near Paing village, returned to Tapovan late last night. SDRF Commandant Navneet Bhullar said there was a steady discharge of water from the lake that had formed on the river Rishi Ganga and it did not pose any threat. A team of eight SDRF jawans, seven porters and two guides that had trekked to the lake have also identified a site for the landing of the chopper, if necessary for further use.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-disaster-5-bodies-recovered-from-tapovan-tunnel-951125.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||For women's safety, UP police to track porn search on internet||To prevent incidents of eve-teasing, rapes and molestation, the Uttar Pradesh police have decided to monitor pornographic searches on the internet. The police have hired a company to monitor the internet searches and keep data of the people who search porn content and analyse it. Additional Director General Neera Rawat of UP Police’s Women Powerline wing 1090 — a helpline to prevent crimes against the women and report incidents of molestations and harassment of the women — said those searching the porn content on the internet would be 'warned' against doing so initially so that any possible crime could be prevented. "The date of such people will be with the police...it will help the police in nabbing the offender if any incident of crime against the women takes place in the area," she said. The analytics team would alert the Powerline about such people, she said adding that the arrangement had been started in six districts in the state on a pilot project basis and has got a good response. The Women Powerline has prepared what it termed a 'digital chakravyuha' (a formation to surround someone), which would include psychometry profiling, predictive analysis, creating awareness among the people and encouraging participation of the community, to prevent crimes against the women. "The traditional methods of outreach have many drawbacks...we need to modernise the methods," the ADG said. Rawat said there were 11.16 crore internet users in the state. "We intend to reach all the users and increase our outreach," she added. The new plan comes close on the heels of the decision of the Lucknow police to install artificial intelligence-enabled cameras at important public places in Lucknow to "read the facial expressions of the women in distress and alert the cops". However, the decision invited sharp criticisms from experts and common people, who said it would amount to the violation of the privacy of the women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/for-womens-safety-up-police-to-track-porn-search-on-internet-951161.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||Farmers' protest, 'soft Hindutva' in Congress' revival strategy in Uttar Pradesh||Desperately looking to revive itself in the politically crucial state of Uttar Pradesh, the Congress plans to capitalise on the farmer agitation and pursue 'soft Hindutva' in the state, where assembly election is barely a year away. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who was also the in-charge of the state, made the party's revival strategy quite clear by her temple hopping and addressing 'kisan mahapanchayat' last week. Priyanka took a dip in the holy waters at the holy 'Sangam' (the confluence of Ganga, Yamuna and the mythical Saraswati rivers) on the occasion of 'Mauni Amavasya' (a sacred day on which millions take a dip in holy rivers across India) at Prayagraj, on Thursday and also visited the famous 'Mankameshwar Temple'. She also met Shankaracharya Swami Swaroopananda Saraswati. A day before, the Congress leader had paid obeisance at the famous Shakambhari Devi Temple near Saharanpur, about 500 kilometres from Lucknow. Priyanka also addressed a well-attended 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' at Saharanpur, where she attacked Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the farm laws and vowed to support the agitating farmers. Apparently mindful of her party's Muslim support base, the Congress leader also visited the 'Khanqah dargah' at Saharanpur, which was revered by the community. Although the BJP leaders sought to make light of Priyanka's temple visits and 'kisan mahapanchayat', political observers here point out that the strategy may pay rich electoral dividends if it succeeds. ''Congress' electoral success will depend on the support it gets not only from the Muslims but also the Hindu community....the party can hope for a revival if it is able to capitalise on the farmer agitation and send across the message that it is not an anti-Hindu party,'' said a Lucknow based political observer. The grand old party has plans to hold a series of 'kisan mahapanchayats' in the western UP districts in the days to come. Priyanka is scheduled to address one such meeting at Bijnore on Monday. Congress could win only one seat and that of Raebareli in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. It could manage to win only seven seats in the 2017 assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protest-soft-hindutva-in-congress-revival-strategy-in-uttar-pradesh-951171.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh protem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma says he received threat for seeking justice for Rinku Sharma||Madhya Pradesh Assembly's pro-tem Speaker Rameshwar Sharma on Sunday claimed he has received a threat after he demanded justice for Rinku Sharma, who was killed allegedly by a group of men in Delhi on February 10. Rameshwar Sharma on Saturday tweeted a screenshot of a post "threatening" him on Facebook. Talking to reporters on Sunday, he said, "In the Facebook post, I have been threatened that I will meet the same fate as Rinku Sharma. I am not going to be intimidated by such threats." He said Rinku Sharma should get justice. Rinku Sharma's brother has alleged that he was killed as he was actively participating in a donation drive for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. However, the Delhi Police have denied any communal angle to the murder.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-protem-speaker-rameshwar-sharma-says-he-received-threat-for-seeking-justice-for-rinku-sharma-951172.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||Polling held for over 100 civic bodies in Punjab; skirmishes at some places||Polling was held for over hundred civic bodies in Punjab on Sunday amid stray incidents of skirmishes at some places. According to officials, seven people were injured in Rupnagar after workers of the ruling Congress and the Shiromani Akali Dal clashed following a heated argument in Ward No.1 there. Skirmishes and scuffles between activists of the Congress and the Opposition parties were also reported from Batala, Rajpura, Tarn Taran, Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Samana, Rupnagar, Nabha, Nangal, Mohali and Ferozepur. Though the final voting percentage is yet to come, over 55 per cent people had voted till 2 pm. The voting began at 8 am and continued till 4 pm, said officials. A total of 9,222 candidates are in the fray for the elections to 2,302 wards of eight municipal corporations of Abohar, Bathinda Batala, Kapurthala, Mohali, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot and Moga, 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats. Of the total candidates, 2,832 are independents, 2,037 from the ruling Congress while 1,569 are SAD nominees. The BJP and the AAP have fielded 1,003 and 1,606 candidates, respectively. Prominent among those who cast their votes on Sunday were Punjab minister Balbir Singh Sidhu, Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia, AAP MLA Aman Arora and state BJP chief Ashwani Sharma. The Opposition Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) accused the Congress workers of indulging in booth capturing in Samana, Rajpura, Dhuri, Abohar and Bhikhiwind, a charge denied by the ruling party. Leader of Opposition in the Punjab Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema claimed that an AAP volunteer was allegedly shot at in Patti by some Congress activists. However, police rejected the charge. Cheema alleged that the democracy was "murdered" in Punjab on Sunday by the Congress and sought resignation of Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. Talking to the media in Majitha, SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia accused the ruling Congress of “misusing” the government machinery to win the polls. The State Election Commission (SEC) had set up 4,102 polling stations, of which 1,708 were declared as sensitive and 861 as hypersensitive. Around 7,000 electronic voting machines (EVMs) were used for voting. As many as 19,000 police personnel were deployed to ensure free and fair elections, an official said. Voters were also screened with thermal scanners at polling booths in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The officials said the state has 39,15,280 voters, including 20,49,777 males, 18,65,354 females and 149 transgenders. The counting of votes will take place on February 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/polling-held-for-over-100-civic-bodies-in-punjab-skirmishes-at-some-places-951192.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||Won't let govt sit in peace till farmers' demands met: Rakesh Tikait||Upping the ante against the government, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said they won't let it sit in peace till the farmers' demands are met. Addressing a farmers' "mahapanchayat" at the Indri grain market in the district, Tikait said the 40 leaders spearheading the agitation against the Centre’s farm laws will tour the entire country to drum up support for the stir. "Till the time the government does not decide in our favour, talks to the committee (spearheading the agitation) and does not agree to the demands, we won't let it sit in peace," Tikait said, demanding the repeal of the laws. He once again reiterated that the Centre's farm laws "will finish the public distribution system." The laws will not only impact farmers but also small traders, daily wagers and other sections, he said. Questioning the government's intention behind bringing the laws, Tikait said, "Godowns were built first and the laws came later. Don't farmers know these laws are in favour of big corporates? Business on hunger will not be allowed in this country." Tikait reiterated that the “panch” (leaders spearheading the stir) and the "manch" (stage) will remain the same. "Whatever decisions are taken by the committee are acceptable to all. Farmers of the country stand behind it," Tikait said. Apart from Tikait, farmer leaders Balbir Singh Rajewal, Darshan Pal and Haryana BKU chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni were also present on the occasion. Rajewal said farmers have been protesting for months but the government is not listening to their demands. Pal said over 200 farmers have sacrificed their lives during the agitation said their sacrifice will not go in vain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wont-let-govt-sit-in-peace-till-farmers-demands-met-rakesh-tikait-951204.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||Ex-BJP MLA Surendra Nath Singh, 17 others held for vandalism over Valentine's Day in Bhopal||Seventeen persons, including a former BJP MLA, were arrested for allegedly indulging in vandalism in two separate incidents in the city on Sunday over the Valentine's Day, police said. While one group vandalised a hookah lounge, another damaged a restaurant, they said. A group of people with saffron towels wrapped around their necks, vandalised a hookah lounge located under Shyamla Hills police station limits. They raised slogans of 'Jai Shriram' during the act, a police official said. Talking to reporters, former BJP MLA Surendra Nath Singh said that hookah lounges were making the youths addicts and they have become "breeding grounds of Love Jihad". Shyamala Hills police station in-charge inspector Tarun Bhati said, "We arrested Surendra Nath Singh and six others for rioting and other charges in connection with this incident." They were later produced in a local court, which remanded them in judicial custody, the official said. In the second incident, Shiv Sena workers vandalised a restaurant located under the jurisdiction of Habibganj police station, the region's in-charge inspector Rakesh Shrivastava said. "We have arrested 10 presons for rioting and other charges in this connection," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ex-bjp-mla-surendra-nath-singh-17-others-held-for-vandalism-over-valentines-day-in-bhopal-951263.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||'Will go on killing spree': Suspended constable threatens Gorakhpur police||A threat from a suspended police constable that he will kill three people in Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhpur district has kept police on their toes. In a video that went viral on Saturday, Digvijay Rai, who was suspended by SP Hemraj Meena in December last year for alleged misbehaviour, said he would go on a killing spree on Sunday at Mohaddipur crossing, as he dared police to stop him. Rai was posted as a constable at the Kaptanganj police station in Basti district. Police sources said Rai could be heard saying in the video that he would cite the reason behind taking the step after killing one person. Police are on high alert after the threat, they said. Superintendent of Police (City) Sonam Kumar said a case has been registered against the suspended constable, and efforts are on to nab him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-go-on-killing-spree-suspended-constable-threatens-gorakhpur-police-951272.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||Those using children for stone-pelting in J&K to now face strict punishment under JJA: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Sunday emphasised the need for strict implementation of the Juvenile Justice Act in Jammu and Kashmir under which those using children for stone-pelting and other illegal activities will now face rigorous imprisonment of up to seven years. The minister said using or inducing children to stone pelting is not only a crime in the eyes of law but is also a crime against humanity. The Juvenile Justice Act (JJA) has now become applicable in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, following the abrogation of Article 370 and the erstwhile state becoming a Union Territory, a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry said. Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, was on Sunday briefed about the law against using children as stone pelters, according to an official statement. Use of children for illegal activities will invite rigorous imprisonment up to seven years and a fine of Rs 5 lakh, it said. Chairman of National Commission for Protection for Child Rights (NCPCR) Priyank Kanoongo met Singh and discussed the important issues concerning the rights of children in Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh that had emerged from the analysis recently conducted by the NCPCR. Singh emphasised the need for strict implementation of the Juvenile Justice Act which now stands extended to the two UTs of J-K and Ladakh, the statement said. Kanoongo informed Singh that as per Section 83 (1) of the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015, any non-state, self-styled militant group or outfit declared as such by the central government, if recruits or uses any child for any purpose, shall be liable for rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine of five lakh rupees. Section 83 (2) of the same Act states that any adult or an adult group uses children for illegal activities either individually or as a gang shall be liable for rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine of five lakh rupees, he said. This, by implication, means that anyone responsible for inducing or using children in stone pelting or any other violent activity will face serious action under the law, the statement said. Singh appreciated the NCPCR efforts for the protection of child rights in the country, including in the newly created Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. The minister is the Lok Sabha member from Jammu and Kashmir's Udhampur constituency. Further, NCPCR chief Kanoongo discussed with Jitendra Singh the implications of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 which is also now applicable in Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. He also briefed the minister about various awareness workshops and programmes conducted by the NCPCR to sensitise the stakeholders in different districts of Jammu & Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/those-using-children-for-stone-pelting-in-jk-to-now-face-strict-punishment-under-jja-jitendra-singh-951276.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||Criminals committing crime under patronage of BJP: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party Chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday hit out at the ruling BJP over the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh, alleging that criminals are committing crimes under its patronage. In a statement issued here, Yadav also accused the government of disrupting the harmony in society, instead of punishing those involved in criminal activities. "The criminals are openly committing crime in the state under the patronage of the ruling party. The confidence of the criminals is high because of the working style of the government. The height of poor law and order is that even policemen are being attacked," the SP chief alleged. "The aim of the government should be to punish those indulging in crime and anarchy. But when the agenda of the BJP government is to disrupt the harmony in society, then how will the rule of law be established," he added. Yadav also claimed that the anger among the public against the BJP is building and people are ready for a change.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/criminals-committing-crime-under-patronage-of-bjp-akhilesh-yadav-951300.html
14-02-2021||North and Central||Hindus are not safe in BJP rule, says AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday hit out at the Bharatiya Janata Party over the death of Rinku Sharma, claiming that Hindus are "not safe" in BJP's rule. According to police, Sharma, 25, was killed allegedly by a group of men following a quarrel at a birthday party in Delhi on February 10. Various saffron outfits and Sharma's brother have alleged that he was killed for actively participating in the donation drive for the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya. However, the Delhi Police has denied any communal angle to the murder and said the fight at the birthday party took place over a business rivalry. Addressing a press conference here on Sunday, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said, "The family of Rinku Sharma is saying that he was killed because of raising Jai Shri Ram slogans. It should be thoroughly investigated and the culprits should be punished. Is raising the Jai Shri Ram slogans not safe now? In BJP's rule, Hindus are not safe." "I ask the Union Home Minister, why has he not visited Rinku Sharma's family? Law and order is under him. Does it suit him to campaign in Bengal while such an incident occurred in Delhi? Why did the police commissioner not visit Sharma's family?" he questioned. An FIR was registered in connection with the incident and five people have so far been arrested. The Delhi Police on Saturday transferred the case to its Crime Branch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hindus-are-not-safe-in-bjp-rule-says-aap-951309.html
14-02-2021||Oasis||Off the record||Naidu’s moderation Social media is now under the scanner, with the government engaged in a war of wits with Twitter. The farmers’ agitation and related posts had led to the stand-off with the social media giant, initially not implementing the government orders. Vice-President and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah has now called for a ‘principle of moderation’ to avoid controversies surrounding the use of social media. Speaking to journalists during an informal interaction after Rajya Sabha adjourned after the first leg of Budget Session, he emphatically made the point that he is “against controlling” social media. On the ongoing farmers’ agitation too, he had advice to the warring groups. He said taking extreme or maximalist positions would not help in resolving the issue. Here too, he believes that a maximalist position is not going to do any good. Shemin Joy, New Delhi Krishna’s humour  Mumbai politician Krishna Hegde’s sense of humour was at his best when he targeted the BJP-led Centre over the hike in fuel prices. Hegde, a Congressman-turned-BJP man-turned-Shiv Sainik, said, “I request BCCI and selectors to induct two players who have averaged over 90+ and 80+in the domestic circuit for six years, due to excellent coaching from BJP,” the former MLA said. “These two players Shri Petrol and Shri Diesel should be inducted into the team for the second Test immediately as they will score centuries soon.”  Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai Closed forums As the Kerala Assembly election is approaching, all political parties are trying to connect with the people. One such programme by Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan was an interactive session with university students. During an interaction at MG University, a student raised concerns over allegations of backdoor appointments and stressed the need for transparency in appointments to government services. The Chief Minister seemed quite unhappy over the allegation of backdoor appointments. The concern raised by the student also made news. Video footage of Vijayan stopping a student from asking further questions also went viral on social media. It could be for this reason that the media was not allowed to cover the next interactive session held at Kannur University on Saturday. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram  An omission? In the corridors of Parliament, there are whispers that RSP’s lone MP N K Premachandran has never missed a comma or full stop in a Bill and takes the government to task. The President’s speech to the joint sitting of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha on the first day of Budget Session also did not miss the Kollam MP’s sharp eyes. This time, he has pointed out the “democratic backsliding” and referred to one specific instance. He said President Ram Nath Kovind referred to the commencement of construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya following a Supreme Court judgement but omitted another thing. The judgement was not in respect of the construction of the temple alone but with the construction of a mosque too. He said it was “quite unfortunate to say that nothing is mentioned about the construction of the mosque as per the judgement...I repeat that nothing is mentioned about the construction of the mosque in the disputed site as directed by the Supreme Court; only a mention of Ram Temple is there.” Shemin Joy, New Delhi Going viral The dance moves of Surajit Tripura, a 19-year-old tribal boy from Tripura’s remote Sabroom district has become a talk of the town after popular dancer Raghav Juyal shared a video in his Instagram post recently.  Surajit, who idolises Juyal, works in a popular restaurant in Guwahati, Assam. The video has become so popular that the same is pulling many to the restaurants now.  “I never thought I would ever get recognition from my idol Raghav Juyal, but when he shared my video on his Instagram status, that moment made my day. This gesture has encouraged me to take my passion seriously so that one day I share the same stage with Raghav sir,” Surajit said.  Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/off-the-record-951299.html
14-02-2021||Oasis||Desires and downfall||The second chapter of the Bhagavad Geeta contains an evocative discussion on the dangers of excessive attraction towards material and sense pleasures. While there is no denying the role of material requirements and pleasures in human life, it is the excessive attachment, nay, addiction to them that is at the root of all man’s problems. It is about this senseless pursuit of materialistic life that the Geeta speaks of. “Constant thinking of material wants and pleasures generates a sense of attachment. This attachment gives rise to desire. When he is unable to satisfy his desires, man is consumed with anger, which intensifies his desire. In this agitated mental state, he is totally enamoured with the object of his desire, which makes him forget all that he knows and all that he has seen when greed overtakes man. This in turn makes him lose his ability to think in a mature and balanced manner, which finally leads to his downfall”. Thus it is seen how this pursuit of material wants and desires is a progressive process, leading man, step by step to his final doom.Greed blinds man, rendering him unable to differentiate between right and wrong and sets him on the path to ruin. Despicable crimes are committed when obstacles come up in man’s insatiable pursuit of his wants.  As the Geeta says, a tiny seed of desire grows into a mighty tree very quickly.  The Upanishads portray the senses as wild horses that, if not controlled by the reins of a firm and stable intellect, will haphazardly drag the chariot of the human body in all directions, with man, the charioteer being helplessly dragged along, finally ending in his collapse.  Echoing similar thoughts, Adi  Shankaracharya in his ‘Vivekachudamani’ says desires and greed are even more poisonous than the venom of a King Cobra, because the snake’s venom kills only if it enters the body through a bite, but in the case of desires, mere thinking about them or seeing them is enough to destroy man. Nowhere does the Geeta speak of totally avoiding all material wants and legitimate desires. On the other hand, it only warns of the dangers of subservience to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/desires-and-downfall-951301.html
14-02-2021||Opinion||How trustworthy are the bad loan numbers of banks?||In its Financial Stability Report (FSR) of January, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had said that by September, the bad loans of banks, under a baseline scenario, could shoot up to 13.5% of their total loans. In September 2020, the bad loans rate of banks had stood at 7.5%. Bad loans, or non-performing assets (NPA), are loans that haven’t been repaid for a period of 90 days or more. If the economic scenario were to worsen into severe stress, the bad loans could shoot up to 14.8% of the loans. For public sector banks, the rate could go up to 16.2% under a baseline scenario, and 17.8% in a severe stress one. What this meant was that the RBI expected the overall bad loans of banks to shoot up massively in the post-Covid world, even more or less doubling from 7.5% to 14.8%. A reading of past RBI forecasts suggests that in an environment where bad loans are going up, they typically end up at levels that are higher than the severe stress level predicted by the RBI. Given all this, there is enough reason to worry on the banking front. But as things are turning out, the dire predictions of the RBI are still not visible in the numbers. The quarterly results of a bunch of banks for the period October to December 2020 have been declared and the banks look to be doing decently well. In a research note, CARE Ratings points out that the bad loans rate of 30 banks, which form the bulk of the Indian banking system (including the 12 public sector banks, IDBI Bank and the big private banks), stood at 7.01% as of December 2020. The rate had stood at 8.72% as of December 2019 and 7.72% as of September 2020. In fact, when it comes to public sector banks, the bad loans rate has improved from 11.22% in December 2019 to 9.01% in December 2020 (this calculation includes IDBI Bank as well, which is now majorly owned by LIC, not the Union government, and hence is categorised as a private bank). When it comes to private banks (a sample of 17 banks), the bad loans rate has improved from 4.87% in December 2019 to 3.49% in December 2020. On the whole, these 30 banks had bad loans amounting to Rs 7.38 lakh crore on loans of Rs 105.37 lakh crore, leading to a bad loans rate of about 7%. Do remember, the RBI’s baseline forecast for September 2021 is 13.5%. Hence, things should have been getting worse on this front, but they seem to be getting better. What’s happening here? The Supreme Court, in an interim order on September 3, 2020, had directed the banks that any loan account that hadn’t been declared as a bad loan as of August 31 shall not be declared as one, until further orders. This has essentially led to banks not declaring bad loans as bad loans. Nevertheless, the banks are declaring what they are calling proforma slippages, or loans which would have been declared as bad loans but for the Supreme Court’s interim order. A look at the results of banks tells us that even these slippages aren’t big. The proforma slippages of State Bank of India between April and December 2020, stood at Rs 16,461 crore, which is small, given that the bank’s total advances stand at Rs 24.6 lakh crore; Punjab National Bank’s total proforma slippages were at Rs 12,919 crore in the same period. Similarly, when we look at other banks, the proforma slippages are present but they are not big numbers. An estimate made by the Mint newspaper suggests that India’s 10 biggest private banks have proforma slippages amounting to around Rs 42,000 crore. The 30 banks in the CARE Ratings note had total bad loans of Rs 7.38 lakh crore, or a rate of 7.01%. If this has to reach anywhere near 13.5-14.8% as forecast by the RBI, the overall bad loans need to nearly double and touch around Rs 14 lakh crore. The initial data doesn’t bear this out. As the RBI said in the FSR, “[With] the standstill on asset classification…the data on fresh loan impairments reported by banks may not be reflective of the true underlying state of banks’ portfolios.” Hence, the situation will only become clear once the Supreme Court decision comes in and the banks need to mark bad loans as bad loans. While banks are declaring proforma slippages, it could very well be that the Supreme Court’s interim order, along with the restructuring schemes announced by the RBI and the fact that the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code remains suspended, have led to a situation where they are under-declaring these numbers. If that’s indeed the case, it will not be the first time that it has happened. Around a decade back, in 2011, Indian banks had started accumulating bad loans on the lending binge carried out by them between 2004 and 2010, but they didn’t declare these bad loans as bad loans immediately. Only after an RBI crackdown and an asset quality review ordered by former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan in mid-2015 did the banks start declaring bad loans as bad loans. There is no reason to suggest that banks are behaving differently this time around. But it is important that they don’t make the same mistake all over again. Hence, the RBI should carry out an asset quality review of banks (and non-banking finance companies) and force them to come clean on their bad loans. A problem can be solved only once it has been identified, quantified and acknowledged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-trustworthy-are-the-bad-loan-numbers-of-banks-950994.html
14-02-2021||Opinion||Storm in a teacup||Loyal tea-drinkers nationwide must have been shocked to learn from Prime Minister Modi that there’s an international mafia conspiring against their favourite beverage. Indeed, many see this as an assault on India, no less than the recent conspiracy against idlis (I must confess that I quietly joined the enemy ranks on the issue of these bland sponge balls). But let’s be under no illusions about the significance of the event. Sagacious scholars and scientists have been warning for ages that World War III would be fought over water. And India has decided to bring tea to the party. One of the Ministry of External Affairs’ official twitter accounts tweeted a long thread as early as in 2019 about the importance of tea to India, including “some stats about how India takes its #tea seriously.” Not without significance, that tweet thread was posted on Valentine’s Day. The MEA had even made a short film about some “unique aspects” of tea from Darjeeling and Assam. But India is not the only country whose diplomacy has taken to beverages with such passion. There is, in fact, quite a rich history of beverages finding themselves in the midst of landmark moments – helping to make or break deals, and bringing together friends and foes alike. In 1972, when US President Richard Nixon and Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai came together at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, one of the more prominent items on the dinner table was Moutai (or Maotai), a potent sorghum spirit which is widely considered China’s national liquor. Moutai was considered so powerfully intoxicating that the US Deputy National Security Adviser Alexander Haig had wired Beijing prior to the President’s arrival: “UNDER NO, REPEAT NO, CIRCUMSTANCES SHOULD THE PRESIDENT ACTUALLY DRINK FROM HIS GLASS IN RESPONSE TO BANQUET TOASTS.” Yet, Nixon, with a solid reputation for hot temper and low tolerance, ignored the warning in the interest of normalising ties with the Chinese. And the rest, as they say, is history. Following the dinner, Secretary of State Henry Kissinger even remarked to the then Communist Party Chairman, Deng Xiaoping, “I think if we drink enough Moutai, we can solve anything.” Beverages were also a hot-button issue in Europe’s more recent Brexit conundrum. As talks for a post-Brexit deal dragged on through the past year or so, Britons were busy hoarding their favourite champagnes from France to pre-empt looming import duties (indeed, even James Bond’s famous Bollinger champagne comes from France). Britain’s dependence on French champagne is so deep-rooted – dating back some three centuries, according to some experts – that French champagne-makers were publicly confident that they held most of the chips. And they were right: When the two sides finally agreed on a last-minute deal on Christmas eve, goods trade was left tariff-free -- as champagne glasses clinked in the background. Closer home, even India has not shied away from toting alcohol as a diplomatic tool. Back in 2013, when former New York attorney Preet Bharara went after an Indian diplomat, the Manmohan Singh government retaliated by, among other things, shutting down the duty-free alcohol store at the US embassy. It was a slight that did not go unnoticed by miffed American diplomats. So, if beverage diplomacy is now a thing, India should take things to the next level. Perhaps the next Quad meeting should be graced by Indian tea, American coffee, Australian beer and Japanese saké. With India now in the UN Security Council, perhaps an International Tea Day is in order, as well, at the UN. And was it a mere coincidence that Canada’s foreign minister until this January was Monsieur Champagne?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/storm-in-a-teacup-950995.html
14-02-2021||Opinion||Regaining cultural confidence||We have modern science, modern technology, modern industry, the rule of law, individualism, nationalism…” -- the list of things that the British in colonial times declared to be in their possession went along these lines. India, in their eyes, lacked these. This style of an us-and-them distinction game, which consolidated through the course of colonial rule, came to have newer and newer dimensions: fast cars, tractors, skyscrapers, mammoth highways, gigantic landholdings, even punctuality -- these supplied the evidence for the persistence of the civilisational gap. The sinister colonial drama drew, of course, a variety of responses among Indians. There is the original response of Gandhi, spelt out most grippingly in his Hind-Swaraj, which simply set aside the colonial ideas of modern civilisation as invalid, claiming instead that “true civilisation” showed humans “the path of duty,” where the mastery of the self takes priority over the pursuit of “bodily welfare.” And, as he clarified, his ideas in this regard were shared by “many Indians” outside the influence of modern civilisation and “thousands of Europeans” as well. The self-confidence vis-à-vis the colonial gambit seen in Gandhi’s response continues to be exemplary. A second response, which expressed faith in being able to emulate the West, found many takers among educated Indians, bringing in its wake a powerful cultural pathology to modern India. While the colonial classification of societies in terms of time on a scale of civilisational progress held out scope for the non-West to catch up with the West, viewing oneself in a state of backwardness on the world stage, though, brought with it a new vulnerability. With an imagined West as a fixed source of comparison, the Indian efforts to achieve progress sought constant validation from the West to feel complete. With the need for such a validation reaching the status of an internalised reflex, despair over a failed satellite launch or the heavy attractions of foreign degrees, for instance, has seemed natural. What the love for Western progress meant for how modern Indians came to view people in rural and tribal India as “backward” is another story altogether. The craving for applause from the West while being touchy towards any criticism from it continues to flourish among Indians. The recent hostility seen among Indians towards the support that the singer, Rihanna, and the climate change activist, Greta Thunberg, expressed towards the farmers’ protests amply testifies to this enduring pathology. The same Indians who exult at the news of an Indian winning the Nobel Prize or the Booker Prize or an Oscar award will not tolerate any criticism of the country from Western societies. Just as the award of these prizes alone need not matter outside of the worthiness of the awardees, the moral support for the protesting farmers need not matter outside of the basis for the support. The central government’s shutting down of the internet services near the farmers’ protest sites or its placing of spikes and barbed wire to obstruct the protesters’ movements is surely deserving of everyone’s criticism. Really, what does it matter where this criticism comes from? India and Indians were right to express moral disapproval for the racist apartheid regime in South Africa. It is similar with their disapproval of the Israeli State’s violence toward the Palestinians. It is such shows of solidarity with the oppressed communities which have clarified the values India stands by in the modern world. If we do not object to the Chinese State’s violence towards the minority Uyghur community or ask the Burmese government to stop persecuting the Rohingyas, or insist on a worldwide nuclear disarmament, we will have shrunk our moral selves. Asking ourselves to stay silent on these issues on the grounds of not interfering in another country’s affairs will be to offer a narrow, even obscene, rationale for what at bottom is an abdication of moral sensitivity. The religions of the world, which have contributed much to the shaping of ethical sensibilities among communities, do not ask that the human conscience restrict itself to this or that country: a conscience exists in relation to the whole world. Realising this is a step towards evolving a mature sense of one’s place in the world and a step, too, towards exorcising the Western referee within us.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/regaining-cultural-confidence-950996.html
14-02-2021||Opinion||Bitcoin? It ain’t good for sovereign authority||Pink Floyd’s Money, from the epically experimental 1973 album The Dark Side of the Moon, contains a memorable X-rated lyric: Money/It’s a hit/ Don’t give me that do goody-good bullshit. But it is precisely ‘do goody-good bullshit’ that the public is now being fed when it comes to the alternative to money that is Bitcoin. In case you don’t know, Bitcoin is a math-based, decentralised, trustless, fungible, deflationary virtual currency secured through cutting-edge cryptography. So now you still don’t know. Let’s just say that it’s internet money. There are lots of varieties of internet money, collectively called cryptocurrencies, or crypto for short. Bitcoin is a sort of gold standard of crypto. People are pretty polarised about Bitcoin, and especially about the draft ‘Banning of Cryptocurrency’ Bill now being debated. Poorva Paksha being a column about polarisation, about the art of compassionate debate in a polarised world, I thought it fit to write an article about the current cryptocurrency debate. That I happened to be jamming out to Pink Floyd at the time was just a happy coincidence. What’s fascinating about this particular debate is that the two opposing camps, for and against, do not overlap at all with the usual polarities of right versus left. You can imagine my own surprise when I nearly broke my neck nodding in enthusiastic agreement with a libertarian author of a piece in the right-wing Swarajya magazine. Me, a flaming anarcho-communist of the radical left! The article, Why India Should Buy Bitcoin, argued against the proposal to ban it, suggesting that India should “champion decentralised cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin to safeguard national security…and hasten India’s ascendance as a global power.” In other words, it deployed classical right-wing trope to present a case for embracing rather than criminalising crypto. My rationale is quite different, but my conclusions are the same. In fact, I would go further: India should not merely buy Bitcoin; India should set up some serious rigs and start mining it. Money/It’s a gas/ Grab that cash with both hands and make a stash. Now, whether you agree with me, Pink Floyd, and my new right-wing friends about the need for India to embrace Bitcoin, or not, you must at least admit that it’s a bit rich for a government that demonetised Indian currency overnight to claim that it needs to outright ban this new technology because of the risk it poses to citizens by not being backed by a sovereign government. It is precisely because governments cannot manipulate, demonetise, arbitrarily print and devalue crypto that it is so secure, that it is any citizen’s hedge against the risks inherent to sovereign authority and its reckless monetary policy or imprudent fiscal policy. The anti-crypto coalition, however, is as busy as ever propagating FUD. In case you don’t know, FUD is the term crypto-nerds use to refer to the ‘fear, uncertainty and doubt’ spread about cryptocurrencies by champions of the status quo, such as big banks. The government, for example, would have people believe that “cryptocurrencies are more vulnerable to criminal activity and money laundering,” to cite from the draft Banning of Cryptocurrencies Bill. Hmm, I wonder what has always been used for criminal activity and money laundering up till the time Bitcoin came along? Oh yeah, Rupees! If we cut through the bullshit, we can see pretty easily that the State’s impulse to ban Bitcoin is not about curbing crime, but about exercising total control. That is why they vilify crypto as volatile and threatening. Money/So they say/ Is the root of all evil today/ But if you ask for a raise, it’s no surprise that they’re giving none away. Those vested in the status quo seek to prohibit cryptocurrencies because their more rational operations and superior technology expose the inefficiencies, failures, and injustices of the present system, both fiscal and monetary. Such a revelatory technology is just the sort of thing that those even from the farther poles of left and right can jointly rally behind. The question is, can the centre?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/bitcoin-it-ain-t-good-for-sovereign-authority-950997.html
14-02-2021||Opinion||A long way from the aversion to ‘eating government salt’||As the saints – or rather swamijis -- come marching in on the city of Bengaluru, demanding their share of reservations for this or that category, to buttress their claims on education, employment and politics, there is no better moment to revisit the time when modern education in Mysore got off to a sluggish start in the 19th century. The first attempt at bringing more children, especially of the hitherto neglected and marginalised groups, into a systematised form of learning (though, of course, there were indigenous schools of various descriptions), in specifically designed schoolhouses with equipment – mainly, blackboards, printed books and benches -- was made by the London Missionary Society and the Wesleyan Methodists. In fact, so successfully did the missionaries run their schools that the Mysore government wanted to hand them charge of the whole state in the 1840s. By the mid-1860s, thanks to the efforts of B L Rice, among others, education in Mysore was organised on a firmer footing. But the Inspectors of Education complained that education was not among the most desired of qualifications for life. As opportunities for jobs in government opened up, hitherto learned classes, particularly Brahmins, seized the opportunity. They also crowded into the ‘engineering school’ started in 1863 to train men for the PWD department. However, since it included ‘manual’ skills, which were anathema to the upper castes, that first effort was a failure. Meanwhile, the missionaries, while committed to advancing education for all, first evicted from the classroom those who had long valued learning, such as the children of Devadasis. Many inspectors and even “a very respectable and highly esteemed” teacher in 1879 found the presence of the bright young girls useful “in stimulating the other girls to learn as the latter were half afraid to go on with their lessons owing to shyness and the novelty of the whole thing.” But schoolmasters were under orders not to admit them, and they were soon sent out of mixed schools as well. Such inclusions and exclusions made education a very unevenly accessible resource for social mobility in the 19th century. Generally, schooling was not the preferred choice of many castes and classes: as the Report on Public Instruction for 1870-71 said after the inspection at Chitaldurg (Chitradurga), the population was almost entirely Lingayat – including merchants, cultivators and artisans. Lingayats also filled every local office down to that of village watchman, but there was only one instance of a Lingayat accepting the appointment of hobli schoolmaster, and he was a tailor. This, despite several indigenous ayyagalu who, as teachers, commanded high respect. What explained this extraordinary reluctance of Lingayats to become teachers (or for that matter to attend school in large numbers)? As the 1870-71 Report had it, this overwhelmingly landowning agricultural caste had an aversion to working for the government! “Why should we eat government salt?” was the response given to the baffled Inspector of Education. Things changed dramatically by the early 20th century when not just schools, but hostels were built for the use of Lingayats seeking secondary education. After the establishment of the Mysore Lingayat Educational Fund Association in 1905, a dramatic expansion of secular education occurred in the Murugi and Suttur Mathas in the early 20th century, followed by the Sirigere and Siddaganga Mathas in the middle of the century. At first, drawn into constructing hostels for their adherents who attended government schools in Mysore towns and villages, the Mathas soon established educational institutions themselves. In the 1930s, Dewan Mirza Ismail approvingly noted that the services of the Murugimatha went well beyond mere “denominational charity,” commending the many institutions that it supported for non-Lingayats as well. The efforts of Murugarajendra Swamiji in setting up “residential accommodation for students coming from the mofussil parts” won high praise from Second Member of Council K Mathan in 1930. “Now, there are hostels built for students of various communities, but I do not think that you see anywhere else such a large number of hostels as there are for Lingayats.” He also saw these hostels as an extension of democracy. Unlike those who believed that “communal hostels are a curse on the nation,” he said, “I have long thought that love of one’s community is very important.” We have come a long way indeed, today, from the widespread “aversion” to schooling and government jobs, followed by the enthusiastic embrace of schooling, to the vigorous establishment of hostels for Lingayat and other castes. Today, just when the universal Right to Education has come into our statute books, finally entitling many who have enjoyed no other cultural or economic capital, those once averse to “eating government salt,” seek reservations and privileges, strategically forgetting this complex heritage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-long-way-from-the-aversion-to-eating-government-salt-950999.html
14-02-2021||Opinion||Preserve biodiversity||India is a kaleidoscopic landmass and a cohort of cultures as you look at southern Indian peninsula which is encompassed and enlivened  by the panoramic waters of three oceans. Northern  India is dominated by the majestic and invincible mountains of the Himalayas which the world cherishes as the stupendous mountains that keep rising across the land and the awesome universe of this mystical country. This great land is a many plateaued, undulated  mass that attracted warriors, mercenaries and  spiritual seekers who fell for its indescribable glory,  and made India their home and hearth.  Such is the geographical and historical impression of the country that it needs to be viewed in a large perspective. Similarly, Karnataka needs to be looked at from such various viewpoints. The state has the Western Ghats forests and rivers, it then permeates into the scrub jungles and shapes further into undulated pits and mounds forming the lake ecosystems and still further to the east, it develops into the grassland ecosystem of the Deccan plateau. This geography, part of Uttar Karnataka, formerly known as the Bombay Karnataka, is ecologically known as the ecotone belt that ranges from Ranebennur to Belagavi, in length for about 200 km, and stretches about 45 km from West to East where Dharwad is situated covering all the four ecosystems,  thereby making the land distinct and fertile.  Imagine a land that is endowed with the coastal belt, the celebrated mountains - virtually the water towers - have been listed and declared as the heritage and biodiversity hotspots of the Western Ghats by the United Nations. This invaluable stretch of land could be the divine gift for any society that desires to prosper provided we understand how the precious gift of environment promoted music, literature, arts, education and poetry that embellished and established Dharwad as the great cultural centre of the country. It’s not just talent but the salubrious climate, the soil, the forests,  air and water and the great biodiversity that promoted not only fruits and foods and vegetables but provided a great initiative to read, write, think and produce great arts, literature,  poetry and the sublime music that has held the name of Dharwad very high in India. It’s, therefore, important that we admire, save and preserve such impressive ecology and environment which have given us so much but which we have destroyed in the last couple of decades. We have taken the wrong advantage of the economic liberalisation and the process of globalisation and went on building great cities. The material concrete structures will not stand us in good stead because urbanisation is skewed and unplanned. The growth came at the cost of the small towns and villages which once constituted India. It came in handy for many to make fast bucks. There emerged some people who wrongly thought of economic growth as the panacea for the problems of our nation. How a nation could grow in a comprehensive way was out of the view of these people. Their idea of building the country was placed on faulty foundations. Thus, rural India was relegated into the background while the cities flourished and divided the country in several ways. The mega-cities literally drained the environment irrevocably. Agriculture, the backbone of the country and the economy, even today suffers the many crises and evils. So, the agriculturists have risen to revolt. Without farmers, the country has no future. Not even the world has a future if farmers are neglected.    We ruined the lakes, chopped forests, asphalted the precious soil and neglected grasslands as wastelands and thereby destroyed the forage of the great ecosystems. Crumbling society As a cultured and refined nation, we should have cared for the environment which gave us so much to survive and celebrate. It is sad to look at ourselves as the culprits of the social, cultural and civil decimation and ruination that has led the way for the unjust rise of the bunch of people who wrongly were chosen as the democratic leaders of the society which is crumbling today. However, it’s still not very late if we could think wisely and raise the awareness of what we have lost and how it could be regained to some extent so that we will be able to stop further destruction and bring back the lost resources of this precious land and rebuild the ruined ecosystems to a considerable extent and live a life that will be in balance with nature and the environment. We should understand that forests are not just bunch of trees and animals, they are  rich sources of biodiversity which give us good air, soil, medicine, rains, rivers and streams, and keep recharging the underground water tables so that we keep getting water to drink and also to produce food. Because of the forests, we have pollination that produces great amounts of healthy food and fruits. We need to preserve all the water bodies and not destroy the catchment areas. Soil, the most vibrant and living symbol of the earth, needs to be preserved and only some to be asphalted where it is essential to do so. Therefore, a new innovation in soil and environment preservation has to be formulated so that we could survive and sustain the civilisation. If Karnataka is to remain resourceful, vibrant and economically sound, we need to look at its environment and ecology and bring into the minds of the younger generation the urgent need to preserve its features and biodiversity which are the basis of all knowledge and prosperity. The rest of the things will just follow. (The writer is an environmentalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/preserve-biodiversity-951294.html
14-02-2021||Panorama||Is LIC as a corporate entity ready for hive-off?||In a Tamil movie of yesteryear, a first-time visitor to Chennai, passing through the iconic LIC Building on Mount Road, asks the hero of the movie what LIC stands for. “Lion of Indian Cinema” replies the hero. Many are hoping that the proposed initial public offering (IPO) for disinvestment of a portion of  LIC  would become a lion amongst IPOs in India. Ever since the announcement made in Budget 2020, progress on the IPO has been slow but steady. Proposals to amend the LIC Act have been made and Milliman Advisers was appointed as the Actuary. It is reported that transaction advisors have also been appointed. In Budget 2021, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman confirmed that the IPO would happen in 2022.  The  LIC IPO could ensure that the government reaches or at least nears its disinvestment target ofRs 1.75 lakh crore for 2021-22, an area where the Department of Disinvestment has been consistently under-performing over the past many years. The LIC IPO is bound to attract a lot of investors from everywhere. The brand recall value is up there amongst the best. Considering the recent success of IPOs of lesser-known companies such as Burger King and Mrs  Bectors, investors would be wondering at what price LIC would offer their shares.  These attempts may appear pre-mature due to the fact that LIC as a corporate entity is not ready for disinvestment yet and the financial information available is insufficient to attempt a valuation. For instance, the paid-up capital of LIC is only Rs 100 crore - any valuation done with this low capital would yield absurd results. Also, currently, LIC pays only 5% of its profits to its shareholder (the Government of India) and the remaining 95% goes to the policyholders - if such segmental valuation is done, it would be biased in favour of one of the segments.  It is obvious that a lot of groundwork needs to be done prior to getting LIC ready for an IPO. But since all valuations involve some degree of estimates, a back-of-the-envelope valuation for LIC can be attempted. The much used and also much-abused Discounted Cash Flow Technique (DCF) would not work well for an insurance company due to timing differences their cash flow. For example, LIC has built a big business in single-premium policies for which a cash flow would not apply. Most insurance companies calculate Embedded Value (EV) for the purposes of their valuation. EV is the sum of adjusted net worth and free surplus. Adjusted net worth is the present value of future profits less a deduction for some risks, options and guarantees. One of the valuation principles prescribed is the market method in which valuation comparisons are made with the market. SBI Life Insurance Company (SBILIC) had EV of about Rs 20,000 crore when it went public. Its issue was priced at Rs 700. The SBILIC has a net profit after tax of Rs 1,500 crore - LIC’s is around Rs 27,000 crores. Out of the 23 players in the life insurance industry in India, LIC commands a dominating share. Assuming that LIC is twice the size of SBILIC, its EV should be around Rs 40,000 crore. However, restructuring the LIC as a corporate entity for the purposes of listing,  preparing its books as per Ind AS  and the negative sentiment on selling a jewel of the nation could result in an EV of around Rs 30,000 crore. Going by the market method, the SBI issue was priced at Rs 700, HAL’s at Rs 1,215, IRCTC at Rs 320 and Coal India at Rs 245. Though these are early days to hazard a guess, LIC could probably fit into a slot between SBI Life Insurance and HAL. This would translate into an expected IPO price of between Rs 900-1,200 per share. Anything below this range would not interest the government and anything beyond this would not interest the investors. It is also being stated that employees would be entitled to a 10% discount on the issue price – another reason why the issue should not be over-priced.  It is clear that the disinvestment will happen at some point in time since the government has budgeted for a significant amount from this disinvestment - numbers of around Rs 90,000 crore are doing the rounds. Apart from providing the much-needed cash flows to the government, LIC could also become a bit more prudent as a listed company that owes a responsibility to shareholders. Over the last decade or so, LIC has acted as an “investor of the last resort” to many a public issue. When the public issue  not going well, LIC steps in and ensures that the issue is subscribed.   Many of these investments have proved to be non-performing assets - they would to be tested for impairment and if necessary, provided for. Once LIC transitions to Ind AS standards, they would have to fair value most of their investments and also recognise revenue based on future cash flows - which would make their financial statements realistic.  A blockbuster LIC  IPO could also breathe some life into the markets that tend to lose steam easily. Assuming that the IPO is reasonably priced, the issue is bound to be over-subscribed. Investors seeking listing gains, those who would want to keep these shares for the long-term and those who just want it in their portfolio because it is LIC, should probably start putting some money away in order that they can apply for as many lots as are permissible to ensure that at least some shares get allotted to them. Even if one invests the maximum limit of Rs 2 lakh permitted for retail investors, one would be applying for only around 200 shares of the insurer. They should consider themselves lucky if they are allotted around 40-50% of the number of shares they applied for. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based tax expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/is-lic-as-a-corporate-entity-ready-for-hive-off-951298.html
14-02-2021||Right in the Middle||A guru's blessing||This pandemic brings to my memory lanes that were filled with joy, laughter, cries, screams and shouts. The everyday interaction with the grocer, regular visits to the vegetable vendors, the ever-smiling flower seller who would give that extra length of "free" jasmine, the humble tender coconut seller. Visiting all of them would mean negotiating with everyday traffic. Driving my children to classes by the evening would mean meeting my friends as well. It was a race against time. Life has changed so much, now I stare at the needle of the clock, sometimes wondering if it's stuck! I wonder if all is going to be well, and soon my nostalgia prompts me to deep dive into the past. The one event of my life, that I ever cherished was the 'Guruvandana' --a thanksgiving to the teachers of my school, an event that I do not forget to recall even a single day. It was something that came into my life, as if a miracle, had never dreamt of, but brought a lot of joy. More so, in this pandemic period, I also had the opportunity to meet our childhood teachers and take their blessings. In our times, I was scared of my teachers, unlike now. The Guruvandana gave me an opportunity to talk friendly, shedding that fear. I also felt pride to talk about my teachers to my children.  More than the gratitude that my heart feels, their reciprocation of care and kindness makes me happy. I always felt like writing to them, thanking them for their presence in my life. It has been delightful also to visit my college and meet my teachers there as well. With a prayer in my heart for the well being of all my Gurus of both past and present, I shall ever grateful for the life lessons that they have bestowed on me. Last but not the least, this phase has honed and polished my culinary skills, and I wonder how I haven't thanked my mother every morning for having granted the essential life skill: cooking. Sometimes, mere words are just not enough to be thankful, but when we do it with heart, I have always believed that it would go a long way in convincing the other what we truly mean. The calendar does have specific days and dates where we offer our salutations to our revered gurus and teachers, however, I feel that every day, in our deeds, in our actions, in our learnings, we are someway connected to what has been inculcated in us, and this has made me eternally grateful!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-gurus-blessing-951297.html
14-02-2021||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan pulls out all the stops as Left tries to retain last bastion||Kerala made headlines in 1957 when it formed one of the world’s first democratically elected Communist governments. Six decades and several ballots later, the southern state remains the last bastion of the CPM in India. With Assembly elections around the corner and nothing much left of the Left in the country (after it lost grip on West Bengal and Tripura), the question is: Will the Pinarayi Vijayan government retain the lone red stronghold?  The CPM camps expect the polls to be a cakewalk for the chief minister, who is riding high on a wave of welfare measures amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The changed political equations in the state, a better rapport with the Christian community and the BJP’s long-term agenda of tarnishing the Congress are also favourable for the CPM. But critics cite Kerala's tradition of alternating between Communist and Congress regimes as an adverse factor.  The CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) enjoys a majority of over 90 seats in the 140-member Kerala Assembly, necessitating the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) to put up a tough fight. The BJP — which has only one seat — hopes to improve its position by projecting itself as an alternative party. The BJP is also keeping alive the Sabarimala temple issue on women's entry, trying to whip up some religious sentiments. While the LDF came up trumps in the recent local body elections after battling serious allegations of a nexus in the gold-smuggling racket, political analysts say it cannot be conclusively considered as a hurrah on the horizon. Earlier also, there were instances of parties suffering setbacks in Assembly elections after performing well in the civic polls that preceded. Local connections of candidates and regional issues are the deciding factors in local body polls, and not the state government’s performance, they say. However, welfare measures initiated by the government — such as free ration to all card-holders during the lockdown and enhancing social welfare pensions — are considered to have worked in favour of the LDF in the local body elections. Pinarayi Vijayan has decided to extend free ration supply for the coming months as well. The government also plans to highlight its development initiatives in the run-up to the Assembly polls. The LDF has already initiated a grassroots-level campaign to amplify its achievements. Vijayan reportedly told party leaders and workers to play up the welfare schemes instead of going after the controversies being raked up by the Opposition. The Congress has raised a series of issues like rampant backdoor appointments of the government, besides the simmering Sabarimala row. The CPM has already burnt its fingers by trying to justify its stand on women's entry into the hill shrine. Party central committee member M V Govindan’s statement that dialectical materialism was not practical in the present context invited criticism from within the party. A few CPM ministers also incurred the wrath of masses after they made objectionable remarks against the ongoing stir by job-seekers, who have alleged backdoor appointments by the government. Vijayan's justification of the regularisation of temporary staff, citing a similar practice by the previous Congress ministry, did not go down well either. Former CPM leader and veteran political commentator Appukuttan Vallikkunnu said the CPM was deviating from its basic ideologies and the party will pay the price in due course. The CPM, which used to lead mass protests, is now criticising agitations by the educated unemployed for their livelihood, he said. Communism is now only in the name. Its chemistry has changed entirely. Pinarayi Vijayan is just implementing Narendra Modi’s policies as part of tactical understanding, he said. Wooing the Christians The changed political equations of Kerala, however, seem to be in favour of the CPM. One such is the entry of Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K Mani into the LDF. Mani enjoys considerable support among the Christian vote banks of central Kerala. Some other measures that have made Vijayan popular among the Christian community — hitherto considered as UDF’s vote banks — are: The implementation of economic reservation that benefits a large section of Christian communities, the appointment of a commission to study the backwardness of Christian minorities, and soft-pedalling the implementation of the Supreme Court order on the power tussle between the Orthodox and Jacobite factions of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church.  CPM politburo member M A Baby said the political tradition of Kerala is all set to witness a change this time, as the Left front will have a walkover to the second term. Kerala's general mindset is secular, while the Congress and the BJP are toeing communal lines. The LDF is the secular power that can resist it, and hence, people will opt for it, Baby said. He also felt that the welfare measures of the government and its handling of the pandemic as well as floods and natural calamities will work in its favour.  It may be recalled that the CPM had set off a campaign about the Congress' tie-ups with outfits like the Jamaat-e-Islam, and claimed that the Indian Union Muslim League had an upper hand in the UDF. The CPM also alleged that Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi were maintaining a soft Hindutva line. All these could be considered as a political strategy to frame the UDF as a communal party. The UDF, of course, countered it with a campaign over the Sabarimala issue but it is unlikely to have much impact now as the matter is pending before the Supreme Court. Even Hindu bodies like the Nair Service Society have rejected the UDF’s stand. Bringing back Oommen Chandy to the forefront of Congress electioneering was also seen as a strategy to counter the CPM’s increasing rapport with Christian vote banks. BJP vs Congress The CPM is likely to gain some political advantage out of BJP's long-term agenda against the Congress. BJP national president J P Nadda recently said the UDF and the LDF are two sides of the same coin, and hence, both were enemies of the saffron party in Kerala. But political analysts differ and cite the BJP’s main agenda of tarnishing the Congress. The BJP, which hardly sees any prospects of coming to power in Kerala in near future, may wish to see the Congress getting defeated in the state. This would help weaken the Congress at the national level too, as Congress leaders from Kerala now constitute a considerable chunk of Lok Sabha MPs of the party. The UDF won 19 of the 20 Lok Sabha seats in Kerala in 2019, including Rahul's. Moreover, many Congress leaders in Kerala were said to be on the verge of switching sides to the BJP. Vallikunnu points out that the inordinate delay in the proceedings in the SNC Lavalin corruption case against Pinarayi Vijayan is one indicator of a BJP-CPM understanding. The chances of any further development in the gold-smuggling case — in which even Vijayan’s principal secretary was arrested — is also remote in the present political scenario, he said. Another senior political analyst C A Josukutty said the CPM has an upper hand now owing to the welfare measures of the government and its rapport with the Christian community. However, Kerala’s general mindset of not allowing a second term for the government in power and the current protests by unemployed youth are crucial factors, he added. As polls near, Pinarayi Vijayan may also miss V S Achuthanandan, who was a star campaigner in the last Assembly elections. A popular leader and a crowd-puller, the 97-year-old is unlikely to return to active politics owing to ill health. Vijayan, often criticised for his stubborn ways, has to lead from the front this time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-pulls-out-all-the-stops-as-left-tries-to-retain-last-bastion-951003.html
14-02-2021||South||14 Andhra Pradesh pilgrims on way to Ajmer Dargah killed, four injured in mini-bus, lorry collision||Tragedy struck a group of pilgrims on their way to Ajmer Dargah as 14 of them, including eight women and a child, were killed and four injured in a road mishap in Kurnool district in Andhra Pradesh early on Sunday, police said. The accident occurred when a mini-bus in which the victims, all relatives and hailing from Madanapalle in Chittoor district of the state, were travelling collided with a lorry at Madapuram around 4 AM, Kurnool District Superintendent of Police K.Fakirappa said. The passengers were on their way to the Ajmer Sharif Dargah in Rajasthan, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy were among those who expressed sorrow over the loss of lives. Reddy announced an ex-gratia of Rs two lakh each to the kin of the deceased and Rs 1 lakh to the injured. Preliminary investigation suggested the driver apparently lost control and the bus first crashed into the road median, rolled to the other side and hit the lorry, the SP told PTI. Only four children survived the crash and all had been admitted to a hospital where the condition of one of them was stated to be critical, he said. "The accident might have been be due to over speeding of the minibus or its driver might have been drowsy. Fourteen people died on the spot and another four (injured) were shifted to hospital. One of the children is said to be in a critical condition," the Police official added. Kurnool Collector G Veerapandiansaid the administration would also examine if there was any defect in the vehicle. A tweet posted on PMO India handle said: "The road accident in Andhra Pradesh's Kurnool district is saddening. In this hour of sadness, my thoughts are with those who lost their loved ones. I hope that the injured recover at the earliest: PM." Expressing sorrow over the loss of lives, the Chief Minister instructed the officials to provide necessary medical help to the injured as he wished them a speedy recovery. He conveyed his condolences to the bereaved families, an official release said. Veldurthi police station sub-inspector Peddaiah Naidu said they received information about the accident from a local person and the personnel immediately rushed to the spot. "Only four children survived and all of them are being treated in hospital," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/14-andhra-pradesh-pilgrims-on-way-to-ajmer-dargah-killed-four-injured-in-mini-bus-lorry-collision-951033.html
14-02-2021||South||PM Modi hands over indigenous Arjun tank to Army in Tamil Nadu||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday handed over to the Army the home-made Arjun Main Battle Tank (MK-1A) here, dubbed by him as an example of India's united spirit as the south made armoured vehicle will guard the northern borders of the country. At a function, he also accepted a salute by the state-of-the-art tank, indigenously designed, developed, and manufactured by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO)'s Combat Vehicles Research and Development Establishment here. Modi later handed over a replica model of the tank to Army Chief General M M Naravane. "Today I am proud to dedicate to the country one more warrior to protect our frontiers. I am proud to hand over the indigenously designed and manufactured Arjun MK-1A." "It also uses indigenous ammunition. Tamil Nadu is already the leading auto manufacturing hub of India. Now I see Tamil Nadu evolving as a tank manufacturing hub of India," he said. "A tank made in Tamil Nadu will be used in our northern border to keep our nation safe. This showcases India's united spirit--Bharat's ekta darshan," Modi added. According to reports, the Heavy Vehicles Factory (HVF) at Avadi here, has been placed with a Rs 8,500 crore order for manufacturing 118 of these tanks. Arjun MK 1 Alpha is a "contemporary tank in the world with battle-winning efficacy," officials said. It is 'infused' with 71 new features and would ensure effortless mobility in all terrains, besides precise target engagement during day and night. The production order opens up a large avenue in defence manufacturing for over 200 Indian companies and scores of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) with employment opportunities to 8,000 people, they said. The tank is a "shining example" of the Centre's much-touted "Atmanirbhar Bharat," a concept of attaining self-reliance in various sectors including the defence. Quoting from revolutionary Tamil poet and freedom fighter Mahakavi Subramanya Bharathi, Modi said that inspired by the former's vision, "India has taken a massive effort to become self-reliant in the defence sector." Of the two defence corridors in the country, the one in Tamil Nadu has already received investment commitments of over Rs 8,100 crore, Modi said. "We will continue working to make our armed forces one of the most modern forces in the world. At the same time the focus on making India Atmanirbhar in the defence sector moves with full speed," he said. Later, in a tweet, he said it was "a special day in our journey to become Aatmanirbhar in the defence sector," referring to Arjun Main Battle Tank (MK-1A). Fifteen academic institutions, eight labs and several MSMEs were also involved in the Arjun MK 1A.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-hands-over-indigenous-arjun-tank-to-army-in-tamil-nadu-951070.html
14-02-2021||South||PM inaugurates projects worth Rs 8,000 crore in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, says these are symbols of innovation||Just months before the Assembly elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday inaugurated projects worth over Rs 8,000 crore, including the last stretch of Chennai Metro's Phase-I and laying the foundation stone for modernisation of Grand Anaicut canal system. Modi's “love” for Tamil was on display as he began his address by greeting people in local language and quoted extensively from poems penned by Avaiyar and Subramania Bharathiyar in his speech. Besides the development projects, he also handed over the indigenously designed and manufactured 'Main Battle Tank Arjun Mark 1A'. The event also had political overtones with Modi holding the hands of Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his deputy O Panneerselvam and posing for pictures at the end of the event. This gesture is being interpreted as an affirmation of the AIADMK-BJP alliance for the Assembly polls. Both Palaniswami and Panneerselvam effused praise on Modi during their speeches, even cadres of AIADMK and BJP accorded him a grand welcome. Contending that this is “going to be India's decade”, Modi said the Centre is committed to doing everything possible to support this surge of aspiration and innovation while stressing that special importance has been given in this year's Budget to development of India’s coastal areas. At a gala event held at the Jawaharlal Nehru Indoor Stadium here, Modi flagged off the first Metro train from Washermanpet to Wimco Nagar, a distance of 9.05 km, piloted by Reena Arumugam, threw open the IIT Knowledge Park build at a cost of Rs 1,000 crore and inaugurated several railway projects. He also laid the foundation stone for modernising 636-km-long Grand Anaicut Canal System, which is the lifeline of farmers in the Cauvery Delta region. “The impact of this is going to be very big. It will improve irrigation facilities for 2.27 lakh acres of land. Districts of Thanjavur and Pudukkottai will gain especially. I want to appreciate the farmers of Tamil Nadu for record foodgrain production and good use of water resources,” he said. Noting that the Grand Anaicut is a living testimony to “our glorious past”, Modi said the canal is also an inspiration to the nation’s 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' goals. In his address, Modi said Over Rs 65,000 crore have been set aside for 119-km of Phase-II of Chennai Metro. “This is one of the largest projects sanctioned for any city in one-go. The focus on urban transport will boost ‘Ease of Living’ for citizens here,” he said. Modi also said the Centre would always protect the rightful interests of Indian fishermen vis-a-vis Sri Lanka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-inaugurates-projects-worth-rs-8000-crore-in-poll-bound-tamil-nadu-says-these-are-symbols-of-innovation-951079.html
14-02-2021||South||PM Modi inaugurates Rs 6,000-crore worth development projects in Kerala||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday launched major infrastructure projects to the tune of over Rs 6,000 crore in Kerala, including a Propylene Derivative Petrochemical project at the BPCL Kochi Refinery. Terming the Kochi Refinery 'one of the most modern' in the country, Modi said that the Propylene Derivative Petrochemical project is a major leap in the journey towards 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'. It would save foreign exchange as acrylic acid, oxo-alcohol and acrylates that are now being imported could be produced here. The project would be a boost to the nation's development and thereby, can generate more job opportunities, he said. Modi said that the newly commissioned Cochin Port Trust's International Cruise Terminal would be a boost to the tourism sector. Cochin Shipyard's Vigyana Sagar, a campus for Marine Engineering Training Institute, would help develop human resources for the marine engineering sector that was expected to witness much demand. Inaugurating the Ro-Ro vessels of Inland Waterways, he said that it would reduce 30 km distance by road to 3.5 km by water. Apart from enhancing convenience and capacity building, the Ro-Ro vessels would bring down transportation cost and pollution. He also laid the foundation stone of Cochin Port Trust's South Coal Berth. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said at the function that attracting private investment should not be the only focus of development, and steps to strengthen public sector undertakings and modernising traditional sectors are also required. Governor Arif Mohammed Khan was also present at the function. DYFI workers staged a protest in Kochi against fuel price hike during Modi's visit by raising black balloons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-inaugurates-rs-6000-crore-worth-development-projects-in-kerala-951149.html
14-02-2021||South||PM Modi catches a 'fleeting' view of the India-England Test||On a day when the England cricket team was bundled out for just 134 runs against India here, Prime Minister Narendra Modi seems to have got a bird's eye view of the 'interesting' contest. The Prime Minister was in the city to launch various government projects and lay the foundation stone for others. On Twitter, he uploaded a picture of the MA Chidambaram stadium and said he caught a 'fleeting' view of the second day's game between the two teams. "Caught a fleeting view of an interesting test match in Chennai," Modi tweeted. On Sunday, off-spinner R Ashwin returned yet another five-wicket haul as India bundled out England for 134 to take a huge first innings lead of 195 on the second day of the second Test. England are leading the four match test series 1-0 after winning the opening encounter here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-catches-a-fleeting-view-of-the-india-england-test-951160.html
14-02-2021||South||NCP faction in Kerala joins opposition UDF||A faction in the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in Kerala on Sunday formally joined the opposition Congress-led UDF, a day after severing its ties with the ruling LDF in the state. The faction, led by Mani C Kappan and a large number of his followers attended the 'Aiswarya Kerala' Yatra led by senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala when it reached his constituency Pala in the district. Kappan was received by senior UDF leaders, including Chennithala, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, IUML leader P K Kunhalikutty and Kerala Congress leader P J Joseph when he reached the venue of meeting of the yatra. Sources said Kappan would soon announce a new political party to officially become a constituent in the UDF. He quit the LDF in protest against the state LDF leadership following the move by the CPI(M) to hand over Pala Assembly seat to Kerala Congress (M)-led by Jose K Mani which recently joined the ruling front after severing its decades old alliance with the UDF. Welcoming Kappan, Chennithala said he has "escaped" from the LDF, which is a "sinking ship." Lashing out at Jose K Mani, Kappan alleged that the Kerala Congress leader was torpedoing the developmental works undertaken in Pala under his leadership. Kappan had defeated Kerala Congress leader Jose Tom, who contested as a UDF candidate in the 2019 bypoll, necessitated due to the demise of veteran Kerala Congress leader and former minister K M Mani. K M Mani had represented the Pala seat in the Assembly for over 50 years. Kappan had held discussions with NCP national leaders in New Delhi this week about the "injustice" being meted out to him by the LDF over the Pala seat. Kerala Transport Minister A K Saseendran, who heads the NCP rival faction, has condemned the move by Kappan to join the UDF, alleging that he did injustice to the people of Pala who elected him in the bypoll. The NCP national leadership has not officially reacted to the developments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ncp-faction-in-kerala-joins-opposition-udf-951166.html
14-02-2021||South||PM Modi sets stage for positive campaign in Tamil Nadu polls||Setting the stage for a positive campaign for the Tamil Nadu Assembly polls, likely in April, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday latched on to Tamil culture and justice for people and backed the aspirations of Sri Lankan Tamils. Signalling a united fight against the background of the belligerence of expelled AIADMK leaders T T V Dhinakaran and his aunt V K Sasikala, Modi gestured to Chief Minister K Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam on the dias to join and lift hands with him. All smiles, the three leaders quickly interlocked their hands amid applause and the unmistakable political subtext of the event that saw the launch of completed infra projects and laying the foundation for new initiatives was not lost on anyone. "It is our honour to work towards preserving and celebrating the culture of Tamil Nadu. The culture of Tamil Nadu is popular globally," said Modi,who had quoted from Tamil texts, including classic 'Thirukkural' several times in the past during different occasions. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had during his recent campaign in Tamil Nadu accused the BJP and Modi of showing 'no respect' to Tamil culture. While AIADMK and BJP have already announced that they would fight the assembly elections together, Sasikala's camp, steered by Dhinakaran, have been staking claim to the party and harping on its retrieval. Quoting verses of Tamil poet of yore, 'Avvaiyar', Modi said it was also an inspiration to the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' (Self-reliant India) goals. The popular lines underscore that water is the basic element that could lead to the nation's prosperity. Stressing water conservation, the PM urged the people to do work towards that goal and underlined that it was not only a national issue, but also had global implications. "Always remember the mantra of per drop more crop, this will help future generations." Laying the foundation stone for modernisation of 636 kilometres long Grand Anicut Canal System in Tamil Nadu's Cauvery delta region, he said the Anicut "is a living testimony to our glorious past." The plan would have a big impact and improve irrigation facilities for 2.27 lakh acres in the delta region and Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts shall gain specially, he said. "I want to appreciate the farmers of Tamil Nadu for record food grain production and good use of water resources." Hailing Tamil as the oldest language in the world, he quoted nationalist Tamil poet Mahakavi Subramaniya Bharathi's famous lines that stressed on manufacturing domestically. Modi said the nation was inspired by the vision of the freedom fighter and has undertaken a massive effort to become self-reliant in the defence sector. One of the two defence corridors is in Tamil Nadu and it has already received investment commitments exceeding Rs 8,100 crore, he noted. "Today, I am proud to dedicate to the country one more warrior to protect our frontiers. I am proud to hand over the indigenously designed and manufactured Main Battle Tank Arjun Mark 1A. It also uses indigenous ammunition." Tamil Nadu, already a leading automobile manufacturing hub, has now evolved as the 'Tank manufacturing hub' of the nation. "A tank made in Tamil Nadu will be used in our northern borders to keep the nation safe. This showcases India's united spirit Bharat's Ekta Darshan." Modi said the Centre has accepted the Devendrakula Vellalar community's demand to be listed only by their collective, traditional name of 'Devendrakula Vellalar (DVR)' and not by the names of seven sub-sects. Identifying himself with the community's aspirations, he said their name 'Devender' rhymed with his name 'Narendra,' adding, "I understand their emotions." The ruling AIADMK has backed and recommended the move. "Colonial rulers took away their pride and dignity. For decades nothing happened." It was beyond change of name and it was about, "justice, dignity and opportunity," for them. Praising the community, he said they celebrated harmony, friendship and brotherhood. "Theirs was a civilisational movement. It shows their self-confidence and self pride, Aatma Gaurav." The Puthiya Thamizhagam had for a long time been demanding renaming the seven sects under a single heritage name of DVR and also had wanted delisting the caste from the list of Scheduled Castes. Asserting that his government had always taken care of the welfare of Sri Lankan Tamils, Modi said, "it is my honour to have been the only Indian PM to visit Jaffna." Listing several development and welfare initiatives facilitated by the Centre for Tamils in Lanka, he said the issue of rights of Tamils have also been taken up by India with Sri Lanka. "We are always committed to ensuring that they live with equality, justice peace and dignity." The projects he listed include 50,000 houses for displaced Tamils in North eastern Lanka, 4,000 tenements in plantation areas, a hospital, free ambulance services, and rebuilding the rail network there. "I feel happy to share that India has built the Jaffna Cultural Centre which we hope to open soon." On the travails of Tamil Nadu fishermen, vis-a-vis Sri Lanka, the Prime Minister assured that his government always protected their rightful interests. The Centre has ensured early release, whenever fishermen were apprehended in Sri Lanka, he said. More than 1,600 fishermen have been released during the BJP-led government's tenure and currently, there is no Indian fisherman in Sri Lankan custody. Also, 313 boats have also been released and "we are working for the return of the rest of the boats," he said. Earlier, he began and ended his address with 'Vankakkam' and praised Chennai as a city full of energy and enthusiasm and a centre of knowledge and creativity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-sets-stage-for-positive-campaign-in-tamil-nadu-polls-951186.html
14-02-2021||South||Nation proud of Indian diaspora in the Gulf, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reached out to the Indian diaspora in the Gulf, particularly a large number of Keralites working there, saying the country is proud of them and assured them of his government's full support. Referring to the plight of Indians who were languishing in jails in the Gulf countries, the Prime Minister, while addressing a programme after inaugurating various infrastructure projects here, said governments of many gulf nations have over the last few years released several such Indians after the intervention of his government. "Our government will always speak up for such people", Modi said. The Prime Minister thanked the governments of various gulf nations for their sensitive approach on this subject. "The Gulf kingdoms responded to my personal appeals and took special care of our community", he said. Recalling his previous visits to the Gulf countries, including Saudi Arabia, Qatar, UAE and Bahrain, the Prime Minister said he had shared meals and interacted with them. Modi said India is proud of its diaspora in the Gulf. He said over 50 lakh Indians who were stranded in foreign countries due to Covid-19 pandemic had come back home under the 'Vande Bharat Mission.' "Many of them were from Kerala. It was our government's honour to serve them at such a sensitive time", Modi said. The PM said the Gulf countries are giving priority to the return of Indians to the region. "We've set up air bubbles to facilitate that process. Indians working in the gulf should know they have full support of our government", Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nation-proud-of-indian-diaspora-in-the-gulf-says-pm-modi-951188.html
14-02-2021||South||Kerala NCP MLA exits left front, joins Congress-led UDF||One of the two MLAs of NCP in Kerala joined the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF), while the party's state leadership decided to stay back with the CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF). This led to the division of the NCP in the state. Mani C Kappan, who is the sitting MLA of Pala constituency in Kottayam district, was given a rousing reception by UDF leaders including AICC general secretary Oommen Chandy and Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala in Kottayam on Sunday. Kappan, who claims to have the support of many district units of NCP, is likely to announce a new party soon. He has sought three seats in the Assembly polls. Congress leaders have suggested that he may join the Congress. Kappan's decision to quit LDF came as the CPM that leads the front felt that the Pala seat should be given to Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K Mani, a new entrant to the LDF. Jose K Mani, who is a former MP, is the son of K M Mani, who had been MLA of Pala for over 50 years in a row till his death in 2019. Kappan, who won the by-polls held after Mani’s death, insisted on contesting from Pala in the upcoming election. Though the NCP national leadership held talks with CPM top leaders including Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the CPM leaders were adamant about their stand, as Mani's entry to the Left Front helped them gain support from the Christian vote banks during the recent local body polls. The NCP leadership is learnt to have preferred to stay back in the Left Front as it did not want to worsen relations with the CPM mainly at the national level. Kappan, a film producer and actor, thanked the CPM leaders for supporting him over these years and said that Jose K Mani’s entry would affect the Front in the due course. Kappan had been contesting against K M Mani at Pala over the last few Assembly polls and his vote share kept on increasing. In 2016 Assembly polls, he lost by 4,703 votes only. In the 2019 by-polls, he defeated KC(M)'s Jose Tom Pulikunnel with a margin of 2,943.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-ncp-mla-exits-left-front-joins-congress-led-udf-951227.html
14-02-2021||South||Seven SC groups will be classified as Devendrakula Velalars: PM Modi's 'delightful' message in Tamil Nadu||Fulfilling a long-standing demand, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday announced in Tamil Nadu that the Centre has approved a proposal to group under Devendrakula Vellalars seven communities that are currently placed in Scheduled Caste (SC). The announcement comes at a time when the state is just months away from one of the most crucial Assembly elections in recent times. People belonging to the seven communities — Devendrakulathan, Kadaiyan, Kalladi, Kudumbam, Pallan, Pannadi, Vathiriyan and Kadaiyan — are spread across Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Ramanathapuram, Pudukkottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts of the state. The BJP, which hardly has any base in Tamil Nadu, has been espousing the cause of these communities and had promised to fulfil their demand. The move might help the AIADMK-BJP alliance in the April-May polls. "Today, I have a delightful message for the Devendrakula Vellalar community sisters and brothers in Tamil Nadu. The central government has accepted their long-standing demand... They will now be known by their heritage name and not the six to seven names listed in the Schedule to the Constitution,” Modi said after launching various development projects worth over Rs 8,000 crore in the state. The draft gazette to amend the schedule will be placed before Parliament before the start of the next session, he said. Recalling a meeting that he had with the representatives of the communities in 2015 in New Delhi, Modi blamed colonial rulers for taking away their pride and dignity. "For decades nothing happened. They told me they pleaded with the governments but nothing changed. I said their name Devender rhymes with my own name — Narendra. I understand their emotions. This decision is more about a change of name. It is about justice, dignity and opportunity,” he added. Union Home Minister and then Home Minister Amit Shah had participated in a conclave organised by the aforementioned communities in Madurai in 2015, and promised that the Central government will look into their demands. Political analysts said the move is part of BJP's concerted efforts to make inroads into Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/seven-sc-groups-will-be-classified-as-devendrakula-velalars-pm-modis-delightful-message-in-tamil-nadu-951229.html
14-02-2021||South||PM Modi meets Kerala BJP leaders||During his brief visit to Kerala on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with BJP core committee leaders to discuss the preparations for the upcoming Assembly elections. BJP State President K Surendran later told reporters that the PM directed the party's state unit to take initiatives to enhance the mass base in the state as well as to ensure that various welfare and development initiatives of the Centre reach the grassroots levels. Earlier, during his inaugural address of various infrastructure projects in Kochi, Modi highlighted his government's contributions to the development of Kerala over these years, including the budget allocations and Kochi metro project. He pointed out that Malayalis constituted the major chunk of NRIs brought back in the Vande Bharat mission flights and said that his government was prioritising the welfare of NRIs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-meets-kerala-bjp-leaders-951251.html
14-02-2021||South||8 Tourism projects launched in Kerala||Ramping up tourism facilities state-wide with an aim at boosting the sector, hit hard by the Covid-19 pandemic, the Kerala government on Sunday launched 18 projects, completed at a cost of Rs 40.46 crore. The projects inaugurated by Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran through videoconferencing, include destination development of Kovalam Phase 1 -- Samudra Beach park area and Grove Beach area, Kovalam-- at a cost of Rs 9.9 crore and beautification and interlocking of Mulavilakam Footpath at Kovalam at a cost of Rs 52 lakh. In his address, the Minister said the domino effect of Covid-19 was reflected in the tourism sector and was expected to continue for some more time. But the government did not allow the pandemic to hamper the implementation of the tourism sector projects. "The state government has initiated a lot of special projects for revival of the sector, where around 15 lakh people are employed directly and indirectly. Last year, we got Rs 45,000 crore overall income from the tourism sector, which was an all-time record," he said. The Minister said that with the inauguration of these 18 tourism projects in seven districts, the government has completed more than 100 projects in the last six months. Eighty per cent of the 300 tourism projects given administrative sanction after the government came to power have now been completed, he said. "No other government in the history of Kerala has implemented so many projects in the tourism sector," he added. Rani George, Principal Secretary, Tourism, said that in the face of the most adverse circumstances, the tourism sector has shown the potential to overcome them all. "We have set an example for other states through our aggressive and multi-pronged strategy to defy all odds. The new projects will be a big boost to the locations in the seven districts," she added. Noting that renovation of MHP sites will make the visit to these spots more attractive, Tourism Director P Bala Kiran said the completed projects also contributed to the basic infrastructure development of the respective locations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/8-tourism-projects-launched-in-kerala-951254.html
14-02-2021||South||Kerala Assembly elections schedule to be fixed based on festivals||Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora has said that Assembly election schedule for Kerala would be decided considering various festivals observed in the state. The Commission that reviewed the preparations for the elections in the state told reporters that while Covid-19 cases in Kerala were still high, the election would be conducted smoothly, just like elections conducted in Bihar when Covid-19 was at its peak. He said that more polling stations would have to be set up in view of Covid-19. Election schedule would be finalised by considering the Vishu, Easter and Ramadan festivals in April-May. By-polls to Malappuram Lok Sabha seat that became vacant following the resignation of IUML leader P K Kunhalikutty would be also possibly held along with the Assembly elections. While CPM and Congress suggested to the Commission that the elections should be held in April, BJP said that the elections shall be held in May. All parties suggested single-phase polling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-elections-schedule-to-be-fixed-based-on-festivals-951255.html
14-02-2021||South||Three minor siblings drown in pond in Kerala||Three minor siblings from Palakkad district in Kerala drowned in a pond on February 14. The tragic incident occurred when they were bathing near the pond at Kuniserry, about 30 kilometres from the town. The deceased were identified as Jinshad, Rinshad and Rifaz aged 12, eight and three respectively. As per preliminary reports, they slipped into the pond. Although the younger one slipped into the pond accidentally, the other two fell while trying to rescue him. Locals rushed them to the nearest hospital but their lives could not be saved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-minor-siblings-drown-in-pond-in-kerala-951264.html
14-02-2021||State||Karnataka govt lost more cases than it won in lower courts||The Karnataka government has lost over twice the number of cases than it has won in lower courts, according to official data, indicating gaps in the performance of the state’s public prosecution.  In 2019 and 2020, the government saw court orders going against its favour in 12,513 cases. This is against 4,389 cases that the government won, data tabled by Law and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai in the Legislative Assembly show.  These numbers buttress the oft-repeated complaint that district attorneys do not effectively fight the government’s cases. “Failure in prosecution has so many dimensions. Prosecution commences from the complaint, but sometimes the complaint itself can be flawed. Secondly, it’s about the investigation. Presently, we deal with a lot of evidence related to IT and digital crimes; our investigators don’t have the competence,” former additional advocate general A S Ponnanna said.  “What the prosecution has collected as evidence and what the courts want for a conviction unfortunately do not match in most cases. That’s why we have 95% acquittals across India,” he added.   Data reveal that the government’s success rate is higher in cases where it is the petitioner. In 2019 and 2020, the government got court orders coming in its favour in 49% of the 2,054 cases it filed. But in the same period, the government won just 22% out of 14,848 cases in which it was the defendant.  “There are three problems,” former special public prosecutor H S Chandramouli said. “There’s a lack of coordination between the home department (police) and the law department (prosecutors). Then there’s a lack of commitment. Also, there’s a lack of proper training.”  According to Chandramouli, investigating officers usually think their job gets done after filing a charge sheet. “But the criminal rules of procedure state clearly that that’s not the case.”  Bommai was not available for comment. But in his reply to the Assembly, he stated that government attorneys are hired under the Karnataka Law Officers (Appointment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 1977 “based on experience, educational qualification and on the opinions of the deputy commissioners and district judges”.  He also stated the Law Department was “unaware” of such complaints.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-lost-more-cases-than-it-won-in-lower-courts-951009.html
14-02-2021||State||HAL aims to drive up indigenised content of LCA Tejas||The Tejas aircraft may be described as an Indian innovation but nearly half of it is being held up by international manufacturing in avionics and propulsion. Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) says it is aiming to drive up the indigenised content of the aircraft. Faced with the pressures of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat', HAL’s Chairman and Managing Director R Madhavan said the company will attempt to increase the LCA’s indigenised content from the current 52% to 65%. He was speaking at the recently-concluded Aero India 2021. However, Madhavan added that much of the attempted increase in indigenisation content will be made through raw materials, as the company is finding it difficult to source many key technologies in India.  “So far, some 463 vendors are involved in the Tejas project, including both MSMEs and bigger tier-1 companies. Five major suppliers, including Larssen & Turbo are giving us structures. This number will go to 550 - 600 by the end of this year, because more and more MSMEs will be coming forward," Madhavan said. He added, however, that the increased indigenisation would only happen if "some of tier-3 and tier-2 vendors [in India] become tier-1 and give us system and line replacement units (LRUs) as finished units." LRUs are modular systems, which range from carbon disc brakes to high-grade materials and to advanced sensors, which are integrated into the aircraft by HAL, in its capacity as lead integrator. According to data, the company sources 344 LRUs from 76 companies, of which 49 are international companies such Eaton Aerospace, Elbit, Intertechnique and BAE Systems.  Sources in HAL said that the company would like to see more indigenisation of the aircraft, although the US-supplied power plant constitutes a major chunk of the foreign components in the aircraft, which cannot be eased out through indigenization at the moment. Madhavan described the future advanced medium combat aircraft (AMCA) as being a more watershed moment for HAL than the LCA Mark IA, 83 of which were recently ordered by the Indian Air Force. "Even when we talk about LCA and for that matter, our rotary wings, the LUH and LCH, there are many items we still have to get from outside because off-the-shelf I am not getting those items in India. HAL cannot make all the items that are required," he said. The company said it "proactively identifies items for indigenisation to mitigate obsolescence issues on a continuous basis.... HAL indigenises approximately 1,000 types of items per annum with internal sources and through Indian private partners as well."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hal-aims-to-drive-up-indigenised-content-of-lca-tejas-951239.html
14-02-2021||State||Who foots bill for post-Covid-19 vaccine complications?||There is no provision of insurance for Covid-19 vaccine recipients against side effects or medical complications. But adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) cases are provided free treatment in public health facilities, said Ashwini Kumar Choubey, MoS for Health, in Parliament recently. Since January 16, there have been 15 serious AEFIs in the state. But two cases of health workers admitted to ICU, post-vaccination, in Karnataka show contrasting realities when it comes to paying for treatment.   A 35-year-old vaccinated anganwadi worker from Thirthahalli, Shivamogga, is on ventilator in Kasturba Hospital, Manipal, and requires Rs 2.5 lakh for immunoglobulins for treatment. Though initially, it is suggested that this is  coincidental, the state is covering the cost under the National Free Drugs Scheme. But another vaccinated 23-year-old nurse in Kalaburagi is paying for her medicines on her eighth day in ICU. She is dependent on the largesse of the hospital she works at, for waiving ICU charges. Dr Prabhuling Mankar, district immunisation officer, Kalaburagi, told DH, “The state is not paying for the treatment as of now. The hospital or family is.” The nurse’s brother said, “Initially, the hospital asked us to pay for the medicines while they waived of the bed charges as she works there. Today, they agreed to pay for medicines too. So far, we have paid Rs 6,000 for MRI.” On the other hand, Dr Rajesh Suragihalli, district health officer, Shivamogga, told DH, “Every 10 to 12 hours she (the anganwadi worker) requires a high-risk steroid. This amounts to three doses.” “Since she is an anganwadi worker who has worked during Covid pandemic, the government will provide the immunoglobulins under the National Free Drugs Scheme and ICU charges under Jyothi Sanjeevini scheme as she did not have BPL or APL card to avail benefits under Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka,” he said.  Dr Sudha Vidyasagar, HoD, medicine, Kasturba Hospital, Manipal, who is treating the woman suffering from Guillain-Barre Syndrome, a rare disorder in which the body’s immune system attacks the nerves, said, “the patient is improving and we’re gradually reducing ventilator support. Two days ago, she was breathless and was admitted in ICU. Guillain-Barre Syndrome can happen for a variety of reasons, including vaccination.” “In 40 years of my practice, I have seen people getting GB syndrome from some other vaccination. But the most common thing precipitating this are small infections like cold, cough and diarrhoea. We can neither completely rule out vaccination as a cause (since it is one of the reasons listed) nor can we say it is because of vaccination. It is rare,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/who-foots-bill-for-post-covid-19-vaccine-complications-951243.html
14-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||21-year-old activist Disha Ravi arrested in Bengaluru in 'toolkit' case||Disha Ravi, a 21-year-old climate activist, has been arrested from Bengaluru by Delhi Police, alleging that she was a "key conspirator" in the formulation of toolkit document, a guide on how to support the ongoing farmers' protest, which was shared by teenage activist Greta Thunberg. She was arrested from her residence in Bengaluru on Saturday following an FIR filed on February 4 invoking sedition, promoting enmity among people and criminal conspiracy among others and brought to Delhi late evening. On Sunday, a court sent her to five day police custody for interrogation. In the court, Disha broke down and told the judge that she had edited only two lines and that she wanted to support the farmers' protest even as investigators claimed she edited the toolkit on February 3 and several others were involved in its preparation and dissemination. Delhi Police claimed that she was an "editor of the toolkit document and key conspirator in document's formulation and dissemination". It said she started a WhatsApp Group and collaborated to make the toolkit document. "She worked closely with them to draft the document. In this process, they all collaborated with the pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State. She was the one who shared the Toolkit Doc with Greta Thunberg," it claimed. "Later, she asked Greta to remove the main document after its incriminating details accidentally got into public domain. This is many times more than the two lines editing that she claims," police said in a statement. Disha's arrest attracted criticism with senior Congress MPs Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor supporting the young activist. "Completely atrocious! This is unwarranted harassment and intimidation. I express my full solidarity with Disha Ravi," Ramesh tweeted. Referring to  terror accused former DySP Davinder Singh, Tharoor tweeted, "activists in jail while accused terrorists are on bail. Wondering how our authorities would commemorate this case on the anniversary of Pulwama Attacks?" Former Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Gowda tweeted, "An activist who stands up for farmers, fights for our planet, is arrested on flimsy grounds. Has the government lost its balance? Will not such trumped-up charges, seeing conspiracy in regular social media mobilisation, do more damage to democracy? #IndiaWontBeSilenced #SpeakUpForDisha." CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said, "Modi regime thinks by arresting a granddaughter of farmers, under Sedition, it can weaken the farmers’ struggles. In fact, it will awaken the youth of the country and strengthen the struggles for democracy." Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella organisation spearheading the farmers agitation, condemned Disha's arrest, saying she stood in support of the farmers. "We also demand her immediate unconditional release," it said. A graduate in Bachelor of Business Administration from a private college in Bengaluru, Disha is one of the founding members of a group named 'Fridays For Future India'. Delhi Police had said that the toolkit found on a social media platform predates and indicates a copycat execution of a conspiracy behind the January 26 violence and the call was to wage "economic, social, cultural and regional war against India". Investigators also seized her laptop and mobile phone for scientific examination. Probe is also on to ascertain the identity of other people who were in touch with Disha in connection with the case. "The action plan delineated in the toolkit reveals copy-cat execution of the events on January 26 and around it. No one has been named as accused in the case," a senior police official claimed. Earlier, the Delhi Police had asked Google and social media platforms to provide information about email ids, URLs and social media accounts related to the creators of the "toolkit" shared by Greta and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/21-year-old-activist-disha-ravi-arrested-in-bengaluru-in-toolkit-case-951069.html
14-02-2021||West||Sniffer dogs take part in exercise in offshore platform||Two explosive sniffing dogs, named Minki and Mukti, trained to sniff out explosives, were slithered down from a naval helicopter onto the offshore oil platform Neelam as part of a simulated bomb threat during the recently concluded Exercise Prasthan and Sea Vigil. In a first for the Indian Navy, clearance divers of the Western Naval Command slithered down onto the oil rig platform with the two dogs. The dogs then proceeded to do their job of sniffing out IEDs. The maiden slithering of explosive sniffing dogs with their handlers and equipment laden technicians’ onboard offshore platforms has proved the Navy's reach and response in swift deployability to neutralise bomb/IED threats. In recognition of this outstanding feat, the explosive sniffing dog Mukti, and her handler SK Bishoyi, Sea I CD, were commended by Vice Admiral Ajit Kumar, the Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief Western Naval Command.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sniffer-dogs-take-part-in-exercise-in-offshore-platform-951057.html
14-02-2021||West||Maharashtra witnesses a spike of over 4,000 Covid-19 cases after 39 days||Maharashtra, over the past few weeks, has seen a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra on Sunday reported a spike of 4,092 Covid-19 cases after 39 days. The spike took the novel coronavirus tally in the state to 20.64 lakh.  It also reported 40 more deaths, taking the overall Covid-19 toll in the state to 51,529.  Though the situation seems to be okay in Mumbai and in the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), with the daily average increase keeping below the 1,000-mark, the same cannot be said of some pockets of the state. Regarding the daily addition of coronavirus cases from February 1 to 9, the average increase was around 2,500 per day in the state. On 9 February, 2,515 fresh cases were reported taking the state’s tally to 20,48,802. However, on February 10, the daily increase was 3,451, while it was 3,297 on February 11, 3,670 on February 12 and 3,611 on February 13, according to the Public Health Department. The Covid-19 Task Force in the state has asked the government and people to be on alert and ensure that the necessary protocols and precautions are followed. Maharashtra government officials and doctors said that from February 1, the local trains in the MMR have been opened for the general public with restricted timings and there could be an increase in the days to come. The biggest Covid-19 spike was reported from Nagpur and Amravati, where over 450 to 500 fresh cases have been reported daily in the past week. “People need to be careful,” Nagpur municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, said, adding that housing societies also must place measures to control the situation. “Contact tracing and testing have been increased,” added Amravati Shelesh Nawal. Last week, a Central team led by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) director Sujit Singh visited Mumbai and covered two divisions of Nagpur and Amravati – and visited the cities of Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal and Nagpur. The team also talked with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray about the situation. Meanwhile, Health Minister Rajesh Tope said, “On Saturday, 3,611 patients have been tested as positive in the state. Also, 1,773 patients have been cured today. Totally, 19,74,248 patients are cured and discharged from hospitals. Total active patients are 33,269. The patient recovery rate in the state is 95.83 per cent.” The situation in urban areas of Pune, Nashik and Aurangabad is being closely monitored.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-witnesses-a-spike-of-over-4000-covid-19-cases-after-39-days-951074.html
14-02-2021||West||Fadnavis seeks suo-motu action by cops into TikTok star's 'suicide'||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday said the Maharashtra Police should take suo-motu action over the alleged suicide of a 23-year-old woman in Pune, and questioned whether the police are under some kind of pressure in connection with the case. Some social media posts have claimed that the woman, who died after falling from a building in Pune's Hadapsar area on February 8, was in a relationship with a cabinet minister in the state. According to Wanwadi police, who have registered a case of accidental death, there was no suicide note. Earlier, Fadnavis on Friday said his office received 12 clips of conversation between two persons linked to the woman's death, and he had forwarded them to the Director General of Police. Talking to reporters at the Nagpur airport on Sunday, Fadnavis said he feels the police action in the case is "not as serious as it should have been". Hence, the question arises whether the police are under some kind of pressure, he said. The clips related to this case are very clear and on the basis of these clips, the police should take suo-motu (on their own) action, he said. "The voice in the clip is very easily recognisable by all, and police should also reveal whose voice is there in that clip which is being hidden by the police," the former state chief minister said without taking any name. An offence should be registered and truth should come out before people, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fadnavis-seeks-suo-motu-action-by-cops-into-tiktok-stars-suicide-951120.html
14-02-2021||West||Pooja Chavan suicide case: Police is under pressure, says Devendra Fadnavis||A day after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray assured a thorough probe into social media star Pooja Chavan’s death, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday said that the police seem to be under pressure. The name of Shiv Sena leader from Vidarbha region and forest minister Sanjay Rathod has cropped up in the case. Pooja Lahu Chavan, who was a TikTok star, hailed from Parli in the Beed district of Maharashtra. “Investigations are not being done as the way it should be... police seem to be under pressure... audio clips have surfaced... everyone knows whose voice it is except the police,” Fadnavis, a former chief minister, who also held the home portfolio, told reporters in Nagpur. On Saturday, Thackeray had announced a probe. “A thorough probe will be done and the truth will come out before the people. The guilty will be punished but innocent need to suffer... the truth will not be hidden,” he had said. The chief minister has also sought a report from Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta. Thackeray’s advisor on farmers issues Kishore Tiwari said that he had known Rathod for the last 25 years.  “The Opposition is talking about audio takes... we have videotapes also,” said Tiwari, the founder of Vidarbha Jan Andolan Samiti and chairperson of Maharashtra government-run Vasantrao Naik Sheti Swavlamban Mission. According to him, earlier the BJP had targeted social justice minister Dhananjay Munde. "We have also seen in the Sushant Singh Rajput case how the Maha Vikas Aghadi government was attacked, we have seen the Disha Salian case... the CBI is yet to announce the findings of the investigations in the Sushant Singh Rajput case," he said. State’s revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat of the Congress said that the chief minister has already ordered a probe and we should allow the probe to be complete. "Law will prevail and not what the Opposition wants. Truth will always prevail. The chief minister is a sensitive person and will never do anything wrong. People of the state trust him,”  Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut told reporters in Nashik. “The woman who levelled allegations against social justice minister Dhananjay Munde withdrew her charges against him. Now there are some allegations against another minister Sanjay Rathod, who is one of the pillars of Shiv Sena in Vidarbha. The truth will come out in the probe,” he said. NCP supremo Sharad Pawar’s grandnephew and party MLA Rohit Pawar said: “The police are already investigating the matter and we should allow the probe to be complete before concluding anything.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pooja-chavan-suicide-case-police-is-under-pressure-says-devendra-fadnavis-951165.html
14-02-2021||West||CM has ordered probe into Pune woman's death, says senior Shiv Sena leader Neelam Grohe||Senior Shiv Sena leader Neelam Gorhe on Sunday said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had ordered a detailed probe into the alleged suicide of a woman, which the BJP has linked to a state minister, and there was no question of "saving somebody". Some social media posts have claimed the 23-year-old woman, who died after falling from a building in Pune's Hadapsar area on February 8, was in a relationship with a cabinet minister in the state. Speaking to reporters here, Gorhe, deputy chairperson of the state Legislative Council, said there was no doubt the death was suspicious, and added that "keeping aside party and politics, the police would reach to the root of the case". "The CM has clarified that a detailed probe will take place in the case. There is no question of saving somebody. The truth will surface and it won't be suppressed," she said. The post mortem report is yet to be received, and the veracity of audio clips, which the BJP has been claiming are linked to the death, have not been verified yet nor have the names that have cropped up, Gorhe said. She said such cases are sometimes used for "political capitalisation".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-has-ordered-probe-into-pune-womans-death-says-senior-shiv-sena-leader-neelam-grohe-951274.html
