15-02-2021||First Edit||A bid to silence all opposing voices||The arrest of a 21-year-old Bengaluru climate activist, Disha Ravi, and the issuance of warrants against two others in a case involving a ‘toolkit’ shared by climate campaigner Greta Thunberg in support of the farmers’ protest is a matter of serious concern. She was picked up in a hush-hush manner from her home by Delhi Police and taken to Delhi, in violation of well-laid norms for arrests and federal principles, and has been charged with the most serious crimes in the penal code, including sedition. All that she had done was edit a protest ‘toolkit’ that was shared online in support of the farmers’ agitation. She is now being charged with collaborating with a pro-Khalistan outfit and conspiring to spread disaffection against the Indian State.   A number of civil society groups have condemned and protested her arrest. Due process was not followed in the arrest of Disha Ravi. She has been remanded to judicial custody for five days by a Delhi court without her being represented by a counsel. ‘Toolkits’ are documents routinely used to spread awareness about issues and to call for protest action. But from the time the ‘toolkit’ figured in the government’s counter-action and campaign against what it called foreign intervention, it became clear that it was being painted as something sinister and used as a weapon against those who supported the farmers’ agitation.  The young woman’s arrest is yet another action on the part of the government against anyone who opposes its policies. There is a pattern to it. Arbitrary arrests are made on unconvincing charges for which the police have no evidence, bail is denied, and people are thrown into jail. The charges made are almost always of sedition, conspiracy, waging war against the State, and the most draconian provisions of the law are invoked. Ministers of the government, ruling party officials and a large troll army then orchestrate propaganda to justify the witch-hunt and make it look like a ‘patriots vs anti-nationals’ issue. Civil, political and human rights of people are wantonly violated, and Constitutional guarantees of rights and freedoms are not available to the citizens in distress in such situations. Questions on the lack of propriety and due process in arrests on the part of the police are brushed away by saying that the accused can prove his or her innocence in court. The police fail to find any evidence eventually, but by then the aim of harassing dissenters will have been achieved. The message to all citizens is as clear as it is brazenly authoritarian: no-one should protest against or oppose the government and its actions. Citizens can exercise their right to free speech and protest only on pain of harassment and loss of freedom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-bid-to-silence-all-opposing-voices-951655.html
15-02-2021||In Perspective||Let children go back to school||The Karnataka government has opened schools fully for grades nine to twelve and partly for six to eight. However, lower primary schools (LPS)--grades one to five remain closed and may have a zero year (a year of no school). Most states seem to favour the decision of keeping LPS closed. The findings of a recent study by the Azim Premji Foundation are heart-breaking. Assessing about 15,000 children from public schools across Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, MP, Rajasthan and Uttarakhand, the study found that that 92% of children on an average had lost at least one specific language ability from the previous year across all classes. For Mathematics, this figure was 82%. These numbers suggest a wide-ranging loss of learning in children across the country. Earlier studies have also highlighted that school closure would affect learning, the Foundation’s study validates this argument, comparing learning levels now with those a year ago. This regression or loss of ability in language and mathematics is particularly worrisome. The National Education Policy, 2020 strongly emphasises ‘foundational literacy’ and ‘foundational numeracy’ (FLN in short). Basic literacy and numeracy are essential skills for further learning. Children in LPS face the greatest danger of losing acquired FLN. Social interactions with peers, facilitated by a teacher, are indispensable to their learning. If they go back to a school after a ‘zero year’, many of them will not be able to make up this loss and this will hinder further learning. If FLN is compromised, the ‘inability to make sense of schooling’ will cause children to drop out. Even if a student completes schooling, she will lack the basic skills we take for granted, like reading a notice or writing a letter or making a simple computation. This compromise will herald large scale school dropout of children in the years to come. The closure of schools, the study warns, will lead to a ‘social loss’; teachers fear closure will “impact on children’s ability to navigate adult life”. Several generations of children will get into adult life as illiterates; this is an unprecedented crisis in independent India, where we have needed decades to reduce the number of text-illiterate adults. India still has 37% of the world’s text-illiterate adults and holds the top-rank for the number of adult illiterates. Text and number illiteracy severely impacts ability to navigate adult life through work, marriage, family, with dignity and respect, and facilitates their exploitation and marginalization. The danger from keeping LPS closed is very severe and clear. The danger from opening primary schools open is mild. Medical research overwhelmingly indicates children are less vulnerable to Covid-19; even if they catch the virus, their symptoms are invisible or mild. The younger the age, lesser the vulnerability. This is also empirically confirmed by fewer Covid-19 cases and negligible fatalities in young children across the world. Covid-19 cases and fatalities have been steadily dropping from their peak a few months ago, triggering a resumption of political, social and economic activities. State-wide elections, festivals, cricket matches are on. Theatres, malls, shops, factories, swimming pools are open. Public transport has resumed, so have traffic jams. Only LPS remain closed. Mostly, children to go LPS in their vicinity. Children who would assemble in an LPS are already interacting in the community, part of the same local bubble. Hence, there would be a negligible risk if they met in the school as well.  Andhra Pradesh has opened primary schools some time back, with no serious issues. This is different from college students travelling across states and getting infected in hostels. Vaccinate teachers Teachers as adults, are vulnerable to Covid. As front line workers in the Covid testing and tracing programs of governments, teachers need priority vaccination, so they can immediately go back to teaching in schools. Other safety measures – wearing masks, washing, physical distancing, thermal sensors, quarantining if there are cases, parental consent, are all essential. These impose minor costs compared to the socio-economic disaster of keeping LPS closed. Given low health risks from closure v/s high educational rewards from opening, it is inexplicable why governments continue to keep LPS closed. The study says teachers are keen to start schools. Most parents (excluding the middle-class minority) are keen too – they know for their children, structured learning possibilities are accessible only from school, as well as safety and nutrition. While a minority of middle-class children may be engaged through online education, for most children, the closure has meant zero structured learning opportunities. Vidyãrthiya nade saleya kade, a group of parents, educators, public health researchers, civil society activists, has urged for the reopening of schools since November, even organising state-wide protests. The continued closure is an imposition on students, teachers and parents. It reflects a high degree of callousness to the learning and developmental needs of the most vulnerable sections of India. Damaging FLN will irreparably harm our children and society for decades to come. It may make Nero proud, though. (The writer is a teacher educator with IT for Change, and member of Vidyarthiya nade saleya kade)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/let-children-go-back-to-school-951656.html
15-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Mangaluru's Mangala swimming pool to be open from today||The Mangala swimming pool of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) will be open to the public from Monday, but people will have to adhere to Covid-19 guidelines. G Santhosh Kumar, Deputy Commissioner (administration) of MCC, said that those who want to use the swimming pool will have to obtain a medical certificate to get entry. "Pool users should produce their identity cards and obtain membership. Entry tickets will not be sold at the swimming pool counter till further orders. The pool users should compulsorily wear a mask when they are not swimming. Similarly, they should also maintain social distance inside the pool. The membership of those who violate the rules will be cancelled," he said. The pool will remain closed on all Sundays till further orders, he added. In the past, the swimming enthusiasts and students were disappointed as the swimming pool had remained closed. Normally, the Mangala swimming pool is in more demand during peak summer to beat the heat and also as a summer camp for children. The pool had remained closed since March 13 due to Covid-19 pandemic. The pool was fetching an annual income of Rs 40 lakh to Rs 50 lakh. However, the income was affected due to pandemic since last March. There are nearly 13 personnel employed at the pool. The swimming clubs had been demanding the district administration to open the pool all these days. The pool was fetching Rs 13 lakh to Rs 15 lakh during summer alone. About Rs 1.5 lakh is used for the maintenance of the pool every month. There are five swimming pools in Mangaluru—Mangala pool managed by Mangaluru City Corporation, swimming pools at NITK and Fisheries college managed by the respective colleges, swimming pool at St Aloysius College managed by a private club and a pool at Hotel Moti Mahal managed by the hotel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-mangalurus-mangala-swimming-pool-to-be-open-from-today-951401.html
15-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Childhood Cancer Day: Mangaluru doctors diagnosed 430 cancer cases in 7 years||In the last seven years, doctors in and around Mangaluru diagnosed around 430 cases of childhood cancers. For the past three years, doctors have been seeing around 100 children with cancers every year. According to Dr Harsha Prasad L, Pediatric Hemato Oncologist at KMC Hospital in Mangaluru, out of total cases, 232 cases (54%) were diagnosed to have blood cancers, 52 children (12%) were diagnosed to have abdominal malignancy (Neuroblastoma, Wilms’ tumour or Hepatoblastoma), 43 children (10%) with Lymphomas, 35 patients with a brain tumour (12%), 33 (7%) with bony cancers, and the remaining 5% belong to other rare types of cancers. "The incidence pattern of childhood cancers is different as half of them are diagnosed with acute Leukaemia whereas the data from the western world shows acute leukaemia contributes to 30% of the total numbers", said Prasad. "The survival of children with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia is one the best in India which has an event-free survival of 85% at 3 years. All these cases belonged to the age group of 1 to 18 years and come from the regions of Mangaluru, Madikeri, Uttara Kannada, Kasargod, Kannur, etc", he added. Prasad said that childhood is a period of desires, likes and dreams of endless possibilities. For those children diagnosed with cancer, it is a battle for and with life. Children face it with unflinching courage and an acceptance of their circumstances that humbles us. Around 40,000 (0-16 years) in India are diagnosed with cancers every year. The symptoms of cancer in children depends on the type of cancer and where it is in the body. Often these symptoms are quite vague, varied and usually caused by something other than cancer. Hence on many occasions, one would end up visiting the doctors a few time before the diagnosis of cancer. It is important to be aware of the signs and symptoms of cancer as earlier it is diagnosed, the more successful treatment might be, he added. Prasad said due to lack of awareness, delay in diagnosis, inadequate treatment facilities and high cost of treatment in India, around 50%-60% of children die of cancer. When it comes to childhood cancers, early diagnosis is a challenge as the signs and symptoms vary from each patient. Due to this reason, many of the childhood cancer cases are presented in the advanced stages, he felt. But, some of the early signs can be sudden weight loss, regular vomiting, unexplained pains in joints, bones, legs, etc., and regular infections. Hence, it becomes imperative that parents need to keep an eye out for these symptoms for early diagnosis which is very crucial in treating cancer, he advised. Prasad said the chances of survival are very high if the patient is diagnosed early and is provided with timely treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/childhood-cancer-day-mangaluru-doctors-diagnosed-430-cancer-cases-in-7-years-951405.html
15-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Actor Darshan to be Karnataka agriculture dept's ambassador||The B S Yediyurappa administration has roped in Sandalwood actor Darshan as the ambassador of the government’s Agriculture Department.  Darshan, known as ‘Challenging Star’ in the filmdom, has agreed to take up the role without any remuneration, according to a government order issued by the Agriculture Department.  The actor will promote programmes and schemes of the Agriculture Department and “instil hope among farmers”, the government order stated.  “Darshan is an agriculturist himself. He held talks with the minister to take this forward,” Agriculture Minister B C Patil said in a statement. Patil, a former policeman, was an actor himself. This is not the first time a celebrity has been roped in by the state government. In 2014, actors Puneeth Rajkumar and Radhika Pandit came onboard as the ambassadors for the Right to Education (RTE). Recently, Puneeth was also named as the ‘development ambassador’ for the backward Chamarajanagar district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/actor-darshan-to-be-karnataka-agriculture-depts-ambassador-951457.html
15-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Declare Tulu as state's official language: Kannada lit meet||The 24th district-level Kannada Sahithya Sammelana has resolved to urge the state government to declare Tulu, one of the Panchadravida languages, as Karnataka’s official language. The Sammelana, held at Sharada Vidyalaya in the city, has also passed a resolution to urge the government to declare Yakshagana as the state’s art form. All the resolutions passed in the previous literary meets should be implemented as it is, said Kannada Sahithya Parishat DK unit President Pradeep Kumar Kalkura while presenting the resolutions. "The government should bring in a system of having one teacher for each class in government, aided and unaided schools in the state. This will help to overcome the shortage of teachers in the schools. Kannada Bhavanas should be set up in all taluks in the state. The development works should be initiated by maintaining balance in nature along with conserving nature," Kalkura said. District In-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary, who was at the valedictory of the meet, promised to make an earnest effort to fulfil the demands. The three-day-long literary meet concluded on Sunday. The Sammelana was presided over by Yakshagana exponent Dr Prabhakar Joshi. Earlier, while chairing a session on National Education Policy (NEP), Mangalore University Vice-Chancellor Prof P S Yadapadithaya said, "We can gain knowledge when we start loving a language. Teachers play a vital role in implementing the NEP 2020. All of us should read and understand the essence of National Education Policy and later implement it. Teachers Education College Lecturer Dr Kumaraswamy H said the NEP advocates regional languages/local languages. To increase the knowledge, there is a need to go for in depth study of the languages. Kannada should grow as a language to gain knowledge." Govindadasa College lecturer Dr Ashalatha said, "Education should not become a business. Education is a right. It is the duty of the government to impart education to all.” Prof Karunakar A Kotegar of MIT said that the NEP has emphasised on vocational training and that parents should not judge their children based on the marks scored in the exam. In a session on Dasa Sahithya-Vachana Sahithya, St Aloysius College lecturer Dr Saraswathi said that vachanakaras had given priority to freedom, women’s equality and other social issues. "They had given a model of democracy. The vachana movement of 12th century brought in religious and social changes. Vachana Sahithya and Haridasa Sahithya had emphasised on social welfare. Haridasa Sahithya has contributed to music world. Dasa Sahithya has given emphasis on dissemination of information as well," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/declare-tulu-as-states-official-language-kannada-lit-meet-951459.html
15-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Knew JD(S) will lose LS poll : Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday said that the JD(S) candidate’s defeat was obvious in Mandya, noticing the lack of response from the public during his campaign with H D Deve Gowda for the previous Lok Sabha elections. Speaking to reporters, he said that the people of Mandya had ensured the victory of several Congress candidates earlier. But, when Sumalatha contested the Lok Sabha elections last time, the people did not listen to me. “When I had come to the campaign with H D Deve Gowda, only a few people had gathered, that too to see the helicopter. We waited for the people to gather at one of the leader’s house. Hence, I knew beforehand that JD(S) will lose,” he said. “Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa fears to speak to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He does not have the courage to ask for the state’s share of funds. Has he asked Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to release funds meant for Karnataka? Such a chief minister should be removed,” he criticised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/knew-jds-will-lose-ls-poll-siddaramaiah-951640.html
15-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mahila Cong prez slams BJP, terms leaders as traitors||Mysuru, DHNS: Karnataka Mahila Congress president B Pushpa Amarnath on Monday, took severe exception to the arrest of Disha Ravi, a 21-year-old climate activist, and claimed that Disha is not a traitor, but the BJP people are. In a press conference here, Pushpa said that the BJP is branding the people supporting the farmers as traitors. Isn’t it the BJP, which has forgotten people’s welfare and has failed to give good governance? she asked. No one, including, women, students, poor people, farmers among others are leading a peaceful life. The BJP leaders should be arrested for killing the agitating farmers in Delhi, she said.    Delhi police arrested Disha from Bengaluru, alleging that she was a key conspirator in the formulation of the toolkit document, a guide on how to support the ongoing farmers' protest, which was was shared by activist Greta Thunberg, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mahila-cong-prez-slams-bjp-terms-leaders-as-traitors-951641.html
15-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Farmers responsible for calves for first three months’||Minister of State for Animal Husbandry Prabhu Chauhan on Monday, said, "The farmers should compulsorily take care of their calves for the first three months. Later, they can handover them to Goshaalas, if they are not able to nurture them." Speaking to reporters here, Chauhan said, "I learnt that the farmers are abandoning the calves too early. There is no provision to sell the calves as Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 2020, is implemented. The farmers should ensure that the calves, either male or female, are with their mothers for a few months. The officials should convince the farmers in this regard. Awareness should be created on the Act among the people." "As the number of Goshaalas is expected to increase, care should be taken to ensure that there is no fodder shortage. Encroached gomaalas should be vacated immediately. As there are allegations that quarrying is undertaken on gomaala lands, the respective deputy commissioners should immediately convene meetings and take steps to vacate encroachments," the minister stressed. Animal Welfare Board, a first of its kind, would be constituted in Karnataka to prevent cruelty to animals, he said. A meat processing unit would be established on 20 acres land, under NABARD, at Cheelanahalli in Sira taluk, Tumakuru district, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-responsible-for-calves-for-first-three-months-951644.html
15-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru Mayoral election on Feb 24||The exercise to elect the 23rd Mayor and Deputy Mayor for Mysuru will be held on February 24. With the announcement of the election date, political activities in two national parties - the BJP and the Congress - has picked up and regional party JD(S) is following the 'wait and watch' policy. The term of the previous Mayor Tasneem of JD(S) ended on January 19. As per the agreement in 2018, the JD(S) had to support the Congress. But, due to lack of coordination between the Congress and the JD(S) leaders, the JD(S) is yet to decide on extending support to the Congress. As per the agreement between the Congress and JD(S) in 2018, the Mayor's post was reserved for the Congress, in first and third term. In the first term, Congress corporator Pushpalatha Jagannath was the Mayor. BJP MLA L Nagendra is confident of getting support of the JD(S). He said, "We have already spoken with JD(S) leaders in this regard. The matter is discussed between state leaders also. The JD(S) will definitely support the BJP in the Mayor election,” he said. According to Congress MLA Tanveer Sait, JD(S) leaders have agreed to support the Congress. "But, the leaders are yet to announce it. As per the agreement, JD(S) should support the Congress for five years. The JD(S) leaders will keep their words," Sait said. To a query on Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah’s statement that the Congress will not join hands with the JD(S), Sait said, "The party leaders’ decision is for state-level. For the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), we have decided to join hands with the JD(S), with the consent of the party leaders." Congress is planning to utilise the rift between JD(S) leaders for the Mayor's election. It has to be noted that JD(S) leaders G T Devegowda and Sa Ra Mahesh are not in good terms. Thus, the Congress is planning to take the support of the corporators, who are supporters of G T Devegowda. Devegowda has maintained a distance from party activities, due to the animosity with Sa Ra Mahesh. According to sources, JD(S) is eyeing the Mayor's post. Thus, the party leaders have not committed either to the BJP or the Congress. Mysuru Mayor's post is reserved for General Category (Woman) and Deputy Mayor's post for General Category. Out of 65 members, 32 are women corporators. While BJP has 13 women corporators, JD(S) has 11. Seven are Congress corporators and BSP has one corporator. With 22 corporators, BJP is the single largest party in the MCC. But, it was in the Opposition during the first two terms of the council, as JD(S) and Congress formed a coalition. Now, JD(S) is likely to align with the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-mayoral-election-on-feb-24-951646.html
15-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala demands Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa's resignation over Yatnal's corruption charges||AICC General Secretary incharge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala on Monday demanded Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s resignation on the back of corruption allegations leveled by BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal.  “Your own party’s MLA has alleged that wholesale corruption worth crores of rupees has taken place in the transfer of 42 IAS officials. Such allegations against your government are being heard every day. If you have any concern for the state’s interests, please resign and keep the state’s respect intact,” Surjewala said in a tweet.   Surjewala was quoting Yatnal’s recent statement accusing the government of corruption in effecting the transfer of 42 IAS officers.  Siddaramaiah to meet Rahul Gandhi Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah is scheduled to meet former AICC president Rahul Gandhi in New Delhi on Tuesday. According to party sources, this is a courtesy visit as Siddaramaiah has been waiting for Gandhi’s appointment for the past year. It is said that Siddaramaiah might discuss with Gandhi the ongoing Kuruba agitation seeking ST status and clarify his position on the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-leader-randeep-singh-surjewala-demands-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappas-resignation-over-yatnals-corruption-charges-951580.html
15-02-2021||Main Article||India's dented global image||India’s global standing on various fronts, as per reports of different organisations in recent times, project a dismal picture of our country. Though our Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokespersons refute these reports and add that it is our internal matter where no external forces need interfere, these matters call for serious attention by the powers that be. In the recently released Democracy Index for 2020, India slipped to 53rd rank from the previous 51st position in 2019 among 167 countries. Though we boast of being the world’s largest democracy, recent events in the country present a dismal picture. From a score of 7.92 out of 10 in 2014, we have slid to 6.61 in 2020. While we continue to be a ‘flawed democracy’, our score on civil liberties and political culture has been the cause for our “democratic backsliding.” At the 47th session of the Council of Foreign Ministers of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) in November last, an irksome reference was made to India about its policies on Jammu and Kashmir. It was immediately countered by the MEA spokesperson, regretting that the OIC allows itself to be used by a certain country (obviously Pakistan) “which has an abominable record on religious tolerance, radicalism and torture of minorities” to denigrate India. The OIC, a conglomerate of 57 nations, was advised to desist from making any such reference in the future.  Our ranking on the Freedom of Press Index is no matter to boast of. According to Reporters Sans Frontieres, a Paris-based NGO, our country ranked 142nd, out of 180, in 2020. It was just two notches above at 140 in 2019, and 138 in 2018, indicating that press freedom is on a continuous slide. This has been rejected by I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar, saying that the “media in India enjoys absolute freedom.” The fact remains that our image in the international arena has been dented, and that calls for some serious reflection. Our score on the Academic Freedom Index (AFI) is shocking. With an AFI score of 0.352, we rank far below other countries. Malaysia with 0.582, Pakistan with 0.554, and Brazil with 0.446 fare better than us. When countries like Somalia (0.436) and Ukraine (0.422) enjoy a better AFI, it calls for some serious rethinking. The AFI arrives at these scores on the basis of its evaluation of freedom of academic and cultural freedoms, institutional autonomy and constitutional protection among many other parameters. Our Global Hunger Index ranking, too, is disappointing. India is ranked 97th among 118 nations. While 25% of our children suffer from malnutrition, over 190 million people retire to bed every night without meals. Over 3,000 children die every day for want of sufficient nutritious food. To add to their woes, the pandemic brought more sorrow and deprivation. Loss of jobs and poor economic situation worsened their miseries. The situation is depressing. According to the World Health Organisation, about 132 million people will remain undernourished. We need to wake up to the situation, which calls for some drastic action, before it is too late. Releasing its annual report for 2020, the United States Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), an advisory body of the US Congress, recommended that India be designated as “Country of Particular Concern” along with such countries as Pakistan, China and Saudi Arabia for its “increasing assault” on religious minorities during 2019. It recommended imposition of “targeted sanctions on Indian government agencies and officials responsible for severe violations of religious freedom by freezing those individuals’ assets and/or barring their entry into the United States” under human rights-related financial and visa sanctions. According to the Religious Liberty Commission of the Evangelical Fellowship of India, a conglomerate of over 65,000 churches, 327 incidents of persecution of Christians were reported during 2020, in which five lost their lives and six churches were razed to the ground. Uttar Pradesh tops the list, with 95 incidents, followed by Chhattisgarh with 55.   Rejecting the USCIRF report, the MEA spokesperson stated that it is “biased and tendentious.” The MEA’s rebuttal was obvious and as expected. Though refuted, the matter calls for attention as the report has cited mob lynching and unbridled attacks on minorities and their places of worship, apart from tolerance of hate speech and incitement to violence as the reasons for its recommendations. In Asia, we have the highest record of bribery and corruption. According to the latest report of Transparency International, we have the highest bribery rate of 39% and the “highest rate of people using personal connections to access public service (46%).” The Corruption Perception Index for the year 2020 placed India at 86th position among 180 nations, down from 80th position in 2019 and 78th in 2018. Evaluated on a scale of 0 (very clean) to 100 (highly corrupt), India’s score stands at 40. Quite contrary to claims by our political leaders that corruption has been rooted out, the CP Index shows a gradual rise in instances of corruption and this despite several government officials being sacked or punished for their acts of corruption. China fares better than us at 78th position, with a score of 42, while Pakistan ranks 124 with a score of 31 points.   Needless to say, our global image has direct repercussions on our international trade and relations with other countries. Tourists will eschew our land. Our nuclear capability is not enough to place us among the developed nations. Investors from across the shores will shy away from investing in our country when we project a dismal picture of the conditions prevailing. At the global level, we may deny the ground realities, but much needs to be done to pull us out of the quagmire we are in and to garner respect in the international arena. (The writer is a former Inspector General of Police (retd), CRPF)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/indias-dented-global-image-951653.html
15-02-2021||National||Jaishankar pays tribute to Swaraj on birth anniversary||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Sunday fondly remembered his predecessor Sushma Swaraj on her 69th birth anniversary and said she is "deeply missed" always. "Fondly remember Sushma Swaraj ji on her birthday. Deeply missed, always," Jaishankar tweeted along with a photograph of him with Swaraj. Jaishankar had served as India's foreign secretary for around three years when Sushma Swaraj was the external affairs minister in the previous NDA government. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh too paid a glowing tribute to Swaraj, saying she contributed significantly in strengthening India's stature within the country and abroad. In a tweet in Hindi, he said Swaraj was an eloquent orator and a strong personality as well as an example of simplicity. "Her contribution to public life will be remembered. On the occasion of her birth anniversary, I am paying tribute to her," he said. Swaraj, who brought a rare empathy and a human approach to India's diplomacy as external affairs minister, died on August 6, 2019 following a massive cardiac arrest. She was known for helping distressed Indians abroad as she was quick to respond to their calls for help on Twitter. Swaraj had many firsts to her credit -- the youngest cabinet minister in the Haryana government, the first woman chief minister of Delhi and the first woman spokesperson of a national political party in the country. She was Information and Broadcasting minister in the 13-day Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in 1996 and got the Cabinet portfolio again after he led the BJP to power in 1998. As external affairs minister, Swaraj brought a sense of assertiveness to India's diplomacy and engaged the diaspora as part of the country's foreign policy priorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-pays-tribute-to-swaraj-on-birth-anniversary-951324.html
15-02-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices hiked for 7th day straight: Check fuel prices here||Petrol and diesel prices on Monday were hiked for the seventh day in a row as a rally in international oil prices took retail rates in India to new highs. Petrol price was increased by 26 paise per litre and diesel by 29 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This pushed retail rates, which differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT and freight charges, to their highest level. The hike took petrol price in Delhi to a record Rs 88.99 per litre and to a highest-ever rate of Rs 95.46 a litre in Mumbai. Diesel rate climbed to Rs 79.35 a litre in Delhi and to Rs 86.34 in Mumbai. Rajasthan, which levies the highest VAT on fuel in the country, had the highest petrol and diesel prices. In Sriganganagar town of the state, petrol soared to Rs 99.56 and diesel to Rs 91.48 per litre. The Rajasthan government had late last month cut VAT on petrol and diesel by 2 per cent. Despite this, the state has the highest VAT at 36 per cent plus Rs 1,500 per kilolitre road cess on petrol. On diesel, the state levies 26 per cent and Rs 1,750 per kilolitre road cess. Branded or additive mixed petrol on Sunday crossed Rs 100-mark at some places in states like Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Branded petrol at Sriganganagar was priced at Rs 102.34 a litre and similar grade diesel at Rs 95.15. The main difference between regular and premium fuel grades is the octane number. Regular fuel has a lower octane number -- 87, while premium fuel generally gets a 91 octane rating or higher. Octane number is a measure of the ignition quality of fuel -- higher the number, the less susceptible is the fuel to 'knocking' when burnt in a standard engine. In seven straight days, prices have gone up by Rs 2.04 per litre for petrol and Rs 2.22 for diesel. The relentless hike in prices has been criticised by the opposition parties including Congress that has demanded an immediate cut in taxes to ease the burden on the common man. A six-hour bandh called by the party in Odisha affected normal life on Monday. Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan last week had told Parliament that the government is not considering a reduction in excise duty to cool rates from their record highs. Central and state taxes make up for over 61 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and about 56 per cent of diesel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-for-7th-day-straight-check-fuel-prices-here-951352.html
15-02-2021||National||DH Toon: Farmers will get Rs 18 lakh if BJP wins in West Bengal, says Amit Shah||With the Assembly elections round the corner Union Home Minister Amit Shah during his latest visit to West Bengal gave a three-step instruction on public outreach to the state BJP leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-farmers-will-get-rs-18-lakh-if-bjp-wins-in-west-bengal-says-amit-shah-951354.html
15-02-2021||National||Meet Disha Ravi, the 21-year-old climate activist arrested in Greta's 'toolkit' case||Disha A Ravi, a Bengaluru-born climate activist who was arrested on Sunday, is the co-founder of Fridays for Future in India. She started her journey as a climate activist after seeing her grandparents, who are farmers, struggle with the problems of the climate crisis in the country. In an unprecedented event, the Bengalurean was sent to five-day custody on Sunday after she allegedly helped create an 'online toolkit' or a guide to the farmer protests that was tweeted by environmentalist Greta Thunberg. The 21-year-old had been vocal about climate and environment issues since her days in college. Her social media accounts show that she supported Green Peace campaigns, and called herself an ‘eco-feminist’. She currently works as a culinary experience manager with GoodMyIk, which is involved in making plant-based food accessible and affordable to people. Ravi was also an active participant in the FFF India’s email campaigns against the draft Environment Impact Assessment 2020 plan. The campaign, last year, had led to ban of the FFF India website and two other groups under UAPA. On Sunday, Ravi was the first person to be arrested in the ‘toolkit’ case. However, fellow activists and Opposition termed it as "completely atrocious" and "unwarranted harassment and intimidation". Outpouring of support A coalition of activist groups demanded Ravi's release and said it was "extremely worried for her safety and wellbeing". The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmers' unions, who has been leading the farmers’ protest also condemned Ravi’s arrest. The SKM said, “SKM condemns the arrest of young climate change activist Disha Ravi, who stood in support of the farmers. We also demand her immediate, unconditional release." Among the Opposition, Congress Rajya Sabha MP said, “Arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi is most unfortunate & shocking. Custodial interrogation of a young woman without any criminal antecedents cannot be justified.” The CPI(M) leader Yechury also took it to Twitter and stated that the “arrest will awaken the youth of the country”. Arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi is most unfortunate & shocking. Custodial interrogation of a young woman without any criminal antecedents cannot be justified. The Indian state must be standing on very shaky foundations if Disha Ravi, a 22 year old student of Mount Carmel college and a climate activist, has become a threat to the nation Disha also shared a video on her Twitter account titled “Is this ideology the only reason for my arrest ??”. As of now, Delhi Police have confiscated her laptop and mobile phone for further investigation and the police are ascertaining whether she was in touch with more people involved in the case. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meet-disha-ravi-the-21-year-old-climate-activist-arrested-in-gretas-toolkit-case-951383.html
15-02-2021||National||Unprecedented attack on democracy: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Disha Ravi's arrest||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal on Monday condemned the arrest of Bengaluru-based climate activist Disha Ravi calling it an 'unprecedented attack' on democracy.  He tweeted, "Arrest of 21 yr old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime." Arrest of 21 yr old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime. The Delhi Police claimed that Ravi, who was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the force, was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and "key conspirator" in the document's formulation and dissemination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unprecedented-attack-on-democracy-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-on-disha-ravis-arrest-951389.html
15-02-2021||National||PM Modi expresses grief at loss of lives in Jalgaon road accident||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday expressed grief at the loss of lives in a road accident in Maharashtra's Jalgaon district, and conveyed his condolences to the bereaved families. Sixteen labourers were killed after a truck overturned in Jalgaon, police said.  "Heart-wrenching truck accident in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest," Modi said in a tweet posted by his office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-expresses-grief-at-loss-of-lives-in-jalgaon-road-accident-951407.html
15-02-2021||National||Toolkit case: Nikita Jacob moves HC for transit bail||Advocate Nikita Jacob, accused in a case registered by Delhi police in connection with the "toolkit" shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg over farmers' protest, approached the Bombay High Court on Monday seeking transit anticipatory bail. A Delhi court has issued a non-bailable warrant against Jacob and another accused in the case. Jacob's plea seeking urgent hearing was mentioned before the Bombay High Court's single bench of Justice P D Naik on Monday. The high court said it would hear the plea on Tuesday. Jacob in her plea sought transit anticipatory bail for a period of four weeks so that she can approach the court concerned in Delhi to apply for a pre-arrest bail. The Delhi police on Saturday arrested 21-year-old environmental activist Disha Ravi from Bengaluru in connection with the case. She was on Sunday produced before a Delhi court which remanded her in police custody for five days. Greta Thunberg, a teen climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers' agitation near Delhi borders against the Centre's three agri laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers' protest. The toolkit has been cited by some critics as a "proof" of her conspiracy to fuel protests in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-nikita-jacob-moves-hc-for-transit-bail-951432.html
15-02-2021||National||Disha Ravi case: Anti-national seeds have to be destroyed, says Anil Vij||Haryana's Home Minister Anil Vij on Monday said whoever harbours the seed of anti-nationalism in their mind, that has to be completely destroyed, two days after climate activist Disha Ravi was arrested for being allegedly involved in sharing the "toolkit" related to the farmer's protest on social media. The Delhi Police had claimed that 21-year-old activist, who was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the force on Saturday, was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and "key conspirator" in the document's formulation and dissemination. “Whoever harbours the seed of anti-nationalism in their mind, that has to be completely destroyed, be it #Disha_Ravi or anyone else,” the senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader said in a tweet in Hindi. Greta Thunberg, a teen climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers' agitation against the three farm reform laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers' protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disha-ravi-case-anti-national-seeds-have-to-be-destroyed-says-anil-vij-951439.html
15-02-2021||National||Delhi Police draw flak over 'illegal' arrest of Disha Ravi||Delhi Police on Monday came under criticism for the "illegal" arrest of young climate activist Disha Ravi in the toolkit case, with lawyers and activist groups claiming that investigators and the Duty Magistrate violated norms and procedures. While terming the charges against her as "absurd" and an "attempt to criminalise dissent and protest", they alleged that Delhi Police did not obtain a transit remand from Bengaluru to take Disha to Delhi and that she did not have legal support when produced before the duty magistrate. Disha was picked from Bengaluru on Saturday and was produced before a Duty Magistrate the next day in Delhi and was sent to five-days police custody. Countering the criticism, Delhi Police said that due procedure was followed and Disha was arrested in the presence of her mother and the local Station House Officer was also present. A medical examination was done, it said but did not comment on the issue of transit remand. The Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) said that Disha should have been first produced before a competent court in Bengaluru for obtaining transit remand since she was being moved between states, but was not. She was instead produced before the Duty Magistrate in Delhi, who is “by no means the nearest magistrate as required by clause (2) of Article 22”, it said adding Delhi Police have failed to follow any of the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court. "She also did not have an opportunity to seek appropriate legal counsel. These actions of Delhi police have made a complete mockery of the 'procedure established by law' in depriving Disha Ravi of her right to life and liberty. Such illegal actions by Delhi Police would amount to kidnapping under the pretence of law," it said. In a statement, it also expressed "deep disappointment" at the “complete abdication of duty” by the Duty Magistrate, claiming that the magistrate performed his task in a "mechanical manner" that has resulted in a “serious violation of human rights”. Demanding her immediate release from "illegal detention” and disciplinary action against concerned officers, the CJAR said that the Delhi High Court should take “immediate, suo motu cognizance” of the illegal detention of Disha and initiate disciplinary action against the Duty Magistrate who has performed the constitutional duty in a "casual and desultory manner". Leading criminal lawyer Rebecca Mammen John said she was "deeply disappointed" by the conduct of the Duty Magistrate, claiming that the judicial officer did not ensure that she was represented by counsel of her choice. "Magistrates must take their duties of remand seriously and ensure that the mandate of Article 22 of the Constitution is scrupulously followed. If the accused was not being represented by counsel at the time of the hearing, the magistrate should have waited till her counsel arrived or in the alternate, provided her with legal aid," she said. "Did the magistrate ask the (Delhi Police's) Special Cell why she was being produced directly from Bengaluru without transit remand from Bengaluru courts? All in all shocking abdication of judicial duties," John wrote on social media. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also came out in public against Disha's arrest, saying it was an "unprecedented attack on democracy". “Arrest of 21-year-old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime,” Kejriwal tweeted. Arrest of 21 yr old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime. The CPI(M) Polit Bureau described Disha's arrest as an "atrocious action which deserves to be condemned in the strongest terms". Disha is charged with sedition and criminal conspiracy on the absurd grounds that she had forwarded a “toolkit” in support of the farmers' protest, it said. "The paranoid Modi government has to forthwith end this persecution of young activists. The charges against Disha Ravi should be withdrawn and she has to be released from custody," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-draw-flak-over-illegal-arrest-of-disha-ravi-951442.html
15-02-2021||National||Process of uprooting fear of terrorism going on at rapid pace in J&K: LG||Asserting that the process of uprooting the fear of terrorism is going on at a rapid pace in Jammu and Kashmir, Lieutenant Governor (LG) Manoj Sinha has said the Union Territory has a development deficit of 73 years and there would be challenges to fill the gaps, but his administration is fully prepared to deal with it. He also said the aspirations and dreams of the people of Jammu and Kashmir were suppressed by "a few people" under a thoughtful strategy. The LG made the remarks during the release of a book, titled "Tipane Kashmirchi (notes on Kashmir), untold stories", authored by Arun Karmarkar, in Mumbai on Sunday. "Terrorism is the real enemy of humanity. The process of uprooting the fear of terrorism is going on at a rapid pace," he said. Sinha said Jammu and Kashmir has a development deficit of 73 years and there would be challenges to fill the gaps, but the administration is fully prepared to deal with it. Compared to other states, he said the budget of Jammu and Kashmir has been four to five times more in terms of per capita, yet the development that should have been done, the kind of industrialisation that should have taken place has not happened. "The people of Jammu and Kashmir were deprived of basic rights. A few vested interests hampered the process of development reaching the doorsteps of the people for decades," the LG said. He said there is no escape from accepting the truth that deliberately, under a thoughtful strategy, the development of Jammu and Kashmir, the aspirations and dreams of people, were suppressed by a few people belonging to a certain section. "We have taken another big step to correct the errors of history," Sinha said, referring to the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution. He said on August 5, 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, by announcing the abrogation of Article 370, gave Jammu and Kashmir the status of a Union Territory and fully integrated it into the national mainstream. "And the conspiracy being run by those certain classes of people against the people of Jammu and Kashmir for a long time was destroyed in an instant," the LG said without naming anyone, but apparently referring to political parties that ruled the erstwhile state over the decades. Quoting the prime minister, Sinha said, "Articles 370 and 35A gave Jammu and Kashmir nothing but massive separatism, terrorism, nepotism and widespread corruption." "With a population of 1.3 crores, Jammu and Kashmir was not only connected with the mainstream of the country but a new dawn of development and trust has been witnessed across the Union Territory," he added. The LG observed that the changes that have taken place in the last 18 months have given a determined push to socio-economic development, besides empowering the common people of Jammu and Kashmir for the first time. "With new economic and industrial reforms, Jammu and Kashmir have become a promising destination for investors," he said. Speaking on the economic reforms, Sinha noted that a new industrial development scheme of Rs 28,400 crore has been unveiled for attracting investments in the Union Territory, besides creating opportunities for youngsters. With such a scheme and a ready land bank, investors would find Jammu and Kashmir a promising destination for their investments, he said, adding that the Union Territory administration is committed to taking industries up to the block level for inclusive growth. "I have visited different parts of the Union Territory continuously in the last six months. Seventy per cent of the population is below 35 years of age and there is no shortage of manpower and resources. We are taking comprehensive measures through initiatives like the Mission Youth to harness demographic dividend and ensure youth's engagement in a constructive way, contributing to the overall development of Jammu and Kashmir," the LG said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/process-of-uprooting-fear-of-terrorism-going-on-at-rapid-pace-in-jk-lg-951448.html
15-02-2021||National||BJP names former BPF member its Rajya Sabha candidate from Assam||The BJP on Monday named Biswajit Daimary, who had joined it after quitting his Rajya Sabha seat as a Bodoland People's Front MP, as its candidate for the by-election to the Upper House from Assam.  Daimary has been thrice elected to the House since 2008 and had quit soon after his re-election in 2020 as strains emerged in the BJP-BPF ties, and he preferred to join the saffron party.  The election had been necessitated due to his resignation.  His win is near certain as the BJP enjoys a majority in the state assembly.  The BJP also named N Ramchander Rao and Gujjula Premender Reddy its candidates for MLC elections from two graduates' constituencies in Telangana.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-names-former-bpf-member-its-rajya-sabha-candidate-from-assam-951450.html
15-02-2021||National||Toolkit case: Activists, environmentalists demand release of Disha Ravi||Social activists and environmentalists called for the immediate release of climate activist Disha Ravi who was arrested in the 'toolkit' document case, asking the government to stop targeting India's youth. Ravi (22) was arrested on Saturday from Bengaluru for allegedly sharing with Greta Thunberg the toolkit related to the farmer's protest against the Centre's three new agriculture laws, police said. The Delhi Police claimed that Ravi was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and "key conspirator" in the document's formulation and dissemination. Activists and environmentalists have condemned the arrest. Kavita Krishnan, the secretary of All India Progressive Women's Association, said people like Ravi are India's best hope because they are concerned about not just themselves, but the future generations. "We are not behaving like a democracy right now. If we are going to equate protest with conspiracy and organising protests as conspiracy, then you are not a democracy anymore," she said. "They should immediately drop this case based upon absolutely flimsy, ridiculous and evil pretext. A toolkit is not sedition, it is not conspiracy, toolkit is for protest," she added. Rights activist Shabnam Hashmi also questioned the basis of Ravi's arrest, saying anybody even doing a local campaign prepares a toolkit. "We should look at the prime minister's campaign toolkit. We are crossing the limits of absurdity. We will become a laughing stock internationally," she said.   Sunita Narain, head of the Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment, also extended her support to the arrested activist. "We know #climatechange is an existential threat. World desperately needs the passion and commitment of the youth and their loud and strong voice to shake it to more action #FreeDishaRavi," she tweeted. Nine-year-old climate activist Licypriya Kangujam called it an attempt to silence the voices of young girls and women in the country. "This is an attempt to silence the voices of young girls and women in this country. But this will not stop us from fighting for our planet and future," Kangujam tweeted. In a joint statement, more than 50 academics, artists and activists voiced support for Ravi and called her arrest “disturbing,” “illegal in nature" and an "over-reaction of the State”.   The statement issued under the banner of 'Coalition for Environmental Justice in India' also called it an attempt to distract the public. "It is also becoming increasingly clear that the current actions of the central government are diversionary tactics to distract people from real issues like the ever-rising cost of fuel and essential items, widespread unemployment and distress caused due to the lockdown without a plan, and the alarming state of the environment," it said. An online petition has also been started by the group demanding the immediate release of the climate activist. Environmentalist Vikrant Tongad said the incident will be demotivational for climate activists. "We cannot go on the merit of the case as the probe is ongoing, but the incident will be demotivational for climate activists...," he said.   Thunberg, a teen climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers' agitation against the three farm reform laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers' protest. A graduate of Bachelor of Business Administration, Ravi is also one of the founding members of a group named 'Fridays For Future India', police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-activists-environmentalists-demand-release-of-disha-ravi-951455.html
15-02-2021||National||SII's Adar Poonawalla says Canada to get AstraZeneca vaccines in 'less than a month'||The Serum Institute of India will ship the Oxford University/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine to Canada in less than one month, Serum's chief executive said on Monday. "As we await regulatory approvals from Canada, I assure you, @SerumInstIndia will fly out #COVISHIELD to Canada in less than a month; I'm on it!" CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Twitter, referring to a brand name for AstraZeneca's vaccine. India boasts of several vaccine manufacturing facilities and is fast emerging as a key supplier to the world. Canada, which has recorded more than 825,000 coronavirus cases and 21,000 deaths so far, does not yet have a vaccine manufacturing facility of its own and is reliant on foreign suppliers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week assured Canadian counterpart Justin Trudeau that India would do its best to supply Canada with the vaccines, potentially easing shortages faced in the country. Canada has so far ordered vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/siis-adar-poonawalla-says-canada-to-get-astrazeneca-vaccines-in-less-than-a-month-951460.html
15-02-2021||National||BSP attacks govt over rise in fuel prices||Bahujan Samaj Party supremo Mayawati on Monday slammed the government over the issue of rising prices of petrol and diesel, terming its silence on the matter as "extremely sad". In a tweet in Hindi, she said, "The prices of petrol and diesel in the country are sky rocketing, and crores of hardworking people and those from the middle class are repeatedly calling for help. But on this important issue of public welfare, the government is a silent spectator, which is extremely sad." देश में पेट्रोल, डीजल की कीमत अनियंत्रित होकर आसमान छू रही है तथा करोड़ों मध्यम वर्ग व मेहनतकश जनता में त्राहि-त्राहि मची हुई है लेकिन जनहित के इस खास मुद्दे पर भी सरकार का खामोश दर्शक बने रहना अतिदुखद। महंगाई बढ़ाने वाले इस मुद्दे पर सरकार से तुरन्त ध्यान देने की बीएसपी की माँग। The BSP demands that the government immediately pay attention to the issue, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said. The relentless hike in prices has been criticised by the opposition parties including Congress that has demanded an immediate cut in taxes to ease the burden on the common man. However, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan had told Parliament that the government is not considering a reduction in excise duty to cool rates from their record highs. Rates have risen as international oil prices touched $61 per barrel for the first time in more than a year on improving demand outlook amid the global rollout of Covid-19 vaccines, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsp-attacks-govt-over-rise-in-fuel-prices-951469.html
15-02-2021||National||HCL Tech inks pact with IIT Kanpur to strengthen capabilities in cybersecurity||HCL Technologies on Monday said it has inked an agreement with the Indian Institute of Technology Kanpur (IITK) to collaborate in the area of cybersecurity. As part of the pact, the IT company will work with C3iHub, a specialised cybersecurity research centre at IITK, a statement said. "This collaboration will bring together the country's brightest minds, advanced research capabilities and global resources to develop advanced solutions in the area of cybersecurity. HCL and IITK will bring in real world industry exposure to carry out joint initiatives and research," it added. The teams will develop a security framework and solutions for cybersecurity challenges in current and future operational technologies as one of the first areas of interest. They will also work together to discover and manage cyber threats, vulnerabilities, and risks for critical infrastructure, the statement said. HCL Technologies will also work with IITK to identify selective research projects in order to bring them to scale. "The projects will be tested on international benchmarks for potential commercialisation to products and services, with testing and development performed in a special HCL environment," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hcl-tech-inks-pact-with-iit-kanpur-to-strengthen-capabilities-in-cybersecurity-951474.html
15-02-2021||National||Gaganyaan is just the beginning! India plans to have sustained human presence in space||India plans to have a sustained human presence in space and is coming out with a policy framework and a long-term roadmap. The Department of Space (DoS) has envisaged a national effort to meet the goal of successful demonstration of human spaceflight capability and to achieve the vision of sustained human presence in space. India's maiden human spaceflight module 'Gaganyaan' will be launched after the second unmanned mission planned in 2022-23, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said last week. In her Budget speech, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said the first unmanned launch is slated for December this year. The DoS has now put up for public consultation on the website of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), which comes under the former, the draft "Humans in Space Policy for India -- 2021" and guidelines and procedures for its implementation. DoS believes that given the collaborative nature of human spaceflight due to its multi-disciplinary nature, it is essential to have a policy-framework, which not only fosters partnerships but also addresses proliferation concerns and compliance to existing policies, laws and treaties. "Human-spaceflight programme needs to be sustained over longer periods to deliver tangible benefits," according to the draft. Hence, it is essential that the policy enables sustained presence in low earth orbit and beyond through reliable, robust, safe and affordable means by undertaking appropriate capacity building measures like collaborations, infrastructure development, facilities modernisation, technology development and human resource development. This would also encourage new industries, create high technology jobs, enable socio-economic growth and further enhance India's stature and role in space, it was noted. "The Humans in Space Policy aims for sustained human presence in space as an instrument for development, innovation and foster collaborations in alignment with national interests", the draft said. Technological elements such as development of human rated launch vehicle, environmental control and life support system, crew escape system, deceleration system, crew selection and training and development of human centric products shall be undertaken by the DoS, utilising expertise of ISRO, national research institutions, academia, industry and others. A long-term road map for sustained human presence in low earth orbit (LEO) and undertaking exploration missions beyond it would be defined. "DoS/ISRO shall encourage start-ups and industries through suitable mechanism. Mechanism shall be established to explore spinoff opportunities and their development for societal benefits", according to the draft. DoS/ISRO shall establish a comprehensive criterion for screening and selection of crew members. For initial missions, pilots from Indian Armed forces will be inducted as crew members, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gaganyaan-is-just-the-beginning-india-plans-to-have-sustained-human-presence-in-space-951483.html
15-02-2021||National||Toolkit case: War of words between BJP and Opposition over climate activist Disha Ravi's arrest||The action taken by the Delhi Police on an FIR related to a toolkit shared by climate campaigner Greta Thunberg in support of the ongoing farmer protests has triggered a war of words between the opposition and the ruling BJP. Accusing the government of "murdering democracy" by using force against a 21-year-old, the opposition on Monday said the voice of India cannot be silenced even as the BJP defended the action, saying a crime is a crime no matter at what age. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi led the opposition offensive following the arrest of 21-year-old Disha Ravi in the case and said the country will not be silenced. "Your lips are free to speak. Say that the truth is still alive. They are scared, not the country," he said in a tweet in Hindi. "India will not be silenced," he added. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said, "Arrest of 21 year old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime." RJD leader Manoj Jha said democracy is under threat. "I am worried about democracy, as it is passing through the most difficult times," he said. Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Gajendra Singh Shekhawat tweeted: "If age is the criteria then Param Veer Chakra Second Lt Arun Khetarpal, martyred at 21 is who I am proud of. Not some toolkit propagandists." BJP general secretary B L Santosh tweeted: "21 year old...environment activist...student...Are these credentials for becoming a part of breaking India forces? How does she get the access for editing tool kit...? Why she is part of anti-national WhatsApp groups...? Many questions...But only one answer...21 year old." "Bengaluru, Greta Thunberg, Vegan, sole bread winner, student, 21 year old, passionate activist...so many attempts to white wash a sin...!! Not one anarchist ready to answer the question...How 21 year old student got access to edit Toolkit," he asked. Former Union ministers P Chidambaram and Jairam Ramesh have also come out strongly against the police action in the case, accusing the government of running an authoritarian regime as it was threatened by a student. "I strongly condemn the arrest of Disha Ravi and urge all students and youth to raise their voices to protest against the authoritarian regime," Chidambaram said. "The Indian state must be standing on very shaky foundations if Disha Ravi, a 22 year old student of Mount Carmel college and a climate activist, has become a threat to the nation. "A 'took kit' to support the farmers' protest is more dangerous than the intrusion by Chinese troops into Indian territory. India is becoming the theatre of the absurd and it is sad that the Delhi Police has become a tool of the oppressors," he said in a series of tweets. Ramesh said, "Delhi Police on the rampage. After Disha Ravi, it is now the turn of another young woman, Nikita Jacob. More will no doubt follow...." "This is Tanashaahi in New India called Amit Shahi," he said. "The arrest and the manner of arrest of green activist Disha Ravi shows clearly the intensifying Murder Of Democracy in India. But the young in India cannot be silenced. More power to them," the former environment minister added. In a tweet in Hindi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said, "The ones with guns are afraid of an unarmed girl. The flames of courage from an unarmed girl have spread." She also used hashtags "ReleaseDishaRavi" and "IndiaBeingSilenced". Congress leader Rajeev Gowda said an activist who stands up for farmers, fights for the planet is arrested on flimsy grounds. "Has the government lost its balance? Will not such trumped-up charges, seeing conspiracy in regular social media mobilisation, do more damage to democracy?" he asked. Reacting to the Opposition charges, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said, "A criminal is a criminal, gender and age are immaterial if not a juvenile. Just for your knowledge, Kasab was 21 when he attacked Mumbai." "Supporting 'farmers' is not a crime but conspiring against India and inciting others surely is," he said. BJP's IT cell in-charge Amit Malviya said, "The Left has been using young impressionable minds as cannon fodder for their deranged politics for a long time. From JNU to Jamia, AMU to Nadwa and now Disha Ravi, are all part of their sinister plot...Unfortunately they are abandoned soon after they have served their purpose." The Delhi Police said non-bailable warrants have been issued against two people for allegedly sharing the "toolkit" related to farmers' protests on social media, two days after it arrested climate activist Ravi in connection with the case. The 21-year-old activist was arrested from Bengaluru on Saturday and sent to five days' police remand by a Delhi court on Sunday. The two suspects against whom the non-bailable warrants have been issued are Nikita Jacob and Shantanu, the police said, adding that the duo was allegedly involved in preparing the document and was in direct touch with pro-Khalistani elements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-war-of-words-between-bjp-and-opposition-over-climate-activist-disha-ravis-arrest-951486.html
15-02-2021||National||'Paranoid govt should stop persecution of activists': CPI(M) on Disha Ravi's arrest in toolkit case||The CPI(M) condemned on Monday the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi over a toolkit shared on social media in support of the ongoing farmer protests and said the "paranoid" government should stop the "persecution" of activists. Ravi (21) was arrested from Bengaluru on Saturday and sent to five days' police remand by a Delhi court on Sunday. "Stop This Persecution. The arrest of Disha Ravi, a climate activist from Bengaluru, by the Delhi police is an atrocious action which deserves to be condemned in the strongest terms. "The 22-year-old activist has been charged with sedition and criminal conspiracy on the absurd grounds that she had forwarded a 'tool-kit' in support of the farmers' struggle. The paranoid Modi government has to forthwith end this persecution of young activists. The charges against Disha Ravi should be withdrawn and she has to be released from custody," the Communist Party of India (Marxist) said in a statement. मोदी सरकार युवा कार्यकर्ताओं के ऐसे उत्पीड़न को बंद करे। ये युवा भारत का भविष्य हैं। कठोर कानून के तहत इनपर मुकदमा चलाना देश के भविष्य को नष्ट करना होगा। इसे रोकना ही होगा। The Delhi Police has alleged that Ravi and others "collaborated with the pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to spread disaffection against the Indian State." "She was the one who shared the toolkit doc with Greta Thunberg," the police claimed in a tweet. Thunberg, a teenage climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers' agitation in India against three new agriculture laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed that were needed to be taken to support the farmers' protest. The toolkit has been cited by some as a "proof" of Thunberg's conspiracy to fuel protests in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/paranoid-govt-should-stop-persecution-of-activists-cpim-on-disha-ravis-arrest-in-toolkit-case-951494.html
15-02-2021||National||CCI closes alleged bid rigging case; finds no evidence of competition norms violations||Competition Commission has closed a case of alleged bid rigging after a detailed investigation found no evidence to suggest manipulation in the bidding process by three firms for three different tenders. The matter pertained to three separate tenders that were issued by the Department of Printing under the Ministry of Urban Development. One tender was issued in 2014 and two other tenders in 2015. There were complaints that the three firms -- Chandra Prabhu Offset Printing Works Pvt Ltd, Saraswati Offset Printers Pvt Ltd and United India Tradex Pvt Ltd -- had conspired to fix rates in bids submitted for the tenders. Competition Commission of India (CCI) had directed its probe arm -- Director General (DG) -- for a detailed investigation, which revealed close linkages among the three firms (opposite parties). "The evidence gathered by investigation showed that there are business dealings, funds transactions, loan exchanges, sharing of work orders and personal acquaintances among the opposite parties. However, the investigation could not unearth any cogent evidence that could establish contravention of the provisions of Section 3(3) of the (Competition) Act," the regulator said citing the investigation report. Section 3 pertains to anti-competitive agreements. According to CCI's 12-page order passed on Friday, the Commission notes that the inter-se dealings between the opposite parties are explained to be on account of their historic business linkages and such dealings thus appear to be in usual course of business. "... there is nothing on record as per investigation to suggest that the opposite parties joined hands to manipulate the process of bidding in respect of the aforementioned three tenders," the watchdog said, adding that no case of contravention of the provisions of Section 3(3) is made out in the facts and circumstances of the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cci-closes-alleged-bid-rigging-case-finds-no-evidence-of-competition-norms-violations-951496.html
15-02-2021||National||Govt announces liberalisation of policies governing geo-spatial data||The government on Monday announced liberalisation of policies governing the acquisition and production of geo-spatial data, a move that will help in boosting innovation in the sector and create a level playing field for public and private entities. Under the new guidelines, the sector will be deregulated and aspects like approvals have been done away with, Department of Science and Technology Secretary Ashutosh Sharma said. For Indian entities, there will be complete deregulation with no prior approvals, security clearances, licenses, for acquisition and production of geospatial data and geospatial data services, including maps, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the liberalisation of policies governing the acquisition and production of geospatial data is a "massive step in government's vision for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat". The reform will benefit country's farmers, start-ups, private sector, public sector and research institutions to drive innovations and build scalable solutions, he said. Science and Technology Minister Harsh Vardhan in a press conference said the easing of norms will greatly help in several sectors that were suffering because of non-availability of maps. He said earlier even the Survey of India, the agency entrusted with making maps, had to seek permission for mapping, thus delaying its work by at least 3-6 months. In a series of tweets, Modi said, "Our government has taken a decision that will provide a huge impetus to Digital India. Liberalising policies governing the acquisition and production of geo-spatial data is a massive step in our vision for an Aatmanirbhar Bharat," he said. The move will unlock tremendous opportunities for the country's start-ups, private sector, public sector and research institutions to drive innovations and build scalable solutions. This will also generate employment and accelerate economic growth, he stressed. "India's farmers will also be benefited by leveraging the potential of geo-spatial and remote sensing data. Democratising data will enable the rise of new technologies and platforms that will drive efficiencies in agriculture and allied sectors. "These reforms demonstrate our commitment to improving ease of doing business in India by deregulation," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-announces-liberalisation-of-policies-governing-geo-spatial-data-951503.html
15-02-2021||National||Nikita, Shantanu created 'toolkit'; Disha Ravi sent it to Greta Thunberg via Telegram app: Delhi Police||The Delhi Police on Monday alleged that climate activist Disha Ravi along with two other suspects Nikita Jacob and Shantanu created the "toolkit" document related to the farmers' protest and shared in on social media. The police claimed Disha, who was arrested by the force on Saturday from Bengaluru, sent the "toolkit" to teen climate activist Greta Thunberg via Telegram app. Addressing a press conference, Joint Commissioner of Police (Cyber) Prem Nath claimed that Disha deleted a WhatsApp group she created to spread the "toolkit". The Delhi Police earlier said non-bailable warrants have been issued against Jacob and Shantanu for allegedly sharing the "toolkit" on social media. Nath claimed that Nikita and Shantanu attended a zoom meeting organised by 'pro-khalistani' group Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF) and added that Jacob was also one of the editors of "toolkit" document. "Disha , Shantanu and Nikita created and edited the toolkit. Disha sent the toolkit to Greta Thunberg through the Telegram app. Disha deleted a whatsapp group which she created to spread the toolkit. Due procedure was followed during Dishal's arrest," he said. Ravi was sent to five days police remand on Sunday by a Delhi court here. Thunberg had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers' agitation against the three farm reform laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers' protest. The toolkit has been cited by some critics as a "proof" of her conspiracy to fuel protests in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nikita-shantanu-created-toolkit-disha-ravi-sent-it-to-greta-thunberg-via-telegram-app-delhi-police-951507.html
15-02-2021||National||Uttarakhand flash floods: Atmosphere in Tapovan village grim as families lose hope||As bodies are being continually pulled out of the muck-filled power project tunnel here, the atmosphere outside is getting grimmer with families of the missing people losing hope of seeing them alive. Every time a body is brought out of the adit tunnel, families waiting outside for over a week, take some time to pluck up the courage to see if the mortal remains are of a loved one or not. And the temporary relief of not finding a family member among the dead is brief as they are soon gripped by despair when they see rescue personnel battling through tonnes of sludge choking the tunnel and are reminded that eight days have elapsed since the calamity happened. Nine bodies have so far been recovered from the tunnel at Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project site taking the toll in the tragedy to 54, while officials say 115 people are still missing. Out of the three bodies recovered from the tunnel on Monday one is of Satypal Singh Bartwal from Masoli village in Pokhri area of Chamoli district. "We hoped Satyapal would return alive. But now we will have to return home with my brother's body. It's unbearable," said his elder brother in a choked voice. Over a dozen relatives of Bartwal including his brother, who had been camping at Tapovan village since the day the tragedy struck, broke down inconsolably after identifying the body. The crowd of disheartened relatives at the tunnel site has begun to disperse. Those who remain are found hanging around the mortuary where the bodies are being brought one after another. Relatives of Jitendra, a resident of Jammu brought out dead from the tunnel on Sunday are also packing up to leave. "Seven of us had come from Jammu after we heard of the glacial disaster in Chamoli on February 7 and my brother's phone was switched off. We had been scouring different areas of Tapovan and Joshimath for four days in search of Jitendra until his body was brought out of the tunnel on Sunday. It's tragic," Jitendra's younger brother Pavan said. Alam Singh Pundir's body, the first to be pulled out of the tunnel on Sunday has also been handed over to his relatives who had arrived in Tapovan just a day after the tragedy in search of him. According to an official of the NTPC, the bodies that have been recovered since Sunday were found in the upside of the adit tunnel. The bodies being identified now appear to be those of people who were working in the inner parts of the tunnel at the time of the flash floods and apparently ran to the upside in an attempt to get out but got bogged down in the slush gushing in, he said. However, there are also some who have not given up hope. The father and father-in-law of Sateshwar Purohit, a resident of Soni village in Chamoli who worked as an electrician and went missing from the tunnel after the avalanche are an example as they are hopeful of his safe return. "We have absolute faith in God. Our son will definitely return," his father said. Purohit lives with his family in Tapovan and has two daughters, one of whom is one-and-a-half-years-old. As relatives visit their home to urge their mother to not lose hope, the girls listen without blinking their eyes. While Purohit’s wife is hopeful, she has her doubts as seven days have passed since she last heard from her husband when disaster struck.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-flash-floods-atmosphere-in-tapovan-village-grim-as-families-lose-hope-951511.html
15-02-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee condemns Disha Ravi's arrest||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday lashed out at the Centre over the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi over the case of allegedly sharing the “toolkit” related to the farmers’ protest with Greta Thunberg. She added that the BJP government at the Centre should first take action against the saffron party’s IT Cell for spreading fake news. Speaking to reporters at the State Secretariat, Mamata alleged that the Centre was acting in contradictory ways in dealing with protesters against the government and BJP’s own IT Cell. “Arresting someone just because of protesting against the government is unacceptable. The BJP should first take action against its own IT Cell for spreading fake news. Why such double standard?” said Mamata. She alleged that the BJP’s IT Cell members were calling up Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers and abusing them. She has asked the police to probe the incidents and take strong action. The TMC Supremo slammed the Centre for rising prices of LPG and fuel. Banerjee alleged that the IT cell members of the saffron party are calling up people posing as TMC members and are maligning her party. "I have asked Kolkata police to look into it," she said. "Besides, every day LPG and fuel prices are going up and the Centre is not bothered about it. It is only interested in making false promises ahead of elections," she said. "It only cares about making false promises to dupe the people ahead of elections,” said Mamata. Meanwhile, ahead of the Assembly elections, Mamata virtually launched the ‘Maa’ (mother) scheme to provide subsidised meals to the poor. Similar to the Amma Canteen in Tamil Nadu, the West Bengal government would provide a meal consisting of dal, rice, vegetable and egg, and a subsidy of Rs 15 per plate. Initially, the scheme will run in Kolkata and eventually be extended to other parts of Bengal. West Bengal Assembly poll is due in April-May and BJP which made deep inroads in the politically polarised state is looking to deseat the 10-year-old TMC regime in the state. Disha Ravi, a 22-year-old climate activist was arrested from Bengaluru recently for allegedly sharing with Greta Thunberg the "toolkit" related to the farmer''s protest against the Centre's agri laws, police said on Sunday. Thunberg, a teen climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers' agitation against the three farm reform laws.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-condemns-disha-ravis-arrest-951518.html
15-02-2021||National||Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka account for 77% of 1.39 lakh active Covid-19 cases||India's total Covid-19 active cases currently stand at 1.39 lakh with 33 states and union territories having reported less than 5,000 active cases in a span of 24 hours, the Health Ministry said on Monday. Three states -- Kerala, Maharashtra and Karnataka -- cumulatively account for 77 per cent (76.5 per cent) of India's total active cases. Kerala, Maharashtra together account for 74.72 per cent of the total active cases. Tripura and Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli currently have only two active cases each. The ministry said that 18 states and UTs have not reported any deaths in a span of 24 hours. These are Assam, Rajasthan, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Lakshadweep, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Ladakh, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura and Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Also, ten states and UTs have reported no deaths in the last week. These are Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Ladakh, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Nagaland, Sikkim, and Tripura. Till 8 AM on February 15, the cumulative number of healthcare workers (HCW) and frontline workers (FLW) vaccinated against Covid-19 in the country has reached nearly 83 lakh. A total of 82,85,295 beneficiaries have been vaccinated through 1,73,729 sessions, as per the provisional report till 8 am. These include 59,88,113 HCWs (1st dose), 24,561 HCWs (2nd dose) and 22,72,621 FLWs (1st dose). The 2nd dose of Covid-19 vaccination started on February 13 for those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receipt of the 1st dose. As of Day 30 of the vaccination drive (14th February 2021), a total of 21,437 beneficiaries received vaccination across 877 sessions. Out of which, 20,504 beneficiaries were vaccinated for 1st dose and 933 HCWs received 2nd dose of vaccine, the ministry said. The country is witnessing a progressive increase in the vaccination day by day, it stressed. Ten states account for 69 per cent of the total beneficiaries vaccinated in India. Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 10.4 per cent (8,58,602) beneficiaries. India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,06,21,220 with 9,489 patients having recuperated in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said 79.5 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in six states. Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 4,692 newly recovered cases (nearly 50 per cent). As many as 1,355 people recovered in Maharashtra in the past 24 hours followed by 486 in Karnataka. 90 fatalities have been recorded in a span of 24 hours. Six states account for 80 per cent of the daily deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (40), accounting for nearly 44.44 per cent of the daily deaths. Kerala follows with 15 daily deaths and Tamil Nadu reported six casualties. A total of 1,649 new daily cases have been recorded in a day. The ministry 86.4 per cent of the daily new cases are from six states. Kerala reports the highest daily new cases at 4,612. It is followed by Maharashtra with 4,092, while Tamil Nadu reported 470 new cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-maharashtra-karnataka-account-for-77-of-139-lakh-active-covid-19-cases-951521.html
15-02-2021||National||Ready to offer job, financial support to family of deceased DYFI activist: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said her government is ready to provide financial support to family members of DYFI activist Maidul Islam Midda, who succumbed to injuries sustained during a clash between police and members of Left parties. Banerjee said the police has launched an investigation and the exact cause of his death would be known only after the post-mortem examination. "I do not support any death. A probe is underway... I have come to know that even his family members were not informed where he was admitted. No police complaint was made in this connection, too," she said at the state secretariat. "I have spoken to Sujan Chakraborty (Left Front leader), and told him that I am ready to provide job and financial support to the family," the chief minister said. Midda, who was critically injured in a clash with the police during the Left parties' march to the West Bengal secretariat on February 11, died on Monday morning. He had suffered renal failure, following which he died due to cardiac arrest, CPI(M) leader Dr Fuad Halim, at whose medical facility Midda was being treated, said. Banerjee said it is also important to ascertain whether Midda, who is survived by wife and two children, had any health complication. Student and youth wings of Left parties had clashed with the police during the rally, leading to injuries on both sides. The police lathicharged, burst tear gas shells and used water cannons to disperse the activists. The Left Front had called a 12-hour state-wide bandh on February 12 in protest against the police action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ready-to-offer-job-financial-support-to-family-of-deceased-dyfi-activist-mamata-951522.html
15-02-2021||National||AAP calls Disha Ravi's arrest 'extrajudicial abduction', demands her immediate release||The AAP on Monday demanded immediate release of 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi, calling it an "extrajudicial abduction". Addressing a press conference, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the party condemns Ravi's arrest. "The BJP government has imposed a state of emergency in the country. The youth have been speaking strongly, but the BJP does not like the youth, that's why the 21-year-old youth activist has been arrested," he said. Chadha said the "huge" BJP government, with 300 MPs, is so afraid of the youth activist that they sent Delhi Police to arrest her. "The BJP government is allergic to the youth of the country. The arrest of Ravi shows this. Her arrest was an extrajudicial abduction," he said. "The BJP has put the country under an undeclared emergency. We demand that Ravi must be immediately released," Chadha said. He further called upon the youth of the country to unite and raise their voice against the injustices happening in the nation. Ravi was arrested on Saturday from Bengaluru for allegedly sharing with Greta Thunberg a toolkit related to farmer's protest against the Centre's three new agriculture laws, police said. The Delhi Police claimed that Ravi was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and "key conspirator" in the document's formulation and dissemination. A graduate in Bachelor of Business Administration, Ravi is also one of the founding members of a group named ''Fridays For Future India'', police added. Non-bailable warrants have been issued against advocate Nikita Jacob and activist Shantanu for their alleged involvement in preparing the document. They have also been alleged to be in direct touch with "pro-Khalistani elements".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-calls-disha-ravis-arrest-extrajudicial-abduction-demands-her-immediate-release-951523.html
15-02-2021||National||Kanhaiya Kumar meets Bihar CM Nitish Kumar’s aide, triggers speculation||CPI leader and former JNU Students’ Union president, Kanhaiya Kumar, met senior Bihar minister and a close aide of Nitish Kumar, Ashok Choudhary, triggering speculations about his next political move. The closely-watched meeting comes amid CPI passing a censure motion against Kanhaiya recently at the party’s meeting in Hyderabad charging him with “misbehaviour with a party office-bearer at CPI’s Patna office.” Though both the leaders – Kanhaiya and Choudhary - termed the meet as a “courtesy call” and asked the media not to read between the lines, sources said there could be more than meets the eye. And the reasons are one too many. First, Choudhary is Building Construction Minister in Bihar, besides the working president of the State JD (U). It was he who recently helped BSP MLA, Jama Khan, meet Nitish and eventually join the JD (U) and later as a minister in the Nitish government. It was Choudhary again who facilitated a meeting between Nitish and Independent MLA Sumit Singh. Sumit was also made a minister in the last week’s Cabinet expansion. Secondly, Kanhaiya, who contested as CPI candidate against the BJP leader and Union Minister Giriraj Singh from Begusarai in 2019, has been quite vocal against the BJP but quite soft towards Nitish. Thirdly, Kanhaiya and Ashok Choudhary enjoy their ‘JNU bonding’ as both have done their post-graduation from Jawaharlal Nehru University. But more than that, it is believed in the corridors of power here that those who want to meet Nitish, has to first meet Choudhary. “If Kanhaiya is ready to give up the Communist ideology and become a disciplined soldier of JD (U), he is welcome,” said JD (U) spokesperson Ajay Alok, amid wide political speculations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kanhaiya-kumar-meets-bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-s-aide-triggers-speculation-951524.html
15-02-2021||National||PM Modi to address NASSCOM event on February 17||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the NASSCOM Technology and Leadership Forum (NTLF) on Wednesday via video conferencing.   The 29th edition of NTLF is being organised from February 17 to 19 and it is the flagship event of the National Association of Software and Service Companies (NASSCOM), the PMO noted.    The theme of this year's event is 'Shaping the future towards a better normal'. The event will host 1,600 participants from more than 30 countries and over 30 products will be showcased during the three-days of talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-nasscom-event-on-february-17-951525.html
15-02-2021||National||About 18-19 vaccine candidates against Covid-19 in pipeline, in different clinical trial stages: Harsh Vardhan||About 18-19 vaccine candidates against Covid-19 are in the pipeline and in different clinical trial stages, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Monday. Addressing the media, Vardhan said that in the next 2-3 weeks, vaccinations against Covid-19 will be started for people above 50 years of age. "About 18-20 vaccine candidates against Covid-19 are in the pipeline and are in preclinical, clinical and advanced stages," Vardhan said. He further said that India will be supplying vaccines to 20-25 other countries. Dispelling rumours surrounding the vaccines, Vardhan said the vaccines in the public domain are safe and effective. He said no new cases of Covid-19 have been reported in 188 districts of the country in the last 7 days, while no new cases have been reported in 21 districts in 21 days. Vardhan further urged people to keep following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. "It is crucial that people continue to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour which I call social vaccine, along with real vaccines," he said. India has approved two vaccines -- Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech and Covishield from the Oxford/AstraZeneca stable being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India -- for emergency use in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/about-18-19-vaccine-candidates-against-covid-19-in-pipeline-in-different-clinical-trial-stages-harsh-vardhan-951535.html
15-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: BJP, Oppn cross swords over Disha Ravi's arrest in 'toolkit' case||In your evening news brief, War of words erupts between BJP, Opposition over Disha Ravi’s arrest;  Sensex finishes above the 52,000-mark and Petrol and diesel prices hiked for the seventh day in a row.    Hi, you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here is the top news of February 15, 2021: The action taken by the Delhi Police on an FIR related to a toolkit shared by climate campaigner Greta Thunberg in support of the ongoing farmer protests has triggered a war of words between the opposition and the ruling BJP. Accusing the government of "murdering democracy" by using force against a 21-year-old, the opposition on Monday said the voice of India cannot be silenced even as the BJP defended the action, saying a crime is a crime no matter at what age. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Non-bailable warrants have been issued against two young activists Nikita Jacob and Shantanu with Delhi Police alleging that they were involved in preparing the "toolkit" related to the farmers' protest on social media along with pro-Khalistani elements ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 610 points to finish above the 52,000-mark for the first time on Monday, tracking significant gains in financial stocks amid a positive trend in global markets. After touching a record high of 52,235.97 during the day, the 30-share BSE index ended 609.83 points or 1.18 per cent up at 52,154.13. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Petrol and diesel prices on Monday were hiked for the seventh day in a row as a rally in international oil prices took retail rates in India to new highs. Petrol price was increased by 26 paise per litre and diesel by 29 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This pushed retail rates, which differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT and freight charges, to their highest level. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Source: PTI ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-bjp-oppn-cross-swords-over-disha-ravis-arrest-in-toolkit-case-951544.html
15-02-2021||National||PM Modi gives chadar to be offered at Ajmer shrine||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday handed over a chadar to Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi that will be offered on his behalf at the shrine of renowned Sufi saint Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti. The shrine at Ajmer is one of the holiest Sufi shrines, frequented in large number by the faithful.  "Handed over a Chadar that would be offered at the Ajmer Sharif Dargah on the 809th Urs of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti," Modi tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-gives-chadar-to-be-offered-at-ajmer-shrine-951545.html
15-02-2021||National||MSRDC inaugurates India’s first contactless truck parking with NETC FASTag||The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI), in association with Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) and Equitas Bank, inaugurated India’s first Truck Parking Plaza on the Mumbai Pune Expressway. The Plaza has been created by MSRDC to ensure that the truck drivers get relief from continuous driving and can rest at the plaza, thereby, lessening chances of accidents on the expressways. The NPCI is now geared-up to expand the contactless car parking facility in Mumbai, Delhi, Bangalore, Chennai and Trivandrum amongst other cities. It has also initiated discussions with major malls, airports, ports, railway stations, metro stations, hospitals and other private parking lots in the country for the NETC FASTag powered contactless car parking solutions. MSRDC joint managing director Vijay Waghmare said that the corporation has pioneered in furthering the NETC FASTag solution since inception of the programme. Mumbai-Pune Expressway, Satara-Kagal, Sea Link, and Mumbai Entry Point plazas are running on the NETC FASTag solution. “Now we are enabling NETC FASTag at MSRDC truck plaza which will help contactless payment for truck drivers and ensure their safety during this pandemic. This digital transformation will introduce transparency and ensure complete contactless and safe travel for the commuter. MSRDC requests all commuters to install FasTags on their vehicles and ensure sufficient cash balance in the FasTag,” he said. Meanwhile, Denny Thomas, Head NETC & AEPS, NPCI said, “The parking implementation at the terminus is a natural extension from the current toll payments use case as most of the commercial vehicles plying on the highways already have a NETC FASTag. The parking solution at the terminus will help drivers, experience convenience and safety as it’s a 100 per cent contactless payment solution.” Murali Vaidyanathan, President & Country Head- Branch Banking, Liabilities, Product & Wealth, Equitas Small Finance Bank Limited said, “We are pleased to be a part of this initiation by the Government of India to help the citizens to travel without any delay at the toll gates of National Highways and to avoid the usage of currency transactions, especially, during the current pandemic of Covid-19”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/msrdc-inaugurates-india-s-first-contactless-truck-parking-with-netc-fastag-951553.html
15-02-2021||National||Puzzling Covid-19 decline in India sparks a shopping spree||By Chris Kay and Vrishti Beniwal, For the home to the world’s second-largest Covid-19 outbreak, life in India is almost back to normal. Shopping mall parking lots are full again. Stores are buzzing, and there are long lines for hair salons and restaurants. “We just got fed up sitting at home, for how long can you do that?” said Kaniz Zehra, a 32-year-old stay-at-home parent to a toddler and a 5-year-old. In recent months, she’s flown for two domestic holidays; last month, she braved the crowds at the DLF Mall of India, one of the country’s largest, outside of New Delhi. “Initially there was a fear of getting the infection,” she said. “But now it appears it hasn’t affected Indians as badly as it hit people in other countries.” While the US and large swaths of Europe remain in crisis and China stays vigilant over new outbreaks, concerns about Covid seem to have ebbed across India. Infection and death rates have dropped, and as shoppers like Zehra re-emerge, the economy and consumer companies are posting strong gains, far sooner than most expected. The steady decline of reported Covid infections in India has puzzled scientists, especially given that many countries are battling second, third and fourth waves. Since daily cases peaked close to 1,00,000 in September, new transmissions have dropped nearly 90%. Deaths have fallen by a similar rate, from more than 1,000 a day in September to fewer than 100 now. Epidemiologists have questioned those numbers, pointing to low rates of testing and habitual underreporting of causes of death, particularly in rural India. But even if the numbers are artificially low, a lull in the country’s Covid wards suggests the trend is real. Government economists are predicting 11% economic growth for the financial year that begins April 1, enough to reverse the 7.7% contraction in 2020. “Consumer confidence is reviving,” Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das said in February, pointing to renewed domestic migration, growing demand for energy and electricity and other indicators. Already, some of the nation’s largest retail and consumer companies are reaping the fruit of Indians’ pent-up demand. Reliance Industries Ltd. posted record profits for the quarter that ended in December, buoyed by billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s growing bet on retail. Aditya Birla Group’s fashion retail business also reported quarterly profits, after a corresponding loss in the same period a year ago. Unilever Plc’s local arm posted a 20% jump in sales for the fourth quarter. “India after a very difficult period with the virus is bouncing back quickly,” Unilever’s Chief Executive Officer Alan Jope said in an interview with Bloomberg Television this month. Passenger vehicle sales have ramped up, along with the import of electronic goods. Traffic at India’s airports and on the roads has picked up. On Monday, Nomura Holdings Inc. said its India Business Resumption Index continued to rise, coming within about 2 percentage points of its pre-pandemic level by the end of last week. “In Mumbai and Delhi -- the two main cities in India which were also the worst affected -- life certainly seems to be back to normal in terms of movement,” said Abhishek Gupta, who covers India at Bloomberg Economics. Fast vaccination pace supports demand Returning confidence has so far been offset by worsening poverty, with an estimated 85 million swelling the ranks of the newly poor, especially migrant workers who fled urban centres during last year’s lockdown. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is hoping that the vaccination drive that began in January will spur a wider recovery. So far, vaccine uptake has been slower than officials hoped, the rollout beset by technical hiccups. Frontline workers have also reported scepticism about the shots, following the hasty approval of a local shot before it reached final-stage tests. Controversy swirls around India’s homegrown Covid vaccine “I don’t think anyone really thinks that without vaccines and a vaccination program being widely available that we can go back to whatever is full normalcy,” said Sireesha Yadlapalli, a Hyderabad-based senior director at the United States Pharmacopeia, a 200-year-old scientific nonprofit organization. “Hopefully this is the slowdown and there’s no second wave.” It’s too early to say whether India’s current resilience will persist. Some experts have speculated the country has already achieved herd immunity. A study conducted in the southern state of Karnataka signalled just under half its more than 60 million residents had been infected by August, a number more than 90 times higher than the official figure at the time. Others have also pointed to India’s youthful population or to unproven theories that widespread exposure to a high number of tropical diseases confers some protection against Covid. For now, though, “there has been a reduction in fear,” said T. Jacob John, former head of the Centre for Advanced Research in Virology at the Indian Council of Medical Research. “Whether the South African variant will breach the immunity wall and create a second pandemic with India participating with a new wave -- is unpredictable.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puzzling-covid-19-decline-in-india-sparks-a-shopping-spree-951555.html
15-02-2021||National||Geo-spatial data beneficial for farmers, says PM Modi as India ends barrier on surveying, mapping to boost infrastructure||The Centre on Monday opened up the restricted mapping sector by allowing private companies to collect mapping data and offer map services in the open market without seeking any approvals from the government. Indian outfits have been permitted to carry out street-view surveys – something that wasn’t allowed for Google – besides terrestrial mobile mapping and surveys in the country's territorial waters. While there would be some restrictions on sensitive installations, mapping is allowed in most parts of India. “If there is access to an area, there would not be any restrictions on Indian entities for making maps. For Indian entities, there would be no prior approvals, security clearance and licences for acquisition and production of geospatial data and maps,” Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, Department of Science and Technology said here. The opening up, the government hoped, would encourage Indian private companies in a big way to enter this arena, which is likely to be a Rs 1 lakh-crore sector spawning nearly 22 lakh jobs by 2030. Indian companies had so far been required to seek licenses and approvals to create and publish maps and other geospatial data. Ending those restrictions is part of India’s push toward Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s goal of self-reliance, the government said in a statement.  “There will be unprecedented value creation for Indian economy and society,” said Rohan Verma, chief executive officer of MapmyIndia, which has been building digital maps and advanced geospatial technology products. “Sectors such as agriculture, health-care, finance, revenue, logistics, transportation, technology, commerce and many more --which form 70% of India’s GDP will be positively impacted.” Union Science Minister Harsh Vardhan and the Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office Jitendra Singh released the new policy prepared by the Ministry of Science and Technology. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, in a series of tweets, welcomed the change, describing it as a “landmark reform” and a massive step towards “Aatmanirbhar Bharat”. While data can be collected using satellite images, drones, LIDARs (light detection and ranging) and ground truthing surveys, Indian companies are also allowed to acquire and store high-resolution satellite images (finer-than-one metre) in India. The policy also permits private companies to obtain data generated by public funds – such as ISRO satellite images – for a price. A level-playing field would be provided to private companies, Sharma said. Sensitive information, however, would not be shown. “It was a long pending policy change sought by the GIS sector. Indian companies currently can’t sell surveys and maps in the market because the permissions from the Defence Ministry – on the basis of Survey of India recommendations – barely come,” Ravi Gupta, an expert of geospatial studies and founder director of Centre for Science Development and Media Studies told DH. “The mapping sector has now been opened to private companies. They don’t require any prior approval to undertake any such mapping or survey contracts. So far, only the Geological Survey of India (ground based) and ISRO (space based) had blanket permission. Everyone else had to apply for a licence and provide credentials and justification for doing the mapping,” explained Aniket Sule, a scientist at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research. The policy change comes at a time when the government is in the process of opening up the space sector. Taken together, the two sectors contribute significantly towards the Centre’s ambitious Smart City programme.   (With inputs from Bloomberg)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/geo-spatial-data-beneficial-for-farmers-says-pm-modi-as-india-ends-barrier-on-surveying-mapping-to-boost-infrastructure-951558.html
15-02-2021||National||Govt to set up digital intelligence unit to tackle pesky calls, financial frauds||The telecom ministry will set up an intelligence unit and a consumer protection system as part of continuing efforts to tackle the menace of pesky calls as well as to take strict action against financial frauds perpetrated using telecom resources. The move follows a direction from telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who chaired a high level meeting to look at ways to address rising concerns of consumers over unsolicited messages on mobile phones, repeated harassment through SMSes promising loan transactions through fraudulent ways. It is also aimed at making digital transactions more safe and secure. "In the meeting, the Minister of Communication directed officials to take strict action against erring telemarketers and individuals involved in harassment of telecom subscribers. Further, the minister observed that telecom resources are also being used to carry out financial frauds and dupe the common man of his hard-earned money. "Clear directions were issued to the officials to take strict and tangible action to stop such activities immediately," a statement said on Monday. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) already has regulations in place to check pesky calls. However, several unregistered telemarketers still make calls to people which often also leads to fraudulent incidents. On February 3, the Delhi High Court directed Trai to ensure "complete and strict" implementation of the regulation issued by it in 2018 for curbing Unsolicited Commercial Communications (UCC). "The officials apprised the minister that for UCC and financial fraud-related complaints, time is of utmost essence and a quick time-bound action will help in reducing such menaces. "Accordingly, a nodal agency named as Digital Intelligence Unit (DIU) will be set up. The main function of the DIU will be to coordinate with various LEAs (Law Enforcement Agencies), financial institutions and telecom service providers in investigating any fraudulent activity involving telecom resources," the statement said. At the license service area level, Telecom Analytics for Fraud Management and Consumer Protection (TAFCOP) system will also be created. "The above system will strengthen the trust of people in the digital ecosystem and will make financial digital transactions primarily through mobile more secure and reliable, which will result in promotion of Digital India," the statement said. Prasad has directed the officials of the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) to conduct a meeting with telecom operators and telemarketers to apprise them of the seriousness of the issue and to ensure compliance with laid down rules and procedures in this regard. In case of any violation, imposing financial penalty on telemarketers and disconnecting resources in case of repetitive violations have also been proposed, as per the statement. "The minister also directed to devise special strategies, including blocking of telecom operations due to rising concern in Jamtara (Jharkhand) and Mewat (Haryana) regions for curbing fraudulent activities involving usage of telecom resources," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-set-up-digital-intelligence-unit-to-tackle-pesky-calls-financial-frauds-951566.html
15-02-2021||National||SC seeks Centre's reply on PIL against ED director's extension||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from Centre on a PIL by NGO 'Common Cause' challenging November 13 2020, order which retrospectively amended the tenure of the present Enforcement Directorate (ED) director Sanjay Kumar Mishra. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and Justice S Ravindra Bhat issued notice to the Centre on a plea by NGO Common Cause. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, representing the NGO, submitted that according to the scheme of the act, the present director shall have a maximum tenure of two years instead he has been given a one-year extension. He contended this would be destroying the independence of ED. The bench told Bhushan that it is impressed with his submissions and will examine the plea. The plea contended that Centre has employed a circuitous route in order to ensure Mishra gets one more year as ED director by way of retrospectively modifying the appointment order dated November 18, 2018, itself. The NGO has made Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance and present ED directors; and Central Vigilance Commission, as parties. The plea filed by the NGO has sought direction for quashing November 13 order along with a direction to the Centre to appoint ED director in a transparent manner and strictly in accordance with the mandate of Section 25 of the Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003. “The said two-year tenure has come to an end on 19.11.2020. Pertinently, the Respondent No. 2 (Mishra) has already reached the retirement age of 60 years in May 2020”, said the plea. The NGO said the purpose of the Act is defeated if on the verge of his two-year tenure and much after his retirement age, the ED director is given a de facto extension in service by adoption of a circuitous route of modifying the initial appointment order itself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centres-reply-on-pil-against-ed-directors-extension-951583.html
15-02-2021||National||Vehicles without FASTag to pay double toll fee from February 16||Vehicles without FASTag would have to to pay double the toll fee at electronic toll plazas from Monday midnight across the country. The government has made FASTags mandatory from February 15 midnight and any vehicle not fitted with it will be charged double the toll at electronic toll plazas across the country, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has said. It has decided that all lanes in the fee plazas on National Highways shall be declared as 'FASTag lane of the fee plaza' from midnight of February 15-16, 2021. "As per NH Fee Rules 2008, any vehicle not fitted with FASTag or vehicle without valid, functional FASTag entering into the FASTag lane of the fee plaza shall pay a fee equivalent to two times of the fee applicable to that category," the Ministry said. This has been done to further promote fee payment through digital mode, reduce waiting time and fuel consumption, and provide for a seamless passage through the fee plazas. The ministry had mandated fitment of FASTag in M&N categories of motor vehicles with effect from January 1, 2021. Category ‘M’ stands for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying passengers and category ‘N’ stands for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying goods, which may also carry persons in addition to goods. Road Transport and Highways Minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday made it clear that the deadline for implementation of FASTag would not be extended further, and the vehicle owners should immediately adopt the e-payment facility. FASTags, which facilitate electronic payment of fee at toll plazas, was introduced in 2016. Making the tags compulsory would also help in ensuring that vehicles pass seamlessly through the toll plazas, as the fee payment would be done electronically. FASTag is also available on toll booths. The Centre extended the FASTag deadline for the vehicles from January 1, 2021, to February 15, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vehicles-without-fastag-to-pay-double-toll-fee-from-february-16-951598.html
15-02-2021||National||India unlikely to move against Sri Lanka at UNHRC||Notwithstanding the recent strain in New Delhi's relations with Colombo over a port project, India is unlikely to support a resolution proposed to be moved by some western nations at the United Nations Human Rights Council next week seeking punitive actions against Sri Lanka for atrocities on its minority Tamils. The Sri Lankan government recently scrapped a tripartite deal it had inked with New Delhi to let India and Japan develop and run the East Container Terminal of the Colombo Port. Though New Delhi suspects that Beijing nudged Colombo to scrap the deal, it may not support any move against Sri Lanka at the UNHRC. The Lankan government, led by President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa, in fact, already got in touch with New Delhi seeking support at the UNHRC, which would start its 46th session on February 22.  With the Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu around the corner, the BJP government in Delhi over the past few weeks has raised its pitch over the rights of Tamils in Sri Lanka. It nudged Colombo to fully implement the 13th amendment to its Constitution to ensure devolution of power to the local governments in its Tamil-majority Northern and Eastern Provinces. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too reaffirmed India's support to Tamils in Sri Lanka during a visit to Chennai on Sunday. The alleged excesses, human rights violations and atrocities on the minority Tamils during the offensives against rebel Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) in 2009 were under the scrutiny of the UNHRC for more than a decade now. The government, led by Rajapaksa Clan, in February 2020 withdrew from a 2015 UNHRC resolution, which the erstwhile regime had agreed upon for probe into allegations of atrocities. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, will next week submit at the council a report on Sri Lanka’s progress on implementation of the earlier recommendations made by her office to address allegations of excesses by its armed forces as well as for reconciliation. Canada, United Kingdom and some other western nations are planning to move a resolution at the UNHRC, seeking targeted sanctions, assets freeze and travel bans on certain Sri Lankan officials for alleged involvement in human rights violations during the offensive against the LTTE. DMK leader M K Stalin urged the government of India to support the move against Sri Lanka at the UNHRC. He wrote to the Prime Minister, arguing that India must join the move against Sri Lanka as the island nation was reluctant to "take forward constructive and internationally acceptable measures for accountability in the matters of war crimes and all human rights violations''. The source in New Delhi however said that India’s action on the proposed resolution against Sri Lanka at the UNHRC would be guided by its position that any intrusive approach by the council or any other UN organs undermining national sovereignty and institutions of any nation was counterproductive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-unlikely-to-move-against-sri-lanka-at-unhrc-951600.html
15-02-2021||National||Agitating farmer unions demand release of activist Disha Ravi||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, which is leading the agitation against new agri laws, on Monday again demanded the release of 21-year-old environmental activist Disha Ravi. Ravi was arrested on Saturday from Bengaluru by Delhi Police, which alleged that she, along with Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Pune-based engineer Shantanu, created the "toolkit" related to the farmers' agitation and shared it with others to tarnish India's image. "We are deeply concerned and anguished about the brazen misuse of police power by the government in its efforts to weaken the ongoing farmers' movement. We condemn the arrest of young environmental activist Disha Ravi without due procedures being followed. SKM demands her immediate unconditional release," the umbrella body of farmer unions said in a statement. The police on Monday said that "all due procedures were followed" in Ravi's arrest. The SKM had on Sunday also demanded Ravi's release. Climate activist Greta Thunberg had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers' agitation against the three new agri laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed to rally support for the farmers' protest. The "toolkit" has been cited by some critics as "proof" of a conspiracy to fuel protests in India The SKM said it will commemorate on Tuesday the contributions of Sir Chhotu Ram, a prominent politician of Punjab province before independence, for peasant consciousness. "The Unionist Party that he set up brought in a law against usury in the 1930s, that protected peasants from the clutches of moneylenders and restored the right of land to the tiller of the land. "Sir Chhotu Ram is also credited for establishing the mandi system in India, and it is this system that the present farmers' movement seeks to protect and improve," the union body said in a statement. "On February 16, SKM calls on all its constituents to organise meetings that explain the contributions of Sir Chhotu Ram and the need to further strengthen the ongoing movement, taking inspiration from exemplary people like him," it added. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- for nearly 80 days to press for the repeal of the three agri laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agitating-farmer-unions-demand-release-of-activist-disha-ravi-951603.html
15-02-2021||National||Third Scorpene-class submarine delivered to Indian Navy||The third Scorpene-class submarine Karanj was delivered to the Indian Navy on Monday. The Scorpene-class submarines are being built by the Mumbai-based Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd (MDL). The delivery of three submarines namely – INS Khanderi, INS Kalvari and now Karanj - reaffirmed India’s membership in the exclusive group of submarine building nations. INS Khandari and INS Kalvari were commissioned on 14 December, 2017 and 28 September, 2019, respectively. Karanj will subsequently be commissioned into the Indian Navy. The fourth submarine Vela was launched on 06 May, 2019, has commenced her sea trials, while the fifth submarine Vagir, was launched on 12 November 2020 and has commenced her harbour sea trials. The sixth submarine is presently in the advance stage of outfitting. The Acceptance Document was signed by Vice Admiral (Retd) Narayan Prasad, Chairman and Managing Director, MDL and Rear Admiral B Sivakumar, Chief of Staff Officer, Western Naval Command in the presence of top officials. With the delivery of Karanj, India further cements its position as a submarine building nation and MDL has lived up to its reputation as one of India’s leading shipyards with capacity and capability to meet requirements and aspirations of the Indian Navy in all dimensions. “Two SSK submarines built by MDL in 1992 and 1994 are still in service today, after more than 25 years a clear testimony of MDL’s quality of construction. MDL also achieved expertise in submarine refits by successfully executing the Medium Refit-cum-Upgradation of all the four SSK class submarines of the Indian Navy. It is presently carrying out the Medium Refit and Life Certification of INS Shishumar, the first SSK submarine,” an MDL spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/third-scorpene-class-submarine-delivered-to-indian-navy-951605.html
15-02-2021||National||Centre approves proposal of Rs 5 lakh each for families of 39 journalists who died due to Covid||The Centre on Monday approved the proposal of the Press Information Bureau's journalist welfare committee to provide as financial relief Rs 5 lakh each to families of 39 journalists who died due to the coronavirus, a panel member said. The Narendra Modi government has earmarked an additional fund for this purpose for the Journalist Welfare Committee (JWC), and journalists from across India will be covered under the scheme, the member said. In its meeting, the JWC decided to provide Rs 5 lakh to the family members of 39 deceased journalists. The JWC meeting was held under the chairmanship of Information and Broadcasting Secretary Amit Khare. Additional Secretary Neerja Shekhar, Joint Secretary Shri Vikram Sahay and Press Information Bureau (PIB) Principle DG K S Dhatwalia were also present at the meeting. Santosh Thakur, who is a member of the JWC, Amit Kumar, Umeshwar Kumar and Ganesh Bisht represented journalists in the meeting. Thakur thanked Prime Minister Modi and Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar for this effort. Thakur said the JWC also discussed other welfare measures for journalists which include health insurance and life insurance schemes. The issue of including journalists in the Ayushman Bharat health insurance scheme was also discussed at the meeting. Thakur informed that journalists who have some serious illness or have become handicapped while in service can also apply for financial help from the government through the JWC. Family members of journalists who have died while on duty can also apply for financial aid. The PIB has given a link on its website where a journalist or his family members can write to the government for help.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-proposal-of-rs-5-lakh-each-for-families-of-39-journalists-who-died-due-to-covid-951616.html
15-02-2021||National||Congress demands rollback of fuel price hike, alleges Centre insensitive towards common man's problems||The Congress on Monday demanded immediate rollback of hike in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders as it accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of being insensitive towards the problems of the common people. Party leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the government for the LPG price hike alleging that it was "looting" people for the "development of only two". "Loot from the public, development of only 'two'," he alleged. Gandhi's barb follows his 'Hum do, Hamare do' jibe in Parliament on Thursday. Attacking the government over the three farm laws, he had alleged that the nation is being run by only four people with a 'Hum do, Hamare do' approach. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala referred to a June 2011 tweet by Union Minister Smriti Irani to attack her over the issue and asked whether she would speak up against the LPG price hike. "Illusionist Smriti Irani ji, the price of gas cylinder has increased by Rs 175. Will you say something or will you remain silent and keep enjoying power," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said in the last two months alone, LPG gas prices have gone up by Rs 175 per cylinder and that is hitting the common people who are already reeling under economic recession. "We are amid an economic recession. Today, India is facing acute unemployment. People's wages have been cut and now they are being burdened with skyrocketing prices, thanks to LPG cylinders or petrol and diesel prices, where records are being set by this government. Petrol prices in Madhya Pradesh have crossed Rs 100 per litre," she said. "I think it tells you a lot about how this government functions and thinks. They are not just insensitive, I also believe they want to look the other way. The government has raised excise duty more than 12 times in its tenure so far and has amassed a whopping Rs 24 lakh crore which actually belongs to the people of this country and taxation is so very high," she alleged. Shrinate asked who is going to be answerable for this and demanded that the government withdraws this hike to help provide relief for the common man. Accusing the BJP of politicising the issue, she alleged they will lower taxes wherever elections are held. "Why can the (Narendra) Modi government not be sensitive towards the needs of people? I also believe if the common men and common women start asking tough questions to this government as far as economic mismanagement and skyrocketing prices are concerned, they will be labelled anti-nationals and sedition cases will be filed," she alleged. The Congress spokesperson asked if it not the moral duty of the government to give relief to the people or is it alright to make money at the cost of people's problems. "We believe the 'Achche Din' that the Modi government spoke about, and shies away from, is nowhere in sight. "We demand these prices and excise duty increase be rolled back. The excise duty structure and the excise collections be paused for a while and the government give relief to the common man because of the unprecedented situation and the government's prime duty is to bring more relief to the people," Shrinate said. Launching a broadside against the BJP government at the Centre, another Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill demanded subsidy on bicycles as prices of petrol and diesel are touching "record levels". "By continuously rising fuel prices, the BJP government is fulfilling its mission 'Aab Ki Baar Petrol/Diesel Rs 100 Paar'. It is now an open secret that the BJP government does not believe in welfare but is launching economic warfare against its own citizens," he alleged. He demanded that BJP immediately lower fuel prices or provide subsidy on purchase of bicycles, as its real goal is 'expensive India' and that is its version of 'achche din' (good days). Petrol and diesel prices on Monday were hiked for the seventh day in a row as a rally in international oil prices took retail rates in India to new highs. Petrol price was increased by 26 paise per litre and diesel by 29 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. This pushed retail rates, which differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT and freight charges, to their highest level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-demands-rollback-of-fuel-price-hike-alleges-centre-insensitive-towards-common-mans-problems-951621.html
15-02-2021||National||LAC stand-off: Disengagement process going on in Pangong Tso areas as per plan, claims report||The Chinese and Indian armies continued with the disengagement process in the North and South banks of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh as per plan and the entire pullback exercise is expected to take another six-seven days, sources in the defence and security establishment said on Monday. The sources said the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) has already removed several bunkers, temporary posts and other structures in the northern bank areas while gradually thinning down their troops in the region. They said field commanders of both the sides are meeting almost on a daily basis to take forward the disengagement process which was finalised last week following nine rounds of high-level military talks. It will take at least a week for the disengagement process to be completed in the North and South banks of Pangong Tso, they said, adding both sides are carrying out verification of withdrawal of troops and equipment. After nine months of standoff, the two armies reached an agreement on disengagement in the North and South banks of Pangong lake that mandates both sides to cease forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner. The disengagement began on Wednesday last. On Thursday, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh made a detailed statement in Parliament on the disengagement pact. According to the agreement, China has to pull back its troops to east of Finger 8 areas in the northern bank while the Indian personnel will be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the region. Similar action will take place on the southern bank of the lake as well, Singh had said. Last year, the Chinese military built several bunkers and other structures in the areas between Finger 4 and 8 and had blocked all Indian patrols beyond Finger 4, triggering strong reaction from the Indian Army. In the nine rounds of military talks, India was specifically insisting on withdrawal of Chinese troops from Finger 4 to Finger 8 on the North bank of Pangong Lake. The mountain spurs in the area are referred to as Fingers. The sources said following completion of the disengagement process, the two sides will hold talks on the de-escalation exercise. Defence minister Singh had told Parliament that it was agreed to convene the next meeting of senior commanders of both sides within 48 hours of completion of the disengagement in the Pangong lake area so as to resolve all other remaining issues. On Friday, the defence ministry said other outstanding "problems" including in Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra will be taken up at the upcoming talks between military commanders of the two countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lac-stand-off-disengagement-process-going-on-in-pangong-tso-areas-as-per-plan-claims-report-951628.html
15-02-2021||National||It is people to judge; not worried about allegations: Khattar||A day after Punjab CM Amarinder Singh said the BJP has lost the moral ground to rule, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar rejected the suggestion, saying it is people to judge and they are not worried about the allegations leveled against them. Expressing shock at statements of senior BJP leaders on the farmers who died at the Delhi borders protesting against the farm laws, Amarinder Singh had on Sunday said the party has lost the moral ground to rule at the Centre and in Haryana. Responding to it, Khattar told reporters in Panchkula, “Opposition people keep levelling baseless allegations, we are not worried about that.” “The work which we do in the interest of people we keep that before people,” he said on the sidelines of an event. Khattar said ultimately it is the people who is to judge and added that in a few days that will be known in West Bengal, where the assembly polls are to held this year. Amarinder Singh had said the Bharatiya Janata Party-led government at the Centre should step down in the interest of the nation, as should the Khattar government in Haryana, even as he slammed statements of Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar and Haryana Agriculture Minister J P Dalal. Amarinder Singh lashed out at Tomar over what he called was his outrageous statement citing Delhi Police information that only two farmers have died and one has committed suicide. The Congress leader had also criticised Haryana minister J P Dalal, who had stoked a controversy on Saturday, saying the farmers would have died even if they had stayed back home. Replying to a question on the state's budget to be presented next month, Khattar reiterated that it will take care of all sections of society. Khattar, who also holds the finance portfolio, said like the previous year, the state budget would be prepared and presented after seeking suggestions from stakeholders. Keeping in view the coronavirus pandemic, various stakeholders have been asked to send their suggestions in writing to the state government by February 20. Their valuable suggestions will be incorporated in the budget, said the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-is-people-to-judge-not-worried-about-allegations-khattar-951629.html
15-02-2021||National||BJP cannot form political entity in country, says Sri Lanka Election Commission Chief Nimal Punchihewa||Sri Lanka's Election Commission Chairman Nimal Punchihewa on Monday shot down reports of India's ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) planning to set up a political unit in the island nation, saying the country's electoral law does not permit such an arrangement. "Any Sri Lankan political party or group is permitted to have external links with any party or group overseas. But, our electoral laws do not permit overseas political parties to work here," Punchihewa told reporters. Punchihewa's comments came after media reports quoted Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb as saying that the BJP was planning to extend its footprint in Sri Lanka and Nepal. On Saturday, Deb said Amit Shah, when serving as BJP president, had told party leaders that the BJP would establish rule in other regional countries as part of 'Aatmanirbhar South Asia' initiative. Deb said the BJP deeply valued the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) partnership. Interestingly, last year, President Gotabhaya Rajapaksa's brother, Basil, had said he envisioned modelling the ruling Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna either on the lines of the BJP or the Communist Party of China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-cannot-form-political-entity-in-country-says-sri-lanka-election-commission-chief-nimal-punchihewa-951649.html
15-02-2021||National||Over 85 lakh vaccinated against coronavirus so far: Health Ministry||The number of healthcare and frontline workers vaccinated against the coronavirus in the country has surpassed 85 lakh, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. A total of 85,16,771 beneficiaries have been vaccinated through 1,83,664 sessions, according to a provisional report till Monday 6 pm. Those vaccinated include 61,54,894 healthcare workers (HCWs), out of whom 60,57,162 have been administered the first dose and 98,118 given the second dose. Besides, 23,61,491 frontline workers (FLWs) have been inoculated so far. The 2nd dose of Covid-19 vaccination started from Saturday for those beneficiaries who have completed 28 days after receipt of the 1st dose. The vaccination of the FLWs had started from February 2. "A total 2,31,476 beneficiaries were vaccinated till 6 pm on Monday, the thirty-first day of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination. Out of which, 1,57,919 beneficiaries were vaccinated for 1st dose and 73,557 HCWs received 2nd dose of vaccine as per the provisional report," the ministry said, adding the final report would be completed by late in the night. As many as 9,935 sessions were held till 6 pm on Monday and all states and union territories conducted the vaccination. Fourteen states and UTs have vaccinated more than 70 per cent of the registered HCWs. These are Bihar, Lakshadweep, Tripura, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Rajasthan, Mizoram and Sikkim. Five states and UTs have reported less than 40 per cent coverage of registered HCWs. These are Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Chandigarh, Nagaland and Puducherry. Ten states that recorded the highest number of vaccinations on Monday are Uttar Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, West Bengal, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh. Total 35 persons have been hospitalised after being administered a vaccine so far, which accounts for 0.0004 per cent of the total vaccinations. Of the 35 cases of hospitalisation, 21 were discharged after treatment, while 11 persons died and three are under treatment. In the last 24 hours, one person suffering from central retinal vein occlusion has been hospitalised due to high BP at Bombay Hospital, Indore, MP. The patient is stable. Total 28 deaths have been recorded till date. These comprise 0.0003 per cent of the total Covid-19 vaccinations. Of the 28, eleven persons died in the hospital while 17 deaths are recorded outside the hospital. "No case of serious/severe AEFI/Death is attributable to vaccination, till date," the ministry said. In last 24 hours, the death of a 53-year-old man, who was a resident of Deoria, UP has been reported. The person suffered from sudden breathlessness and chest pain on the second day of vaccination and was brought dead to the hospital. The post-mortem has been done and results are awaited, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-85-lakh-vaccinated-against-coronavirus-so-far-health-ministry-951661.html
15-02-2021||National Politics||Language used by Rahul Gandhi against PM unfortunate: BJP leader Shahnawaz Hussain||Senior BJP leader and newly-appointed Bihar Industries Minister Shahnawaz Hussain on Sunday said the language used by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi against the Prime Minister is unfortunate. At a press conference here, Hussain was responding to questions posed by reporters in context of the Congress leader's recent visit to Rajasthan. The Bihar minister said Gandhi reads the speech written by his advisors, but later it does not benefit him or his party. "Rahul Gandhi reads the speech written by his advisors but later it does not benefit him or his party. Are the words used by him against the PM right? The Opposition speaks such a language, it is unfortunate," Hussain said. Replying to a question on the new agriculture laws, he said the farmers should not be misled by anyone as all three legislations are for the benefit of the farmers. The BJP leader said neither the mandis (market yards) nor the Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMC) will shut down due to the laws. Some people had said that the government is stubborn but it held talks on the matter by taking a lead while adding that it is not right to put conditions on every demand, he added. The government is ready to suspend the laws for 1.5 years but ego needs to abdicated, he further said. The newly-appointed minister from Bihar said that a few ''andolan jivis'' (professional protesters) have entered the farmers' protest. They sometimes enter the protests for the CAA-NRC issue or at times about the triple talaq law. "They are such people who can be seen in every protest. It can be gauged whose hand is behind farmers protest and what is their aim," Hussain said. On a question about rising fuel prices, he said that the government is trying to put minimal burden on the people of the country as the money is being used for the welfare of the nation. During the ongoing coronavirus pandemic, economies across the world have suffered but India has managed to do well, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/language-used-by-rahul-gandhi-against-pm-unfortunate-bjp-leader-shahnawaz-hussain-951338.html
15-02-2021||National Politics||PM has money to buy planes but not to pay farmers' dues: Priyanka Gandhi slams Modi||Continuing her tirade against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday said that the former had the money to buy two planes to tour the world but he did not have money to clear the sugarcane arrears of farmers. ''The government has bought two planes worth Rs 16,000 crore.....the cane arrears of the farmers in the country stand at Rs 15,000 crore.....the farmers could have been paid their entire dues with that kind of money,'' Priyanka said while addressing a 'kisan mahasabha' in Uttar Pradesh's Bijnor district. She said that the prime minister had ''betrayed the trust'' of the people by not fulfilling the promises he had made to them during the past two Lok Sabha elections. ''The people of the country supported Modiji twice as they believed his promises....what happened to those promises....Modiji has broken that trust,'' Priyanka said. The Congress leader recited a couplet to target the prime minister. ''Bhagwan ka sauda karta hai, insan ki keemat kya jane, jo ganne ki keemat de na saka, woh jaan ki keemat kya jane,'' Which translates to "Those, who sell the gods, will never realise the value of the human beings....someone, who failed to pay the cane arrears, will not understand the value of life." Priyanka made repeated references to the new farm laws and said that they would sound the death knell of the MSP (minimum support price) and encourage hoarding. In the earlier 'kisan mahasabha' at Saharanpur also, Priyanka had sharply criticised the prime minister for calling the agitating farmers 'terrorists'' and had said that his heart ''beats only for the billionaires''. It was the second 'kisan meeting' addressed by the Congress leader in the past few days. Congress leaders in Uttar Pradesh said that many more such meetings would be organised in the days to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-has-money-to-buy-planes-but-not-to-pay-farmers-dues-priyanka-gandhi-slams-modi-951489.html
15-02-2021||National Politics||Delhi Police seeks to link 'toolkit' activists to man with ISI connections||Delhi Police on Monday appeared to link activists Disha Ravi, Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Mallick, who are being investigated in the toolkit case, with a foreigner under Indian agencies' radar for his "connections" with the ISI, claiming that his name figured in the document they prepared in support of farmers' protest. Under fire from the Opposition parties for "targeting" the youth activists, police also claimed that Mumbai-based Nikita and Shantanu, an engineer residing in Maharashtra's Beed, had a Zoom meeting on January 11 with pro-Khalistani outfit Poetic Justice Foundation when modalities for creating the 'toolkit' for farmers' protest was finalised. Police on Monday also got non-bailable warrants issued against activists Nikita and Shantanu, who investigators claimed were absconding. They claimed Nikita absconded despite giving a written undertaking that she will join investigations on February 12 at her residence, while Shantanu could not be located at his residence in Beed. Joint Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Prem Nath told reporters that Disha, who was arrested from Bengaluru, Nikita and Mallick "collaborated" to create the toolkit, which was an online guide on how to support the ongoing protest. The email account created by Shantanu is the owner of this document and all others are its editors. Manishi Chandra, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell), said the toolkit was a "carefully crafted" document, meant for circulation among a few people to guide them on which hashtag to be used on a particular day and who is to be followed. "The document has a list to be followed, which included media houses, established fact-checkers and NGOs among others. There was one Peter Frederick also in the list. This person was under the Indian agencies' radar since 2006 for his links with Bhajan Singh Bhinder alias Iqbal Choudhary, a leading propagandist of K-2 desk (Kashmir desk of ISI)," Chandra said. He said it is a matter of investigation whether the three people were in contact with Frederick. "Disha will tell us about this. We want to check why Frederick was put as a resource person and whether they have any direct connection with Bhinder," he said. Prem Nath said search warrants were issued against Nikita on February 9 and two days later, searches were conducted at her residence in Mumbai. Two laptops and an iPhone were seized from her and a written undertaking was taken from her that she will join investigations the next day. However, on February 12, he said, she fled from her house. Shantanu also could not be located at his residence in Maharashtra's Beed. "We then acted against Disha, who had deleted a WhatsApp group meant to distribute the toolkit. She was arrested in the presence of her mother and the local Station House Officer. Due procedure was followed," Prem Nath said. A senior Delhi Police official said Disha shared the document with Greta Thunberg through Telegram. There were hyperlinks in the toolkit and it was a private document to be distributed among select people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-police-seeks-to-link-toolkit-activists-to-man-with-isi-connections-951508.html
15-02-2021||National Politics||Opposition siding with anti-India forces, alleges BJP||BJP on Monday hit back at the Congress and other Opposition parties, accusing them of supporting “anti-India” forces to criticise Prime Minister Narendra Modi. BJP spokesman Sambit Patra said the Opposition parties had demanded the arrest of the perpetrators of the incidents that led to vandalism at Red Fort on Republic Day, but were crying foul when the perpetrators were arrested. Patra claimed the Delhi Police press conference on the arrest of activist Disha Ravi had “totally exposed the nefarious conspiracies of the break India forces”. “Those trying to politicise it should answer if country's sovereignty and integrity is not important? Tukde-tukde gang trying to divide country through Toolkit and has to face law,” the BJP spokesman said. Patra accused Opposition parties, particularly the Congress of “always standing by anti-India forces” in an attempt to attack the prime minister. “Astonishingly for the opposition Bharat Ratnas like Lata Mangeshkar and Sachin Tendulkar can be investigated but 'break India forces' should receive protection under the garb of freedom of expression,” Patra said. The BJP spokesman said those accused by the police of sedition had not only created a toolkit which perpetrated the January 26 disruption but also colluded with a banned organisation ‘Poetic Justice Foundation’ to promote the Khalistani design to belittle India. Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy said the law will take its own course in the matter. “Police will properly investigate the matter. Based on laws, they will decide on the issue of country's protection,” Reddy said. The union minister asked political parties not to politicise the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-siding-with-anti-india-forces-alleges-bjp-951637.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||Law and order in Kashmir improved a lot since abrogation of Article 370 provisions: CRPF officer||The law-and-order situation in Kashmir has improved a lot since the abrogation of Article 370 provisions, a top CRPF officer said on Sunday. He asserted that security forces have changed their standard operating procedures, equipment and training to ensure that terror attack like that in Pulwama in 2019 doesn't recur. On the sidelines of an event held to pay tribute to the 40 CRPF jawans killed in the 2019 Pulwama terror attack, the force's Inspector General (Operations), Kashmir, Deepak Ratan said the top leadership of various militant organisations has been destroyed. "There has been a lot of improvement in the law-and-order situation in Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370 provisions," Ratan said near the memorial at Lethpora. Asserting that top leadership of Jaish-e-Mohammad, Lashkar-e-Toiba, Hizbul Mujahideen and other militant outfits has been destroyed, he said, "Their network has been dismantled. It has also had an effect on their recruitment which has witnessed a decline." The CRPF officer said the force has undertaken radical changes in its strategy in Kashmir after the attack. "We have revised the SoPs for every duty that we undertake and not just the road opening party duty. We have undergone upgradation in training, including in how to respond to situations we could face which are unique in Kashmir." He said the force has also been upgraded its weaponry and technology has been used in such a way that such incidents are not repeated. The IG CRPF said the use of drones and CCTV cameras on national highway has made a huge difference in the security of the convoys. "We have installed CCTV cameras, drones and face-recognition cameras. We have modified our vehicles in such a way that in the event of an attack on a convoy or a civilian vehicle, the terrorists will be given a befitting reply," he said. The CRPF officer said the force salutes the families of the martyrs and assures them that the whole country is with them. "They are part of the CRPF family and the whole country shares their pain and will be with them shoulder-to-shoulder," he added. Ratan along with other officials of the CRPF and police paid floral tributes to the 40 martyred CRPF personnel. CRPF officials from Delhi, including the director General of the force, and all CRPF camps across the valley paid their homage to their martyred colleagues virtually because of COVID.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/law-and-order-in-kashmir-improved-a-lot-since-abrogation-of-article-370-provisions-crpf-officer-951319.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||9 from UP died in Uttarakhand disaster, 59 still missing: Officials||Nine people from Uttar Pradesh have died and 59 others are still missing after the flash floods in Uttarakhand, possibly triggered by an avalanche in the upper reaches of the Alaknanda river system, officials said on Sunday. In a statement issued here, UP's Relief Commissioner Sanjay Goyal said, "As of February 14, nine people have died in the Uttarakhand glacier burst, while 59 are still missing. A total of 23 people from UP have been found alive after the disaster." Of the 59 missing, 30 are from Lakhimpur Kheri, followed by 10 from Saharanpur, five from Shravasti, two from Raebareli and one each from Sonbhadra, Shahjahanpur, Moradabad, Mirzapur, Mathura, Kushinagar, Gorakhpur, Deoria, Chandauli, Bulandshahr, Azamgarh and Amroha, the statement said. A portion of the Nanda Devi glacier possibly burst through its banks in Chamoli district on February 7. It appeared to have triggered an avalanche and a deluge that ripped through the Alaknanda river system in the upper reaches of the ecologically fragile Himalayas||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/9-from-up-died-in-uttarakhand-disaster-59-still-missing-officials-951322.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||Yamuna pollution: Adityanath takes dig at Delhi govt; says committed to clean river||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday expressed his commitment to make the Yamuna river pollution-free if the Delhi government ensures its cleanliness under its area. “If the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government ensures clean Yamuna, the holy river will be made pollution-free in our state to such an extent that besides bathing, one could freely perform ‘Āchamanam’ (sipping water) in its waters,” he said, referring to the religious ritual of ‘Āchamanam’. Adityanath was addressing a gathering in Kumbh Mela area in Vrindavan. He asserted that the Yamuna would be cleaned like the way river Ganga was made pollution-free in Kanpur. Under the ‘Namami Gange’ program, heavy discharge of wastewater into Ganga has not only been stopped, the river has now regained its original shape, he claimed. The chief minister appreciated the grand arrangements done for the Kumbh Mela. He also underlined the need to protect cows. State ministers Shrikant Sharma and Laxmi Narain Chaudhary as well Mathura MP Hema malini expressed their gratitude for the keen interest shown by the chief Minister in the development of the holy city. Adityanath inaugurated several projects worth Rs 411 crore here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yamuna-pollution-adityanath-takes-dig-at-delhi-govt-says-committed-to-clean-river-951332.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||DU student booked for injecting saline solution injections to children to boost their memory||The police have booked a Delhi University student who was allegedly caught injecting saline solution to a group of children to whom he gave free tuition to "boost their memory", officials said on Sunday. Sandeep, a second-year-BA student of DU, is a resident of Mandawali in east Delhi, they said. He told the police that he got the idea to administer injections to students to boost their memory after watching a video on YouTube, officials said. The students who were administered the injections by Sandeep are fine, an official said, adding that the accused is presently being questioned and has not been formally arrested yet. The matter came to light on Saturday when the police received a call from a man who claimed that Sandeep was administering injections to children. Sandeep told the police team, which reached the spot, that he gave free tuition to students of class 6 to 9. He told the police that on YouTube, he saw a video which showed that the memory of children improves if normal saline solution is administered to them, said a senior police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Deepak Yadav said an FIR has been registered under section 336 (Act of endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code and further investigation is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-student-booked-for-injecting-saline-solution-injections-to-children-to-boost-their-memory-951334.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||Majority against threats, intimidation of OTT actors, content creators: Survey||At a time when content generators on over-the-top (OTT) platforms are facing cases and the government moving ahead to issue guidelines on programmes streamed online, a survey has claimed that over 70 per cent of users deplore threats to actors and directors while three-fourth want to know more about the proposed regulations. The survey by LocalCircles also showed that 76 per cent of the respondents among OTT users subscribe to two or more OTT platforms and 41 per cent of those surveyed relied on these platforms as their primary source of entertainment during the Covid-19 pandemic. Those surveyed were asked whether as a citizen of India, and consumer of OTT content, does the threats of death, intimidation and violence worry them. The survey said 58 per cent said “yes, quite a bit” while another 15 per cent said, “yes, somewhat”. However, 12 per cent of users said, "no, doesn’t affect me much”, while 15 per cent said, “not at all”, and 3 per cent did not have an opinion. "Many of the members who participated in the discussion on the subject said that such threats should have no place in the society and if they are not acted upon sternly and swiftly by law enforcement agencies, they will only increase over time. According to many OTT users, the concern or grievance of an individual or a group of individuals or an organisation must be raised through appropriate pre-defined government channels," the survey said. Several programmes have come under criticism with a section claiming that their sentiments were hurt due to the programme. FIRs were recently registered in several states against the makers and actors of Saif Ali Khan-starrer Tandav following complaints that there were inappropriate depictions of UP Police personnel as well as a character playing the role of prime minister in the show. Earlier, a kissing scene in a temple premise in A Suitable Boy also triggered a controversy. With Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar saying that his ministry is almost ready with the guidelines, 78 per cent of those surveyed said they would like to have more information about the proposed regulations. At least 17 OTT platforms, including Amazon Prime Video, Netflix, Disney-Hotstar, SonyLiv, MX Player, Jio Cinema and Alt Balaji, have recently adopted a self-regulation code. Last week in Rajya Sabha, BJP's Mahesh Poddar had raised the issue of obscenity, indecent language and gender discrimination in OTT content. "When the same was discussed by OTT users, some members were not in favour of any government regulation citing that the movies and shows on OTT platforms are a depiction of the society. There were others who disagreed. One area where OTT users agreed was the need for the code of regulation or conduct to define the content type in detail along with the rating. Some users cited the example of a few platforms where 18+ is accompanied with content description i.e. nudity, language, violence, etc. This will permit certain users to stay away from the content type they would rather not watch," the survey said. The survey also threw interesting insights about sources of entertainment with 46 per cent saying TV channels were their primary sources while 41 per cent gave it to OTT platforms. There were around 3 per cent who said “videos downloaded from the Internet” but "interestingly, there were no votes for DVDs and VCDs", which suggests that the once-popular medium of entertainment has vanished from the modern living room. It also attributed the increasing interest on OTT platforms to choice, convenience and high-quality content. The majority of 50 per cent said “choice and convenience” as the reason for choosing OTT while 31 per cent gave it to “high-quality content”. Ten per cent of consumers said “lower cost than other entertainment channels”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/majority-against-threats-intimidation-of-ott-actors-content-creators-survey-951360.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||India reports 11,649 new Covid-19 cases, 90 deaths||India's tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 1,09,16,589 with 11,649 new infections, while fresh fatalities were recorded below 100 for the ninth time this month, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The death toll increased to 1,55,732 with 90 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.    The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,21,220 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.29 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent.   The total Covid-19 active cases remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,39,637 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.28 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 20,67,16,634 samples have been tested up to February 14 with 4,86,122 samples being tested on Sunday. The 90 new fatalities include 40 from Maharashtra and 15 from Kerala, 6 from Tamil Nadu and 5 from Madhya Pradesh. A total of 1,55,732 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,529 from Maharashtra followed by 12,419 from Tamil Nadu, 12,265 from Karnataka, 10,891 from Delhi, 10,232 from West Bengal,  8,702 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,162 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-reports-11649-new-covid-19-cases-90-deaths-951379.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi University reopens 4 more libraries for research scholars, faculty members||As part of its phased reopening amid Covid-19 outbreak, the Delhi University will allow research scholars and faculty members to access four more libraries across its campuses. After allowing access to the central library last week, the varsity reopened the Central Science Library, Ratan Tata Library, South Delhi Campus Library, and Faculty of Law Library for PhD/MPhil scholars and faculty members on Monday. It announced that users will have to make prior registration to use the library facilities from 10 am to 4 pm on weekdays. "Library facilities under Delhi University Library System (DULS) will be made operational in phases. In the first phase, only bona fide faculty members, PhD/MPhil scholars will be allowed to use library reading room facilities. The reading room facilities would be limited from 10 am to 4 pm during the weekdays i.e. Monday to Friday," the university said in a notice. Visitors will have to take permission through e-mail to the librarian before visiting the library. For the central library, all reading rooms on the research floor and three rooms on the ground floor will be available for the visitors. At the Central Science Library, two reading rooms on the first floor will be made available to the visitors, it said. The Ratan Tata Library at the Delhi School of Economics will make the reading hall at the ground floor and the periodical section at first floor accessible to visitors. While all the floors of the South Delhi Campus Library can be accessed by research scholars, the reading hall at the ground floor and first floor of the Faculty of Law Library will be available to visitors, the notice stated. The library will also allow its members to borrow and return books and no "late return fine" would be charged for the period of the Covid-19 pandemic. While it advised the staff handling books to wear gloves, visitors have also been instructed to carry gloves and hand sanitiser and maintain social distancing. "The user/staff who does not adhere to the guidelines would face disciplinary action like cancellation of membership etc," it said. The Delhi University (DU) had announced reopening its campus and colleges from February 1 for final-year students who require access to facilities for practical purposes. Schools, colleges and universities across the country were closed in March last year to contain the spread of coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-reopens-4-more-libraries-for-research-scholars-faculty-members-951399.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||Toolkit case: Non-bailable warrants against activists Nikita Jacob, Shantanu||After the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi, Delhi Police on Monday intensified efforts to nab two other activists Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Mallick after obtaining non-bailable warrants against them, alleging that they were involved in preparing the "toolkit" related to the farmers' protest along with pro-Khalistani elements. The police action immediately attracted criticism with senior Congress MP Jairam Ramesh tweeting, "Delhi Police on the rampage. After Disha Ravi, it is now the turn of another young woman, Nikita Jacob. More will no doubt follow...This is tanashahi (dictatorship) in New India called Amit Shahi!" Joint Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Prem Nath told reporters that Nikita, a lawyer practicing in Bombay High Court, had fled from her house in Mumbai, while Shantanu, an engineer, was not at his residence in Maharashtra's Beed when police went there this weekend. According to Prem Nath, Nikita and Shantanu were in a Zoom meeting with around 60-70 people organised by the pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation and collaborated with them to prepare the 'toolkit' on farmers' protest. Searches "during day time" at Nikita's residence yielded two laptops and an I-phone. She was asked to give a written undertaking that she would join the investigation at her residence on February 12 but she was found absconding when the investigators reached there, he claimed. Similarly, Shantanu was also not found at his residence and police managed to get non-bailable warrants against both of them. Disha along with Nikita and Shantanu created and distributed the toolkit, he claimed. Investigators are conducting searches in Mumbai to arrest the duo. Nikita has already approached Bombay High Court seeking protection from arrest. On Sunday, police had claimed that Disha was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and "key conspirator" in the document's formulation and dissemination. Disha and others were also accused of collaborating with the pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to "spread disaffection against the Indian State". It was Disha who shared the toolkit with Swedish teen activist Greta Thunberg, who posted it on social media among others, police claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/toolkit-case-non-bailable-warrants-against-activists-nikita-jacob-shantanu-951406.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||UP CM unveils Abhyudaya Scheme: All you need to know||In a bid to further the education standard in the state and promote the youth "to scale new heights", Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath unveiled the Abhyudaya Scheme earlier today, under which the state will start free-of-cost coaching centres. The government aims to provide assistance to students who wish to sit for competitive exams but are unable to due to their financial situation. Coaching centres will be set up at the division level in the first phase and at the district level in the second phase. During the event, CM Adityanath said, “This scheme is dedicated to the youth of this state. The government is standing with all those who want to further their talent with dedication. The best faculty will be appointed under the scheme for the best assistance to our youth.”  Here are more details on the scheme: - The scheme will kick in from February 16, celebrated as Vasant Panchami, the day of Saraswati, goddess of learning. - The scheme will provide for not just offline classes but also online study material. - Sainik Schools in the state will provide training for exams like the National Defence Academy (NDA) and combined Defence Services (CDS). - Separate curriculum and classes will be designed for exams like NEET and Joint Entrance Examination (JEE). The entire syllabus of these exams will be available online. - Doubt resolution sessions will be conducted by the state government along with sessions to help candidates choose the best way forward in their career. The government also intends to call experts to hold guest lectures in the centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cm-unveils-abhyudaya-scheme-all-you-need-to-know-951410.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||'You may be a trillion dollar company but...': Supreme Court notice to WhatsApp, Centre over privacy policy||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to social media giants, Facebook and WhatsApp, on a plea challenging its latest privacy policy, saying there was apprehension among citizens on sharing of user data. A Bench of Chief Justice of India S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said that people's privacy must be protected in view of the allegation that user data being shared with other companies. There is a concern as citizens have "great apprehension about loss of their privacy" and they think that their data and chats being shared with others and it has to be looked into, the court said. "You (WhatsApp and Facebook) may be two or three trillion companies but people value their privacy more than money. It is our duty to protect their privacy," the bench told counsel, appearing for Facebook and WhatsApp. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Arvind Datar, appearing for WhatsApp and Facebook respectively, denied the allegations and called this "misinformation". The bench, however, told the companies' counsel, "We are telling you what we heard and read. People think that if A sends a message to B and B to C. The circuit of messages is revealed to Facebook." Senior advocate Shyam Divan, appearing for petitioner Internet Freedom Foundation, contended that there is a great amount of metadata which is shared for profit and is a privacy concern.   "We pray that privacy standards are not lowered for Indian users by WhatsApp... They be barred from sharing data with Facebook," Divan said. Divan said in January that WhatsApp came up with the new privacy policy which undermined the privacy of Indian users compared to the European counterparts.  This policy was supposed to be brought in by February 8, 2021, and Indians were asked to migrate to the new privacy policy, but this deadline has been extended to May 14, he said. Sibal and Datar denied differential treatment between Europeans and Indians in its new privacy policy. Sibal, appearing for WhatsApp, argued that Europe has a special law (General Data Protection Regulations), which India doesn't and the company will follow the law if Parliament legislates. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said that the companies cannot share data of users and data must be protected.  The court then issued notice to WhatsApp and Facebook and posted the matter for consideration after four weeks. The top court was hearing an application filed by Internet Freedom Foundation challenging WhatsApp's latest privacy policy which was introduced in January in India. The petitioner sought guidelines to safeguard the personal data and privacy of over 400 million Indian WhatsApp users. It has sought an interim stay on the operation of the new Privacy Policy of WhatsApp. The plea stated that the 2021 Policy of WhatsApp is "highly invasive and has been unilaterally forced upon Indian internet users". It has urged the Court to grant an ad-interim order, restraining the sharing of any personal data of users by WhatsApp with Facebook for marketing or other purposes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/you-may-be-a-trillion-dollar-company-but-supreme-court-notice-to-whatsapp-centre-over-privacy-policy-951411.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||Siddique Kappan granted 5-day bail to visit ailing mother in Kerala||The Supreme Court on Monday allowed Kerala journalist Sidhique Kappan to visit his mother for five days on a contention that she is extremely ill. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde, however, said he would not give interviews or address public gatherings during the time, including the ones on social media. Kappan, arrested on October 5, 2020 while on way to Hathras, has been found associated with the Popular Front of India, which is a "reincarnation" of banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI), the Uttar Pradesh police claimed. The court granted the interim relief on humanitarian ground as senior advocate Kapil Sibal contended that earlier the mother couldn't talk to Kappan through video conferencing due to her health. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Uttar Pradesh government, opposed the plea saying posters were spotted in Kerala projecting him as a martyr. He added that funds were being collected in his name. He claimed that the person was associated with the PFI and found in possession of materials which could be used to spread communal and caste hatred. The court passed its order on a habeas corpus petition by Kerala Union of Working Journalists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/siddique-kappan-granted-5-day-bail-to-visit-ailing-mother-in-kerala-951422.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||2 militant associates held in Jammu and Kashmir's Budgam||Security forces have arrested two militant associates in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir and seized incriminating material from their possession, police said on Monday. Sameer Ahmed Ittoo and Ubaid Ameen Mallah, residents of Kulgam district of south Kashmir, were arrested on Sunday, a police spokesperson said. They are associates of proscribed terror outfits Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) and Tehreek-ul-Mujahideen (TuM), he said. Incriminating material including flags, banners and letter pads have been recovered from their possession, he said. During the preliminary investigation, the spokesman said, it came to fore that both of them were involved in grenade lobbing incidents in Pulwama and Kulgam districts, besides making posters, banners and flags of banned militant organisations on the directions of their handlers across borders for further distribution at various locations in central and south Kashmir. They were also actively involved in recruiting militants and over-ground workers with the aim to carry out further terror activities in Budgam, the spokesman added. A case was registered and further investigation is underway, he said, adding, the timely action by the police and security forces has prevented a possible terror attack in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-militant-associates-held-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-budgam-951433.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||Main accused in Ajit Singh murder case killed in encounter in UP||The main accused in the notorious criminal Ajit Singh murder case was killed in an encounter with the Uttar Pradesh police on Monday, officials said. Girdhari Vishvakarma (40), accused of shooting dead Singh in the posh Gomti Nagar area in the state capital on January 6, was killed in the encounter Monday morning, Lucknow police commissioner D K Thakur told PTI. Three policemen were also injured in the incident, he said. "At around 3.00 am, Girdhari Vishvakarma alias doctor (who was arrested earlier) was taken to Kharagpur crossing along with the weapon used in the crime. When sub inspector Akhtar Usmani was getting down from the vehicle with him, the accused hit him on his nose. "The officer fell down and the accused snatched his pistol and started running. The sub inspector followed him, but Girdhari went behind the bushes and started firing," Joint Commissioner of Police (crime) Nilabja Choudhury said. The incident was reported to the police control room and a team of Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) reached the spot. "The police surrounded the bushes and asked Girdhari to surrender, but he continued firing with Usmani's pistol. In retaliatory firing, a bullet hit the accused's leg, and he fell down," the official said. The accused was taken to the emergency unit of Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, where he succumbed during treatment, he added. Police Commissioner D K Thakur said sub inspector Akhtar Usmani got injuries on his nose, a bullet touched the right arm of sub inspector Anil Singh, while another bullet hit the bullet-proof jacket of inspector Chandrashekhar, in the incident. All the injured police personnel have been hospitalised and are out of danger, he said. On January 6, Ajit Singh (39), a notorious criminal of Mau district having 17 cases against him, was killed in a shootout between rival factions in Gomti Nagar, police had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/main-accused-in-ajit-singh-murder-case-killed-in-encounter-in-up-951435.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||Rural bus service scheme to soon start in Rajasthan||The Rajasthan government would start the rural bus service scheme afresh in the state within a month, Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariya informed the House on Monday. During the Question Hour, the minister said the Gramin Parivahan Seva scheme, which was started during the Congress rule from 2008-2013, was discontinued after the BJP came to power. He said the government is serious about the scheme and the chief minister is monitoring the preparations. Leader of Opposition Gulabchand Kataria said more than two years of the government has passed but there is only "seriousness" and asked the minister when the scheme will be announced. Responding to this, the minister said the scheme would be announced within a month. He said he has written to all the legislators seeking their suggestions about the routes in their constituencies where the bus service should be started. “There are still several routes where bus services are not available. I have sought suggestions from all MLAs about the rural routes where the bus service should be started,” he said. Replying to a question related to conservation of camels, Agriculture Minister Lalchand Kataria said that camel was declared as the state animal in 2014 and a law enacted for the prohibition and regulation of migration or export of the animal in 2015. Kataria said that the population of camels has been dwindling since 1992. He said because of modern farming tools, the use of camels in farming has declined and it is true that herders are abandoning camels to fend for themselves. The minister said there is a committee in his chairmanship and asked the members of the House to give their suggestions for the conservation of camels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rural-bus-service-scheme-to-soon-start-in-rajasthan-951441.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand flood: Three more bodies recovered, toll climbs to 53||Three more bodies were recovered Monday from the Tapovan tunnel, taking the toll in the Uttarakhand flash flood to 54 as hopes of finding survivors there over a week after the disaster dimmed. So far nine bodies have been pulled out from Adit tunnel at the National Thermal Power Corporation’s 's Tapovan-Vishnugad project site, choked by debris after the February 7 flood which ripped into two hydel plants in the Alaknanda river system. Apart from the confirmed 54 dead, 150 others are still missing. The multi-agency rescue effort in Chamoli district is focusing on the Tapovan tunnel where about 30 workers were feared trapped. The body of Satypal Singh Bartwal from Masoli village in Chamoli district was among those found in the tunnel on Monday. "We had hoped Satyapal would return alive. But now we will have to return home with my brother's body. It's unbearable," said his elder brother. His other relatives, who have been camping at Tapovan village since the day the tragedy struck, also broke down after identifying the body. Officials said the other approach at reaching the trapped workers – by widening a hole drilled into the tunnel system – does not appear to be working. A camera or tube cannot be inserted as the hole is choked with sludge. Rescuing the trapped people is now possible only with the help of excavators, Chamoli District Magistrate Swati S Bhadauria told PTI. They continue to dredge out the sludge from the tunnel, making slow progress. Asked about the chances of survival of those missing or trapped, the district magistrate said, "We must always try to be hopeful when the circumstances are adverse." Families of some of the missing people continue their vigil near the tunnel, plucking up the courage to take a look every time a body is brought out. But many are beginning now to return to their homes. The relatives of Jitendra, a resident of Jammu brought out dead from the tunnel on Sunday, are also packing up to leave. His younger brother Pawan said seven of them had come from Jammu after hearing about the disaster. Jitendra’s phone was switched off. “We had been scouring different areas of Tapovan and Joshimath for four days in search of Jitendra until his body was brought out of the tunnel on Sunday. It's tragic," he said.  Alam Singh Pundir's body, the first to be pulled out of the tunnel on Sunday, has also been handed over to his relatives who arrived in Tapovan just a day after the flash flood. Twenty-nine of the 54 bodies found so far – in the tunnel and elsewhere along the river – have been identified. Those pulled out from the tunnel so far appear to be of workers who ran towards its mouth in an attempt to get out but got bogged down in the slush that was gushing in, an NTPC officials said. The father and the father-in-law of Sateshwar Purohit, a resident of Soni village in Chamoli, have not given up hope of seeing their son alive. "We have absolute faith in God. Our son will definitely return," the electrician’s father said. The last rites of those pulled out dead are being carried out after samples are taken for DNA tests to help establish their identities. Kits with foodgrain and other essentials have been distributed among residents of over a dozen villages that were cut off from the district headquarters after the disaster, possibly triggered by an avalanche. Electricity supply has been restored in all affected villages except Pang, where solar lanterns have been provided to residents for the time being, the district magistrate said. The agencies involved in the Tapovan rescue work include the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the National Disaster Response Force and the State Disaster Response Force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-flood-three-more-bodies-recovered-toll-climbs-to-53-951446.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police to hold press conference at 3 pm on toolkit case||Delhi Police will hold a press conference at 3 pm today on toolkit case. The Joint Commission of Police for Cyber Cell will hold the press conference.  The announcement comes as the Delhi Police on Monday came under criticism for the "illegal" arrest of young climate activist Disha Ravi in the toolkit case, with lawyers and activist groups claiming that investigators and the Duty Magistrate violated norms and procedures. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-to-hold-press-conference-at-3-pm-on-toolkit-case-951447.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||Human rights violations continue in J&K: Forum For Human Rights||“Human rights violations” that started on August 5 2019, when the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 was revoked, “continued till date,” the latest report by ‘Forum For Human Rights in Jammu & Kashmir’ states. Brought out by the Forum for Human Rights in Jammu and Kashmir, which was formed in May 2020 by an informal group of jurists, former civil servants, former military officers, academics and human rights experts, the report highlights how the human rights situation in the region has deteriorated. “Civilian security, children and women, health, industry and the media detail, security concerns continue to prevail over civilian welfare and humanitarian law, violence continues to rise, the economy continues to be devastated, and civil and political rights continue to be violated,” the second report of the Forum, which covers the period from August 2020 to January 2021, says. The Forum, which is co-chaired by former Supreme Court judge Justice Madan Lokur and former member of the Group of Interlocutors for Jammu and Kashmir Radha Kumar, states that a new category of ‘protective’ detention has been introduced in the recently concluded district development (DDC) polls. “The DDC elections were intended to herald a softening of the bar on political activity, but were marred by the Jammu and Kashmir administration’s apparent bias against the candidates of the opposition People’s Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), a coalition of mostly valley-based political parties,” the report says. It further says that at 16.6 per cent, unemployment in J&K was almost twice that in the rest of the country while healthcare is still restricted and the local and regional media have not regained what little independence they had. “As highlighted in our August 2020 report, restrictions on movement of patients, such as orders under Section 144 of the CrPC, continued to impede access to quality medical care. Despite the Home Secretary’s repeated communications requesting free movement between districts in states and Union Territories, bars to intra-state travel continue to be placed by the Jammu and Kashmir administration,” it added. The report also recommended the release of political detainees. “Repeal the Public Safety Act (PSA) and any other preventive detention legislation, so that they cannot be misused against political opposition, or amend them to bring them in line with our constitutional ethos,” it recommends. The Forum also regretted that the Union Ministry of Home Affairs and Jammu and Kashmir administration have not responded to its August 2020 report and recommendations or to the letters sent to J&K Lieutenant-Governor (including on the Shopian extra-judicial killings of July 2020). The reports also demanded initiation of criminal and civil actions against police and security forces personnel found guilty of violation of human rights, especially with regard to recent instances of attacks on journalists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/human-rights-violations-continue-in-jk-forum-for-human-rights-951453.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand flood disaster hits Delhi water supply||The fallout from a devastating flash flood in Uttarakhand hit the capital New Delhi more than 500 kilometres downstream on Monday when water supplies were cut to tens of thousands of residents. Authorities blamed the high quantities of mud and debris from the February 7 deluge, which left more than 50 dead and 150 missing, for the shortages. The Rishiganga valley in Uttarakhand is 530 kilometres (330 miles) upstream to the northeast of Delhi but its water is a key supplier for the capital. Authorities would not say how long taps would be shut down. The flood swept through the valley devastating a power complex and destroying roads and bridges. Rescuers are just starting to pull out bodies from a tunnel engulfed by mud and debris where more than 30 workers were believed to be trapped. The flood is believed to have been triggered by a chunk of glacier sliding down a mountainside or a glacial lake breaching its banks. Water from the valley flows into the Ganges and from there to Delhi. Raghav Chadha, vice-chairperson of Delhi's water board, urged residents to use water "judiciously" as two of the city's main water treatment plants were unable to operate at full capacity due to the dirty raw water. He said teams were "deployed round the clock" cleaning filters and "flushing high ammonia raw water". Delhi, which has a population of over 20 million, faces water shortages every summer. 60 per cent of the water supplied in Delhi comes from the Yamuna river and about 34 per cent from the Ganges. Both have faced severe pollution problems in recent years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-flood-disaster-hits-delhi-water-supply-951461.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||FIR against Sushant Singh Rajput's sister Priyanka Singh quashed||The Bombay High Court on Monday refused to quash an FIR lodged against late actor Sushant Singh Rajput's sister Priyanka Singh for allegedly forging and fabricating a medical prescription for her brother. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and M S Karnik, however, quashed the FIR against Meetu Singh, another sister of Rajput. The court said while there was prima facie evidence against Priyanka Singh, the case against Meetu Singh does not stand. The sisters had approached the HC, seeking to quash the First Information Report (FIR) lodged for alleged forgery and fabrication of a medical prescription for their brother for his anxiety issues. The FIR was lodged against Priyanka Singh, Meetu Singh and doctor Tarun Kumar of Delhi's Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital by Bandra police in Mumbai on September 7 last year, based on a complaint filed by Rajput's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty. As per the complaint, Rajput's sisters and the doctor had prepared a forged and fabricated prescription for anti-depressants for the actor. Rajput, 34, was found dead at his residence in suburban Bandra on June 14 last year. His father K K Singh later lodged a case of abetment of suicide and cheating against Chakraborty and her family members. The CBI is conducting a probe into the case. After registration of FIR against Rajput's sisters, the Bandra police forwarded the case papers to the Central Bureau of Investigation, as per directions of the Supreme Court which had said all cases pertaining to the death of Rajput shall be probed by the CBI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-against-sushant-singh-rajputs-sister-priyanka-singh-quashed-951484.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||Three held for duping Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal's daughter||Three men have been arrested for allegedly duping Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's daughter, police said on Monday. Sajid (26), a resident of Nuh in Haryana, Kapil (18) and Manvinder Singh (25), hailing from Mathura -- were arrested from the Bharatpur-Mathura border with the help of technical surveillance, police said. However, the main accused identified as Waris (25) is still on the run, they said. The chief minister's daughter was allegedly duped of Rs 34,000 by one of the four accused, who had approached her as a buyer on an e-commerce platform, where she had put up a sofa on sale. "The three worked on commission basis for Waris. Manvinder got multiple bank accounts opened for Kapil and Sajid using fake documents, for which he received a commission. The cheated amount was transferred to Waris’ account,” the officer said. According to the police, the victim had put up a sofa for sale on an e-commerce platform. She was approached by a man who showed interest in making the purchase. To check if the account details shared by her were correct, he initially transferred a minimal amount of money into her account. Subsequently, the man sent a QR code to the seller and asked her to scan it so that the amount fixed under the deal could be transferred to her account but instead, Rs 20,000 got deducted from her account when she followed the instructions of the buyer, a senior police officer said. When she enquired about it, the man claimed that he had sent a wrong QR code by mistake and sent another link to her, asking her to follow the same procedure. But again an amount of Rs 14,000 got deducted from the seller's account when she scanned the QR code, the officer said. An FIR under the relevant sections of the IPC was registered on February 7. During scrutiny of bank account details and transactions, it emerged that the money was withdrawn from an account registered in the name of Kapil at Agra, the officer said. Police said the gang has duped several others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-held-for-duping-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwals-daughter-951485.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||Woman burnt alive by family in UP for loving man of different faith||In a suspected case of honour killing, a woman was burnt alive by her family members over an inter-faith love affair, police said on Monday. The woman's father, brother, brother-in-law and another person have been arrested in this connection, they said. According to police, the family had hired a contract killer, Varun Tiwari, and paid him Rs 1.5 lakh to eliminate the woman over her relationship with a Muslim man. "The victim's father Kailash Yadav, brother Ajit Yadav, brother-in-law Satyaprakash Yadav and one Sitaram Yadav were arrested on Sunday. A petrol container and motorcycle used in the crime have also been recovered by the police. A hunt is on to trace the contract killer," a police official said. Speaking at a press conference on Sunday, Superintendent of Police of Sant Kabir Nagar, Kaustubh noted, "A half-burnt body of a young woman was found at village Jigina under Dhanghata police station limit on February 4. With the help of local police, surveillance, CCTV footage, field unit and dog squad, the body was identified as that of Ranjana Yadav of Belghat area in Gorakhpur." "The victim's father told the police that his daughter was having an affair with a Muslim man. He said when she was not ready to leave her lover, he along with his son and son-in-law hired a contract killer from Mahuli to kill her," he said. According to police, one of the accused took the woman to a deserted place in Jigina village on a motorcycle on February 3. The other accused joined them and tied the woman's hands and mouth. The accused then set her afire by pouring petrol on her, and fled the spot, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-burnt-alive-by-family-in-up-for-loving-man-of-different-faith-951517.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||DJB has overcome water supply problem, Bhagirathi plant working at full capacity: Raghav Chadha||Delhi Jal Board Vice Chairperson Raghav Chadha announced on Monday that it has overcome the problem of water supply in the city in the wake of the Uttarakhand flash floods. Addressing the media, he said the Bhagirathi water treatment plant is now working at 100 per cent of its capacity and the Sonia Vihar facility at 80 per cent. "We treat the raw Ganges water which comes from the Upper Ganga Canal at Muradnagar and provides it to the citizens of Delhi. But due to the recent natural calamity in Uttarakhand, the quality of water had worsened. The water which we are getting is of very poor quality as it has a lot of dirt and other particles," he said. He explained that the water quality is measured in nephelometric turbidity units (NTU), which is supposed to stay at 100. However, it had reached 8,000. "To combat this situation, we have shut down the Sonia Vihar water treatment plant and also the Bhagirathi water treatment plant. These plants together provide around 250 MGD water per day," he said. The closure of Sonia Vihar and Bhagirathi Water Treatment Plant had impacted water supply in south, east and northeast Delhi. Chadha said NTU has been reduced from 8,000 to 960 at Bhagirathi treatment plant, and in Sonia Vihar it has been reduced to 1,000 NTU from 8,200. On Sunday, Chadha had announced that flash floods in Uttarakhand's Chamoli had increased turbidity of raw water fetched by Delhi from the Upper Ganga Canal to "unprecedented levels" which was likely to hit water supply in many parts of the national capital. On Monday, he said enough numbers of water tankers were arranged to manage the situation. He credited the engineers and officials of the Delhi Jal Board saying they have worked very hard to remove dirt from the water. While the Bhagirathi water treatment plant will work at 100 per cent capacity, the Sonia Vihar water treatment plant, which produces around 140 MGD water per day, was running at 80 per cent capacity. He said that the Sonia Vihar plant can start working at 100 per cent capacity by late on Monday. Following a glacier break in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand on February 7, flash floods in Dhauliganga and Alaknanda rivers caused massive destruction of lives and property. With three more bodies recovered Monday from the Tapovan tunnel, the toll in the Uttarakhand flash flood has increased to 54 and 150 others have remained missing. The rescue operations are still underway to save those who are trapped in the destroyed hydel projects in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/djb-has-overcome-water-supply-problem-bhagirathi-plant-working-at-full-capacity-raghav-chadha-951563.html
15-02-2021||North and Central||Adityanath dispensation's days are numbered: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Monday accused the Yogi Adityanath government of failing to increase sugarcane prices in the past four years and asserted that such a dispensation's days are numbered. In one hand farmers are suffering due to inflation and on the other they are not getting the right price for their produce, the SP chief said, adding the BJP government is "completely insensitive" to these problems. "The days of the state government which has not increased cane prices in the past four years are numbered,” a party release quoted Yadav as saying. "Farmers had hoped that they would get benefits as promised by BJP leaders and their income would be doubled. They had also dreamt that they would live a happy life but the head of the government which has cheated them is busy in making false claims despite unfulfilled promises," Yadav said. The farmers will respond to this cheating through their votes, the SP chief added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/adityanath-dispensations-days-are-numbered-akhilesh-yadav-951599.html
15-02-2021||Opinion||India needs to ease its farmers’ fears||By The Editors In India, tens of thousands of farmers drawn from several northern states have camped outside Delhi since November, demanding the repeal of three new laws meant to liberalize the country’s agriculture sector. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government shouldn’t give in, but it ought to address the deeper worries behind the protesters’ complaints. The standoff is growing more tense. Protests turned violent on India’s Republic Day last month when marchers broke through police lines and briefly occupied the capital’s Red Fort. Two weeks ago, police surrounded the farmers’ encampments and cut off their phone and internet access, prompting a rebuke from the Biden administration. On February 6, protesters blocked highways across the country. The farmers say they’re battling for their fragile livelihoods. They fear that the new laws, which allow them to enter into advance contracts with buyers and sell their produce outside state-controlled markets, will expose them to exploitation by powerful corporations and cartels. Worse, they worry the reforms will mean an end to the government purchases of rice and wheat that have long propped up their incomes. They’re demanding the laws be repealed and the government guarantee minimum prices for their crops. There’s no question Indian agriculture needs reform. Most of the country’s farms are tiny and unproductive. Some 60 per cent of Indians depend directly or indirectly on agriculture for their living, yet the sector accounts for barely 16% of India’s GDP. The new laws would ultimately benefit farmers — by freeing them from rapacious middlemen, increasing competition among buyers and raising prices, and assuring demand in advance for their crops. But the government shouldn’t ignore the farmers’ fears. It ought to add provisions that guard against exploitation by unscrupulous buyers and amend the law to let farmers take disputes to court. It also needs to devise a safety net that will protect farmers against sudden shortfalls in income. Just as important, the government should be willing to listen. Ruling party officials were foolish to ram the reforms through Parliament in September without explaining and building support for the first. Lately, they’ve compounded that error by tarring some protest leaders, their international supporters and journalists covering the movement as seditious troublemakers. Protesters have rejected the government’s offer to suspend the reforms for 18 months. To overcome their resistance, Modi will need to draw on his personal popularity, meeting directly with protest leaders and consulting with opposition politicians, while making his case to the country. If he wants a truce, he should lead the peace talks himself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-needs-to-ease-its-farmers-fears-951403.html
15-02-2021||Panorama||Five myths about contraceptive pills||The lack of sex education and reproductive health awareness gives rise to many controversies and misconceptions about methods of contraception and associated medication. There are many risks that myths and misconceptions can bring along. For example, unfounded concerns or false perceptions deter men and women from using a particular contraceptive method or any contraceptive altogether. This can ultimately lead to unwanted pregnancies and unnecessary physical as well as mental harm to the woman. However, with the right amount of education women can easily have a healthy sexual and reproductive life.  The biggest advantage of contraceptive pills is that they are very effective and have a very low failure rate when used correctly; other benefits include regular menstrual cycles and lighter flow. However, the need to take one pill daily can seem tedious for some women and can also lead to missed pills which add to the failure rate. Therefore, women need to take responsibility for their reproductive health while consuming contraceptive consciously and carefully. All women must consult a Gynecologist before starting any new contraceptive, especially pills. Learn the truths about five contraceptive myths that you should not believe:  All contraceptive pills lead to weight gain: First-generation contraceptive pills caused some temporary weight gain related to fluid retention in the body. However, newer formulations do not cause weight gain, rather they help with weight loss in patients who have Polycystic Ovary Syndrome (PCOS) along with other benefits. Contraceptive pills lead to acne or abnormal hair growth: Newer contraceptive pill formulations with different Progesterone components, reduce Testosterone concentration and reduce the incidence of acne in patients with PCOS. It is all right to miss one or more pills in the cycle: Missing pills during the cycle should not be taken lightly. It can lead to unexpected pregnancy due to contraception failure. Moreover, it can also cause spotting or mid-cycle bleeding to begin. One must always consult a Gynecologist if one or more pills have been missed to learn about what all precautions are to be taken in such an instance, and how to make sure unexpected pregnancies do not happen. Contraceptive pills damage fertility: There is no evidence that contraceptive pills affect fertility in any way. They only prevent ovulation and pregnancies. Birth control pills can be started without any prior evaluation or risk assessment: Birth control pills are generally safe, but some people who have certain risk factors like having a genetic tendency for blood clot formation, or those who are obese or who smoke might not be suitable candidates for contraceptive pill use. Hence, one must always consult a doctor and get a risk evaluation before starting Oral Contraceptive Pills (OCP). Having said that, lots of confusion information is available on the internet, it tends to create fear among women. Here is what you can do to debunk these doubts. Getting the right information about contraceptives is crucial. The best way to get the correct information is through a medical resource coming from government websites, from international health organizations or from a hospital website Discuss your concerns with your Ob-Gyn about the use of any contraceptive method. Not every method suits everyone, and making an informed choice helps in finding the best fit for you and your partner Many of the myths associated with the birth control pill do not apply to every person. Each one of us is different and only you and your doctor can determine whether the pill (and which pill) is right for you. Be sure to ask your doctor any questions you have and discuss your concerns. (The writer is a Consultant Gynecologist & Obstetrician at a hospital in Vashi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/five-myths-about-contraceptive-pills-951658.html
15-02-2021||South||Does CM have the courage to question Centre on issues affecting Tamil Nadu? asks DMK Chief MK Stalin||DMK President M K Stalin on Sunday asked Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami if he has the courage to question the Centre on various issues affecting the interests of Tamil Nadu. Speaking at a party organised function at Thirukkadaiyur near Porayar in Mayiladuthurai district, he alleged that the AIADMK government had taken the state 50 years backward in terms of economic development. "The AIIMS hospital project was announced way back in 2015. Yet, not a single foundation stone has been laid. The Tamil Nadu assembly passed resolutions twice, demanding exclusion from NEET. On the issue relating to the release of seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, "the Governor is following the script given by the centre," he alleged. "The Union Government has brought the Cauvery Water Management Authority under its Jal Sakthi department, instead of making it an independent authority. Is the Chief Minister ready to fight the centre on these issues?" he asked Stalin further said that the centre was not releasing Rs 19,000 crore due to Tamil Nadu by way of GST refunds. "The 14th finance commission related to the local bodies recommended an allocation of Rs 2,500 crore to Tamil Nadu three years back. But the allocation has not been made yet. The state has been seriously affected by cyclones. The Union Government has not offered proper assistance. Will the Chief Minister question the Centre?," he asked. Stalin alleged that the Chief Minister and his cabinet colleagues would have to face the CBI and other enforcement agencies if they questioned the Centre. "To safeguard themselves, they are fighting for the rights of Tamil Nadu," he said. Stalin has been visiting Assembly segments across Tamil Nadu as part of his 'Ungal Thogudhiyil Stalin' (Stalin in your constituency) campaign for the Assembly polls likely to be held in April-May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/does-cm-have-the-courage-to-question-centre-on-issues-affecting-tamil-nadu-asks-dmk-chief-mk-stalin-951325.html
15-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu police probe baby's death in alleged monkey attack||Police in Tamil Nadu said they were probing the death of an eight-day-old baby after monkeys allegedly threw the child from the roof of her home. The police told AFP on Sunday that twin infant girls were sleeping at their house in Tamil Nadu state when they were attacked by monkeys on Saturday. Their mother, Bhuvaneshwari, heard the children crying, saw them being taken from the bedroom and then started screaming, a police official said. She rushed to the outside terrace and saw the monkeys with the children on the roof. "Hearing her scream, neighbours gathered to help and tried to save the children," the police official said. As people made attempts to retrieve the babies, the monkeys dropped one child on the roof and threw her sister in the air. The infant fell into a drain and died, the official said. The other child is said to be out of danger. Monkeys attack humans and steal food but cases involving child abductions are rare. Two years ago, monkeys took a baby sleeping under a mosquito net at a home in Odisha. The infant was later found dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-police-probe-babys-death-in-alleged-monkey-attack-951328.html
15-02-2021||South||Six-year-old girl loses newly adopted mother in hit-and-run incident in Kerala||In a tragic turn of events, a six-year-old girl lost her newly adopted mother when the two were knocked down by a speeding car near here, police said on Monday. Sali (46) was walking across a zebra crossing carrying the child, adopted two weeks ago when the car hit them at Manarcad-Pattithanam bypass near Ettumanoor here on Sunday night and sped away. While the woman died while being rushed to the hospital, the girl, who was thrown off in the mishap, has been admitted to a private hospital with injuries. The driver did not stop the car after the incident, police said, adding an investigation has been launched to nab him. According to reports, Sali and her husband were childless and the couple adopted the child two weeks ago. Sali along with the girl was returning home after visiting relatives to introduce them to the new member of her family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/six-year-old-girl-loses-newly-adopted-mother-in-hit-and-run-incident-in-kerala-951420.html
15-02-2021||South||Polls to urban local bodies in Andhra Pradesh to be held on March 10||Elections to urban local bodies (ULBs) in Andhra Pradesh would be held on March 10, the State Election Commission announced on Monday, eleven months after it suspended the process for the polls mid-way last year in view of Covid-19 pandemic. According to a notification issued by the SEC, the counting of votes polled in the elections to 12 Municipal Corporations, including Greater Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada, and 75 Municipalities and Nagar Panchayats would be taken up on March 14. The announcement came amid the ongoing four-phase elections for panchayats in the state of which two had been completed. The remaining phases would be held on February 17 and 21. After nominations were filed and scrutiny was completed, the commission had on March 15, 2020, suspended the election process for the ULBs for six weeks in view of Covid-19 and later extended it until further orders. The latest notification said the SEC decided to resume the election process from the stage where it was stopped. Accordingly, it issued notifications on Monday to continue the election process from the stage of withdrawal of candidature and hold the polls on March 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/polls-to-urban-local-bodies-in-andhra-pradesh-to-be-held-on-march-10-951437.html
15-02-2021||South||Merit list candidates plead for job while temporary staff being regularised rampantly in Kerala||Braving the scorching sun hundreds of educated job seekers in Kerala crawled on their knees and rolled on the roads in front of the government secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram on Monday as part of intensifying their ongoing stir seeking speeding up of recruitment from the rank list of the Kerala Public Service Commission (KPSC) before the expiry of the term of the lists. However, the CPI(M) led Left Democratic Front government is not only turning a deaf ear towards the plight of rank holders, but also going ahead with rampant regularisation of temporary staff in various government institutions. Already many were regularised and the Cabinet on Monday also decided to regularise 151 more. While the government was justifying the regularisation of temporary employees citing humanitarian considerations that they were serving for more than ten years, the PSC rank holders were asking why the government was not showing humanitarian consideration to them. CPI(M) leaders were even making critical and insulting remarks against the agitating job seekers alleging that the stir was sponsored by Opposition political parties. The stir by job seekers already became a major political issue in Kerala which is heading towards Assembly elections and the Opposition Congress and BJP are trying to make use of it. Congress leader and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy visited the agitating job seekers and assured his party’s support. Various left-front youth outfits initiated discussions with the agitators, but talks remained inconclusive. The government is reiterating its stand that only around one-fifth of candidates who got a place in rank lists of the KPSC could be given postings as the number of candidates included in each rank list is five times more than the actual vacancies. However, the candidates are demanding that instead of regularising temporary employees in various government institutions, candidates from the existing rank list of KPSC should be recruited. However, the government is not accepting the demand. Even as the government recently decided to extend the term of all KPSC rank lists up to August, the rank holders alleged that delay in reporting vacancies was the root cause for delaying recruitment from lists.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/merit-list-candidates-plead-for-job-while-temporary-staff-being-regularised-rampantly-in-kerala-951531.html
15-02-2021||South||DMK chief Stalin slams Centre for arrest of activist Disha Ravi||DMK president M K Stalin on Monday denounced the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi by Delhi police on "flimsy charges", saying silencing critics through "authoritarian" means is not rule of law. "Shocked by the police arrest of Disha Ravi on flimsy charges. Silencing critics of the government through authoritarian means is not the rule of law," the top DMK leader tweeted. "I urge the BJP government to desist from taking such punitive action and instead listen to the voices of dissent from young persons," he said. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal dubbed her arrest an 'unprecedented attack on democracy.' On February 13, Disha Ravi was arrested from Bengaluru by Delhi police, which comes under the Union Home Ministry's ambit for 'collaborating' with pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation to 'spread disaffection' against the government. She edited 'toolkit Google doc' and was a key 'conspirator' in its formulation and dissemination as well vis-a-vis the farmers protest, according to police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-chief-stalin-slams-centre-for-arrest-of-activist-disha-ravi-951561.html
15-02-2021||South||IIT-M-incubated start-up reaches 5 lakh engineering students||GUVI, a start-up incubated by the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M), has reached over 5 lakh engineering students through its e-learning platform which focusses on vernacular languages and reaching students in Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities. Also, courses offered by GUVI will now be incorporated into National Education Alliance for Technology (NEAT), a Public-Private Partnership model between Government of India and Education Technology companies. It is implemented by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). GUVI, which has presence in over 1,200 engineering colleges across India, will sign a MoU for the above mentioned purpose on Tuesday in the presence of Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. GUVI has been upskilling learners with its Coding Practice and Assessment platform, IIT certified courses and specialized courses taught by prominent industry mentors and professors from IIT Madras. “On a mission to reduce friction in tech learning and create 10 million programmers in India by 2022. GUVI being the first mover in offering technology content in vernacular languages has provided a holistic AI driven platform that meets the diverse needs of 5 Lakh students and 250+ employers,” S P Balamurugan, Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer, GUVI, said. Balamurugan travelled to Mumbai to meet the five lakth learner - Vivek Sinha, an Electronics and Communications Engineering (ECE) Student from the Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), Tamil Nadu and discussed how the GUVI platform can be best utilized to reach career goals in programming world. GUVI, which offers an online platform for students to learn in their mother tongues, is offering specialized information technology courses to up skill students and make them ‘job ready’ without having to leave their house. The mission of GUVI is to take technology skills to all the deserving students and ensure demography is never a barricade to acquire skills. GUVI has been recognized by IIT Madras Digital Skills Academy to offer joint certified courses and Anna University as a member of the Consortium of Industries for the Department of Computer Science and Engineering of the University.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/iit-m-incubated-start-up-reaches-5-lakh-engineering-students-951568.html
15-02-2021||South||AIADMK, MNM invite applications from Assembly ticket aspirants||Tamil Nadu's ruling AIADMK on Monday said it would start receiving applications from people who wish to contest the April-May Assembly elections on a party ticket from February 24, which falls on the birth anniversary of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa. In a joint statement, AIADMK Coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami said party cadres can get the applications to contest the Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, and Kerala from February 24 to March 5. Actor Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam also announced that application forms for those wanting party tickets will be available from February 21. The cost of an application is fixed at Rs 25,000. The Election Commission of India (ECI) is expected to announce the election date for Tamil Nadu in the last week of February or early March. The tenure of current Tamil Nadu Assembly ends on May 24. “Party cadres interested in contesting the 2021 assembly elections can collect the application form from the headquarters from February 24 to March 5 between 10 am and 5 pm,” the leaders said in the statement. They also asked them to submit the forms back after duly filling them in the headquarters. For Tamil Nadu, the application form costs Rs 15,000, while the price for Puducherry is fixed at Rs 5,000 and Rs 2,000 for Kerala. Dravidian majors — DMK and AIADMK — collect fees for selling the application forms in a bid to collect funds for the party. The parties rake in crores of rupees in the form of fees for application forms to contest the elections which will be used during polls. Under Jayalalithaa regime, almost all top leaders and functionaries would buy application forms asking her to contest from their constituencies. 2021 Assembly election is considered as an acid test for the AIADMK under EPS and OPS as this is the first time the party will face the Assembly polls without its charismatic leader J Jayalalithaa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-mnm-invite-applications-from-assembly-ticket-aspirants-951579.html
15-02-2021||South||Demand to withdraw cases related to Sabarimala protests grows||Opposition parties in Kerala, both the Congress and the BJP, are trying to corner the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) over the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple issue yet again by demanding the withdrawal of all cases against those who staged protests against allowing women of all ages to Sabarimala. Apart from the Congress-led United Democratic Front and the BJP-led NDA, the Nair Service Society that represents the Hindu Nair community also came up with the demand. Over 500 cases were registered against over 1,000 persons, including many BJP leaders including party state President K Surendran. The Opposition parties have put the LDF in a tight spot by demanding that their stand on Sabarimala women entry should be clarified—whether they are in favour of allowing women of all ages to the hill shrine or are they favouring the ban on it considering faiths and traditions. The LDF managed to wriggle out of it by maintaining that the matter was now under the Supreme Court’s review and assuring that discussions would be initiated with all sections concerned before implementing the SC decision. Subsequently, the opposition parties raised the demand to withdraw the cases registered in connection with the stirs opposing the entry of women in 10-50 age group to the temple during 2018-2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/demand-to-withdraw-cases-related-to-sabarimala-protests-grows-951588.html
15-02-2021||South||Kerala CM launches first phase of 520 km-long waterway||Marking a new chapter in Kerala's transport and tourism sector, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday launched the first phase of a 520-km-long national waterway. Vijayan inaugurated the 310 km first phase of the inland waterway, by travelling a 11 KM stretch from Veli to Kadinamkulam onboard a 24-seater solar-powered boat. The rejuvenated waterway is from Veli here to Chavakkad in Thrissur district through Kollam and Kottapuram. Vijayan claimed sincehis government came to power, a boom could be seen in the transport sector. "The change is reflected in the road, air and water transportation sectors of the state.We have opened up new possibilities with this waterway." "By connecting Bekal in the north to Kovalam in the south of Kerala, a relatively low cost and pollution free transport facility will become a reality in the state," Vijayan said in a Facebook post. Vijayan said the government had classified canals and bridges in southern Kerala and the Malabar region in order to modernise and developthe waterways in three phases. "In the first phase, the existing canals were deepened to make it passable.As part of the second phase, encroachments will be removed and the width will be increased by the end of 2022." Construction of the west coast canal and feeder canals will be done in Phase 3, which will be completed in 2025, he added. He said the government has taken steps to prevent waste being dumped into the waterways and municipalities have a major role in preventing it. "CCTVs are being installed, fences are being erected and steps are being taken to create awareness among the people to protect the waterways," Vijayan said. The solar boat, in which the chief minister travelled, was indigenously manufactured for Cochin International Airport Ltd (CIAL) and recently arrived here from Kochi. Trial runs were held on the Veli-Kadinamkulam stretch of the Parvathy Puthanar on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-launches-first-phase-of-520-km-long-waterway-951594.html
15-02-2021||South||Jolt to ruling Cong in Puducherry; senior leader Malladi Krishna Rao quits MLA post||In a jolt to the four and half year-old V Narayanasamy-led Congress government here, senior party legislator Malladi Krishna Rao on Monday resigned from the post of MLA. A communication purportedly sent by Rao to the media said that he conveyed his resignation in his letter head to Speaker V P Sivakolundhu from his home town of Yanam. He stated that he tendered "his resignation of my seat in the House with effect from February 15." However, when contacted a spokesman of the Assembly said the office of Speaker had not received any letter from Rao today. Rao had quit the post of Health Minister some weeks ago. But the Chief Minister denied such reports at press conferences that Rao had quit the post of Minister. Rao was not available for confirmation over phone when PTI attempted to contact him. An official source in the Assembly said that the Speaker was "out of station." Malladi Krishna Rao is the third Congress legislator to quit the post of MLA after the former PWD Minister A Namassivayam and E.Theeppainjan on January 25. N Dhanavelu a Congress member was disqualified in July last year for alleged anti-party activities. If the Speaker accepts his resignation, the strength of the Congress in the 30-member House will come down to 11. The Congress had won 15 assembly seats in the 2016 Assembly polls including the Speaker. The Congress hinges on the support of the three member DMK and an Independent from Mahe N.Ramachandran. On the opposition side, the AINRC has seven members while AIADMK has four and there are three nominated members belonging to the Bharatiya Janata party. Rao's resignation has come as a bolt from the blue to the Congress when the party is going ahead with arrangements for the visit of party leader Rahul Gandhi on February 17. Rao has been holding the lone Yanam constituency without break since 1996 although at one stage in 2000 he quit the MLA post to facilitate the then Congress leader the late P Shanmugham who became Chief Minister without being an MLA to contest to regularise himself as head of the then government. Shanmugham won the poll in the byelection held in 2000 within six months of becoming the head of the government without being a member of the House. Rao was felicitated by the government at a function on January 16 in Yanam for being "a legislator for a long period" and among those who felicitated him included the Chief Minister and his cabinet colleagues. Rao also accompanied the Chief Minister last week to New Delhi to meet President Ram Nath Kovind to urge him to replace Lt governor Kiran Bedi for her alleged interference in administration in the union territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jolt-to-ruling-cong-in-puducherry-senior-leader-malladi-krishna-rao-quits-mla-post-951602.html
15-02-2021||South||Cops involved in Kerala custodial death may face dismissal||Nine police personnel accused in a custodial death case in Kerala will face dismissal from service as the state cabinet on Monday approved a judicial commission report into the incident. Rajkumar, 49, a private finance firm operator, died allegedly following custodial torture at the Nedumgandam police station in Idukki in June 2019. Nine police personnel, including a sub-inspector, were charge-sheeted by the CBI in the custodial death while the role of senior officers is still under probe. The Justice K Narayana Kurup commission that probed the custodial death concluded that custodial torture led to Rajkumar's death and recommended that those responsible should be dismissed from service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cops-involved-in-kerala-custodial-death-may-face-dismissal-951623.html
15-02-2021||South||Kerala's waterways get boost as CM promises rejuvenation||In a boost to the water transportation and tourism sectors of Kerala, 520 kilometre-long waterways is being revived and Kochi water metro service was commissioned on Monday. The waterways envisage reviving the water connectivity from Kovalam in Thiruvananthapuram in the South to Bekal in Kasargod in the North as part of the national waterways. Known as the West Coast canal, the waterway was defunct owing to pollution and encroachment of the canal. The first phase of making the existing canals navigable was commissioned on Monday. In the next phases, all encroachments would be cleared and feeder canals of 1,200 kilometres would be also developed. In Kochi, the first phase of the water metro service was commissioned. The first phase offers connectivity from Vytilla to Infopark in Kakkanad. The water metro service was envisaged as part of the Kochi metro rail service. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan commissioned both the projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-waterways-get-boost-as-cm-promises-rejuvenation-951631.html
15-02-2021||South||Allaying fears, Non-Resident Keralites send in Rs 18,749 cr more to Kerala in 2020||Proving forecasts that the heavily remittances-dependent Kerala faces a harrowing financial future due to the likely plunge in money inflows due to pandemic-driven job losses wrong, the latest SLBC data show that non-resident Keralites (NRK) have in fact sent in more money during the calamitous year than they did in 2019. According to the data from the Canara Bank-led state-level banking committee (SLBC) as of end-December 2020, the banks in the state had Rs 2,27,447 crore in non-resident deposits, while the same stood at Rs 2,08,698 crore in March 2020, when the problem began to appear in the country. On an annualised basis, the same stood at a low Rs 1,99,781 crore as of end-December 2019. During April-December 2020, non-resident deposits grew by Rs 18,749 crore in absolute terms, the same grew by Rs 27,666 crore on-year, according to the SLBC data as of December 2020, which updates data half-yearly. However, the city-based Federal Bank, which is the second-largest player in the non-resident deposits space in the state, attributes the spike in numbers to lower withdrawals due to lockdowns and also because of the fall in the rupee and not necessarily driven by higher inflows. "We haven't seen a significant increase or fall in monthly remittances into our NRE & NRO accounts so far this financial year. Our NRE+NRO remittances are granular in nature from mass and mass-affluent customers typically," Nilufer Mullanfiroze, the head of retail banking at Federal Bank, told PTI from Mumbai. Our NRE+NRO SB book grew by 21 per cent while resident deposits grew by 17 per cent, but this is also due to the fact that avenues of spends have been lower during the pandemic, she added. Sharing the numbers specifically for Kerala, she said 70 per cent of a savings bank account of Rs 45,000 crore is from Kerala and within NRE+NRO deposits as much as 90 per cent of the book is from the home state and 60 per cent of the resident deposits are also from the state, she said. She also pointed out that Federal Bank being mid-category banker, the impact of job loss is less on its books. Most of its customers from the Gulf are nurses, engineers who have not lost their jobs she said, adding, however, the overall inward remittances through exchanges into the state has crossed the Rs 1 lakh crore-mark in 2020. Early January, PTI had reported quoting official data from the Norka that as of January 7, as much as 8.7 lakh NRKs (non-resident Keralites) had returned to the state from overseas, mostly from the Gulf since the first week last May. What was more, in a job-starved market like Kerala, a vast majority of them (5.7 lakh) had come back after losing their jobs, ringing alarm bells in the government corridors and among the planners. More than a fourth of the over 10 million Indians in the Gulf are from Kerala and of them around 7.5 lakh had returned to the state which heavily depends on their remittances, making it the highest in history since the Gulf boom started in the late 1950s, show data from the Norka (Non-Resident Keralites Affairs). The same data also showed that 1,11,151 of the 13,27,330 returned from within the country cited job loss as the reason for their return. Overall, 21.89 lakh Keralites had returned to the state. According to Norka, 40 lakh Keralites are living/working abroad and 13.73 lakh elsewhere in the country. The state has a resident population of 3.48 crore. This has created panic in the government fearing money flow would be choked which if did will hamper the mostly consumption-driven economy battered by the pandemic to take a harder hit. Further fuelling the worry was the World Bank forecast of a steep 23-25 per cent plunge in remittances in 2020 into the country, which is led by Kerala with the highest share nationally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/allaying-fears-non-resident-keralites-send-in-rs-18749-cr-more-to-kerala-in-2020-951647.html
15-02-2021||State||Karnataka govt makes NOC mandatory for commercial use of groundwater||After years of wait, the state government has come up with a rule to monitor the exploitation of groundwater by notifying the Centre’s guideline that makes a no-objection certificate (NOC) mandatory for use of borewell water by all industrial and commercial entities. It also introduced minor restrictions to domestic use. As per the notification by the Karnataka Ground Water Authority (KGWA), all industries and commercial entities utilising borewell water must register on the online portal by April 30.  Ravindrappa, director of KGWA, said the guidelines were issued by the Central Ground Water Authority (CGWA). "Groundwater has been treated as free for years, leading to overexploitation. Some districts have reached critical levels due to unchecked drawing of water. Now, we will start imposing a fee on those exploiting it for commercial or industrial purpose. Those who fail to register will face action," he said. The guidelines have been issued after approval by the National Green Tribunal and make an NOC mandatory for all residential apartments and group housing societies that require more than 20,000 litres of water per day. In such cases, NOC will be issued only if local government agencies are "unable to supply" the water. Even then, such societies should show that they are using treated sewage water for toilets, gardening and other non-potable uses. As per the guideline, no new industry will get permission to use groundwater. Commercial entities have to submit yearly audit report giving details of the use of groundwater. Independent agencies will verify their compliance. Exemptions Agriculture borewells, individual domestic consumers, rural drinking water supply schemes, armed forces borewells and even Micro and Small Enterprises drawing less than 10,000 litres per day have been exempted from registrations. A retired engineer, who worked with the state government in the underground water sector for more than 15 years, said the exemption given to MSMEs was a huge mistake on the part of the government. "There are thousands of MSMEs which are exploiting groundwater and do not even declare it. Many are drawing ten times the ceiling prescribed by the government only to process the water and sell it in bottle in Bengaluru. The government's rule will embolden them," he said. He said the government needs to understand the hydrological regime at village level to address issues of inequality-equity-equality of its distribution. "The empirical approach being used since several decades do not hold key to address present and future legal framework. Big data analytics and artificial intelligence should be put to use to assess the consumption patterns and regulate the supply," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-makes-noc-mandatory-for-commercial-use-of-groundwater-951347.html
15-02-2021||State||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa launches Vijayapura airport work virtually from Shivamogga||Speaking after launching airport project work in Vijayapura in a virtual programme on Monday, Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa said the construction of an airport in Vijayapura will play a key role in generating employment for youth. Besides, it would contribute to the development of the tourism sector and the establishment of an international market for horticultural crops grown in the district. This way, the presence of an airport will contribute to the overall development of the district. He said considering the tourism potential and economic activities in the district, the government has decided to construct an airport on 727 acres in Madabhavi and Bharanapura villages under the public-private partnership system at a cost of Rs 220 crore. Horticultural crops such as grape, lemon and pomegranate fruits are grown on a large scale in the district. Dry grapes and lemon are being exported overseas. The presence of an airport will strengthen the international market for horticultural crops of the district. He said efforts are being made to include development and operation of Vijayapura airport under Udan scheme of Airports Authority of India. The work is being taken up for the operation of ATR 72, regional aircraft. It has been designed to a specification that would enable even an Airbus A320 to fly. He said airport construction at Kalaburgi and Bidar has been launched. Shivamogga airport work has also been expedited. The officials concerned have been directed to complete Vijayapura airport project work within the stipulated time.  Karnataka State Industrial & Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited Principal Secretary Kapil Mohan, MP B Y Raghavendra, MLA Aaraga Jnanendra, MLC Rudre Gouda, Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar and others were present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-launches-vijayapura-airport-work-virtually-from-shivamogga-951468.html
15-02-2021||State||SC grants protection to accused in Sandalwood drugs case||The Supreme Court on Monday granted protection from arrest to Prashanth Raju G, an accused in the Sandalwood drugs case. A bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai issued notice to the Karnataka government on Raju's plea challenging the refusal of anticipatory bail to him by the Karnataka High Court in November, last. "There shall be no coercive steps in the meantime," the bench said. Among other grounds, Raju has relied on January 2021, an order of the Supreme Court wherein actress Ragini Dwivedi was granted bail as Section 37 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act was held to be not applicable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-grants-protection-to-accused-in-sandalwood-drugs-case-951551.html
15-02-2021||State||Couple ends life as daughter refuses marriage||A couple committed suicide by hanging as their daughter refused to get married, at Ballapura village, Alur taluk, Hassan district, on Sunday night. The victims are Puttaraju (58) and Kanthamma (53). According to villagers, they had fixed an alliance for their daughter and the engagement was scheduled for Sunday (February 14). As the girl refused to get engaged, the dejected couple hanged themselves at the cattle shed. According to family members, Puttaraju and Kanthamma had no children. Hence, they brought up two children - a boy and a girl, of their relatives from a young age. They had married off their son. Now, they had arranged the marriage for the girl. But, the girl refused to get engaged and left home on Sunday. She even threatened to end her life, if they insist on her getting married. The couple searched for the girl and brought her home and tried to convince her, but in vain. The upset couple ended their lives by hanging, villagers said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/couple-ends-life-as-daughter-refuses-marriage-951625.html
15-02-2021||State||RSS marking houses of donors for Ram Temple, just as Nazis did, claims Kumaraswamy||Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy on Monday accused the RSS of marking houses of those who gave donations for Ram Temple in Ayodhya and alleged it was similar to what the Nazis did in Germany. The RSS dismissed the allegations, saying they do not qualify for any response. In a series of tweets, the JD(S) leader claimed that the RSS was born in India around the time Nazi Party was founded in Germany. "It appears that those collecting donations for the construction of Ram Mandir have been separately marking the houses of those who paid money and those who did not." "This is similar to what Nazis did in Germany during the regime of Hitler when lakhs of people lost their lives," Kumaraswamy tweeted. He wondered where these developments would take the country to. Quoting historians, Kumaraswamy claimed RSS took birth at the same time when the Nazi Party was founded in Germany. "There are concerns on what will happen if the RSS tries to implement similar policies adopted by Nazis.The fundamental rights of people are being snatched away in the country now," the former Chief Minister alleged. He claimed there was an undeclared emergency in the country as people cannot freely express their views. Expressing his apprehensions about media's independence in the coming days, the JD(S) leader said what will happen if the media upheld the government's views. "It is clear from the emerging trends that anything may happen in the country," the former Chief Minister stated. When contacted, RSS media-incharge E S Pradeep said, "Kumaraswamy's comments do not qualify for any response."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rss-marking-houses-of-donors-for-ram-temple-just-as-nazis-did-claims-kumaraswamy-951630.html
15-02-2021||State||One year without seizures; 23-year-old Karnataka nurse has convulsions after Covid-19 vaccination||A 23-year-old Shwetha Khande, a nurse in Kalaburagi's Gulbarga Heart Foundation, who has a history of epilepsy, was vaccinated at the hospital she also works in, on February 5. Minutes later, she had a seizure and has been in the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital since then. She is likely to be moved out of the ICU on February 15, her family told DH. According to Indian Epilepsy Association there are 1.2 crore epilepsy patients in India. Though epilepsy is not listed as a contraindication in the factsheet of Covishield vaccine (which she was vaccinated with) provided by the government, she had a convulsion. Her brother Rajshekar Khande says the fact that she had an episode minutes after being injected is proof that it was triggered by vaccination, despite her epilepsy history. Shwetha spoke to DH from the ICU on February 12. She said, "I have had epilepsy for four years now but have not had an episode since February 2020, as I have been regularly taking the medication. I had five episodes on the day of the vaccination, on February 5, the first one was within 10-15 minutes of taking the vaccine. Between 12.30 pm and 1 pm, I was vaccinated following which I had giddiness, blurred vision, and sweating. In the waiting room, I had two convulsions after which I was shifted to the ICU." "On February 12, I had three episodes. I have facial jerkings in my sleep. I have no sensation in the left side of my body. There is a slight sensation in the lower limbs of my body. My doctor said it may have been triggered by the vaccine," she said. This has been brought to the notice of the district health authorities, but the absence of a neurologist on the district AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunisation) committee didn't help in establishing or excluding a causal relationship between vaccination and seizures, said Dr Prabhuling Mankar, District Immunisation Officer. Dr Anil Talikoti, district surveillance medical officer, said they could not reach a conclusion as medical records weren't available with them when the committee met on February 9 and will submit a final report to the state later. The family wants the episode to be thoroughly investigated as there are many epilepsy patients in the State who may be in line to get vaccinated. The Advisor to the National AEFI Committee for Covid-19, Dr NK Arora, said, "I will follow it up and ensure that detailed investigation is done. Seventy lakh doses have been given across the country. We do not have information about seizures happening in others. One to 1.5% of the population have epilepsy. The national AEFI committee will do a detailed causality assessment to see whether the seizure has been precipitated due to immunisation or it was a coincidental event particularly in the light that she is a known epileptic. Any death and hospitalisation is considered a serious AEFI."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/one-year-without-seizures-23-year-old-karnataka-nurse-has-convulsions-after-covid-19-vaccination-951633.html
15-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 414 new Covid cases, 2 two fatalities||Karnataka on Sunday reported 414 Covid-19 cases and two deaths, taking the total number of infections and toll to just over 9.45 lakh and 12,265 respectively, the health department said. As many as 486 people were discharged after being cured of the virus, as the cumulative recoveries rose to 9,27,150, leaving 5,836 active cases. Bengaluru Urban district accounted for 241 of the fresh cases, Dakshina Kannada came next with 24 and Mysuru 21, while the remaining was scattered over the state. Cumulatively 9,45,270 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,265 deaths and 9,27,150 discharges, the bulletin said. Of the active cases, 132 are in Intensive Care Units. One death was reported in Benglauru Urban and the other in Kalaburagi. Four of the 31 districts -- Bagalkote, Ramanagara, Haveri and Shivamogga -- reported nil infections and fatalities. A total of 1.70 crore samples have been tested so far, with 60,876 on Sunday, the bulletin said. It said only 44 out of the total of 1,864 Covid warriors were vaccinated today.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-414-new-covid-cases-2-two-fatalities-951326.html
15-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||In Gangavathi, illegal quarrying imperils Neolithic treasures||Unabated illegal stone quarrying and rampant iron ore mining are threatening the very existence of the Neolithic Age cave/shelter paintings and protected monuments within the jurisdiction of the Hampi World Heritage Area Management Authority (HWHAMA). Karadivatalu, part of the seven hillock series in Gangavathi taluk, is crying for attention of the administration as illegal stone quarrying has already destroyed tens of cave and shelter paintings, which, according to experts, date back to more than 4,000 years. Sadly, the district administration, the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and the Karnataka Department of Archaeology Museums And Heritage (DAMH) have not made much effort to protect these national treasures, while ASI’s Dharwad officials said such historical sites are not listed in the centrally protected monuments, DAMH, Hampi. Field Director Prahlad, who visited the affected sites after being alerted by DH, said these sites are not covered under the protected monuments list of DAMH. He, however, said he would soon send a report to his superiors, recommending that these paintings be safeguarded from illegal quarrying. Sharanabasappa Kolkar, principal of KSC Women’s College, Gangavathi, who has done his doctoral thesis on these cave paintings, said he had identified more than 120 cave/shelter paintings in these hills during his research work in 1998-2000. However, during a similar research by a student of Pune’s Deccan College in 2020, the majority of those boulders on which the paintings were drawn were found missing. Recently, illegal stone quarry operators blasted a boulder that was just 20 metres away from one such shelter painting in Karadivatalu, which is just 25 km from Hampi. According to Kolkar, similar sites in Ramapur, Mallapur and other parts of Gangavathi taluk have already been lost due to stone quarrying. “If a proper exploration is conducted in these seven hills, we can definitely find more than 250 paintings,” he said. Senior archaeologist Ravi Korisettar said many hills in and around Hampi, Hosapete, Gangavathi, Ballari and Koppal have sites that are connected to the Neolithic Age. However, not much study has been done on them. Several such sites, including the ash mounds in Sanganakallu, eight km from Ballari, have been lost due to rampantmining and stone quarrying. “Even the Mines & Geology Department officials give permission for excavation of minerals and stones without conducting a proper study of the area. An archaeological study should be made here before permitting mining,” said Korisettar. Koppal Deputy Commissioner Suralkar Vikas Kishor, who is also the co-chairman of HWHAMA, said, there is a need for a greater exploration of the Gangavathi region to identify such cave paintings and protect them. “The district administration is looking for legal options to prevent illegal stone quarrying in the region.” Wrongly blamed The blasting of huge boulders in Anjanadri hills, Koppal district, has also resulted in the collapse of the fort wall, which is said to belong to the Vijayanagara era. Krishnamurthy, who belongs to the Bhovi community that is involved in stone cutting using hand tools, blamed the involvement of influential people and their followers for the damage to the fort and other protected monuments in the area. Sandur mining Sri Kumaraswamy Temple, an eighth-century Chalukya era temple in Sandur’s Swamimalai Forest Division, is fighting a survival battle for the last three years after the state government reduced the no-mining area from 2 km to 300 mt radius around an ASI protected monument. Two C-Category iron ore mines are within a distance of 1 km from this protected monument, and vibrations are felt even in the sanctum of this temple when blasting takes place in mines that are as far away as 3 km. Activist Sreeshaila Aladahalli said Naviluthirtha, Harishankar temple and many other protected temples are under threat from mining in Sandur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/in-gangavathi-illegal-quarrying-imperils-neolithic-treasures-951343.html
15-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Contractors fake documents to bag PWD works in Karnataka||The state government has identified over a dozen cases of fraud where contractors produced fake documents to bag contracts for infrastructure projects that have now been put on hold. This was discovered in the Public Works Department (PWD), one of the busiest wings of the government in terms of the sheer scale of projects involved. The PWD is now conducting a full-fledged inquiry into such cases. The erring contractors will be blacklisted. For now, frauds related to projects worth over Rs 6 crore have been detected. But there are concerns about large-scale irregularities. At least six contractors were involved in the fraud — they provided either fake bank guarantee documents or fudged their annual turnover to bag 15 government projects, according to information tabled by Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol in the Legislative Assembly in response to a question by Congress' Eshwar Khandre. Some of these projects are the construction of a foot overbridge near Yana and Nagare Hosahittalu in Honnavara, improvement of a village road in Ulavi in Dharwad and works on Agsur-Shirgunji road in Ankola. In Bidar and Kalaburagi, two contractors provided fake documents to bag State Highway Development Project (SHDP) works. Karjol said that as soon as the fraud was identified, the government cancelled the tenders for the projects. He told DH that the PWD had found many irregularities and was in the process of conducting further investigation into such incidents. "Our officials are looking into it. If more cases come to light, we will immediately blacklist those contractors and ensure strict action against them," he said.  According to N Mahadevaswamy, President, Karnataka SC/ST Contractors Association, there are enough provisions in the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurements Act for streamlining the way contracts are awarded. "But these regulations are not being implemented properly," he said. "There is a system in place to identify duplicate documents. The government needs to ensure that it is implemented properly," he said, adding that government officials were hand in glove in this. "Such frauds would not have happened without the involvement of officials," Mahadevaswamy said. In the 2020-21 fiscal, the PWD has an allocation of Rs 10,229 crore. In the 2019-20 fiscal, the PWD's accounts showed an expenditure of Rs 9,179.82 crore. In 2018-19 and 2019-20, it took up development of roads spanning a total of 17,964 km under various multi-crore projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/contractors-fake-documents-to-bag-pwd-works-in-karnataka-951350.html
15-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ram Temple will give new dimension to country's culture, says D V Sadananda Gowda||The construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya will give a new dimension to the country's culture and tradition, Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda said on Monday. "In a way, it is a work related to the nation. It is not just the construction of Ram temple but it is going to give a new dimension to the country's culture and tradition," he said. Gowda was interacting with journalists here after attending a fund-raising event for the Ram temple organised by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Officers and Employees Welfare Association. He said the funds for temples were being mobilised from individuals instead of depending on governments because the Ram Janmabhoomi Teertha Kshetra believed that the temple construction should be done by ordinary devotees of Lord Ram. He hailed the BBMP association for organising the fundraising event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ram-temple-will-give-new-dimension-to-countrys-culture-says-d-v-sadananda-gowda-951462.html
15-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Own TV, fridge or bike in Karnataka? Surrender your BPL card or face action||The Karnataka government is all set to redefine its BPL criteria even as Food & Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti courted controversy with his statement that those who own a TV, fridge or a bike will not get subsidised ration.  On Saturday, Katti told reporters in Belagavi that households having a TV, fridge or bike will be removed from the BPL list, On Monday, Katti issued a statement saying he had not ordered any changes to the existing methodology in issuing BPL cards. “It has come to the notice of the government that there are a large number of households that illegally possess BPL cards in violation of existing criteria,” Katti said. “Such households should voluntarily return the BPL cards to the government before March 31, 2021. I have directed officials to take action against those who do not surrender (the cards) within the stipulated time.”  After the Food Security Act, 2013 came to force, ration cards were categorised as ‘priority’ and non-priority households, doing away with the earlier BPL and APL. There are about 1.15 crore priority ration cards, covering a population of nearly 4 crore in the state. In 2019-20, the government doled out Rs 3,755 crore as food subsidy. By weeding out ineligible and bogus ration cards, the fund-starved government hopes to cut expenditure.  As per the existing criteria, those employed in the government or any of its undertakings, taxpayers, those holding 3 hectares of dry or irrigated land in rural areas and owners of properties spread over 1,000 sqft or more in urban areas, those who own a vehicle for commercial use are considered ineligible to possess priority household ration cards.  But Katti’s reference to households that have a TV, bike and fridge is new as they do not figure in the existing criteria.  “It is imminent for the criteria to be revised. We want to tighten them and we are in the process of doing that,” Additional Chief Secretary (Food, Civil Supplies & Consumer Affairs) BH Anil Kumar told DH. “Whether those who own a TV or fridge can be considered as BPL is what we have to determine.”  Former Congress minister Ramalinga Reddy attacked the government. “You can get a TV for just Rs 2,000 these days. If the BPL cards are cancelled, where should the poor go? This is a clear example of the BJP’s anti-people policies. I urge the CM to maintain the status quo,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/own-tv-fridge-or-bike-in-karnataka-surrender-your-bpl-card-or-face-action-951495.html
15-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Quota should be based on economic status, says Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda||Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda on Monday suggested that caste-based reservation should end, making a case for quotas to be given on the economic backwardness of people. He was reacting to the ongoing movements by the Veerashaiva-Lingayats and Kurubas who are seeking a revision in their quota status. “Only those with economic backwardness should get reservation and we should move in that direction,” Gowda told reporters. “The Centre has introduced a 10% economically weaker section (EWS) quota. We’re taking this to a logical end.”  The Veerashaiva-Lingayats are rallying to get included under the national OBC list that will give them a share in the 27% reservation in central jobs and educational institutions. Also, the Panchamasali sub-sect is asking to be put under Category 2A of the state quota. In addition to that, the Kurubas are agitating to get ST status at the national level.  “I have said this in the past: the ongoing agitation for reservations will only cause harm to the society and administration,” Gowda said. “True, the Constitution came up with reservation based on the situation that existed back then. But times have changed and the world has become smaller. People have found their own ways to grow. The problem with caste-based quota is that the ones who are really eligible in terms of economic backwardness remain behind. So, the eligibility (for reservation) should not be based solely on caste, but the economic condition,” he explained.  Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan said the current demands put forth by communities should be scientific and justified. “Any revision of reservation should be taken up as per guidelines, irrespective of the caste which demands it,” he said. The government, he said, was trying to fulfill the demands through the Backward Classes Commission. “There are aspirations expressed by various communities over reservation. We can't question that.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/quota-should-be-based-on-economic-status-says-union-minister-d-v-sadananda-gowda-951570.html
15-02-2021||West||16 killed after truck overturns in Maharashtra's Jalgaon||At least 16 persons were killed after a truck overturned in Jalgaon district, near 450 km from Mumbai. The incident took place last night near Kingaon village in Yawal tehsil when a papaya-laden truck overturned trapping the labourers, according to reports. The labourers were from Abhoda, Kerhala and Raver in the district, police said on Monday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of labourers. "Heart-wrenching truck accident in Jalgaon, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest," he said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/16-killed-after-truck-overturns-in-maharashtras-jalgaon-951375.html
15-02-2021||West||First HIV-TB-Covid-19 hybrid conference to be held in Mumbai||The first-of-its-kind HIV-TB-Covid-19 hybrid conference would be held in Mumbai in March. Titled ‘AIDing ReCOVery: A Masterclass’, the first national HIV-TB-Covid-19 hybrid conference, would be part of the 13th edition of National Conference of AIDS Society of India which would be held from March 27-29, in Mumbai. “The past year has been an extraordinary year not just for our personal and professional lives, but also for the progress science could make in such a short span of time. While we all kept abreast with these numerous developments only via virtual platforms, most of the clinicians have now been fortunate to have been immunised to Covid-19. We, therefore, believe it is time to break the ice and come together for a physical event to consolidate our knowledge, share our experiences and deliberate on lessons learnt from all the pandemics,” said Dr Ishwar Gilada, President, AIDS Society of India. The ASICON secretariat has invited Union Health Minister Dr Harshvardhan to inaugurate the three-day conference while Dr VG Paul of Niti Aayog, Dr Soumya Swaminathan from WHO and Dr Randeep Guleria from AIIMS, Delhi are expected to be the keynote speakers. The National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO) and Central TB Division of Government of India are partnering the event. According to Dr Gilada, this will be the first-ever national HIV-TB-Covid-19 conference and also the first of its kind in the country where a medical meet will be organised in a hybrid fashion -- the conference will be physically held at Hotel ITC Grand Central in Mumbai and will be relayed live for those who prefer to attend it virtually. “Keeping in line with our understanding of infection control as well as government regulations, we will have only 150 vaccinated delegates attending physically with all Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” he said. For the past several ASICONs, deliberations on Tuberculosis, Hepatitis B and C and other sexually transmitted infections have become an integral part of the conference deliberations. This ASICON, along with expansion to Covid-19, we will also have a discussion on emerging pandemics and the future of medicine in optimising their management. With the common aim of strengthening all our efforts, MDACS and I-Tech will also be joining hands with the ASI along with NACO and the Central TB Division of Government of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/first-hiv-tb-covid-19-hybrid-conference-to-be-held-in-mumbai-951384.html
15-02-2021||West||Maharashtra: 2 injured in firing outside bar in Palghar||Two people have been injured in firing by some unidentified persons in Maharashtra's Palghar district, police said on Monday. The incident took place around 9.30 pm on Sunday when the assailants fired four rounds outside a bar in Nallasopara area, an official from Mira-Bhayander Vasai-Virar police control room said. Two people received injuries in the firing and they were admitted to a local hospital, he said. The assailants fled from the spot, the official said, without divulging any further details about the incident. Search is on for the accused and a case has been registered under relevant provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Arms Act, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-2-injured-in-firing-outside-bar-in-palghar-951393.html
15-02-2021||West||Former Supreme Court judge P B Sawant passes away||Eminent jurist Justice (retd) P B Sawant, a former Judge of the Bombay High Court and Supreme Court, passed away in his residence in Pune on Monday. He was 91. Justice Sawant is a former Chairman of the Press Council of India (PCI). He was associated with several public causes. Justice Sawant and Justice Kolse-Patil were the co-convenors of the 2017 Elgar Parishad that was held in Shaniwarwada in Pune. In 1973, he was appointed Judge of the Bombay High Court. Among his notable acts was an inquiry on the Air-India aircraft crash in June 1982. He was appointed justice in the Supreme Court in 1989. In 2002, he served with retired Justice Hosbet Suresh on an Indian People's Tribunal headed by Justice V R Krishna Iyer to investigate the 2002 Gujarat riots. “Justice Sawant was an ideal person. He excelled in every field as a judge, as an activist, as a social worker. The way he conducted his public life is an example before us,” said Justice BG Kolse-Patil, veteran activist, who had known Justice Sawant personally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-supreme-court-judge-p-b-sawant-passes-away-951404.html
15-02-2021||West||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani tests positive for Covid-19||A day after Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani fainted during a public speech while campaigning for local body polls in Vadodara, he tested positive for coronavirus on Monday. He is admitted to the city's UN Mehta Institute of Cardiology where his condition is said to be stable. Meanwhile, two more BJP leaders including Member of Parliament from Kutch Vinod Chavda tested positive for the novel coronavirus. A health bulletin issued by the hospital stated that Rupani has mild Covid-19 symptoms and his oxygen saturation was also normal. Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, who is also the health minister, said that Rupani's condition is stable and he has been isolated as per the Covid-19 protocol. He said that Rupani was brought to the hospital last night from Vadodara where he had fainted during a public event for a thorough check-up. "All reports have indicated that his condition is stable. We can say that he fainted due to fatigue."  On the question of tracing people who came in close contact with Rupani, he said they will be contacted. Meanwhile, BJP MP Vinod Chavda and party's state general secretary Bhikhu Dalsaniya have also tested positive for the virus. Party officials said that both the leaders are stable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-tests-positive-for-covid-19-951425.html
15-02-2021||West||All you need to know about the tussle between Maharashtra govt and Governor||The bitter tussle between the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi dispensation and Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari is not hidden from the public, with both directing jabs at each other openly. Koshyari was scheduled to travel by a state government aircraft to Dehradun and after boarding the plane, the governor was informed that permission to use the plane had not been received. The governor later took a commercial flight from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) to travel to the capital of his home state Uttarakhand. The Maharashtra government maintained that the Raj Bhavan secretariat had been informed a day earlier by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) that approval for use of the official aircraft has not been given. Here's all you need to know about the tussle The relationship between Thackeray and Koshiyari goes back to October 2019. When the results of the Vidhan Sabha elections came out, they reflected a fractured mandate and subsequently, the Governor recommended President’s rule. Thackeray with his newly-formed alliance had gone to the governor seeking more time to form the government in the statewhich the governor had refused. In November 2019, Uddhav Thackeray was sworn-in as the chief minister. During the coronavirus lockdown, the two locked horns again on th issue of reopening of temples in Maharashtra. Koshiyari, in a letter, questioned whether Uddhav had ‘turned secular’ and requested him to reopen places of worship in Maharashtra with Covid precautions. Uddhav Thackeray then slammed Koshiyari and said that his ‘Hindutva did not require any certificate’ from the Governor or anyone else. Recently, the MVA government decided to move court over the delay by the governor in appointing nominated members to the Legislative Council. The state government recommended 12 names for the Council in the first week of November last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/all-you-need-to-know-about-the-tussle-between-maharashtra-govt-and-governor-951444.html
15-02-2021||West||Covid-19 vaccination drive: Booster shot round begins in Gujarat||The drive to administer the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to those who have been covered in the first phase began across Gujarat on Monday. As per medical protocols, beneficiaries are supposed to take the second jab, also known as the booster shot, within four to six weeks of the first dose being administered, officials said. The vaccination drive began in the state along with the rest of the country on January 16 and, so far, 7.91 lakh persons have been administered the first dose, said MA Pandya, state director, National Health Mission. "Today, we started giving the second dose to those who were given the first shot 28 days ago," he said. Dr Mona Desai, the national chairperson of Indian Medical Association's women's wing, who was among those who got the booster shot on Monday, said people should not get overconfident and must continue to follow all Covid-19 norms like social distancing and masks. "I have received a second dose of the vaccine today. Antibodies start developing in the body only after taking this booster shot. Till that happens, each and everyone must wear a mask and maintain social distancing," said Desai. The vaccine is around "60 to 70 per cent effective" and if a beneficiary contracts coronavirus now, it is possible the may not develop symptoms but he can transmit the virus to others unknowingly, Desai added. For the first phase of the drive, the state government had identified 4.31 lakh health workers, 6.93 lakh frontline workers, 1.03 crore citizens above the age of 50. and 2.67 lakh citizens below 50 but with severe co-morbidities such as thalassemia (a blood disorder) and heart ailments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-vaccination-drive-booster-shot-round-begins-in-gujarat-951454.html
15-02-2021||West||Maharashtra plans to take 15k cr loan from ABD for road works: Chavan||Maharashtra PWD Minister Ashok Chavan on Monday said his government was planning to obtain loans to the tune of Rs 15,000 crore from the Asian Development Bank at a nominal rate to build roads and clear the work backlog in the state. Speaking to reporters here, Chavan said the backlog in road work had gone up and the funds required would be more than what the state budget has allocated. "The MVA government is planning to take a loan of Rs 15,000 crore from the Asian Development Bank at a nominal rate of interest ranging between 1 per cent and 1.5 per cent," he said. "The process of getting cabinet sanction for this loan application is underway. We are also planning to raise funds through asset monetization. Last year, fund allocation for road works was 30-40 per cent due to the coronavirus outbreak. This year, we will need more funds," Chavan added. He added that restrictions placed on the Shiv Jayanti celebrations, scheduled for February 19, were due to the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-plans-to-take-15k-cr-loan-from-abd-for-road-works-chavan-951463.html
15-02-2021||West||'Toolkit' case: Lawyer-activist Nikita Jacob moves Bombay High Court for anticipatory bail||Mumbai-based lawyer-activist Nikita Jacob has moved the Bombay High Court on Monday seeking anticipatory bail after a Delhi court issued a non-bailable warrant against her in the case involving 'toolkit' shared by climate campaigner Greta Thunberg in support of the farmer protests. Jacob, a practising lawyer for the last 6 years, is a resident of Goregaon in the western suburbs of Mumbai. Her plea seeking urgent hearing was mentioned before Justice P D Naik on Monday. The anticipatory bail application would be heard on Tuesday. She is represented by advocate Abhishek Yende. Describing the FIR as “false and baseless”, she sought transit anticipatory bail for a period of four weeks so that she can approach the court concerned in Delhi to apply for pre-arrest bail. In the application, she also sought directions to prevent the Vanrai police station directed by the Delhi Cyber police or any other police in the jurisdiction of Mumbai to arrest her or take coercive steps. She said in her plea she is unaware if she is named as an accused or witness in the case. "However, the applicant (Jacob) fears that she may be arrested due to political vendetta and media trial," her application said. "Non-bailable warrants have been issued against Nikita Jacob and Shantanu. The two are wanted in connection with the toolkit case. They are suspected to be involved in preparing the documents and were also in direct interaction with pro-Khalistani elements," a senior Delhi Police official said earlier in the morning. Greta Thunberg had shared the "toolkit" in early February to lend her support to the farmers' agitation against the Centre’s three new agri laws. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/toolkit-case-lawyer-activist-nikita-jacob-moves-bombay-high-court-for-anticipatory-bail-951512.html
15-02-2021||West||Social media star Pooja Chavan may died by suicide because of debt, claims father||In a new revelation vis-a-vis the death of social media star Pooja Chavan, her father Lahu Chavan claimed that she was in debt and disturbed. He also said her alleged death by suicide may have been a result of the situation. Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government reiterated that there would be a thorough probe – even as it came under opposition BJP’s fresh attack in the wake of senior Shiv Sena leader and state forest minister Sanjay Rahod having cropped up. “We have lost our daughter, she is not going to come back,” said Chavan, adding that the voice in an audio clip that has gone viral does not match with that of his daughter.  “We are not blaming anyone...but leave us alone, please do not give more pain to us by defaming her,” he said. Chavan also said that she had taken loan for rebuilding the house and poultry. “Last year was very bad for us because of Covid-19 pandemic and then Bird Flu,” he said in Parli, their hometown. According to him, Pooja had gone to Pune for an English speaking course.  “I told her not to take stress,” he said and broke down. Meanwhile, the state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh said that there would be a detailed investigation.  “There is no question of police being under pressure,” he said, refuting the charge of Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. Deshmukh’s statement on the probe came a couple of days after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a probe. “There is no basis on the allegation made by the opposition (BJP)...there would be a probe as per law,” said Deshmukh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/social-media-star-pooja-chavan-may-died-by-suicide-because-of-debt-claims-father-951520.html
15-02-2021||West||Sedition case: None of my tweets incited violence, Kangana to HC||Actor Kangana Ranaut on Monday told the Bombay High Court, through her lawyer, that none of her tweets had ever incited violence or caused any criminal acts, and sought quashing of the FIR registered against her for sedition by Mumbai Police. The HC will continue hearing the arguments on February 26 and the interim protection from arrest granted to Ranaut and her sister Rangoli will continue till then. Ranaut's counsel Rizwan Siddique told a bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale that the actor had not committed any wrong through her tweets. He said the magistrate's court in suburban Bandra had erred in allowing registration of a First Information Report (FIR) against Ranaut on charges including sedition. Siddique urged the High Court to quash the lower court's order as well as the FIR. "There is absolute non-application of mind in the (Bandra) court's order. Even the sections invoked against me do not constitute any offence. None of my tweets have invoked any reactions from the public. They will not attract a punishment as they were not followed by violence. What happened after the tweet? Was there any criminal act after my tweets?" Siddique told the HC on the behalf of Ranaut. The actor and her sister Rangoli had challenged the order of the magistrate's court to initiate criminal proceedings against them and the subsequent summons issued by the Mumbai Police. The FIR was registered against Ranaut and Rangoli in October last year on the directions of the magistrate's court after Munawwar Ali Sayyad, a casting director and fitness trainer, filed a complaint citing some tweets and statements made allegedly by Ranaut and her sister. In an affidavit filed in the HC earlier this month, Sayyad had said that among other things, Ranaut and Rangoli promoted "hatred and contempt, and incited disaffection towards the Maharashtra government," through their tweets. He said in the affidavit that the magistrate's court was, therefore, justified in directing the police to initiate proceedings and invoke the offence of sedition under Section 124A of the Indian Penal Code against them. In his complaint to the magistrate court, Sayyed had alleged that Ranaut, through her tweets and television interviews, had continuously defamed Hindi film industry by portraying Bollywood as a hub of nepotism, favouritism, drug addicts, communally-biased people and murderers, etc. He said Ranaut and Rangoli had also repeatedly promoted enmity between communities through their remarks. However, Ranaut's counsel Siddique on Monday denied these allegations. He told the HC that the Bandra court had failed to follow due procedure and didn't apply its mind in permitting the police to initiate action against Ranaut and her sister. Earlier last month, Sayyad had also filed an application seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against Ranaut for allegedly breaching a previous undertaking she had given to the HC. He said in his plea that on November 24, Ranaut had given an undertaking that she will not make statements pertaining to the Mumbai Police's investigation into the sedition case filed against her. However, on January 8, just before she went to the police station, Ranaut tweeted a video in which she spoke to her fans about the investigation, Sayyad had said. The HC is hearing Ranaut's plea against the Bandra court and Sayyad's contempt application together.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sedition-case-none-of-my-tweets-incited-violence-kangana-to-hc-951532.html
15-02-2021||West||Goa CM's praise of Sindhudurg's tourism potential sparks row||Chief Minister Pramod Sawant's recent praise of the tourism potential of Maharashtra's coastal border district of Sindhudurg has stirred controversy in Goa, with the opposition questioning his resolve and commitment to the state he rules. Days after Sawant's comments made at a fish festival in Sindhudurg district on Friday, went viral, Opposition parties in the coastal state have slammed Sawant for tapping the upcoming Mopa international airport in North Goa, located close to the Goa-Maharashtra border, for promotion of tourism in the neighbouring state. "It seems that the idea behind seizing of farmlands from Goan farmers and mass displacement of poor Goans for MOPA is to develop tourism in Sindhudurg!" former Deputy Chief Minister and Goa Forward party MLA Vijai Sardesai has said. On Friday, Sawant while addressing the event in Maharashtra had said, "Tourism will really blossom in Sindhudurg, especially when Mopa international airport is commissioned in August 2022. Goa will reap benefits, but so will Sindhudurg." In his controversial speech, the Chief Minister had also lauded the contribution made by the people of Sindhudurg district towards the liberation of Goa from Portuguese rule in 1961. Since becoming Chief Minister, Sawant has had to bear the brunt of an orchestrated Opposition campaign, which had questioned his Goan lineage and had questioned the purchase of large tracts of land in Maharashtra's Sindhudurg district. When the campaign was at its peak, Sawant in December last year was forced to clarify that he was born in Goa and was not of Maharashtrian origin. Sawant had also said that the purchase of land in Sindhudurg was legitimate, made through bank transactions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cms-praise-of-sindhudurgs-tourism-potential-sparks-row-951539.html
15-02-2021||West||PMLA case: Businessman-actor Sachin Joshi remanded in ED custody||A special court here on Monday remanded Sachin Joshi, actor-producer and part of the JM Joshi Group, in the custody of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) till February 18 in connection with a money laundering case. Joshi was arrested on Sunday for allegedly laundering Rs 100 crore along with another city-based firm Omkar Realtors. On Monday, Joshi was produced before a special court hearing Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) cases, which remanded him in ED custody till February 18. Omkar Group is accused of committing a fraud in connection with Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) scheme works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pmla-case-businessman-actor-sachin-joshi-remanded-in-ed-custody-951541.html
15-02-2021||West||Rising cases prompt Maharashtra to review Covid-19 situation||Rattled by last week’s spike in Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government will undertake a comprehensive review of the situation on Tuesday. There are chances that some restrictions could be imposed in the wake of the rising cases in parts of the state and also Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray would preside over the meeting in which Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Health Minister Rajesh Tope would be present. State’s Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who is under self-quarantine after contracting Covid-19, is expected to join via video conference. Speaking to reporters in Aurangabad, Pawar said, “There has been a sudden spurt in Coronavirus cases, the chief minister has convened a meeting...we may have to take some harsh measures for which people need to be ready.” On Sunday, 4,092 new cases and 40 deaths were reported taking the progressive total to 20,64,278 and 51,529, respectively. This is an increase from last Monday’s figures of 2,216 and 15, respectively. In Mumbai-MMR, the jump had not been exponential, but health experts said that since February 1, the local trains were open for the general public — though with restrictive timings — and there is crowding, chances cannot be taken. On the other hand, both the revenue divisions of Nagpur and Amravati in Vidarbha region have shown an increase — with the cases jumping by 500 per day. “The big thing that needs to be addressed is that people seem to be less careful nowadays. People need to follow the protocols of wearing masks and wearing it properly, sanitisation and physical distancing," said Dr Suhas Pingle, chairman, action committee, IMA-Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rising-cases-prompt-maharashtra-to-review-covid-19-situation-951565.html
15-02-2021||West||Night curfew in 4 Gujarat cities extended till Feb 28 to stem Covid-19 spread||The night curfew, currently in force in four major Gujarat cities, including Ahmedabad, to stem the COVID-19 spread, was on Monday extended till February 28, officials said. However, in a concession to people, the curfew from now on in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot will be in force between midnight and 6 am instead of the earlier 11pm to 6am, they added. This is the fourth extension of the night curfew which was first enforced in the end of November last year after a spurt in COVID-19 cases in these cities post-Diwali. As against average 1,500 cases per day in November and December, the current daily addition to the infection caseload is around 250 in the state, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/night-curfew-in-4-gujarat-cities-extended-till-feb-28-to-stem-covid-19-spread-951577.html
15-02-2021||West||Night curfew in Amravati as fresh Covid cases on rise||Alarmed by the growing number of coronavirus positive cases in Amravati district of Maharashtra since the beginning of February, the district administration has imposed a night curfew but ruled out the possibility of imposition of a fresh lockdown. District Collector Shailesh Naval told PTI on Monday that the rise in the cases can be attributed to more number of people coming forward for testing. Amravati district on Monday reported 449 fresh coronavirus positive cases, taking the count to 25,743. "The curfew is aimed at controlling crowding at public and market places. It does not mean closing down businesses or markets which will function as usual," the collector said. Naval said the call on functioning of schools in the district has to be taken by respective schools. "In some schools, teachers and students have tested positive for coronavirus. We leave this decision to managements of schools," he said. Responding to a query, Naval said there is no possibility of imposition of a lockdown again in the district. "The first lockdown was imposed because there were no facilities. Now, we are equipped with all facilities. There is no dearth of oxygen cylinders and ventilators at hospitals. So there is no chance of another lockdown," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/night-curfew-in-amravati-as-fresh-covid-cases-on-rise-951635.html
