16-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt conspiring to do away with PDS: MLA Khader||MLA U T Khader has criticised Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti’s statement on scrapping BPL cards of those owning a TV, refrigerator, and two-wheelers, and observed that government should increase benefits under the public distribution system (PDS). “If the government continues with its anti-people policies, then this government will not last long,” he told media persons here, on Monday. Khader, who had also served as Food and Civil Supplies Minister, said the government should withdraw its decision. “TV and refrigerator are essential commodities. How many houses do not own two-wheeler these days?” he asked. Luckily, the government has not declared that those owning a mobile phone will be excluded from the BPL list, he ridiculed. Khader said that there was no concept of APL and BPL. The same system has been renamed as priority households and non-priority households. The PDS system was introduced with the slogan ‘Garibi Hatao’ (eradicate poverty). But BJP has changed it to ‘Garibonko Hatao’, he said and added that the BJP-led governments in the state and Centre are conspiring to phase out the PDS. On one hand, the government had reduced the quantity of rice distributed through ration shops to five kgs from seven kgs per person per month, on the other hand, it is planning to give ragi or jowar along with the rice. The government is planning to give three kgs of jowar or ragi along with two-kg-rice to each beneficiary. The combination of jowar and rice will be distributed in 15 districts of North Karnataka while the combination of ragi and rice will be distributed in the remaining districts in South Karnataka, the MLA said. “Do people in the coastal belt consume ragi? Instead of ragi, the government should procure boiled rice and distribute it through the PDS in coastal districts,” he added. On the issue of Surathkal toll gate, he said that the MP and local MLA had failed miserably. The district administration also could not solve the row over city buses terminating its trip in front of the toll plaza at Talapady, thus forcing passengers to walk for 300 meters to reach Talapady main bus stand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-conspiring-to-do-away-with-pds-mla-khader-951763.html
16-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka schools for class 6 to 8 to reopen on February 22||Karnataka government on Tuesday decided to reopen schools across the state for students of class 6 to 8 on February 22. However, schools in Bengaluru Urban and Kerala borders will only be open for 8th standard students. The Department of Public Instructions announced this decision on Tuesday after holding a meeting with the state Covid-19 technical advisory committee. Considering that several nursing students who returned from Kerala have tested positive for Covid-19, the Department has decided not to open classes below 8 in both Bengaluru Urban and districts bordering Kerala. However, the Department will have another round of meeting with the technical advisory committee on February 24 or 25 to discuss reopening of schools for class 1 to 5. Speaking to reporters, State Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, "We will wait for the health department survey on the students returned from Kerala tested positive for Covid-19 before taking any decision further." However, it is compulsory for students returning from Kerala or bordering districts to submit Covid-19 negative report to attend schools. The attendance is not mandatory and students can opt for online or offline classes and must submit a consent letter from parents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-schools-for-class-6-to-8-to-reopen-on-february-22-951765.html
16-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Protests against Surathkal toll to be intensified||Members of Tollgate Virodhi Horata Samithi of Surathkal and Mulki Nagarika Abhivridhi Samithi have decided to intensify their protest against the toll plaza at Surathkal. The leaders, who had gathered at the toll plaza, spoke to the representatives of the contractor engaged in the toll collection. The toll plaza authorities informed the leaders that the lane where local vehicles and vehicles with passes crossed the plaza continued as a FASTag-free lane. However, if the vehicles entered other lanes, then a fee will be collected from them as per the FASTag rules. As local vehicles had been exempted, the leaders decided not to hold a protest against mandatory FASTag. But if the government decides to collect toll from local vehicles in the future, then a protest will be staged against toll collection, they warned. The representatives have decided to intensify their protest against the temporary toll gate at Surathkal. As part of the protest, the leaders have decided to hold mass dharna soon. The leaders agreed that MP Nalin Kumar Kateel's meeting with the union minister on removing the toll plaza at Surathkal would serve no purpose. Samithi Convener Muneer Katipalla said until recently, the contract for the toll collection was renewed once in three months. This time, the contract will be renewed next year. By failing to stall the renewal of the contract, the MP has done injustice to the people of the district, he added. The MP’s recent statement on holding a meeting with Union Minister Nithin Gadkari is an attempt to divert the attention of the people, he added. Mulki Abhivridhi Nagarika Samithi President Harish Puthran, former deputy mayor Purushotham Chitrapura and others were present at the gathering.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/protests-against-surathkal-toll-to-be-intensified-951766.html
16-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation to roll out eight insulated, cold storage trucks||To supply fresh fish from Mangaluru and Malpe fishing harbours to retail outlets and Karnataka Fisheries Development Corporation’s (KFDC) ‘Mastyadarshini’ canteens across the state, the Corporation will roll out 8 insulated and cold storage container trucks shortly. Four insulated and cold storage trucks will be of four-tonne capacity while the remaining four trucks will be of two-tonne capacity. “The government has given approval for the purchase of trucks at a cost of Rs 2 crore under Rashtriya Krishi Yojana,” KFDC Chairman Nithin Kumar told DH. "The tender process has been initiated. It may take at least two months to roll out the trucks," he added. “The KFDC used to supply fishes to its outlets in vehicles using crushed ice. With the insulated and cold storage trucks, fresh fish can be supplied to even far off places in Bengaluru, Tumakuru, Kolar, Shivamogga, Ballari, Tumakuru, Madikeri and Mysuru districts and also to other places. The insulated and cold storage trucks will ensure the quality of the fish supplied,” he stressed. The KFDC has been running Mathsyadarshinis (Hygienic fish restaurants) at Cubbon Park, Indiranagar, Kolar, Tumkur, Davangere, Ballari and other places. The canteens need fresh fish, sourced from the coastal districts of DK and Udupi. Fresh fish and canteen sales had increased in all retail outlets and canteens. In 2018-19, canteen and frozen fish sales had reached Rs 10.12 crore. “About 244 MT of fish and fishery products were marketed through the outlets during the year. In 2019-20, sales had reached Rs 11.68 crore,” according to sources. Kumar said that the insulated trucks will help in supplying quality and fresh fish. There are 23 air-conditioned outlets of the KFDC in Bengaluru. Now, 35 outlets are being planned across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-fisheries-development-corporation-to-roll-out-eight-insulated-cold-storage-trucks-951803.html
16-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Forest minister assures to resolve wild jumbo menace||As the state's economy is not in good shape, elephant corridor and forest expansion is not possible for the next two years. However, the efforts will continue once the situation improves, said Forest Minister Arvind Limbavali. Chairing a meeting organised by the Forest department in Sakleshpur on Tuesday, he said, "The forest cover has increased from 18% to 23% due to the efforts of the Forest department officials. The elected representatives and the public have explained about their local issues. Sincere efforts will be made to resolve the issues." "There are continuous efforts to resolve the wild jumbo menace. We will request the Union government for more funds and rail fence at lesser price. Due to mining and other projects, the elephants and other wild animals are forced to move from their places. The department will make scientific efforts to prevent the human-animal conflict. A meeting with the MLAs concerned has been convened on February 25. A proposal would be submitted to the Union government after getting their opinions," the Minister said. The Forest department would be strengthened with the appointment of additional employees. The rail fencing works should be completed on priority and the elephants will be translocated. There are also plans to capture the rogue elephants and shifted to camps. Several mutts have requested seeking permission to rear elephants, he said. Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) Vijay Kumar Gogi, Chief Conservator of Forest (Hassan) P Shankar, Deputy Conservator of Forest Basavaraj, Deputy Commisioner R Girish, SP R Srinivas Gowda were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forest-minister-assures-to-resolve-wild-jumbo-menace-951997.html
16-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Clash between locals, toll plaza staff over FASTag issue||Local people picked up a quarrel, with the staff of the toll plaza at Kadkola on National Highway 766 in Mysuru on Tuesday, as there is no service road. Even as FASTag was made mandatory since Monday midnight, there is resistance from a section of motorists. NH 766, NH 275, NH 212, and NH 150A pass through Mysuru district. Earlier also, there was friction between the road users, mostly people from neighbouring villages and towns, and the staff of the toll plazas. With the implementation of FASTag, the toll chart is removed. As the toll plaza staff started collecting double the toll, from those who did not have FASTag, the local people resisted. People said that at the toll plaza at Yadadore in T Narsipur taluk, double the toll was collected from Monday itself, for vehicles not having FASTag. A few banks had deputed their staff near the toll plazas, to issue FASTag on the spot. People opposed the collection of toll, as the highways are not even four lane ones. Transit pass is issued to people residing within a distance of 20 km from the toll plaza. Farmer leader Vidyasagar said, "The collection of toll is not justified in many places. Most of the highways do not have service roads. There are no amenities like drinking water, washroom or rest room in toll plazas. Still they collect a toll."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/clash-between-locals-toll-plaza-staff-over-fastag-issue-951998.html
16-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Nonagenarian stages protest seeking khata change||A 97-year-old woman, Jayalakhshmamma, staged a protest, seeking khata in her name for the land sanctioned by the government around 30 years ago, in Srirangapatna, Mandya district, on Tuesday. Supported by her family members, she staged the protest for half a day, in front of the Town Municipal Council (TMC) office, seeking justice. Nagarika Hitharakshana Samiti president K Chandan explained that the government sanctioned 18X35 ft dimension site, behind the Police Quarters in Ward No 7, to Jayalakshmamma, 30 years ago. As there was information that the khata of the said land was given to another person, she had applied to the TMC, seeking a probe, two months ago. But, the officials have not taken any steps in this regard, he complained. TMC vice-president S Prakash assured that there was no dispute over the land and Jayalakshmamma can construct a house and the TMC administration is with her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nonagenarian-stages-protest-seeking-khata-change-951999.html
16-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Rail roko' protest tomorrow||Farmer leader Kurubur Shanthakumar said, extending solidarity to the farmers, who are protesting against the amendments to the Farm Acts in Delhi, 'rail roko' protest will be staged across the state on February 18, from 12 noon to 3 pm. Addressing media persons here, on Tuesday, Shanthakumar alleged that the Union government is trying to control the farmers' protest by disconnecting power, water and internet facilities, with the support of the Police department. Hence, the farmers have decided 'rail roko' protest across the country. Supporting this, the trains will be stopped at the railway stations in Karnataka, under 'Raitha Dalitha Karmika Aikya Horata," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rail-roko-protest-tomorrow-952000.html
16-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Minister gives green signal for Ugadi, Shivaratri Jatras at MM Hill||District In-charge Minister S Suresh Kumar gave a green signal for conducting jatras at Male Mahadeshwara Hill and other temples in the district. He directed the officials to make necessary preparations in this regard. Chairing a meeting of the officials, to discuss about the temple fairs and festivals in the district, the minister directed the authorities concerned to make necessary arrangements at MM Hill, in view of Mahashivaratri Jatra Mahotsava from March 10 to 14, and Ugadi Jatra celebrated from April 9 to 13, with rathotsava on the last day. Suresh Kumar insisted that all basic amenities are in place, besides maintaining cleanliness and hygiene. Additional workers should be deployed during the festivals, to keep the premises clean as thousands of devotees are expected to attend the festivals. There should not be a shortage of water for drinking and also in toilets, he said. MLA R Narendra directed Male Mahadeshwara Hils Temple Development Authority to make all necessary arrangements within the scheduled time for the convenience of the devotees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-gives-green-signal-for-ugadi-shivaratri-jatras-at-mm-hill-952001.html
16-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Melkote gears up for Rathasaptami||Special pujas and rituals are organised as part of Rathasapthami celebrations at Sri Cheluvanarayana Swamy temple, Melkote, Mandya district. The idol would be taken out in a procession on gold-plated Suryamandala chariot in the morning. An inter-state folk festival ‘Janapada Kalaradhane’ will be held on the day. Nagaraja Iyengar Samkrutika Vedike is conducting the folk festival since three decades. Besides folk troupes from across Karnataka, artistes from Tamil Nadu and Kerala are participating. Chendemela, Padeyani and Kathakali from Kerala, Karagattam, Oyilattam, Puliattam from Tamil Nadu, will be the main attractions during the festival. Folk artistes from several districts in Karnataka will present, Maragalu kunitha, hulivesha, keelukudure and other folk art forms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/melkote-gears-up-for-rathasaptami-952002.html
16-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Adiwasis seek Tribal University at Kallabetta forest region||The tribal community people want educational empowerment and demand the state government to establish a Tribal University. Ahead of the state budget, tribal community people have urged Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to concentrate on their community for overall development. Tribal community leaders have submitted a memorandum to the CM, demanding Rs 5,500 crore for their overall development. The community leaders have asked the government to develop a Tribal University at Kallabetta forest region in Hunsur taluk. The community leaders have demanded Rs 400 crore for academic activities of the community people. "As many as 116 Ashrama Schools in the state need to be upgraded and the responsibility of these institutions must be handed over to the Education department. Ashram schools are being maintained under the Backward Classes Welfare Department, in view of providing primary education to Backward Class students. The ashram schools are providing education, meals and lodging for children studying in grades 1 to 4," the said. S Sreekanth, director of Development through Education (DEED), an NGO working on tribal rights and education in Hunsur, said, "We have approached Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwara to fulfil our demands. He has assured of taking a delegation to the CM."  A community leader said, “We have demanded a Tribal University in order to offer higher education to Tribal people. The varsity will definitely encourage the community people to pursue higher education." He said, "Hundreds of youths in the community are deprived of higher education, due to certain reasons. A separate university for them, at their place, will definitely increase literacy rate among the community people." The community leaders have put forth 12 demands and have urged for Rs 5,500 crore in the budget. The leaders have demanded Birsa Munda Community halls at 16 haadis of Hunsur taluk. They have urged the government to earmark Rs 50 lakh to each haadi. The tribals have demanded the CM to create a new district, out of Hunsur sub-division, comprising six taluks and urged to earmark Rs 1,000 crore for the purpose. The community people also demanded the CM to earmark Rs 1,000 crore for the construction of 20,000 houses at a cost of Rs 5 lakh each. In addition, the people of the community demanded establishment of Karnataka Adiwasi Development Board for their overall development. They have urged to reserve Rs 20 crore for the board. The CM should be its chairman, the leaders suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/adiwasis-seek-tribal-university-at-kallabetta-forest-region-952003.html
16-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Medical treatment miles away in Kodagu district||Fifty-six-year-old Jyothi Shankar had gone to Cherangala village in Kodagu on some work. He soon developed chest pain and was taken to the government hospital in Bhagamandala, 7 km away. There ECG was done and he was shifted to a hospital in Madikeri, 36 km away. The ECG report was sent to Dr Padmanabh Kamath, professor and HoD Cardiology Department, KMC Hospital in Mangaluru. Shankar was diagnosed to have had a massive heart attack. The doctors in Madikeri stabilised him and he was shifted to Mangaluru, 150 km away, where he had to immediately undergo angioplasty. In case of any medical emergency, people in Kodagu need to go to hospitals either in Mysuru or Mangaluru as there is no super specialist or any medical institution that is capable of handling all the complications in case of an emergency in the entire district. ICU beds too are few in numbers. The population of the district is around six lakhs, whereas the number of tourists visiting this hill station, from across the country as well as abroad, is multiple times this number – it was 17 lakhs in 2018 and 18 lakhs in 2019. While tourism is promoted, the district isn’t prepared to meet medical emergencies of the tourists too. Even the ECG machine set up by Cardiology At Doorstep (CAD) initiative and the ambulance service – basic healthcare facilities – are relatively new at the government hospital in Bhagamandala.  “The first one hour after a heart attack is called the Golden Hour. Ideally a patient ought to reach a medical centre within this golden hour for restoration of cardiac blood flow to heart. This will in turn translate to early recovery and preservation of heart muscle function,” says Dr Kamath. However, Dr Kamath rues that on an average there is a delay of 16 to 17 hours in patients reaching hospitals following a heart attack. “Lack of awareness, delay in diagnosis, unavailability of technology and machines, dearth of skilled doctors, lack of ambulance facilities, poor infrastructure and telemedicine facilities are the hurdles to timely medical intervention,” Dr Kamath says. According to Dr Kamath, in many cases a heart attack is wrongly assumed to be a gastric problem but a simple ECG test can diagnose a heart attack and help save lives. Why does the district renowned for its scenery, coffee and spices, lag in terms of medical facilities? There are two main reasons, doctors feel. “One, as the district is sparsely populated, it is neither economically viable nor practical to have a super speciality hospital. Two, few doctors prefer to work in rural settings, as there is no professional or academic growth here,” says Dr Amrit Nanaiah, Managing Director, Lopamudra Medical Centre, Gonicoppa. Low population density translates to few patients, as a result there is lower returns on investment. This discourages private bodies from investing in medical centres in the district.On the other hand, the government hospitals are less equipped to meet the needs of all the patients. “The current focus should be on streamlining the primary care, increasing the number of paramedics and improving the ambulance service,” says Dr Amrit Nanaiah. Parallelly, people need to be made aware of the importance of early diagnosis and medical intervention, along with the facilities and schemes they can avail. The effectiveness of training medical staff in technology and telemedicine was highlighted in Jyothi Shankar’s case. His ECG test was done by Dr Shalini Ponnamma, an ayurvedic doctor and he was stabilised by Dr (Maj) Kushvanth Kolibailu, a paediatrician in coordination with Dr Kamath who was in Mangaluru. However, there are some improvements in the medical facilities in the recent years. The district’s first medical college  – Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences, Madikeri – was established in 2016. “There is also a proposal to upgrade the college and introduce post-graduation as well,” says Dr Chethan M U, Surgeon at Government Hospital, Kushalnagar. Doctors also feel that it is high time, that efforts be taken up at community level too. People of the district need to come together, pool in money and create a fund to cater to the healthcare facilities. “There are renowned super specialists from Kodagu. Though it may not be prudent for them to practice in the district, a model can be created to offer their services on rotating basis,” says Dr Amrit Nanaiah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/medical-treatment-miles-away-in-kodagu-district-952030.html
16-02-2021||Karnataka Politics||Rahul asks Karnataka leaders to fight unit against BJP, Siddaramaiah drops Ahinda rallies||Days after former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah showed inclination to hold Ahinda rallies across the state, Congress leader  Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday asked state leaders to put united fight against BJP and not to hold any separate public meetings. Siddaramaiah should be part of the Congress  collective leadership and all leaders should unitedly prepare for 2023 Assembly polls, Rahul advised the state Congress leaders, sources said. Siddaramaiah met Rahul Gandhi here along with other state leaders including Zamir Ahmed Khan, Ivan Desouza, Prakash Ratod and  Ashok Pattan here. The State Leaders also met senior Congress leader A K Antony. Sources said in the meeting, Rahul advised the state leaders to expose the BJP ruling misdeeds both at Centre and State, and hold mass rallies across the state. All leaders should participate in these rallies without giving scope for differences, Rahul learnt to have said. However, Siddaramaiah refused disclose details of meeting with Rahul. "We discussed party issues and state political development," he told reporters after the meeting  without elaborating much However, before meeting with Rahul, Leader of Opposition said he had no plan to hold separate public rallies under Ahinda banner. Instead he will attend public meetings organised by party, he said. Earlier, Siddaramaiahh had a plan to revive the Ahinda (Kannada acronym for minorities, backward classes and Dalits) movement, which catapulted him into a leader of the backward classes in 2005. However, Congress leaders including Pradesh Congress president D K Shivakumar expressed unhappiness against any plan to revive. Many Congress leaders said holding any such rallies would harm Congress prospects. Many also in the view that Siddaramaiah is trying to hold supermacy in the party by organising Ahinda rallies. To avoid division in the state unit, the party top brass asked Kuruba leader to put on hold separate meetings instead he should participate meeting organised by the party, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/rahul-asks-karnataka-leaders-to-fight-unit-against-bjp-siddaramaiah-drops-ahinda-rallies-951988.html
16-02-2021||Mysuru||Youth held for alleged sexual assault on dog||As a video of a youth sexually assaulting a dog, went viral on the social media, VV Puram Police, in Mysuru arrested him on Monday, following a complaint by People for Animals.The alleged accused is a 19-year-old, a resident of MCC Colony, Gokulam 2nd Stage. On the basis of a complaint filed by K B Harish of PFA, the Police personnel traced the accused with the help of a video clipping and arrested him. Police have filed a case under Section 1860 (U/s 377 - unnatural offences) and Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, against the accused. Police said the incident took place on the night of February 11 near Ganapathi Temple Road in Gokulam 3rd Stage. A passerby has recorded the incident on his mobile phone and circulated it among his contacts. Even as the accused is being inquired, the dog is subject to medical tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/youth-held-for-alleged-sexual-assault-on-dog-951832.html
16-02-2021||National||Indo-Pak wars' veteran retired Major General BK Mahapatra dies||Major General (retired) Basant Kumar Mahapatra, who had participated in 1962, 1965 and 1971 wars, died at a hospital here on Monday, family sources said. He was 87. Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and Union Minister Dharmendra Pradhan condoled the death of the army veteran. "Odisha mourns the sad demise of its illustrious son, Major General (Retd) Basant Kumar Mahapatra. The war veteran participated in many major battles the country has fought. He will always be remembered for his bravery, contribution to education & philanthropic activities. #RIP," Patnaik said on Twitter. Mahapatra's body was taken to his residence at Chandinichowk in Cuttack, the family sources said. Mohapatra was conferred with the Ati Vishisht Seva Medal (AVSM). After the retirement from the service, he was associated with Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Centre for Communication and Management (BCCM) here, four DAV Public Schools in Cuttack and Tangi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indo-pak-wars-veteran-retired-major-general-bk-mahapatra-dies-951662.html
16-02-2021||National||Disha asked Greta Thunberg to delete tweet on 'toolkit' fearing action under UAPA: Delhi Police||After Greta Thunberg shared the "toolkit" on Twitter, climate activist Disha Ravi made the request to delete her post fearing registration of a case against her under the stringent the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), police claimed. Police claimed that Thunberg allegedly deleted the tweet following Disha's request and later, shared an edited version of the document. They also claimed that the edits were made by 22-year-old Disha. Police sources said Disha wrote to Thunberg on WhatsApp, saying, "Okay can you not tweet the toolkit at all. Can we just not say anything at all for a while. I am gonna talk to lawyers. I am sorry but our names are on it and we can literally get UAPA against us." Disha allegedly made the request fearing registration of case under the stringent the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), police claimed. Thunberg, a teen climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend her support to the farmers' agitation against the three farm laws. In the document, various urgent actions, including creating a "Twitter storm" and protesting outside Indian embassies, were listed which were needed to be taken to support the farmers' protest. A senior police officer said that while examining the WhatsApp chats between Thunberg and Disha Ravi, it came to notice that Disha had requested Greta Thunberg to delete the tweet as the "toolkit" had her name in the document. While responding to queries relating to toolkit document during a press conference at the Delhi Police headquarters, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy said that it is not a static document. "It's a dynamic document which has a large number of hyperlinks, which are links to various Google drives, Google docs and websites. One of the important website present here is askindiawhy.com. This website has lot of Pro-Khalistani content. So this document in itself has an action plan," Roy said. The DCP said that in first instance, the document was not to be shared in the public and was private, but it was accidentally shared "So this was a document to be shared to a limited number of people, who would then influence public opinion. Having global icons to follow this, this toolkit was made to propagate pro-Khalistan propaganda" he also said. Earlier in the day, police said that Disha Ravi along with Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu created the "toolkit" related to the farmers' agitation and shared it with others to tarnish India's image, the Delhi Police said on Monday. The police claimed that Disha, who was arrested on Saturday from Bengaluru, sent the "toolkit" to teen climate activist Thunberg through the Telegram app, and also "coaxed her to act on it". The data was also deleted, police said, adding that Disha's Telegram account shows many links related to the "toolkit" were removed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disha-asked-greta-thunberg-to-delete-tweet-on-toolkit-fearing-action-under-uapa-delhi-police-951663.html
16-02-2021||National||200 Indian origin persons occupy leadership positions in 15 countries, 60 hold Cabinet ranks||More than 200 Indian origin persons occupy leadership positions in as many as 15 countries including the United States and the United Kingdom. Of these, 60 hold Cabinet ranks, according to the first of its kind released by a US-based organisation working among the Indian diaspora. Drawing from government websites and other publicly available resources, the 2021 Indiaspora Government Leaders List on Monday recognised more than 200 leaders of Indian heritage who have ascended to the highest echelons of public service in 15 countries across the globe, with more than 60 of these leaders holding Cabinet positions. "It is a huge source of pride to have the first woman and first person of colour as the Vice President of the world's oldest democracy be someone of Indian heritage. We wanted to use this seminal moment on Presidents’ Day to highlight a host of others in the diaspora who also are in public service," said Indiaspora founder MR Rangaswami, a Silicon Valley-based entrepreneur and investor. "These leaders are building a legacy for future generations, and one that extends beyond our community to all of the constituents and communities that they serve," he said in a statement. The list also includes diplomats, legislators, heads of central banks and senior civil servants from countries with significant histories of diaspora migration, such as Australia, Canada, Singapore, South Africa, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, and the United States. "It is an honour to be included on the 2021 Indiaspora Government Leaders List. As the longest-serving Indian-American Member of Congress, I am proud to be a leader in the Indian American community, which has become an integral part of American life and society,” said Congressman Ami Bera, Chairman of the US House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Asia. With more than 32 million people of Indian origin or (PIOs) globally, according to India’s Ministry of External Affairs, Indians are the largest diaspora population in the world. The officials on the 2021 Indiaspora Government Leaders List collectively represent more than 587 million constituents, and their countries account for an estimated USD 28 trillion in GDP, demonstrating the impact that these leaders are having globally, Indiaspora said in a statement. "It truly is inspiring to note the remarkable contribution that government leaders of Indian heritage have made to advance the societies that they now represent," said Rosy Akbar, Fiji’s Minister of Education, Heritage, and Arts. "For a sizable segment of the population, it is government policy addressing social injustices that lead to a transformative path of sustainable socio-economic progress." The list includes immigrants from India, as well as professionals born in countries such as Singapore, South Africa, England, Canada and the US. "As a proud Indo-Canadian, it is an honour to be included in the 2021 Indiaspora Government Leaders List alongside an accomplished and diverse group of leaders from the India diaspora,” said Senator Ratna Omidvar. "I am eternally proud of my Indian heritage but also being Canadian. Canada has given me its protection and its opportunities, and in return, I am committed to making it a better place so that it continues to be a land of protection and opportunity for future Canadians,” he said. While some of the officials are part of their country’s first wave of immigration, arriving as refugees or for economic opportunities, others serving in their governments are part of subsequent waves of diaspora, who came for educational opportunities, or are of subsequent generations, Indiaspora said. "It is inspiring to see the number of Indian diaspora who are entering the public arena," said Indiaspora Board Member Arun Kumar, chairman and CEO at KPMG India, who served as Assistant Secretary of Commerce in the Obama administration. "Having had the opportunity to serve, I can speak to what a memorable and fulfilling experience it was. Above all, it was a meaningful way to give back. My hope is that this cohort of leaders will set an example for even more of the Indian diaspora to aspire to public service,” Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/200-indian-origin-persons-occupy-leadership-positions-in-15-countries-60-hold-cabinet-ranks-951665.html
16-02-2021||National||Inflation on rise but sugarcane rates stagnant; UP govt owes Rs 12,000 crore to farmers: Rakesh Tikait||Prices of fuel and fertilizers have gone up but the procurement rate of sugarcane in Uttar Pradesh has remained stagnant for the last four years, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait said on Monday, claiming farmers' cane dues worth Rs 12,000 crore are pending in the state. The Bharatiya Kisan Union spokesperson, who has been leading the protests against the Centre's three new farm laws at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border since November, asserted that the ongoing agitation is also in support of farmers of western UP who are not getting due rates of their sugarcane produce. Thousands of farmers from Punjab, Haryana, UP, Rajasthan and other places are camping at Delhi's border points of Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri since November demanding that the Centre rescind the three contentious laws enacted in September and make a new one guaranteeing them Minimum Support Price (MSP). “The Sugarcane Institute in Shahjahanpur had decided a rate of Rs 287 per quintal for sugarcane in 2019-20 and then put it at Rs 297 for 2020-21 but the farmers are not getting even these rates. The government is not implementing the rates suggested by the institute also,” Tikait was quoted as saying in a BKU statement. “Sugarcane farmers' dues worth Rs 12,000 crore are pending today. But the farmers are not getting due rates and then whatever rate they get, the payment on that also remains pending,” the 51-year-old Tikait said. He also hit out at UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, wondering if the BJP leader was “even weaker” than his predecessors Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati that he “can't even match what these two did for farmers”, according to the statement. Tikait said over the years, prices of petrol and diesel, LPG cylinders, school education and fertilizers have gone up but the price of sugarcane has remained as it is. “A sack of manure weighed 50 kg earlier, but now its weight has been reduced to 45 kg. That is how the government has inflated the prices of manure,” he said. “Sugarcane farmers have been impacted seriously. Wedding of children pushes them into taking loans and it seems the government, instead of clearing the pending dues of farmers, is showing more interest in shelling out loans to them,” he alleged. He also questioned the government's intent on the issue of implementing recommendations of the Swaminathan Committee report on farmers' issues. Tikait said the ongoing movement against central laws and demand for a new law on MSP does not belong to a section of farmers but all farmers in the country. “This movement seeks the welfare of sugarcane farmers of Uttar Pradesh as much as it seeks the welfare of cotton farmers in Maharashtra. We are holding meetings across states to gather support for farmers,” he said. The government, which has held 11 rounds of formal talks with the protestors, maintains the laws are pro-farmer. The impasse continues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inflation-on-rise-but-sugarcane-rates-stagnant-up-govt-owes-rs-12000-crore-to-farmers-rakesh-tikait-951666.html
16-02-2021||National||2002 Godhra train coach fire: Key accused held after 19 years in Gujarat||Almost 19 years after a mob torched a coach of Sabarmati Express at Godhra station in Panchmahal district of Gujarat which caused the death of 59 'karsevaks', police has nabbed key accused, Rafiq Hussain Bhatuk, from Godhra town, an officer said on Monday. Bhatuk (51) was part of the "core group" of the accused persons involved in the entire conspiracy. He has been on the run for the last 19 years, said Panchmahal Superintendent of Police Leena Patil. Based on a specific tip-off, a team of Godhra police raided a house in Signal Falia area located near the railway station on Sunday night and picked up Bhatuk, Patil told PTI. "Bhatuk was part of the core group of the accused who had hatched the entire conspiracy, incited mob and even arranged petrol to torch the train compartment. He fled to Delhi immediately after his name cropped up during investigation. He was facing murder and rioting charges among others," Patil said. A total of 59 'karsevaks' were killed in the Godhra train burning incident on February 27, 2002, triggering the worst communal riots in the history of Gujarat. The SP said Bhatuk used to work as a labourer at Godhra railway station. "He was involved in pelting stones on the compartment and pouring petrol inside before it was set on fire by other accused," she added. An FIR on torching of the coach allegedly by a mob from Signal Falia area located near the railway station had been registered with the Godhra Railway Police, said Patil. "After fleeing Godhra following the incident, Bhatuk spent most of his time in Delhi where he worked on railway stations and also at construction sites as a labourer. He also sold household items on a handcart," the SP said. As part of his strategy to evade arrest, Bhatuk shifted his family from Sultan Falia, where he used to live before the Godhra incident, to Signal Falia recently, said Patil. "We recently learnt that he had changed his house and visited his family in the past too. However, we couldn't catch him as he used to leave after a day or two. This time, our teams managed to catch him. We will hand him over to Godhra railway police for further investigation," said Patil. She said at least three accused--Salim Ibrahim Badam aka Salim Panwala, Shaukat Charkha and Abdulmajid Yousuf Mitha--still remain at large in this case. It is believed that the trio had fled to Pakistan, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2002-godhra-train-coach-fire-key-accused-held-after-19-years-in-gujarat-951678.html
16-02-2021||National||Toolkit case: After Disha Ravi's arrest, Delhi Police look for Mumbai lawyer, Pune engineer||A Mumbai lawyer and a Beed engineer joined arrested climate activist Disha Ravi in creating a protest toolkit backing the farmers’ agitation with the aim of “tarnishing the image of India” and collaborated with pro-Khalistani elements, Delhi Police officials said on Monday. Non-bailable warrants have been issued against lawyer Nikita Jacob and engineer Shantanu Muluk, who are absconding. On January 11, 15 days ahead of the Republic Day violence in the national capital, the two attended a Zoom meeting organised by pro-Khalistani group Poetic Justice Foundation, said Joint Commissioner of Police (Cyber) Prem Nath. The meeting decided the modalities to create the toolkit titled "Global Farmer Strike" and "Global Day of Action, 26 January", Nath said at a press conference. As the case added layers, polarising views on social media and outside, officials said they are also probing an ISI element through a man called Peter Friedrich whose name is on the document and who is known to be associated with an operative of the organisation. Ravi, Jacob and Muluk created the toolkit and sent it to others, officials alleged as a fierce political debate broke out between the opposition and the ruling BJP over the action against 21-year-old Ravi in the case related to the “toolkit Google doc”, which came to light when it was shared by global climate campaigner Greta Thunberg. According to Nath, the email account created by Shantanu is the “owner” of the Google document and PFJ founder Mo Dhaliwal had contacted them through a Canada-based woman called Punit. "Disha, Shantanu and Nikita created and edited the toolkit. Disha sent the toolkit to Greta Thunberg through Telegram. Disha deleted a Whatsapp group which she created to spread the toolkit. Due procedure was followed when Disha was arrested," Nath said. "The toolkit was aimed at tarnishing the image of India," he added and described the toolkit as a dynamic document with hyperlinks to Google docs, “a lot of which are 'pro-Khalistani". The police claimed that Ravi “coaxed” teen activist Thunberg to act on it. Ravi was arrested from Bengaluru on Saturday and sent to police remand for five days by a Delhi court on Sunday with officials claiming she was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and "key conspirator" in its formulation and dissemination. A day later, Delhi Police officials said they were conducting raids in several places, including Mumbai, Bengaluru and Beed, to nab Jacob and Muluk. Both moved the Bombay High Court seeking transit anticipatory bail. Their pleas will be heard on Tuesday. While Jacob's plea was filed in Mumbai, Muluk submitted his application in the Aurangabad bench of the High Court. Both the pleas sought transit anticipatory bail for four weeks so the applicants could approach the concerned court in Delhi to apply for pre-arrest bail. Their pleas claim they are targets of political vendetta. During a search of Jacob’s house on February 11, two laptops and an iPhone were found along with several "incriminating documents", police said. Elaborating on the ISI -- Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence – element, officials said Friedrich has been on the radar since 2006 when he was noticed in the company of Bhajan Singh Bhinder alias Iqbal Chaudhary, a “leading proponent of the K2 desk of ISI”. "Why his name is there on the document… will be answered by Disha and her associates. Did they contact Friedrich through Mo Dhaliwal or directly contacted him is a matter of investigation," a senior official said. Thunberg had shared the "toolkit" in early February to lend her support to the farmers' agitation against the Centre’s three new agri laws. The document listed a series of actions, including creating a Twitter storm and protesting outside Indian embassies, to be taken to support the farmers' protest. The toolkit has been cited by some critics as "proof" of a conspiracy to fuel protests in India. Earlier this month, the Cyber Cell had lodged an FIR against "pro-Khalistan" creators of the "toolkit" for waging a "social, cultural and economic war against the Government of India". The case has been registered on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and other sections of the Indian Penal Code. While many in the BJP defended Delhi Police, several opposition leaders accused the government of "murdering democracy" by using force against a 21-year-old and called for her release. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi led the opposition offensive following Ravi’s arrest and said the country will not be silenced. "Your lips are free to speak. Say that the truth is still alive. They are scared, not the country," he said in a tweet in Hindi. His party colleague Jairam Ramesh said, "Delhi Police on the rampage. After Disha Ravi, it is now the turn of another young woman, Nikita Jacob. More will no doubt follow...." West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was equally scathing. "Arresting anybody who is protesting against government policies is not unacceptable. The BJP should first take action against its own IT Cell members who are spreading fake news. Why two sets of rules?" she said at a press conference in Kolkata. Her Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal described Ravi’s arrest as an “unprecedented attack on democracy” and said supporting farmers is not a crime. The Samukuta Kisan Morcha, which is spearheading the farmers’ protests, also condemned the arrest and demanded her immediate release Defending the action, Union minister and BJP leader Gajendra Singh Shekhawat tweeted: "If age is the criteria then Param Veer Chakra Second Lt Arun Khetarpal, martyred at 21 is who I am proud of. Not some toolkit propagandists." His party colleague B L Santhosh asked whether "21-year-old...environment activist...student...” are credentials for becoming a part of “breaking India forces”. As the debate got more polarised, BJP's IT cell in-charge Amit Malviya brought in Delhi’s JNU and Jamia Miliia Islamia into the debate. "The Left has been using young impressionable minds as cannon fodder for their deranged politics for a long time. From JNU to Jamia, AMU to Nadwa and now Disha Ravi, are all part of their sinister plot...Unfortunately they are abandoned soon after they have served their purpose." Delhi Police had earlier asked Google and other social media giants to provide information about e-mail id, URLs and social media accounts related to the creators of the "toolkit" shared by Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers' protest. This was following the clashes on January 26 during the farmers’ tractor parade on January 26 in the national capital. Over 500 police security personnel were injured while one protestors died during the Republic Day violence. Pop star Rihanna started the global chorus of support for India’s farmers. "Why aren’t we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest," she had tweeted, linking a CNN news article on the internet shutdown around New Delhi as protesters clashed with the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-after-disha-ravis-arrest-delhi-police-look-for-mumbai-lawyer-pune-engineer-951691.html
16-02-2021||National||Hike in airfare limits: Puri says ATF prices risen by 3 times since May 2020||Aviation turbine fuel price has risen by three times since resumption of scheduled domestic flights on May 25, said Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Monday, explaining the Centre's decision to raise lower and upper limits on domestic airfares by 10 to 30 per cent. While announcing resumption of scheduled domestic flights in May last year, the Aviation ministry had placed limits on airfares through seven bands classified on the basis of flight duration. The first band consists of flights that are of less than 40 minutes duration. On Thursday, for this band, the lower limit was increased on from Rs 2,000 to Rs 2,200 and the upper limit was increased from Rs 6,000 and Rs 7,800. Puri said on Twitter on Monday, "When domestic flights resumed after lockdown price fare bands applicable only on economy fares were introduced to inspire public confidence and to ensure no inconvenience was caused to public." "Since then, price of crude oil has risen from $ 30 to $ 60 per barrel. Prices of Aviation turbine fuel have gone up from Rs 17,000 per kilolitre to Rs 51,000 per kilolitre. However, fare levels have been raised by 10 per cent at lower band and 30 per cent at higher band. Due to higher supply, most travel takes place at lower band." As an example Delhi-Mumbai fare at lower band has gone up from Rs 3,500 to Rs 3,900, he said. "It is still comparable to 2nd class AC fares on Railways. In 2010, Delhi-Mumbai airfare was in the range of Rs 4,000. So, fares have remained unchanged for more than a decade," the minister noted. The other fare bands are for flights with durations of 40-60 minutes, 60-90 minutes, 90-120 minutes, 120-150 minutes, 150-180 minutes and 180-210 minutes. The fresh lower and upper limits set by the ministry for these bands on Thursday were: Rs 2,800 - Rs 9,800; Rs 3,300 – Rs 11,700; Rs 3,900 – Rs 13,000; Rs 5,000 – Rs 16,900; Rs 6,100 – Rs 20,400; Rs 7,200 – Rs 24,200, respectively. Before Thursday, the lower and upper limits for these bands were: Rs 2,500 - Rs 7,500; Rs 3,000 - Rs 9,000; Rs 3,500 - Rs 10,000; Rs 4,500 - Rs 13,000; Rs 5,500 - Rs 15,700 and Rs 6,500 - Rs 18,600, respectively. Aviation regulator DGCA had said on May 21 last year that each airline would sell at least 40 per cent of its tickets on a flight at prices less than the midpoint between the lower limit and upper limit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hike-in-airfare-limits-puri-says-atf-prices-risen-by-3-times-since-may-2020-951692.html
16-02-2021||National||TRP scam: Ex-BARC CEO directly involved, HC told||Former Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) CEO Partho Dasgupta rigged the "entire" TRP system for news channels and also discussed issues of national security with "a certain owner cum news anchor" on Whatsapp, the Mumbai Police told the Bombay High Court on Monday. Special public prosecutor Shishir Hiray told a single-judge bench presided over by Justice PD Naik that Dasgupta was directly involved in manipulating Television Rating Points (TRPs) with the help of other accused persons. Hiray, who was opposing Dasgupta's bail plea in the HC, said the crime branch of the Mumbai police had accessed, among other things, Dasgupta's WhatsApp chats with a "certain owner and anchor of a TV channel" where in he discussed manipulating the TRPs. Hiray said the two also discussed issues concerning national security. "They tried to manipulate the entire system of TRPs. There are chats regarding the security of the nation," Hiray said. The purported chats between Dasgupta and Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami, who is also an accused in the TRP scam case, on the 2019 Pulwama attack are a part of the chargesheet filed by the police in the case. Justice Naik asked if any offence had been registered with regard to the Wahtsapp chat regarding the Pulwama attack, to which Hiray replied in negative. Dasgupta's counsel, senior lawyer Abad Ponda, told the HC that the WhatsApp chats were merely "loose talks". "Regarding Whatsapp chats, I will only say it is loose talks. Those are not admissible and need corroborative evidence," Ponda said. He said Dasgupta's co-accused in the case were out on bail and that the Maharashtra government had made a statement before the HC earlier this month saying it will not take any coercive action against Arnab Goswami or any other employees of ARG Outlier media, which runs Republic TV channels. "I am not saying to arrest them. But then the whole group under Republic TV is protected and I am behind bars," Ponda told the HC on behalf of Dasgupta. He also said that the chargesheet had already been filed in the case and Dasgupta's custodial interrogation was not required any more, and therefore, he be granted bail. Objecting to the bail plea, Hiray said the statement made by Maharashtra government counsel Kapil Sibal, protecting the ARG employees, had been made with "reluctance". Hiray said the TRP scam happened at three levels. "The barometers for measurement were installed by BARC and Hansa. The viewers were paid monthly for watching their channels. The inevitable conclusion is that the information was leaked from BARC," he said. Justice Naik then asked if Dasgupta was the one who had leaked the information, to which Hiray said that seemed to be "the inevitable conclusion". "There is a full involvement (of Dasgupta). For a few crores he (Dasgupta) allowed the TRPs to be manipulated," he said. Hiray further said the other accused who were granted bail in the case were not as "powerful' as Dasgupta is. The HC will continue hearing the arguments on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trp-scam-ex-barc-ceo-directly-involved-hc-told-951706.html
16-02-2021||National||PM Modi to inaugurate key Tamil Nadu projects on Feb 17||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate key projects of the oil and gas sector in Tamil Nadu on February 17 via video conferencing. His office said Modi will dedicate to the nation the Ramanathapuram–Thoothukudi natural gas pipeline and gasoline desulphurisation unit at Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited, Manali. He will also lay the foundation stone of Cauvery Basin Refinery at Nagapattinam. These projects will result in substantial socio-economic benefits and will boost the country's march towards Urja Aatmanirbharta, the PMO said. The Ramanathapuram-Thoothukudi section (143 km) of the Ennore-Thiruvallur- Bengaluru- Puducherry- Nagapattinam- Madurai-Tuticorin Natural Gas Pipeline has been laid at the cost of about Rs 700 crore. It will help utilise gas from ONGC gas fields and deliver natural gas as feedstock to industries and other commercial customers. The gasoline desulphurisation unit at Chennai Petroleum Corporation Limited (CPCL), Manali has been constructed at the cost of about Rs. 500 crore. It will produce low-sulphur (less than 8 ppm) environment-friendly gasoline, help reduce emission and contribute towards a cleaner environment, the PMO said. The Cauvery basin refinery to be set up at Nagapattinam will have a capacity of 9 million metric tonnes per annum. It will be set up through a Joint Venture of IOCL and CPCL at an estimated project cost of Rs. 31,500 crore. It will produce motor spirit and diesel meeting BS-VI specifications, and polypropylene as a value-added product, the PMO noted. Tamil Nadu is among the five states going to the assembly polls in April-May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-key-tamil-nadu-projects-on-feb-17-951707.html
16-02-2021||National||ITBP saved 12 lives, justified its existence at Joshimath, says ITBP Deputy Inspector General Aparna Kumar||Aparna Kumar, Deputy Inspector General of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), who hails from Shivamogga, Karnataka is the rare mountaineer who has scaled the tallest peaks on all seven continents of the world. But perhaps her finest moment came when she led at the rescue operations at Tapovan and Raini, where the glacial floods in the Rishiganga destroyed two hydel power plants and washed away more than 200 people. “The area around the dam was beautiful, it’s completely vanished,” she tells DH’s Sagar Kulkarni.  What is the status of the rescue operations? We are recovering bodies even from the tunnel and Raini village. We have progressed beyond 150 metres in taking out muck (from the tunnel). We had a smaller drilling machine earlier; now we are using a bigger one and we are moving inside the tunnel gradually. Does ITBP have a dedicated rescue team? Yes, we are the first responders to any such incident in the mountain regions. NDRF personnel had to be air-dropped. We are present right here in Joshimath. We have regional rescue centres in Gauchar and in Uttarkashi. In case of a disaster, we can reach in minutes. We do not have to take anyone’s permission to reach. No one has to tell us. It is our duty and responsibility to reach wherever disasters occur. What were the key challenges that you faced? The ITBP is the first responder in the Himalayan region as per the National Disaster Management Act. When the battalion stationed at Joshimath heard the sound (of the glacial flood), they were alert. When they saw smoke and dust in the valley, they immediately got dressed up, gathered the equipment required for rescue operations and reached Raini village immediately. A second-team had reached the NTPC site at Tapovan. The team at Raini village had reported that everything there had been submerged. The buildings that were there, the dam, the bridge – everything was destroyed. I had travelled on that bridge several times to reach my border outposts (BOP). It was a traumatic experience. The area around the dam was beautiful, it has now vanished completely. We then called that team back to Tapovan as there were chances of finding survivors here. The rescuers, with help from onlookers, reached the silt flushing tunnel, which was blocked by a huge boulder. They broke the boulder using whatever implements they had at hand, removed the slush with their bare hands. We did not have any machines at that time. There was chaos everywhere and there was no way we could search for a machine. As mountaineers, we keep equipment such as carabiners, ropes, spade, axes. The rescuers cleared the debris with the spades, used axes to remove other obstructions and rescued 12 people using ropes. That was one of the most miraculous rescues they had done. This was the quickest response. It was only a miracle that we could rescue those people. After that, we focused the rescue efforts on the tunnel where more than 30 people were trapped. We would have considered ourselves successful even if we could pull out one person alive from there. We were a bit unfortunate on that front. But I was really impressed with the quick response of the ITBP as first responders. In Raini, the bridge had been washed away. Apart from the 13 villages that were washed away, I have 10 BOPs in Niti Valley, in Rimkhim and in Lapthal valley. These BOPs were cut off. I activated them and set up a control centre at Laata village and distributed relief material that was airdropped to all the villages at the higher altitudes. The men are really working very hard despite being cut off. We do winter dumping for the BOPs. They have dry rations that can last for about three to four months. We have also asked the BOPs to provide dry rations to people who are going hungry. There is no supply of fresh vegetables as of now, but my BOPs can survive for two-three months with the dry rations they have, till the bridges are constructed. Villagers may have a problem if the district administration does not send rations and supplies. There were multiple agencies involved in the rescue efforts – Army, NDRF, SDRF, in addition to local administration. Was coordination a challenge? Coordination is not a challenge. The NDRF came in later, ITBP has battalions in Joshimath and Gauchar. For me, organising personnel for rescue work is not a big deal. In a matter of hours, personnel from Gauchar can reach Tapovan. In a matter of minutes, personnel from Joshimath could reach the site. Beyond Raini village a dam had been cut off. ITBP has a company in Malari, so mobilising them was not difficult. SDRF, NDRF, Army everyone responded. In such situations, you all the personnel. There was chaos immediately after the disaster, but things were streamlined very soon and each one was performing their identified task. What ITBP did was exceptional. By saving 12 lives, they justified their existence at Joshimath. They responded quickly to the situation, and I hope they continue to do it in the future as well. You also had to walk along riverbanks to look for survivors. Initially, 2-3 teams were in Raini, some were in Malari, which was cut off. They had launched relief operations there. At the tunnel in Tapovan, everyone was there round-the-clock. Our Director General had directed us to look for survivors along the riverbed, those who had been washed away. We had our teams looking for survivors with binoculars. What steps are being taken to re-connect the region which has lost connectivity? The SDRF personnel had set up a zipline that can accommodate a two-seat trolley that can go across with food and other supplies. Building the bridge will take at least one month. An iron bridge using frames is being built and a concrete bridge will come up later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/itbp-saved-12-lives-justified-its-existence-at-joshimath-says-itbp-deputy-inspector-general-aparna-kumar-951657.html
16-02-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices hiked for the 8th straight day: Check fuel rates||Fuel prices soared to record highs on Tuesday as petrol and diesel prices were hiked for the eighth consecutive day.  In Delhi, the petrol price was increased by 30 paise to Rs 89.29 per litre, while the diesel became dearer by 35 paise at Rs 79.70 per litre.  The petrol price in Mumbai is nearing the Rs 96 per litre mark. In the financial capital, the petrol price stood at Rs 95.75 per litre, while diesel cost Rs Rs 86.72 per litre.  In Bengaluru, petrol is priced at Rs 92.82 per litre, and diesel at Rs 84.49 per litre.  The relentless hike in prices has been criticised by the opposition parties including Congress that has demanded an immediate cut in taxes to ease the burden on the common man. A six-hour bandh called by the party in Odisha affected normal life on Monday. Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan last week had told Parliament that the government is not considering a reduction in excise duty to cool rates from their record highs. Central and state taxes make up for over 61 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and about 56 per cent of diesel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-for-the-8th-straight-day-check-fuel-rates-951712.html
16-02-2021||National||DH Toon: Delhi Police arrest activist in 'toolkit' case||Delhi police cited a controversial toolkit on the ongoing farmers' protest to arrest young climate change activist Disha Ravi from Bengaluru on February 14. The toolkit first came into prominence after Swedish climate change activist Greta Thunberg tweeted a link to it on February 3 but subsequently deleted it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-delhi-police-arrest-activist-in-toolkit-case-951716.html
16-02-2021||National||Tamil family of 4 win court battle to stay in Australia||A Tamil family won another victory in an Australian court on Tuesday in their battle to avoid deportation to Sri Lanka. Sri Lankan-born Priya and Nades Murugappan and their Australian-born daughters Kopika, 5, and Tharunicaa, 3, have been held in a remote immigration detention center on Christmas Island since August 2019 after an urgent court injunction prevented their deportation. Three judges sitting on the full bench of the Federal Court on Tuesday rejected an appeal by the Australian government against an earlier judge's ruling that the younger daughter had been denied procedural fairness when she made a protection visa application that would have allowed her to remain in Australia. The government's final avenue of appeal is the High Court, and a hearing is not guaranteed. The parents arrived in Australia separately in people-smuggling boats in 2012 and 2013 and married in Australia in 2014. They sought refugee visas on the basis that they face persecution in Sri Lanka. The family lived in the Outback town of Biloela until Australian authorities placed them in immigration detention in Melbourne in March 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-family-of-4-win-court-battle-to-stay-in-australia-951731.html
16-02-2021||National||Milk and music: Villages support protesting farmers||Blasting catchy pro-farmer songs from a speaker, an electric-blue tractor rattled down an Indian village road collecting pails of milk -- just some of the donations sustaining massive protest camps outside New Delhi. More than two months after the first farmers set up camps on the capital's borders, tens of thousands more have joined them, calling for the repeal of new agriculture laws. The farmers, who have slept outdoors through the winter cold, are being supported by an army of small villages in the northern states neighbouring Delhi. "This campaign, this farmer movement, isn't theirs -- those who are sitting there -- alone," Sumit Arya, the 35-year-old head of Makrauli Khurd, a village about two hours' drive from the main protest sites, told AFP. "The movement belongs to all of us, the rural villagers." Makrauli, home to 4,000 people, is a hive of activity every morning with men and women bringing vegetables and wood to collection points. On Tuesdays, villagers carry small metal buckets full of milk freshly squeezed from their cows to the back of trailers, where men like Ajit Singh gently pour them into larger cans. "We can't give our time there but we can take care of their food and water needs and whatever they need in winter," the 58-year-old farmer told AFP as he sat on a bed of hay in a trolley. Around him, villagers raised their fists and chanted "zindabad" ("long live"), in reply to someone yelling "kisan ekta" ("farmers united") -- a rallying cry often heard at the protests. The government says the agriculture sector needs to be modernised. But farmers fear the deregulation will place them at the mercy of big corporations. Farming has long been a political minefield in India, with nearly 70 per cent of the 1.3-billion-strong population drawing their livelihood from agriculture. The protests -- which turned deadly in late January when a tractor rally in Delhi turned into a rampage -- have become one of the biggest challenges to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government since it came to power in 2014. Since the start of the sit-in protests in late November, a support network has sprung up to care for the sprawling camps. Tractors pulling trolleys laden with wood, rice, flour, sugar and vegetables leave villages like Makrauli on daily or weekly rotations for the camps. They are joined by farmers and their families eager to spend the day or several nights at the sites. "We strike up friendships... Two or three tractors keep going from our village to keep their spirits up," Ajay Punia, 18, told AFP on a trailer en route to Delhi from Makrauli with 11 others aged 14 to 65. The villagers played songs of resistance, like green and yellow farmer union flags and the Indian tricolour fluttered from the tractor. Moments later, two trolleys carrying about 30 people -- mostly women -- from another village passed by and the two groups pumped their fists into the air and chanted slogans. Beside the highway, people waved their support. By the time the villagers pulled up at a big protest camp at the Tikri border with Delhi, energy levels were high. The trolley stopped at a community kitchen run by Makrauli and several nearby villages, and the boys and men climbed out and sat in a straight line on a mat. They were served freshly made roti with pea-and-potato curry and a cup of fresh milk -- brought from Makrauli earlier in the day by another tractor. "Without this brotherhood, nothing works. Even in our village, different castes are a part of it," Arya said. "People are getting increasingly pulled towards this (protest)... And whatever its length, we are not backing out."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/milk-and-music-villages-support-protesting-farmers-951739.html
16-02-2021||National||Covid-19: New cases fall below 10,000 for fourth time in February||The daily new infections fell below 10,000 for the fourth time this month taking India's tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,09,25,710, while fresh fatalities remained below 100 for the tenth time this month, according to Union health ministry data updated on Tuesday. A total of 9,121 new cases were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,55,813 with 81 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,33, 025 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.32 per cent, while the Covid-19 case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,36,872 active coronavirus infections in the country which comprise 1.25 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 20,73,32,298 samples were tested till February 15 with 6,15,664 samples being tested on Monday. The 81 new fatalities include 23 from Maharashtra, 13 from Kerala and 10 from Punjab. A total of 1,55,813 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,552 from Maharashtra followed by 12,425 from Tamil Nadu, 12,267 from Karnataka, 10,893 from Delhi, 10,233 from West Bengal, 8,704 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,163 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-new-cases-fall-below-10000-for-fourth-time-in-february-951744.html
16-02-2021||National||How Greta Thunberg's 'toolkit' tweet set India abuzz||The arrest, the latest in a series of broader crackdowns on activists, has triggered anger and disbelief among Opposition politicians, student groups and lawyers, who say the government is using its law enforcement agencies to increasingly stifle dissent, in line with a broader deterioration of free speech in India. Ravi’s arrest, they said, has raised the crackdown to a new level. But how did it all start? Here's how the events unravelled after Greta Thunberg’s 'toolkit' tweet: To begin with, for months, thousands of farmers, from the agricultural heartland state of Punjab, have been camping out on the outskirts of New Delhi, protesting a slate of new laws that they feel will dismantle a subsidy system that has for decades protected them from the vagaries of the free market. The protests had been largely peaceful. However, on Republic Day, as Modi watched a military parade in central Delhi, farmers streamed into the city, removing barricades using tractors during a rally. Clashes with police left dozens injured. One farmer was killed when his tractor flipped over. Greta’s tweet The Republic Day protests by farmers and their clash with the Delhi Police garnered a social media storm with international personalities like Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeting about it. However, Greta Thunberg’s tweet was the one that was under the spotlight because she shared a link to the “toolkit,” which Indian authorities say was proof the young Swedish activist is part of an international conspiracy against India. She subsequently deleted the tweet, saying it was outdated, and tweeted another one. The document that she deleted contained various urgent actions, including creating a "Twitter storm" and protesting outside Indian embassies, which were required to be taken to support the farmers' protest. How did the government react? Reactions from the Foreign Ministry, Opposition started pouring in following her tweet. The ruling party and its supporters claimed Thunberg had unwittingly exposed the "conspiracy" to defame India. The government also drummed up support from celebrities from the sports and Bollywood industry, who slammed the comments made on India's "internal matter", which 'dented' the country's sovereignty. The hashtags "#IndiaTogether" and "#IndiaAgainstPropaganda" were also used in the tweets posted by Indian celebrities like Sachin Tendulkar and Suniel Shetty. Soon after that, Delhi Police registered a case to probe "international conspiracy" to defame India and promote enmity among groups following the farmers' protest and cited tweets by teen climate campaigner Greta Thunberg in the FIR. Centre’s rift with Twitter The government and Twitter were at loggerheads after the government asked the social media site to remove over 1,400 accounts for spreading “misinformation” and “provocative” content on farmers’ agitation. According to the government, these accounts were handled by Khalistanis and pro-Pakistanis and used to provoke protesting farmers. The government had first asked Twitter to remove some 250 tweets. At first, Twitter blocked them, but then later unblocked them, citing free speech. But after the government’s warning to Twitter, it blocked 1,400 accounts out of 1,435 accounts related to farmers' protest, which the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology asked to block. Delhi Police seek details of 'toolkit' After the ‘toolkit’ started gaining more attention, the Delhi Police asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about email IDs, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of a "toolkit” shared by teen climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers’ protest. The police said that the original document would help the investigators in identifying the creators of the "toolkit" and the person who has shared it. The document in question was created, edited and pushed by certain people and it is important to identify them since there is an “element of conspiracy”, a police officer said. Initial investigation suggested the document's link with a pro-Khalistan group, named ''Poetic Justice Foundation''. Arrests made in ‘toolkit’ case On Sunday, Ravi was the first person to be arrested in the ‘toolkit’ case. The police claimed that she sent the ‘toolkit to teen climate activist Thunberg through the Telegram app, and also "coaxed her to act on it". Police claimed that Thunberg deleted the tweet following Disha's request and later, shared an edited version of the document. They also claimed that the edits were made by 22-year-old Disha. Police claimed that Disha wrote this to Thunberg on WhatsApp: "Okay can you not tweet the toolkit at all. Can we just not say anything at all for a while. I am gonna talk to lawyers. I am sorry but our names are on it and we can literally get UAPA against us." Apart from Disha, non-bailable warrants have been issued against lawyer Nikita Jacob and engineer Shantanu Muluk, who are absconding. Opposition term Disha Ravi’s arrest as ‘illegal’ Delhi Police on Monday came under criticism for the "illegal" arrest of Disha Ravi in the toolkit case, with lawyers and activist groups claiming that investigators and the Duty Magistrate violated norms and procedures. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi led the Opposition offensive following Ravi’s arrest and said the country will not be silenced. Among other political leaders, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also came out in public against Disha's arrest, saying it was an "unprecedented attack on democracy". “Arrest of 21-year-old Disha Ravi is an unprecedented attack on Democracy. Supporting our farmers is not a crime,” Kejriwal tweeted. The CPI(M) Polit Bureau described Disha's arrest as an "atrocious action which deserves to be condemned in the strongest terms". Disha is charged with sedition and criminal conspiracy on the absurd grounds that she had forwarded a “toolkit” in support of the farmers' protest, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-greta-thunbergs-toolkit-tweet-set-india-abuzz-951755.html
16-02-2021||National||PM Modi condoles death of former governor Rama Jois, says he was towering intellectual||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday condoled the death of former Bihar and Jharkhand governor M Rama Jois, describing him as a towering intellectual and jurist who was admired for his rich intellect and contributions towards making India's democratic fabric stronger.    The former Rajya Sabha MP and legal luminary died on Tuesday after prolonged illness, family sources said. He was 88.   Jois, who had also served as the chief justice of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, was suffering from age related ailments. "Justice (Retd.) M. Rama Jois was a towering intellectual and jurist. He was admired for his rich intellect and contributions towards making India's democratic fabric stronger. Saddened by his demise. My thoughts are with his family and admirers in this sad hour. Om Shanti," Modi tweeted. Justice (Retd.) M. Rama Jois was a towering intellectual and jurist. He was admired for his rich intellect and contributions towards making India’s democratic fabric stronger. Saddened by his demise. My thoughts are with his family and admirers in this sad hour. Om Shanti.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-condoles-death-of-former-governor-rama-jois-says-he-was-towering-intellectual-951800.html
16-02-2021||National||SC refuses to consider plea against conferring LoP post to Congress in Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to consider a plea alleging that the Congress party, despite being in the ruling coalition, enjoyed the post of Leader of Opposition in Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian refused to pass any order on a petition by a BJP councillor, Prabhakar Tukaram Shinde. The court had earlier issued notice to the state government and the municipal body in the matter. According to the petitioner, there was an understanding of the BJP with Shiv Sena which subsequently has fizzled out. So, being the largest party in opposition, BJP must get back the constitutionally entitled post, he claimed. However, the Congress party occupied the post of Leader of Opposition. He sought a direction to recognise him as Leader of Opposition after being appointed as group leader of the BJP, in the municipal body where Shiv Sena got 84 councillors, BJP 82, Indian National Congress 31, NCP 9, MNS 7, Samajwadi Party 6, AIMIM 2 and others 6. On April 17, 2019, BJP group leader Manoj Kotak was offered the post but he declined. Subsequently, he was elected as MLA from Mumbai North East constituency. In February 2020, a letter was addressed to the mayor for recognising Shinde as Leader of Opposition but he on March 5, 2020, declined it, saying Ravi Raja of the INC had already been conferred the post. The petitioner challenged the validity of the Bombay HC order of September 21, 2020, that dismissed his writ petition in the matter. "If the leader of a party in opposition having greatest numerical strength is at a given time unwilling to take up the position, the leader of the next largest party is appointed as Leader of Opposition only so that the position is not left vacant till such time as the leader of the party having greatest strength comes forward to accept the responsibilities of the office of the Leader of Opposition," his plea contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-refuses-to-consider-plea-against-conferring-lop-post-to-congress-in-municipal-corporation-of-greater-mumbai-951802.html
16-02-2021||National||NC leader booked under UAPA for 'hate speech' in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir police Tuesday booked Hilal Lone, son of senior National Conference (NC) leader and Member Parliament, Akbar Lone under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for delivering ‘hate speech’ in a public rally during DDC polls. Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said Hilal, also an NC leader, has been booked under Section 13 of the UAPA, besides Sections 505, 153-A and 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He was already under preventive detection at MLA hostel in Srinagar from December 25, following a speech which he delivered during the maiden J&K district development council (DDC) election campaign. Reports said junior Lone has been brought to the police station in Sumbal in north Kashmir’s Bandipora district from MLA hostel where he will be produced before a court. His father Akbar Lone represents north Kashmir’s Baramulla Parliament constituency in the Lok Sabha. Hilal Lone, who served as Additional Advocate General (AAG) during NC-Congress alliance in J&K from 2009-2014, was put in preventive detention on August 5, 2019, along with hundreds of other political workers, when the erstwhile state’s special status was revoked, and it was bifurcated into the union territories. He was subsequently booked under Public Safety Act (PSA) in February last year. However, he was released in June last year after remaining in custody for nearly 10 months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nc-leader-booked-under-uapa-for-hate-speech-in-jk-951804.html
16-02-2021||National||Toolkit case: Delhi Commission for Women issues notice to police over Disha Ravi's arrest||Amid criticism over the way Disha Ravi was arrested, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Tuesday asked Delhi Police to provide reasons for not producing the activist arrested in the toolkit case before a court in Bengaluru from where she was picked up and why she was not provided a lawyer of her choice. DCW's notice came even as Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava defended the activist's arrest, saying the action was taken as per law and it "does not differentiate between a 22-year-old or a 50-year-old" and it is "false when people say that there were lapses" in the arrest. Taking suo-moto cognizance of media reports, DCW Chairperson Swati Maliwal wrote to Delhi Police seeking a report by February 19 "considering the gravity of the matter". In her letter, Maliwal said activists were quoted in media reports that Disha was taken to Delhi from Bengaluru by police "with no disclosure of her whereabouts, not even to her parents". "It was also alleged in the media by some activists that she was taken to Delhi from Bengaluru without presenting her before a local court for transit remand. It has been further alleged in media reports that Disha Ravi was produced before the court in Delhi without a lawyer of her choice being present in the court," the letter said. Maliwal said it was a "serious matter" and quoted a Delhi High Court order of 2019, "endeavor should be made to obtain transit remand after producing the arrestee before the nearest Magistrate...unless exigencies of the situation warrant otherwise." She also quoted Article 22(1) of the Constitution which says that every person arrested has the right to be defended by a "legal practitioner of his choice". Against this background, Maliwal asked police to provide the Commission a copy of the FIR registered in the matter, reasons for allegedly not producing Disha before the local court for transit remand and reasons for allegedly not providing the lawyer of her choice to the girl when she was produced before the court in Delhi. Disha was picked up from Bengaluru on February 13 and brought to Delhi the same day. She was produced before a Duty Magistrate on Sunday, who sent her to five-day police custody, even as activists and lawyers accused police of violating guidelines by not procuring a transit remand from a Bengaluru court. They also claimed that Disha did not get a lawyer of her choice when she was produced before Duty Magistrate. She was instead produced before the Duty Magistrate in Delhi, who is “by no means the nearest magistrate as required by clause (2) of Article 22”, it said adding Delhi Police have failed to follow any of the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-delhi-commission-for-women-issues-notice-to-police-over-disha-ravis-arrest-951811.html
16-02-2021||National||Previous governments ignored deserving leaders: PM Modi in Uttar Pradesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asserted that his government was trying to rectify the "mistakes" of the previous governments which did not honour deserving warriors and leaders as he laid the foundation stone for a statue of warrior king Suheldev of Shravasti in Uttar Pradesh's Bahraich. He also unveiled programmes for the beautification of Shravasti, Chittora Lake and Bahraich through video conferencing. Speaking on the occasion, he accused previous governments of not honouring deserving leaders like Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and B R Ambedkar.         "It is unfortunate that deserving leaders were not given the place of pride they deserved," Modi said, adding his government was trying to rectify the mistakes of the past governments. The projects, which include construction of a 4.20-metre high equestrian statue of the warrior king Suheldev, will also focus on the development of various tourist amenities including a cafeteria, guest house and a children's park. Besides the projects, Modi inaugurated a medical college in Bahraich named after Suheldev.   He also lauded the efforts of the Uttar Pradesh government in tackling the coronavirus pandemic and leading the state on the path of development. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath attended the event. King Suheldev, an icon of the Rajbhar community, had defeated and killed the Ghaznavid general Ghazi Saiyyad Salar Masud in a battle on the banks of the Chittora lake in Bahraich in 1033.  After coming to power, the Modi government has taken concerted steps to popularise Suheldev. Before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the prime minister had released a postal stamp in the memory of Suheldev and flagged off a superfast train 'Suheldev Express' that runs tri-weekly between Ghazipur in Purvanchal (UP) and Anand Vihar in Delhi. Earlier, in February 2016, then BJP chief Amit Shah had unveiled a statue of Suheldev and also launched a book on him, in Bahraich district near the Indo-Nepal border, where the medieval king enjoys a legendary status.  During his tenure as UP chief minister, Rajnath Singh, the present Defence minister, had unveiled the statue of Suheldev at an important road crossing in Lucknow. Rajbhar community members, who consider Suheldev as their icon, constitute a significant percentage of the Purvanchal electorate and are regarded as the second politically dominant force to reckon with after the Yadavs in eastern Uttar Pradesh.           Since the Rajbhar vote bank is not intact, different parties try to woo them for electoral support from time to time, say political observers, pointing out that Tuesday's event was taking place when UP assembly polls were less than a year away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/previous-governments-ignored-deserving-leaders-pm-modi-in-uttar-pradesh-951815.html
16-02-2021||National||Delhi riots: Umar Khalid's judicial custody extended till March 1||A Delhi Court has further extended the judicial custody of Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam and others in UAPA case till March 1, 2021. Khalid was arrested in the communal violence case that had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law CAA supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-umar-khalids-judicial-custody-extended-till-march-1-951824.html
16-02-2021||National||Explainer | How will Indian companies benefit from the new mapping policy?||The Centre on Monday said that licences and and permissions would not be needed anymore to collect, store and share geospatial and topographical data of India. PM Modi said that the "deregulation" of the mapping and GIS sector will help India achieve its Atmanirbhar Bharat and $5-trillion economy goal. The move is expected to spur innovation. The new mapping policy will allow Indian firms to use high precision satellite imagery (horizontal accuracy of less than one metre) on Indian soil and territorial waters. “What is readily available globally does not need to be restricted in India and therefore geospatial data that used to be restricted will now be freely available in India,” the government's science and technology ministry said in a statement. One of the biggest advantages for companies and researchers is that they will no longer need to pass through red tape to collect, generate and publish geospatial and mapping data. However, foreign entities and organisations controlled by or owned by a foreign company can only licence this data from Indian companies. Google was not allowed to carry out street-view surveys, but Indian firms will be able to perform street-view surveys with some restrictions on sensitive installations. "India's farmers will also be benefited by leveraging the potential of geo-spatial and remote sensing data. Democratizing data will enable the rise of new technologies & platforms that will drive efficiencies in agriculture and allied sectors," tweeted PM Modi. A liberalised mapping policy would also allow for better mapping of assets, this would open up capital to those looking for loans with land assets as collateral. The government hopes that the policy would encourage Indian private companies in a big way to enter this arena, which is likely to be a Rs 1 lakh-crore sector spawning nearly 22 lakh jobs by 2030. The policy also permits private companies to obtain data generated by public funds – such as ISRO satellite images – for a price. A level-playing field would be provided to private companies, Sharma said. Sensitive information, however, would not be shown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explainer-how-will-indian-companies-benefit-from-the-new-mapping-policy-951825.html
16-02-2021||National||Farm reforms will benefit small, marginal farmers: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday asserted that the new farm reforms will benefit small and marginal farmers, and that farmers themselves have been exposing those spreading false information against agri laws. While laying the foundation stone for a statue of warrior king Suheldev in Uttar Pradesh's Bahraich district via video conferencing, he also said that his government was trying to rectify the "mistakes" of previous regimes that did not honour deserving warriors and leaders. Hitting out at the opposition, he said those who had made laws for bringing foreign companies are now creating fear in the name of national companies.         The farmers are themselves exposing those spreading false information regarding the farm laws, he said.   The new farm reforms will benefit small and marginal farmers and good experiences have come from Uttar Pradesh after the new laws, he said. The prime minister's remarks come amid the continuing stir by farmers on Delhi borders against the new three agri laws.       Modi, who unveiled through video conferencing various projects for beautification of Shravasti, Chittora Lake and Bahraich, said the contribution of Maharaja Suheldev has not been given due importance in history books but he lives in the hearts of the people. “Though Maharaja Suheldev's contribution was not given due recognition in history books, he has always been alive as a development-oriented ruler who worked with sensitivity through the 'lok gathas' (folklores) of Avadh, Terai and Purvanchal,” Modi said.  In his 30-minute speech, Modi accused previous governments of not honouring deserving leaders like Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel and B R Ambedkar. He said the history of Bharat is not just what has been written by those having the mentality of slavery. It is also imbibed in the common people through 'lok gathas'. As the country is entering the 75th year of its Independence, it is the time to remember their contribution, their sacrifice and take inspiration from them, he said.         “It is unfortunate that those who sacrificed their lives for saving Bharat and 'Bharatiyata' were not given their place that they deserved. Today's India is rectifying the injustice done in the name of writing history with those who created history. Ridding the country of the past mistakes,” the prime minister said. Giving examples, he asked if Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose, who was the first prime minister of Azad Hind government or his Azad Hind Fauj's contribution, was given due recognition. “Today from the Red Fort to Andaman Nicobar, we have strengthened his identity before the country and the world," he said.   He also referred to Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel, recalling his contribution in uniting smaller states in the country after Independence, and said what was done with him is known to even children of the country.  On Ambedkar, the Prime Minister said his contribution was also only looked through the political prism but now from India to England - all places connected with Ambedkar are being developed as “panch teerth.”       There are several others who had not been given due respect and recognition because of different reasons, he rued.  The projects unveiled by Modi in Bahraich include construction of a 4.20-metre high equestrian statue of the warrior king Suheldev. The projects will also focus on the development of various tourist amenities including a cafeteria, guest house and a children's park there. Besides the projects, Modi inaugurated a medical college in Bahraich named after Suheldev and lauded the efforts of the Uttar Pradesh government in successfully tackling the coronavirus challenge and leading the state rapidly on the path of development.           Uttar Pradesh Governor Anandiben Patel and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath attended the event.     King Suheldev, an icon of the Rajbhar community, had defeated and killed the Ghaznavid general Ghazi Saiyyad Salar Masud in a battle on the banks of the Chittora lake in Bahraich in 1033.         After coming to power, the Modi government has taken concerted steps to honour Suheldev.         Before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the prime minister had released a postal stamp in the memory of Suheldev and flagged off a superfast train 'Suheldev Express' that runs tri-weekly between Ghazipur in Purvanchal (UP) and Anand Vihar in Delhi.           Earlier, in February 2016, then BJP chief Amit Shah had unveiled a statue of Suheldev and also launched a book on him, in Bahraich district near the Indo-Nepal border, where the medieval king enjoys a legendary status.           During his tenure as UP chief minister, Rajnath Singh, the present Defence minister, had unveiled the statue of Suheldev at an important road crossing in Lucknow.  Rajbhar community members, who consider Suheldev as their icon, constitute a significant percentage of the Purvanchal electorate and are regarded as the second politically dominant force to reckon with after the Yadavs in eastern Uttar Pradesh.         Different parties have been trying to woo the Rajbhar community for electoral support from time to time, say political observers, pointing out that Tuesday's event was taking place when UP assembly polls were less than a year away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farm-reforms-will-benefit-small-marginal-farmers-pm-modi-951828.html
16-02-2021||National||SC asks Centre to spell out measures to regulate OTT platforms||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Centre to respond to a PIL for regulating content on OTT platforms such as Netflix and Amazon Prime by an autonomous body. "What are you doing, a legislation or what? File an affidavit on what do you propose to do," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde asked Additional Solicitor General K M Nataraj, representing the Centre, who said the issue was under deliberation. The court, however, said merely saying the government is considering or contemplating steps on the issue would not be sufficient.  The Centre's counsel submitted that the issue is under deliberation, and no steps have been finalised yet.  The court asked the Union government to file the affidavit detailing the steps. It tagged the matter with a similar pending special leave petition by NGO 'Justice for Rights Foundation'. On October 15, 2020, the court issued notice to the Centre on the plea for setting up an autonomous body or board to monitor and filter the "inappropriate and obscene" content, and regulate the videos on various online platforms for viewers in the country. The PIL was filed jointly by two advocates Shashank Shekhar Jha and Apurva Arhatia. The petitioners pointed out that currently, there is no law or autonomous body governing the digital content made available to the public at large without any filter or screening, resulting into abuse of artistic liberty. They claimed over 40 OTT (Over the Top) and video streaming platforms, providing paid, ad-inclusive, and free content, abused the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under the Constitution. None of the OTT/streaming platforms including Netflix, Amazon Prime, Zee5, and Hotstar have signed the self-regulation provided by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting since February 2020, the PIL said. "No censoring allows exploitation of creative liberty and pushes for more ideas to get incorporated which in turn allows writers, directors, and producers to experiment limitless due to which there has been more violence, sex scenes, obscene language and even characters smoking on screen - that would normally be cut or displayed alongside health warnings," said the PIL. The petitioners had informed the top court that due to no monitoring body, the language of the content has become more colloquial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-centre-to-spell-out-measures-to-regulate-ott-platforms-951849.html
16-02-2021||National||Bihar: Patna school principal gets death sentence for repeatedly raping 11-year-old student||A special court in Bihar has awarded death sentence to a private school principal for raping an 11-year-old girl, a student of Class V of the same school. The order was passed by Additional District Judge (ADJ) in Patna, Awadhesh Kumar, who also sentenced the principal Arvind Kumar’s associate Abhishek Kumar (29) life-term for his complicity in the crime. Besides, the court also slapped a fine of Rs 1 lakh and Rs 50,000 on the principal and the teacher (Abhishek) respectively. The incident came to light in November 2018 when the girl, after returning from school, started vomiting. When the victim’s mother took her to the doctor, she was informed that the minor girl was pregnant as she had been repeatedly raped by the school principal for six consecutive months. The teacher Abhishek Kumar was also involved in the incident as it was he, who made a video of the act and used to blackmail the minor. Shocked and traumatised, the victim’s mother lodged an FIR against the principal and the teacher at the woman’s police station in the State Capital under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. Eventually, the principal and the teacher were arrested. A DNA test was conducted in which it was confirmed that Arvind had sexually exploited her for months and made her pregnant. “Considering the nature of this case against the main accused Arvind Kumar, who has committed rape with the victim, I am unable to impose the sentence less than capital punishment,” the judge observed in his order on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-patna-school-principal-gets-death-sentence-for-repeatedly-raping-11-year-old-student-951864.html
16-02-2021||National||No new fatality in 17 states and UTs; no fresh Covid-19 case in 6 in 24 hrs||As many as 17 states and UTs have reported no Covid-19 death in the last 24 hours, while six of them have recorded no new case during the period, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. The recoveries have surged to  1,06,33,025 with 11,805 more patients having recuperated in a day, and  India's Recovery Rate of 97.32 percent is amongst the highest in the world, it said in its update of cases till 8 AM. The difference between the recovered and active cases has further increased to 1,04,96,153, the ministry underlined. "In another positive development, 31 states and UTs have reported a recovery rate of more than the national average. Daman and  Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli have a recovery rate of 99.88 percent," the ministry said. Seventeen states and UTs reported no death in 24 hours. These are Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Gujarat, Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Meghalaya, Ladakh, Manipur, Haryana, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Rajasthan, Nagaland, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Daman and Diu (D&D) and  Dadra and Nagar Haveli (D&N). "Also, six states and UTs have reported no new case in the last 24 hours. These are Sikkim, Meghalaya, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Nagaland, Tripura and D&D and D&N," the ministry stated. India's Covid-19 active cases dropped to 1.36 lakh and consist of just 1.25 percent of its total case tally. Till 8 AM on February 16, the cumulative number of healthcare (HCW) and frontline workers (FLW) vaccinated against Covid-19 in the country has surpassed 87 lakh. The COVID-19 vaccination drive was launched in India on January 16. As many as 87,20,822 beneficiaries have been vaccinated through 1,84,303 sessions, as per the provisional report till 8 AM. These include 61,07,120 HCWs (1st dose), 1,60,291 HCWs (2nd dose) and 24,53,411 FLWs (1st dose). Till day 31 of the vaccination drive (15th February 2021), a total of 4,35,527 beneficiaries were administered the vaccine. Out of which, 2,99,797 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 10,574 sessions for the first dose and 1,35,730 HCWs received the second dose of vaccine. A total of 9,121 new cases were recorded in 24 hours of which 80.54 percent of the new cases are from five states, the ministry said. Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases at 3,365. It is followed by Kerala with 2,884, while Tamil Nadu reported 455 new cases. The ministry said 81 deaths were recorded during the period, and five states account for 70.37 percent of them. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (23). Kerala follows with 13 deaths and Punjab has reported 10 new deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-new-fatality-in-17-states-and-uts-no-fresh-covid-19-case-in-6-in-24-hrs-951871.html
16-02-2021||National||4 detected with SA variant of Covid-19 in India, one with Brazil strain||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday said that four Covid-19 infections by the South African variants of the SARS-CoV-2 and one infection by the Brazilian variant have been found in India, but there is no evidence of local transmissions by these variants so far. Out of the four people infected by the South African strain, two returned from South Africa, whereas the other two came back from Angola and Tanzania. They returned in January and subsequently the presence of such a strain was confirmed by genetic sequencing, Balram Bhargava, director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research said. The Brazilian strain was seen in an Indian traveller who returned from the South American nation in the first week of February. "All the five persons and their contacts have been tested and quarantined. There is no case of any infection. The location of these individuals are not being disclosed to protect their privacy,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said here. Globally reported first in December 2020, the South African strain has now spread to 44 countries. Similarly the Brazilian strain is seen in 15 nations after it was first reported in January, 2021. Both variants are associated with increased transmission risks. The admission of the presence of the South African strain comes a week after a top government official denied entry of such a variant in India. When asked about the South African strain’s presence in India at a press conference on February 9, NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul had stated, “As of yesterday (Feb 8, 2021), this particular variant is not in the country. We are keeping a watch.” This gives rise to the questions like whether Paul – the government’s key advisor on Covid-19 – was not aware of the sequencing status of inbound travellers or why it took so many days to know the sequencing results of people who came back a fortnight ago. Besides the South African and Brazilian variants, there are 187 cases of UK variants in India. Asked whether India would impose any conditions on flights coming from South Africa and Brazil, Bhushan said that the government might initiate 100 per cent RT-PCR tests for the passengers in such flights, as was being done with UK flights. Since there is no direct flight from Brazil or South Africa, unlike the UK, the Health and Civil Aviation Ministry are now working out the modalities on how to carry out such a screening exercise for passengers coming from those two countries.. On the rise of cases in Kerala and Maharashtra, Bhushan said that the number of RT-PCR tests in both states went down and the states were required to reverse the trend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-detected-with-sa-variant-of-covid-19-in-india-one-with-brazil-strain-951872.html
16-02-2021||National||SC dismisses plea seeking 'world class university' in India||The Supreme Court Tuesday junked a plea seeking the establishment of a 'world class university' in India and said such a PIL cannot be entertained. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian dismissed the petition filed by NGO Banamali Das Welfare and Development Foundation. “There are a lot of things which are world class in the world but not in India. Approach the ministry of education. Dismissed,” the bench said. The lawyer appearing for the NGO stated that none of the universities in India were 'world class' and that the Centre was duty-bound to establish a 'world class university'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-seeking-world-class-university-in-india-951881.html
16-02-2021||National||Toolkit case: Bombay HC reserves order on Nikita Jacob's transit bail plea||Activist Nikita Jacob's transit bail plea: Bombay High Court reserves order on the plea of activist Nikita Jacob, one of the editors of the Toolkit doc. Court reserves order for tomorrow. Delhi Police says no coercive action till then Nikita Jacob, accused in a case registered by Delhi police in connection with the "toolkit" shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg over farmers' protest, had approached the Bombay High Court on Monday seeking transit anticipatory bail. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-bombay-hc-reserves-order-on-nikita-jacobs-transit-bail-plea-951887.html
16-02-2021||National||First-year resident doctor dies by suicide in Mumbai||A first-year resident doctor from the anaesthesia department of BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central was found dead on Tuesday. The young anaesthetist, Dr Bhimsandesh Tupe's body was recovered from his room. It is suspected to have used muscle relaxant drug to die by suicide, however, there was no confirmation. The Agripada police station has registered an ADR and investigations were in progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-year-resident-doctor-dies-by-suicide-in-mumbai-951891.html
16-02-2021||National||Deadly smog over India won’t lift until March, indicates study||A toxic-dust cocktail that has engulfed large swathes of India since October isn’t expected to lift until next month, prolonging the exposure of people to emissions that can dramatically reduce their lifespan.   This week’s forecast by the Copernicus Climate Change Service follows a new study by scientists at Harvard University showing that some 2.5 million Indians die annually from air pollution. Smog season recurs yearly in cities like New Delhi as burning farmland combines with fossil fuel exhaust, enveloping urban centres during cold months when demand for heat is high and air circulation is muted.  “This winter haze could potentially continue until the spring when increased temperature and changes in the weather will help to dissipate the pollution,” said Mark Parrington, a senior scientist at Copernicus. The danger arises from “activities such as traffic, cooking, heating and crop stubble burning which are able to accumulate over the region due to topography and cold stagnant conditions.” The Harvard study published this month in Environmental Research concluded that previous estimates of deaths caused by long-term exposure to airborne toxic particles were too low.  “Often, when we discuss the dangers of fossil fuel combustion, it’s in the context of carbon dioxide and climate change and overlook the potential health impact of the pollutants co-emitted with greenhouse gases,” author Joel Schwartz said in a statement. “By quantifying the health consequences of fossil fuel combustion, we can send a clear message to policymakers and stakeholders of the benefits of a transition to alternative energy sources.”  Populations in Lahore, Dhaka and Kathmandu are being similarly impacted by the smog, according to Copernicus, which estimates that chronic exposure to pollution can reduce lifespans by two years in the worst-impacted cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deadly-smog-over-india-won-t-lift-until-march-indicates-study-951893.html
16-02-2021||National||Toolkit case: Shantanu Muluk gets temporary pre-arrest bail||The Bombay High Court has granted transit bail to Beed-based engineer-activist Shantanu Muluk on Tuesday. The court has reserved the order vis-a-vis Nikita Jacob and her fate would be known on Wednesday. Shantanu and Nikita face non-bailable warrants by the Delhi police in connection with the case involving toolkit shared by climate campaigner Greta Thunberg in support of the farmer protests – and they are associated with Bengaluru-based activist Disha Ravi, who is already in police custody. While Nikita has moved the Bombay High Court in Mumbai, Shantanu has approached the Aurangabad bench of the court. According to reports, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court decided to grant Muluk 10 days' transit bail after hearing the arguments presented by his counsel. Muluk said in his bail plea that he was only supporting the farmers fighting for their livelihood and that a “vendetta” was being pursued against him. He alleged that the police have collected a lot of material without following laid-down procedures. Nikita said that she was being targeted unnecessarily. “The applicant is unable to defend herself as she is a permanent resident of the address in Mumbai and the alleged complaint/FIR is lodged in Delhi and contents of same are not known to the applicant,” said the application made before Justice P D Naik of Bombay High Court. “I will pass the order tomorrow,” said Justice Naik.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-shantanu-muluk-gets-temporary-pre-arrest-bail-951896.html
16-02-2021||National||Disha Ravi case: Not afraid of FIRs, will give reply, says Anil Vij on reports of complaints on his tweet||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Tuesday said he was not afraid of police complaints being filed against him over his tweet on the 'toolkit' case. His remark came after reports that a Karnataka-based group of activists had filed a complaint over his Monday Twitter post on arrested 21-year-old climate activist Disha Ravi that appeared to urge "exterminating" those who harbour the "seed of anti-nationalism". Challenging the interpretation of his tweet, the minister told reporters: "I have said whoever harbours the seed of anti-nationalism in their mind, that has to be destroyed from the roots. Let me make it clear, it is exterminating that seed of anti-nationalism and not exterminating the person." Ravi was arrested from Bengaluru on Saturday by the Delhi Police for allegedly creating and sharing a protest 'toolkit' backing the farmers' agitation against the Centre's new agri laws. Vij's post had also prompted an investigation by Twitter. The tweet in Hindi could also be read as exterminating that "seed of anti-nationalism". "Even Twitter investigated the tweet, they said nothing is wrong," said Vij who had also posted a response from Twitter that read it had received a complaint over his tweet. When asked about the police complaint reportedly filed by a Karnataka-based group of activists against his tweet, Vij said, "I am not afraid of such complaints or FIRs. Anyone can lodge a complaint, I will give a reply." "Desh virodh ka beej jiske bhi deemag mein ho uska samool nash kar dena chahiye fir chahe veh # Disha Ravi ho yaan koi aur," Vij had tweeted. Roughly translated it reads, “Whoever harbours the seed of anti-nationalism in their mind, that has to be destroyed from the roots, be it #Disha_Ravi or anyone else.” Twitter in its post had said, “We have investigated the reported content and have found that it is not subject to removal under the Twitter Rules or German law. Accordingly, we have not taken any action as a result of this specific report." Replying to another question, Vij said, "Everyone has the right to protest in a democratic set up and I am not saying opposing the government's policies is a crime, but if anyone hobnobs with foreign elements against the country, that has to be stopped." The Delhi Police had on Monday said that Ravi along with Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk created the toolkit and shared it with others to tarnish India's image. Ravi had sent the toolkit to teen climate activist Greta Thunberg through the Telegram app, and also "coaxed her to act on it", police had claimed. Non-bailable warrants have been issued against Jacob and Muluk, who are absconding. Some opposition leaders had alleged that Vij's tweet appeared pointing to “exterminating” those who harbour the “seed of anti-nationalism”. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor too had on Monday reacted sharply to Vij's tweet. "Surely tweets like this are far more harmful to our democracy than anything in the 'toolkit' Disha Ravi retweeted?" he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disha-ravi-case-not-afraid-of-firs-will-give-reply-says-anil-vij-on-reports-of-complaints-on-his-tweet-951900.html
16-02-2021||National||India's fight against Covid-19 is inspiring the world: PM Modi||India's fight against Covid-19 is inspiring the world, though at the beginning of the pandemic other countries worried about the country's situation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday. India is following a human-centric approach to furthering global good, which is based on a healthy balanced welfare and well-being, he said, virtually delivering the valedictory address to 'Heartfulness Practitioners' on the platinum jubilee celebrations of Heartfulness Institute of Shri Ram Chandra Mission. "At the beginning of this (Covid-19) pandemic, the whole world was worried about India's situation. But today India's fight against corona (coronavirus) is inspiring the entire world...India is following a human centric approach to furthering global good," Modi said. India has undertaken among the world's largest public welfare programmes in the last six years and these efforts are aimed at giving the poor a life of dignity and opportunity, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-fight-against-covid-19-is-inspiring-the-world-pm-modi-951904.html
16-02-2021||National||Teachers demand salary hike, protest near WB CM Mamata Banerjee's residence||A section of 'para' teachers on Tuesday staged a unique protest near the high-security zone of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's residence, stepping into a canal to press for a salary hike. The group of contractual teachers of government-run schools in the state held placards in the portion of the waterbody in front of Banerjee's residence in Kalighat area, officials said. The protesters were later dispersed by police and disaster management personnel, they said. Seven people have been arrested, a police officer said. Kolkata Police Commissioner Soumen Mitra and other senior officials have taken stock of the situation at the spot, where security has been beefed up following the incident. Contractual teachers have been holding a sit-in in the metropolis for more than 70 days, demanding immediate wage revision. Banerjee had recently announced a three per cent annual pay hike for para teachers in the state budget, but they asserted the raise is not enough. The education department had increased the salary of para teachers at the primary level from Rs 5,954 to Rs 10,000 a month, and for those at the higher secondary level from Rs 8,500 to Rs 13,000. With the assembly elections round the corner, it has snowballed into a major political issue with the opposition BJP and Left Front accusing the ruling Trinamool Congress of turning a blind eye to the plea of the para teachers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/teachers-demand-salary-hike-protest-near-wb-cm-mamata-banerjees-residence-951908.html
16-02-2021||National||Centre committed to welfare of farmers; has increased MSP for jute to Rs 4,225 from Rs 2,400, says Smriti Irani||The government is committed to the welfare of farmers and has increased the minimum support price for jute from Rs 2,400 in 2014-15 to Rs 4,225 in 2020-21, Union Minister Smriti Irani has said. The minister for textiles and women & child development called upon farmers to use certified seeds to increase their income and productivity, an official statement said. She also urged the farmers to contribute to the country through diversified jute and technical textile products. Virtually inaugurating a workshop organised at ICAR-CRIJAF Institute at Barrackpore, West Bengal on Monday, Irani said the ICARE Initiative which started in 2015 with only about 60 MT certified jute seeds and 20,000 farmers got a remarkable leap in just one and half years and the certified jute seeds distribution increased to over 600 MT in 2017. She informed that so far, the government has supported 2.60 lakh farmers under the ICARE programme. The minister further stated that the Narendra Modi government is committed for the welfare of farmers. She said the government increased the MSP for jute from Rs 2,400 in 2014-15 to Rs 4,225 in 2020-21, the textiles ministry statement added. Irani said the ICARE Initiative is benefitting jute farmers by improving productivity by 15 per cent and increasing farmers' income by about Rs 10,000/hectare. Through the Jute Packaging Material (JPM) Act, the government is protecting the interest of about 4 lakh workers and 40 lakh farm families, she added. She also said the government has approved a Technical Textiles Mission which includes Jute Geo-Textiles (JGT). The Bureau of Indian Standards has approved standards for Jute Geo-Textiles which will help promotion of JGT under the Technical Textile Mission, the minister said. Speaking on the occasion, Textiles Secretary U P Singh said this initiative has been taken keeping in view the growing demand for jute in the country and to improve its quality. He observed that the initiative will increase the production of jute and reduce dependence on imports from Bangladesh. He also said these efforts will go a long way in improving the conditions of the farmers and doubling their income. In his address, Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agrawal said that finer variety of fibre will be ensured by quality jute seeds. He also said inclusion of jute in the National Food Security Mission will help to increase the income of the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-committed-to-welfare-of-farmers-has-increased-msp-for-jute-to-rs-4225-from-rs-2400-says-smriti-irani-951918.html
16-02-2021||National||Toolkit case: Court asks Delhi Police to give FIR copy to Disha Ravi, allows her to talk to family||A Delhi court on Tuesday allowed climate change activist Disha Ravi access to her lawyer and talk to family over phone while being in police custody in connection with the 'toolkit' case. Acting on a bunch of petitions filed by Disha, Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma allowed her to also access FIR, arrest memo, grounds for her arrest and remand applications. She has also been granted warm clothes and masks among other things, including books and home-cooked food. The court granted her permission to speak to her family over phone for 15 minutes, besides consulting her lawyer for 30 minutes every day. Disha's arrest had triggered a controversy with activists and lawyers accusing police of violating procedures like obtaining transit remand and not allowing a lawyer of her choice when she was produced before a Duty Magistrate. She was produced before the court on Sunday, which sent her to five-day police custody, after she was picked up from Bengaluru a day before.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-court-asks-delhi-police-to-give-fir-copy-to-disha-ravi-allows-her-to-talk-to-family-951922.html
16-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: 4 cases of South African strain of Covid-19 virus detected in India||In your evening news brief, 4 cases of South African strain of Covid-19 virus detected; Delhi Police writes to Zoom, seeks details of meeting of Poetic Justice Foundation and India level its series against England.  Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa today inspected the ongoing airport project work near Shivamogga and while speaking to reporters appealed to undeserving people to return the BPL cards at the earliest. He informed that deputy commissioners had been given the authority to initiate action against affluent people who voluntarily fail to return BPL cards. When reporters asked him about the reservation demand by certain communities, he replied saying that the government would take suitable steps in this regard within the legal framework and that the matter will be discussed at the cabinet meeting, adding that his government will cautiously take a call on the issue. If the UK variant of the SARS-CoV-II was not enough, India has detected four cases of the South African strain of the Covid-19 virus. The virus seems to have another strain, as Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director-General Balram Bhargava also informed about a Brazilian strain  It is mandatory for passengers arriving to Karnataka from the United Kingdom, Brazil and South Africa to produce RT-PCR negative certificate to board the flight & additionally RT - PCR negative test certificate at Bengaluru Airport. They shall also, undergo home quarantine for 14 days and follow up RT - PCR shall be conducted on 7th day. Meanwhile, In Karnataka, the government has decided to reopen schools for Class 6 to 8 from February 22 but schools in Bengaluru Urban and those at Kerala borders will only be open for Class 8 students. This restriction in Bengaluru Urban and border areas with Kerala seems to have been taken considering the incident where several Nursing students who returned from Kerala testing positive for Covid-19. As for the vaccines, as many as 2,534 health workers from Bengaluru and 18,038 health workers across the state were scheduled to receive the second dose of Covid vaccines yesterday but the percentage of those who showed up to receive the vaccine was just 49.84% in the state capital and 56% across the state. Officials reasoned saying that it is a purely technical issue caused by the Co-WIN portal. Amid criticism over the way Disha Ravi was arrested, the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Tuesday asked Delhi Police to provide reasons for not producing the activist arrested in the toolkit case before a court in Bengaluru from where she was picked up and why she was not provided a lawyer of her choice. Delhi Police has written to Zoom seeking details of the January 11 meeting organised on the video conferencing platform by pro-Khalistan outfit Poetic Justice Foundation to prepare a 'toolkit' on farmers' protest. India levelled its series against England with a 317-run victory in the second Test today. India has now risen to second in the WTC standings and needs to at least win one more and draw another in the four-match series to make the cut for the final in June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-4-cases-of-south-african-strain-of-covid-19-virus-detected-in-india-951924.html
16-02-2021||National||What new labour codes bring for gig and platform workers||The Centre has decided to amalgamate various labour laws to form new codes that are proposing benefits, among other reforms, for all types of employees, including gig workers and platform workers.  Under the new codes, these workers will be covered under social security benefits like income security and health insurance.  For years, gig workers and platform workers, belonging to the unorganized sector of the labour force, were not officially defined by the government. These workers were not paid in salaries, thus stripping them of benefits like health insurance and Provident Fund.  The new codes provide definition to the gig workers — an employee who earns a living outside of a  "traditional employer-employee relationship". This could be anybody, from a freelance writer to a car driver, who is temporarily associated with an employer for services.  Platform workers, on the other hand, according to the government, are those who work outside of a traditional work relationship and "use an online platform to access other organisations or individuals to solve specific problems or to provide specific services". It essentially covers all those workers who work with online platforms like Ola, Uber or Zomato, Swiggy, etc. What is in store for gig and platform workers? The Central government proposes to universalise benefits in health and maternity matters, life and disability cover, etc. The state government is supposed to ensure the workers' benefits like provident fund, skill upgradation, and housing.  Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has also said that all types of workers would now come under the minimum wage rules and that Employees State Insurance Corporation, or the ESIC, will apply to all. While the Modi government promises unprecedented benefits to the gig workers, the new reforms also enable flexibility to the companies to hire and fire employees without any stringent intervention from the government. There is also no data available with the Centre on how many gig workers are currently operating in India, some independent estimates put the number near 130 million workers.  To avail of these proposed benefits, the government has proposed to set up an online portal by June 2021 for all the eligible unorganised workforce in the country. The gig and platform workers will mandatorily register on the portal. The eligibility criteria include: that the worker is above the age of 16 and below 60. They have at least worked 90 days in the previous 12 years.  He or she is directed to submit self-declaration electronically or otherwise and other documents including the Aadhaar card. The central government may also nominate five representatives of gig and platform workers to the National Social Security Board, which will frame policies covering the unorganised sector.  In addition, the codes mandate the aggregators, or the employers in the case of gig workers, to contribute a specified percentage of the turnover towards a social security fund for the welfare of the unorganised sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-new-labour-codes-bring-for-gig-and-platform-workers-951927.html
16-02-2021||National||Amnesty International India's assets attached in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached assets worth Rs 17.66 crore of Amnesty International India (AII) and others in connection with a money laundering case. The AII is facing multiple probes by the CBI and the ED, which accused it of violation of rules related to foreign funding and Foreign Exchange Management Act, charges which were denied by the international NGO. In September last year, AII had said it was halting its operations in India and let go off staff claiming that the ED "froze" all its bank accounts in what it called "incessant witch-hunt". The government had denied the allegations. The AII had then claimed that it came to know about the freezing of accounts over "unfounded and motivated" allegations on September 10. However, the Ministry of Home Affairs countered the AII saying its statement was "unfortunate, exaggerated and far from the truth" and human rights cannot be an "excuse for defying" the law of the land. The AII had also cited the actions taken by government agencies, including raids by CBI in October 2018 and November 2019, freezing of bank accounts, Income Tax Department sending letters to over 30 "small regular donors" and denying permission to hold a press conference in Srinagar to release a report on misuse of Public Safety Act in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amnesty-international-indias-assets-attached-in-money-laundering-case-951929.html
16-02-2021||National||Indian High Commission issues open letter to British MP on farmers' protest||The Indian High Commission in London has issued an open letter to a British member of Parliament who has been vocal over the issue of farmer protests in India and related arrests of activists. Claudia Webbe is the member of Parliament from the Opposition Labour Party for Leicester East, a significant British Indian constituency in eastern England. She had endorsed an e-petition calling for a UK government statement over the protests in India, after it crossed the 100,000 signatures threshold to be considered for a debate in the Westminster Hall of the House of Commons. Most recently, she used her social media to demand the release of activists arrested in India in the “toolkit” case. Climate activist Disha Ravi was arrested from Bengaluru on Saturday and sent to police remand for five days by a Delhi court with officials claiming she was an editor of the "toolkit Google doc" and "key conspirator" in its formulation and dissemination. Non-bailable warrants were also issued against lawyer Nikita Jacob and engineer Shantanu for creating a protest toolkit along with Ravi backing the farmers’ agitation with the aim of “tarnishing the image of India” and collaborating with pro-Khalistani elements. The Indian mission responded with an open letter on Monday evening, inviting her to convey any apprehensions on behalf of the British citizens of her constituency to the High Commission directly. “We would have been able to comprehensively and in detail provide clarifications to assuage the concerns of your constituents with regard to the recent path-breaking Indian Farm Laws against which a small section of India’s farming community has been protesting,” reads the letter. “It is emphasised that the reforms, intended to protect and empower farmers in India are based on inputs from experts and recommendations by Committees that have analysed the specific challenges of the agricultural sector in India over the last 20 years. "The Farm Acts were duly discussed and debated in the Parliament of India and their benefits have started reaching more than 100 million small farmers instantly. Since the enactment of these reforms, discussions have been held with farmers and other stakeholders on their efficient implementation,” it adds. The letter states that the detailed information is being shared with her to dispel any misgivings with regard to the objectives of the reforms, the ability of those having reservations to protest peacefully and the willingness of the government of India to address all concerns in a manner most acceptable to the protesting farmers’ unions. “The efforts continue – but government of India is more than aware of efforts by vested interests abroad to fuel the protests through misinformation and incendiary assertions that are not helpful in progressing the dialogue between the protesters and government or addressing the issues through the democratic processes that our people have traditionally relied on,” it notes. “High Commission of India would, therefore, reiterate its offer that your constituents – British citizens having family ties or business linkages with the agricultural sector in India – would be most welcome to address their concerns to the High Commission of India through their representatives, after duly studying the clarifications issued by our mission on our website and through social media,” it adds. The letter reiterates that farmers participating in the protest rallies have been treated with “utmost respect and restraint” by the government and security forces – “more than may have been the case in similar situations elsewhere in the world”. The letter is also appended with a factsheet laying out further details and the consultations and multiple rounds of talks held in relation to the new agricultural reforms. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at several Delhi border points since November last year, demanding the government to repeal three farm laws and provide them legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. Multiple rounds of talks between the government and farmer unions have not been able to resolve the deadlock. India has emphasised that the protests by farmers must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity and the Ministry of External Affairs said that some vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-high-commission-issues-open-letter-to-british-mp-on-farmers-protest-951962.html
16-02-2021||National||Farmers' protest: Sedition law cannot be invoked to quieten disquiet, says Delhi court||A Delhi court has said the law of sedition cannot be invoked to quieten the disquiet under the pretence of muzzling miscreants. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana made the observation while granting bail to two persons - Devi Lal Burdak and Swaroop Ram - arrested by Delhi police earlier this month for allegedly committing sedition and spreading rumours by posting fake video on Facebook during ongoing farmers' protest. The court said that the law of sedition was a powerful tool in the hands of the state to maintain peace and order in the society. “However, it cannot be invoked to quieten the disquiet under the pretence of muzzling the miscreants. Evidently, law proscribes any act which has a tendency to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence," the judge said in an order passed on February 15. “In the absence of any exhortation, call, incitement or instigation to create disorder or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence or any allusion or oblique remark or even any hint towards this objective, attributable to the accused, I suspect that Section 124 A (sedition) IPC can be validly invoked against the applicant,” the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-protest-sedition-law-cannot-be-invoked-to-quieten-disquiet-says-delhi-court-951965.html
16-02-2021||National||Kiran Bedi removed as Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry||Kiran Bedi on Tuesday was removed as Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry with President Ram Nath Kovind giving additional charge of the Union Territory to Telangana Governor Tamilisai Sundari Soundarajan. A Rashtrapati Bhavan communique said the President has directed that Bedi "shall cease to hold the office of the Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry". It also said the President has asked Soundarajan to discharge the functions of LG of Puducherry in addition to her own duties, until regular arrangements are made. Bedi, country's first woman IPS officer and BJP's Chief Ministerial candidate in Delhi in 2015, was appointed LG on May 28, 2016. Bedi's removal came on the day the Congress government, led by Chief Minister V Narayanasami, plunged into a minority. Bedi and Narayanasami have been at loggerheads since June 2016 when they both assumed office.  Bedi has also been accused of interfering in the day to day functioning of the government, inviting criticism from the Chief Minister. Though the reason for her sacking is not immediately known, there have been several complaints with regard to her style of functioning.  Her removal comes at a time when more Congress leaders are joining the BJP, which is trying to make inroads in Puducherry. The choice of Tamilisai Soundararajan as her replacement for now is also political.  The BJP feels the UT should have a Lt Governor who is a political person as it heads to assembly polls. Also, the BJP might want a seasoned politician to be in the Lt Gov's chair at the time of swearing in of the new government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kiran-bedi-removed-as-lieutenant-governor-of-puducherry-951972.html
16-02-2021||National||Maharashtra, Kerala need to substantially increase RT-PCR testing for Covid: Health ministry||Maharashtra and Kerala, which account for 72 per cent of the total coronavirus active cases in the country, have been asked to substantially increase RT-PCR testing, the health ministry said on Tuesday. Addressing a press briefing, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said both these states have 61,550 and 37,383 active cases, respectively. "This accounts for 72 per cent of the total active cases in the country," Bhushan said. Responding to a question on the reason behind more active cases in these two states, he said one of the reasons might be that the number of RT-PCR tests have gone down. "Over a period of time, both in Maharashtra and in Kerala, the number of RT-PCR tests have gone down and there is a need to substantially increase RT-PCR tests; this is something we have shared with both the states," he said. NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul said there is a need to keep following Covid-appropriate behaviour. "If we look at Kerala, the increase in the number of cases can be traced since the time of festivals. There is a scope to increase testing in both the states too and attempts to increase surveillance intensity must be made. We should keep maintaining vigil," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-kerala-need-to-substantially-increase-rt-pcr-testing-for-covid-health-ministry-951977.html
16-02-2021||National||Agitation not losing steam: Farmers as crowds thin out at Singhu, Tikri borders||As the farmers' stir against three new agriculture laws of the Centre inches towards the three-month mark, crowds at the major protest sites -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders -- visibly appear to be thinning, but the leaders maintain that their movement is now stronger than ever. Even as the "langars" and tents at Delhi's borders appear vacant, the farmer leaders insist that the crowd is merely shifting from one spot to another to mobilise more people to join the movement. "The crowd is not thinning at all. We are simply trying to decentralise the movement and mobilise people in villages and districts, and not just in Punjab and Haryana. "If creating a wave in Punjab took a few months, creating a similar impact in the entire country will take a little more time, but our movement is not losing steam. In fact, from our perspective, it is only strengthening by the day," Avtar Singh Mehma of the Krantikari Kisan Union (Punjab) said on Tuesday. He said many farmers have been travelling back and forth between their homes and the borders of the national capital as they have to manage their farms as well, but the strength of the protesters at the borders has remained "more or less steady" and the numbers are only expected to increase after the "chakka jam" of February 18. "The Samyukt Kisan Morcha is strategising to keep the count stable at the borders, while allowing the protesters to manage work at home, but the number of people at the borders will only increase after February 18. "Very soon, we will also call farmers from all over the country to join us on a march to Delhi on foot," Mehma said. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab and Haryana, have been camping at multiple border points of Delhi to protest against the three farm laws, which they claim will do away with the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. The organisation of "mahapanchayats" across Haryana, Maharashtra and Rajasthan to garner support for the stir has also resulted in the thinning of the crowd at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders. "Many people from Singhu came along with me when I went to Karnal for the mahapanchayat and they stayed back. We are also going to mobilise people from places such as Rajasthan's Sikar and regions of eastern Uttar Pradesh, but this is just a temporary phenomenon. The crowd will be back in full force after February 18," Jagmohan Singh, general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union Ekta (Dakaunda), said. "People want to be part of the mahapanchayats, especially when leaders like (Rakesh) Tikait are speaking, so they move to specific locations to join the programme, but that does not mean that they are going back. They are simply relocating," Paramjit Singh, general secretary of the BKU (Lakhowal), said. He said the protesters are taking turns to come to the major protest sites, so that all farmers can participate in the movement and take care of their households simultaneously. "For instance, if 10 people from my village come to the Delhi borders, they will stay for seven to 10 days, and then, 10 other people from the village will come and relieve them. "But our resolve has only strengthened and we will not let the movement fizzle out at any cost. We will continue with this agitation until our demands are met," he added. With the discussions with the government still making no headway, the farmers are prepared to take their movement well into the summer heat. "The government thinks that we will not be able to bear the heat and go back, but we have been receiving help from different organisations and our NRI friends. We will continue to get that. And tents and coolers will be arranged to beat the heat," Paramjit Singh said. The recent municipal polls in Punjab could also be a reason that the number of people at the key protest sites seems slightly reduced, he said, adding, "Some people did go back home to cast their votes, but they will return very soon." According to Jagmohan Singh, the heightened police security at the border points of the national capital could have discouraged the protesters who were coming from the Delhi side of the borders to participate in the agitation. "Many people coming from the Delhi side of the borders have been facing enquiries by the police, which discourages them," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/agitation-not-losing-steam-farmers-as-crowds-thin-out-at-singhu-tikri-borders-951979.html
16-02-2021||National||Covid-19 | Commuters in local trains not wearing masks, says Mumbai mayor||Majority of commuters travelling in local trains in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) are not wearing masks, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar said, indicating stricter measures in India’s financial capital to combat the sudden rise of Covid-19 cases. “Let us not push ourselves to another lockdown....it is people only who will have to take a call,” Pednekar told reporters. She also expressed concern over the way people are travelling in local trains without masks. “Only 40% of commuters are wearing masks inside the local trains...which means the majority of the 60% people are not wearing means when inside trains,” said Pedkear, who started her career as a nurse to become a civic leader. “We will have to be careful...let us not go back to square one,” she said. In the Mumbai-MMR area, the cases have grown by an average of 950-plus daily for the past seven days. It needs to be mentioned that from 1 February, the local trains have been opened for the general public, though with restricted timings. However, crowding has been witnessed in the evening hours in the suburban trains of Central Railway and Western Railway. According to Mumbai’s railway administration, nearly 30 to 35 lakh people are now using trains—that is nearly the 50% of the 75 to 80 lakh people who were using trains before March 2020 Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-commuters-in-local-trains-not-wearing-masks-says-mumbai-mayor-951990.html
16-02-2021||National||Chinese army sends troops, equipment back to depth areas near Pangong lake||The Chinese People’s Liberation Army has begun to send its troops and military equipment back to the depth areas after dismantling the temporary structures they created in the Pangong Tso area in eastern Ladakh, according to the Indian Army, which on Tuesday shared visual evidence of the PLA troop movement. Army officials released a large number of photographs and video footage showing how the Chinese troops dismantled their watchtowers and other temporary structures as the two armies continued with the disengagement process in the north and south banks of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh. As per the plan, the entire pullback exercise was expected to be finished within a week after which military commanders would discuss the disengagement plans for other contentious areas like Gogra, Hot Springs and Depsang plains. Sources said that the PLA soldiers removed bunkers, temporary posts, jetties and helipads in the northern bank areas while gradually thinning down their troops in the region. Indian Army too is reciprocating. There is, however, no clarity at this point on whether tactical heights are also being vacated by both sides. Last week in a detailed statement Defence Minister Rajnath Singh informed the Parliament that as per the agreement reached between the two sides China would pull back its troops to the east of Finger 8 areas in the northern bank while the Indian personnel would be based at their permanent base at Dhan Singh Thapa Post near Finger 3 in the region. Similar action will take place on the southern bank of the lake as well. The agreement, coming after nine rounds of talks between senior military commanders from India and China, marks the first step in ending the biggest Sino-Indian border crisis since the 1962 war.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinese-army-sends-troops-equipment-back-to-depth-areas-near-pangong-lake-952004.html
16-02-2021||National||UN peacekeeping missions should not operate in perpetuity: India||The UN peacekeeping missions should not operate in perpetuity and there is urgent need for time-bound exit strategies to ensure they do not become instruments for "furthering political interests", India, one of the largest troop-contributing countries, has said. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said the current peacekeeping operations are multi-dimensional and are called upon to not only maintain peace and security but also to facilitate the political processes, protect civilians, disarm combatants, support elections, protect and promote human rights and restore the rule of law. “Peacekeeping missions are meant to be transitional measures and not operate in perpetuity. There is an urgent need for time-bound exit strategies to ensure that peacekeeping missions do not become instruments for furthering political interests,” he said at the General Debate on Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations on Monday. Highlighting India’s perspective on priority issues in UN peacekeeping, he said performance of peacekeeping operations should be measured in relation to political and operational realities, priorities set for implementing mandate, and adequacy and appropriateness of resources. Tirumurti said India has always voiced its support for the adoption of “No National Caveats Policy” at UN peacekeeping deployments. “India believes that a caveat, whether declared or undeclared, places additional burden on those who do not have any caveats besides having an impact on performance of peacekeepers in fulfilling their mandate and safety and security,” he said. India has always called for matching mandates with adequate resources, Tirumurti said, underlining that “an under-resourced, under-equipped mission, will not only result in underperformance in mandate implementation, but will impact the credibility of UN peacekeeping as a whole”. President of the UN General Assembly Volkan Bozkir said the Covid-19 pandemic has put additional challenges to the already complex peacekeeping operations. Peace operations are also supporting government-led efforts to both prevent and prepare for Covid-19 outbreaks at the country level. “Amidst these daunting challenges, it is essential that we provide peacekeeping operations with clearly defined mandates and realisable objectives, adequate resources based on a realistic assessment of the situation on the ground, as well as secure financing,” he said. Bozkir said it was crucial that the UN’s approach keeps pace with, and responds to, evolving challenges and new threats and opportunities. In this ever more complex and interconnected world, UN peace operations require constant refinement, drawing on analytical and operational capabilities, while leveraging new technology to increase their impact, he said. Tirumurti said that in the context of Covid-19, India was happy to respond to the request of UN Secretary-General and swiftly dispatch two medical teams and upgrade India’s peacekeeping hospitals in MONUSCO in Goma, DRC and in UNMISS in Juba, South Sudan. “We are working closely with our partners on the vaccine front also and make available our facilities for all humanity,” he said. India stressed that honest assessment and feedback for peacekeeping performance was essential to have an effective accountability system. “Assessing performance without determining accountability will leave us open to repeating errors,” Tirumurti said, adding that India supports the effective implementation of Integrated Performance Policy Framework, which covers all stakeholders and all phases of peacekeeping operations, and not just those on the ground. India strongly supports the SG’s Action for Peacekeeping (A4P) initiative, which requires sustained and effective follow-up and implementation and appreciates the Secretary-General’s attention to improving safety and security of UN peacekeeping personnel. “With rising incidents of attacks, including from terrorists, and rising casualties, we need to do more to ‘protect the protectors’,” he said. India, however, voiced concern over the non-payment of cost of service rendered by the Troop and Police Contributing Countries to the “closed” peacekeeping missions, saying this “unresolved” issue requires resolution and considered attention. According to a UN statement, Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix said the current session sends a powerful message in support of peacekeeping personnel facing complex challenges in the field amid the pandemic. Tirumurti asserted that India will push for the presence of more women in peacekeeping. With more than one million men and women having served under the UN flag in more than 70 peacekeeping operations over the past seven decades, Tirumurti recalled the “pioneering” efforts of India, especially the first all-women UN police peacekeeping contingent in Liberia – in the backdrop of “our own history of forming the first all-women Rani of Jhansi regiment of the Indian National Army of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose during India’s fight for independence.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/un-peacekeeping-missions-should-not-operate-in-perpetuity-india-952007.html
16-02-2021||National||Centre launches drinking water survey in Tumakuru, nine other cities across India||The Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry on Tuesday launched a survey to collect data on drinking water in 10 cities in the country, including Tumakuru, under the Jal Jeevan Mission (Urban). As part of the survey ‘Pey Jal Survekshan’, data will also be collected on wastewater management and the condition of water bodies in the cities. The ministry has decided to launch the pilot project in Agra, Badlapur, Bhubaneswar, Churu, Kochi, Madurai, Patiala, Rohtak, Surat and Tumakuru, the ministry secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said in a statement. “The data on drinking water, wastewater management, non-revenue water and the condition of three water bodies in the cities will be collected through face-to-face interviews with citizens and municipal officials as per the approved questionnaire, on-call interviews, water sample collection and laboratory testing, and field survey for non-revenue water,” the ministry said. Based on the finding of the pilot survey, this exercise will be extended to all the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) cities. The Jal Jeevan Mission (Urban) is designed to provide universal coverage of water supply to all households through functional taps in all 4,378 statutory towns, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-launches-drinking-water-survey-in-tumakuru-nine-other-cities-across-india-952008.html
16-02-2021||National||Court likely to pronounce verdict on Feb 17 in M J Akbar's defamation case against Ramani||A Delhi Court is likely to pronounce on Wednesday its verdict in M J Akbar's criminal defamation complaint against journalist Priya Ramani for her allegations of sexual harassment against him.  Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar had on February 1 reserved the judgment for February 10 after Akbar as well as Ramani completed their arguments. However, on February 10, the court deferred the judgment for February 17, saying the verdict was not complete since both the parties filed their written submission late. Ramani had made allegation of sexual misconduct against Akbar in the wake of #MeToo movement in 2018. Akbar had filed the complaint against Ramani on October 15, 2018 for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct decades ago. He resigned as Union minister on October 17, 2018.  He has denied all the allegations of sexual harassment against the women who came forward during #MeToo campaign against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-likely-to-pronounce-verdict-on-feb-17-in-m-j-akbars-defamation-case-against-ramani-952011.html
16-02-2021||National Politics||Narottam Mishra slams Congress for supporting Disha Ravi||Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Monday hit out at the Congress for lending support to climate activist Disha Ravi, arrested for allegedly creating a protest toolkit backing the farmers' agitation. Mishra also took potshots at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi over his hum do, hamare do slogan, saying it was apt on the Gandhi family. "The slogan of hum do, hamare do was made by their family which he is following," Mishra told reporters here. Rahul Gandhi had used the slogan recently in Parliament to target the Modi government. The BJP leader criticised Rahul Gandhi for his opposition to the new citizenship law CAA. The No CAA (stand taken by Rahul Gandhi) now has a new meaning, which is No Congress Alliance Acceptable, the minister said. To a query, Mishra said the way the Congress has come out in support of the 21-year-old activist Ravi, it exposes the partys "anti-national" mentality yet again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/narottam-mishra-slams-congress-for-supporting-disha-ravi-951717.html
16-02-2021||National Politics||Modi again defends farm laws, says opponents spreading lies||Amid the raging controversy over the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi for allegedly sharing a 'toolkit' related to the farmers' agitation, prime minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday once again defended the new laws and accused the opposition of ''spreading lies'' that the farmers would lose their lands. Speaking at a function after virtually laying the foundation stone for the statue of king Suheldev, who was considered to an icon by the 'Rajbhar' (an OBC) community, in Uttar Pradesh's Baharaich district, about 250 kilometres from here, Modi said that the new farm laws would benefit the marginal farmers most. ''Lies are being spread that the farmers will lose their lands owing to the new farm laws.....the new laws will benefit the small farmers most....the farmers have realised that the new farm laws are for their betterment and they are now exposing the lies of those opposing them,'' Modi said in his online address. He said that 65 lakh metric tonnes of paddy had been purchased in UP this year which was double the purchase last year. ''The centre has provided financial support to the state government so that cane farmers do not face any problem,'' he added. Modi said that the UP government had launched a scheme to ensure that there was no unauthorised occupation on the lands of the farmers.  The prime minister heaped praise on Suheldev, who was the king of Shravasti, about 300 kilometres from here, in the 11th century and had defeated the nephew of Mohammed Ghaznavi. The 'Rajbhar' and 'Pasi' community members consider him as their icon. The laying of the foundation of Suheldev's statue assumes political significance in view of the fact that these communities were in large numbers in about a dozen eastern UP districts. BJP has been trying to woo them after its ally Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) president Om Prakash Rajbhar parted ways before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-again-defends-farm-laws-says-opponents-spreading-lies-951796.html
16-02-2021||National Politics||Irani dares Rahul Gandhi to take money from tea traders in Gujarat||Union minister and BJP MP Smriti Irani on Tuesday dared Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to "take out money" from the pockets of small tea traders of Gujarat and to contest elections from the state if he has "guts". She also alleged the Congress's "hatred and prejudice" towards Gujarat and its people was not new, "as Rahul Gandhi and his party had objected to the proposal to build the Statue of Unity in the memory of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel in Gujarat". Irani was referring to the remarks made by the former Congress chief at a poll rally in Assam in which he spoke about hiking the daily wage of tea workers by making tea garden owners from Gujarat pay if his party is voted to power in that state. "Rahul Gandhi recently said in a rally in Assam that he will take out money from the pockets of small tea traders of Gujarat. Earlier, they (Congress) had issues with the tea seller (PM Narendra Modi), and now they have problems with those who drink tea," Irani said at a public rally for upcoming elections to local bodies held at Vansda town in Navsari district. "I want to challenge Rahul Gandhi to try ('azma lo') Gujarat if he has guts. I also challenge him to contest polls from Gujarat. That will clear all his misconceptions," the Minister for Textiles and Women & Child Development said. Rahul Gandhi had said the Congress will hike the daily wages of tea garden workers if voted to power in Assam. "Tea garden workers of Assam get Rs 167 per day, while traders from Gujarat get tea gardens. The Congress will put Rs 365 as daily wage into the pockets of the tea garden workers. Now you will ask me where will the money come from?...It will come from the traders of Gujarat," he had said. Irani said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the people of Gujarat had come up with the idea of constructing a grand monument dedicated to Sardar Patel. "However, Rahul Gandhi and his family objected to this proposal as their entire politics was always about erasing Sardar Patel's name from the pages of history," said Irani. While calling Congress leader Rahul Gandhi as ‘Yuvarj’, Smiriti Irani said that the latter forces former prime minister Manmohan Singh to greet his mother Sonia Gandhi and him before proceeding at any event.  "Gandhi family's 'yuvraj' tore a copy of law passed by Manmohan Singh ji. 'Yuvraj' forces him to greet 'mata ji' and him before proceeding at any event. When PM Modi went to Parliament he declared himself 'pradhan sevak' after bowing down on stairs," she said.  She alleged that when people are donating iron articles to build Patel's statue, "I thought that Congress leaders would shun that prejudice and join this movement". "But, they could not remove that hatred and prejudice towards Gujarat and Gujaratis from their minds. As instructed by Rahul and his mother (Sonia Gandhi), the opposition party disrespected the Statue of Unity," the BJP MP alleged. Elections to six municipal corporations in Gujarat will take place on February 21. Polling for 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats is scheduled on February 28. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/irani-dares-rahul-gandhi-to-take-money-from-tea-traders-in-gujarat-951837.html
16-02-2021||National Politics||Congress aims 'Modi tax' jibe at Centre over fuel price hike||The Congress on Tuesday hurled the “Modi Tax” accusation at the Centre as prices of petroleum products witnessed a sharp increase owing to the steep excise duties levied on fuel. Congress leaders claimed that the Modi government had collected over Rs 20 lakh crore by imposing additional excise duty on petrol and diesel over the past six years and eight months. “We demand an immediate withdrawal of this additional 'Modi Tax' imposed over the past six years and eight months. This in itself will reduce petrol price to Rs 61.92 per litre and diesel price to Rs 47.51 per litre,” Congress spokesman Pawan Khera told reporters here. “The Modi government is determined to loot the common man and ensure the progress of just 'two',” former Congress president Rahul Gandhi said. The 'Modi Tax' accusation is reminiscent of the 'Jayanthi Tax' charge levelled by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the run-up to the 2014 Lok Sabha elections to target the UPA government's then environment minister Jayanthi Natarajan. Addressing a press conference here, Khera said in May 2014, the global crude price was $108 per barrel and petrol was selling at Rs 71.51 per litre in Delhi while diesel was retailing at Rs 57.28 per litre. “The international crude oil prices as on February 1, 2021, was $54.41 per barrel and yet as of today, the price of petrol is Rs 89.29 per litre in the national capital whereas diesel is selling at Rs 79.70 per litre,” Khera said. The Congress leader accused the government of looting the country of 20 lakh crore through high fuel prices. “Where did this 20 lakh crore go? It’s not been seen in any sector. Can this be termed as a criminal conspiracy to benefit only a few crony friends?” Khera asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-aims-modi-tax-jibe-at-centre-over-fuel-price-hike-951969.html
16-02-2021||National Politics||Aggressive Mallikarjun Kharge hopes for Lok Sabha encore in Rajya Sabha as Leader of the Opposition||Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge formally began his tenure as Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha at a time when the party has numerically diminished in the House where the Opposition is known to challenge the government on legislative issues. The 78-year-old Kharge succeeded Congress veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad, whose tenure in the coveted post came to an end as he completed his term as a member of the Upper House.  “The Chairman, Rajya Sabha has accorded recognition to Shri Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of the Indian National Congress Party in the Rajya Sabha, as the Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, w.e.f. the 16th February 2021,” a Parliament Bulletin issued here on Tuesday said.  Kharge, who had proved himself as an aggressive Opposition leader in the previous Lok Sabha, hopes to do an encore in the new role in the Upper House but is acutely aware of the challenges of bringing together the Opposition forces to counter the Modi government in the Parliament. “A singer, however good, also requires the support of his fellow musicians to deliver a spellbinding performance,” he told DH in an informal interaction. The Congress has 36 members in the Rajya Sabha, virtually half of the numbers it had in 2014 when the BJP came to power with an absolute majority under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The party is hopeful of a supporting act from others such as the DMK, NCP and TMC. The Opposition has accused the Modi government of steam-rolling its legislative agenda in the Parliament on its superior numbers with scant regard to Parliamentary practices. However, the Congress had come across as a divided house in the recent Budget Session of Parliament with the party allowing discussion on the Motion of Thanks on the President’s Address in the Rajya Sabha, while stalling the proceedings for a week in the Lok Sabha.  Modi had hit out at the Congress for its differential Parliamentary strategy contending that such a party cannot work for the betterment of the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aggressive-mallikarjun-kharge-hopes-for-lok-sabha-encore-in-rajya-sabha-as-leader-of-the-opposition-951989.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur gets bail in second case, says counsel||Labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur was granted bail on Monday in a second case registered against her, said her counsel. The 23-year-old activist will, however, have to remain in Karnal jail as her bail plea in yet another case, registered on January 12, was rejected earlier by a sessions court. Kaur is facing three cases that include charges of attempt to murder and extortion. She is a member of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sangathan and a resident of Giadarh village in Punjab's Muktsar district. She, along with others, was arrested on January 12 for allegedly gheraoing an industrial unit and demanding money from the company in Sonipat district, the Haryana police had earlier said. Kaur has two separate cases of extortion registered against her. She was granted bail in a case registered on January 12 under various sections of IPC and for extortion. The same court had on Thursday granted her bail in another case registered on December 28 also under IPC sections for extortion and other charges, her counsel said. The activist continues to remain in jail in another case which has been registered under various IPC sections, including attempt to murder. On Thursday, Punjab minister Aruna Chaudhary had urged the National Commission for Women to intervene and ensure the release of Nodeep Kaur. The Punjab State Commission for Scheduled Castes had on February 8 asked an additional chief secretary in the state to intervene in the matter and ensure relief to her at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/labour-rights-activist-nodeep-kaur-gets-bail-in-second-case-says-counsel-951694.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||POCSO court concludes child’s rape trial in 24 days, gives life term to convict||A Mirzapur court has sentenced a man to life imprisonment for raping a six-year-old, physically challenged Dalit girl, completing the trial in 24 days. Delivering its ruling on Friday, the special court set up under the provisions of the Protection of Children from the Sexual Offences Act also imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on convict Rajesh Yadav. Expediting the trial, Special Judge Achhe Lal Saroj concluded it flat 24 days after filing of the charge-sheet by the police against accused Yadav on January 19 this year with the court taking cognisance of the charge-sheet a few days later, said the prosecution counsel. The incident itself had occurred on January 7 this year when the accused had lured the girl with a speech impairment to a jungle near her home in the Madihan police station area. The accused had fled the scene after raping the girl and leaving her profusely bleeding, the counsel said. When the family members found the missing girl, her mother lodged a complaint with the police naming Yadav as the accused. After the medical examination of the girl, investigating officer Prabhat Rai got her statement recorded with the help of an expert as the victim suffered from the speech disorder and filed the charge-sheet in the case on January 19. Taking the matter seriously, the court conducted an expeditious trial and convicted the accused in 24 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pocso-court-concludes-child-s-rape-trial-in-24-days-gives-life-term-to-convict-951697.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||DH Deciphers | What's a toolkit? Why is everyone talking about it?||Delhi police cited a controversial toolkit on the ongoing farmers' protest to arrest young climate change activist Disha Ravi from Bengaluru on February 14. The toolkit first came into prominence after Swedish climate change activist Greta Thunberg tweeted a link to it on February 3 but subsequently deleted it. The ruling party and its supporters claimed Thunberg had unwittingly exposed the "conspiracy" to defame India. But what exactly is a toolkit and what does it have to do with the farmers' agitation or Disha's arrest?  What's a toolkit?    As the name suggests, a toolkit is just a set of tools used for a particular purpose. In computing, it's a set of software tools. It's also referred to as a set of guidelines, directions or instructions to get something done. A toolkit could be a document, an explainer or a manual, and may include information about a specific issue. In the context of protests, a toolkit could mean an action plan. But toolkits are not necessarily linked to demonstrations.   What toolkit did Greta Thunberg share on Twitter?  Thunberg, like Barbadian singer Rihanna, had initially tweeted in support of the farmers' agitation by sharing a news article. Later, she posted another message which read: "Here's a toolkit if you want to help." A controversy immediately broke out as the toolkit was linked to the pro-Khalistan outfit Poetic Justice Foundation. Thunberg quickly deleted the toolkit, saying it was outdated, and tweeted another one.   What was there in the toolkit?  According to Delhi Police, the toolkit contained action points like digital strike through hashtags on January 26 and earlier, a tweet storm from January 23 onwards, physical action on January 26 and entering Delhi for farmers' rally and going back to the border (the site of the demonstration). Further, the document mentioned tasks such as disruption of India's cultural heritage like 'yoga' and 'tea', and targeting Indian embassies in various capitals abroad, according to police.  That's fine. But why did Delhi police arrest Disha Ravi over the toolkit?  Following Thunberg's tweet, Delhi police registered a case of sedition, promoting enmity among communities and criminal conspiracy on February 4 against unknown people. They asked Google and other technology giants to provide information about the generation of the toolkit as well as its distribution. Police say Disha's arrest was the culmination of that investigation.  What's Delhi police case against Disha? Police claim Disha, along with a lawyer named Nikita Jacob and an engineer named Shantanu Mallick, played a key role in the circulation of the toolkit, which resulted in the storming of the Red Fort on January 26. They say the group collaborated to prepare and disseminate the toolkit, whose content was aimed at creating disaffection against India. Investigators also claim that the group worked with the pro-Khalistan outfit Poetic Justice Foundation. A Canada-based woman is said to have connected them to the outfit, and through them, created the toolkit documents entitled 'Global Farmer Strike' and 'Global Day of Action, 26 January'. Why are the police linking activists to anti-India groups? Police claim that pro-Khalistan groups are attempting to use the farmers' protest to fan trouble in India and using the activists to further their agenda. They also claim that activists are working against a democratically elected government in the country. They say the toolkit had mentioned one Peter Frederick, who is on the radar of Indian agencies for his links with an ISI operative named Bhajan Singh Bhinder alias Iqbal Choudhary. Police claim that they need to investigate whether the activists have a link.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dh-deciphers-whats-a-toolkit-why-is-everyone-talking-about-it-951709.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||HM Amit Shah greets Delhi Police personnel on force's 74th raising day||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday extended greetings to the Delhi Police personnel and their families on the force's raising day and said they are ensuring the national capital's security even under adverse circumstances. As home minister, Shah is in charge of the Delhi Police. "Heartfelt greetings to all personnel and their families on the 74th foundation day of Delhi Police. I salute the courage, restraint and determination of the brave personnel of the Delhi Police who are fully dedicated to ensuring the security and peace of the country's capital even under adverse circumstances," Shah tweeted in Hindi||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hm-amit-shah-greets-delhi-police-personnel-on-forces-74th-raising-day-951742.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh woman publicly shamed, made to carry ex-husband's relative on shoulders for 3 kilometres||A tribal woman was beaten up and forced to walk for three kilometres carrying a teenage boy on her shoulders by her in-laws in Madhya Pradesh's Guna district, police said on Tuesday. Five persons have been arrested in connection with the incident that took place at Sanai village, said Guna superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kumar Mishra. The incident took place on February 9 and came to light on Monday when a purported video of it went viral. A case has been registered against a total of eight persons including a minor, the police official said. Earlier the police had said the woman's husband was among the accused, but the SP later said he was not among them. In the video, the woman, who is around 20 years old, is seen walking barefoot with the boy on her shoulders as some men keep hitting her with sticks and even with cricket bats. The woman, who married a man from Banskhedi village two years ago, had separated from him due to some dispute and was living with another man in Sanai, the SP said. On February 9, when she was alone, some members of her estranged husband's family and the boy turned up and allegedly beat her up, he said. They also forced the woman to walk for three km with the boy on her shoulders, the SP said. Based on a complaint lodged by the woman at Sirsi police station, the police arrested five of the eight accused, he said. State Congress chief Kamal Nath claimed the woman was pregnant and said what happened was against humanity. "Shivraj-ji (chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan), is this your good governance?" he asked. "A pregnant woman was forced to walk barefoot with a boy on her shoulders. A procession was taken out and she was beaten up mercilessly," the former chief minister said, demanding stern action against the culprits. To a query, additional superintendent of police T S Baghel said according to available information, the victim was not pregnant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-woman-publicly-shamed-made-to-carry-ex-husbands-relative-on-shoulders-for-3-kilometres-951745.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||45 killed as bus plunges into canal in Madhya Pradesh's Sidhi district||At least 45 people, including 20 women, were killed when a packed bus skidded off the road and plunged into a canal in Madhya Pradesh's Sidhi district on Tuesday morning, a senior official said. The accident took place near Patna village, around 80 km from the Sidhi district headquarters, when the ill-fated bus was on its way to Satna from Sidhi, he said. A search operation involving State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel and local authorities was still on at the site, the official said. Rescuers have retrieved 45 bodies from the canal so far, said Rewa Divisional Commissioner Rajesh Jain, under whose jurisdiction the accident took place. "A total of 45 bodies - 24 of men, 20 women and a child - have been fished out of the Bansagar canal until now," he said, adding a magisterial probe has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the accident. "Seven persons managed to swim to safety," he said. The packed bus, coming from Sidhi and going to Satna, veered off the road and rolled down the canal which is part of the Bansagar project at around 8:30 AM, said Inspector General (Rewa zone) Umesh Joga. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief at the "horrific" bus accident and approved an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives. Modi said, "The bus accident in MP's Sidhi is horrific. Condolences to the bereaved families. The local administration is actively involved in rescue and relief work." Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan expressed grief over the tragedy and announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased. "I have also sent Water Resources Minister Tulsiram Silawat and MOS for Panchyat Ramkhelawan Patel to the spot," Chouhan said. The Chief Minister said he ordered to stop the water outflow from the Bansagar dam so that water level in the canal could go down and help in the rescue operation. Madhya Pradesh Congress president Kamal Nath also expressed grief over the bus tragedy. Eyewitnesses said the bus sank completely into the canal water and was not visible in the morning hours. Later, the district administration stopped the release of water into the canal from the Bansagar project, which brought the water level down, they said. Meanwhile, in view of the accident, the CM cancelled a house-warming ceremony to be attended virtually by Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Shah was scheduled to take part in the programme, scheduled to be held at 11 AM in Bhopal, for the beneficiaries of over one lakh houses constructed in Madhya Pradesh under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/45-killed-as-bus-plunges-into-canal-in-madhya-pradeshs-sidhi-district-951753.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi Court summons Kanhaiya Kumar on March 15 for 2016 JNU sedition case hearing||A court here has taken cognisance of a chargesheet filed by the Delhi Police against former Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union (JNUSU) President Kanhaiya Kumar and nine others in a 2016 sedition case and summoned them on March 15. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) Pankaj Sharma on Monday took the cognisance of the final report almost a year after the Delhi Police received requisite sanctions to prosecute the accused in the case, court sources said. Kumar and others, including former JNU students Umar Khalid and Anirban Bhattacharya, were accused of raising anti-India slogans. The other seven accused chargesheeted in the case are Kashmiri students Aquib Hussain, Mujeeb Hussain, Muneeb Hussain, Umar Gul, Rayeea Rassol, Bashir Bhat and Basharat, some of them were then studying in JNU, Aligarh Muslim University and Jamia Millia Islamia. As many as 36 others, including Communist Party of India (CPI) leader D Raja's daughter Aprajita, Shehla Rashid (then vice-JNUSU president), Rama Naga, Ashutosh Kumar and Banojyotsna Lahiri, all former students of JNU, have been named in column 12 of the chargesheet due to insufficient evidence against them. The accused have been charged with offences under sections 124A (sedition), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 143 (punishment for being a member of an unlawful assembly), 149 (being a member of an unlawful assembly), 147 (punishment for rioting) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). A case was registered on February 11, 2016 under sections 124A and 120B of the IPC against unidentified people at the Vasant Kunj (north) Police Station, following complaints from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Maheish Girri and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), the student wing of the RSS.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-summons-kanhaiya-kumar-on-march-15-for-2016-jnu-sedition-case-hearing-951754.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Two more bodies recovered from Tapovan tunnel, disaster toll rises to 58||Two more bodies were recovered early on Tuesday from the Tapovan tunnel where intense rescue operations were underway for the 10th consecutive day in search of those missing in the Uttarakhand flash floods. With the recovery of two more bodies, the cumulative toll in Chamoli's glacial disaster has mounted to 58 while 146 are still missing, a police official said.         While one body was recovered past midnight, another was recovered around 2 am from the tunnel, the official deputed at a temporary mortuary at Tapovan where the bodies are being kept told PTI.          So far eleven bodies have been recovered from the sludge choked intake Adit tunnel of the flash flood ravaged Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project. The multi-agency rescue effort in Chamoli district is focusing on the Tapovan tunnel where about 30 workers were feared trapped. The agencies involved in the Tapovan rescue work include the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the National Disaster Response Force and the State Disaster Response Force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-more-bodies-recovered-from-tapovan-tunnel-disaster-toll-rises-to-58-951757.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi Police writes to Zoom, seeks details of toolkit meeting participants ahead of Republic Day||The Delhi Police have written to Zoom seeking details of the January 11 meeting organised on the popular video conferencing platform by pro-Khalistan outfit "Poetic Justice Foundation" to prepare a 'toolkit' on farmers' protest. The action came after police on Monday claimed that Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Pune-based engineer Shantanu attended a Zoom conference on January 11 organised by PJF to discuss the toolkit. A senior police official said that the Zoom has been approached by the investigators seeking details of all those who attended the meeting. Police had claimed that around 60-70 people attended the online meeting. According to police, Disha Ravi, Nikita and Shantanu collaborated to create the toolkit and distributed among a select few. Disha shared it with Swedish teen activist Greta Thunberg, they said. Nikita and Shantanu were contacted by PJF's Mo Dhaliwal through a Canada-based woman Puneet, Joint Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Prem Nath claimed on Monday. It was during the Zoom meeting that the modalities of the toolkit were discussed, he claimed. "On January 11, Nikita and Shantanu attended the Zoom Meeting organized by Poetic Justice Foundation in which the modalities of the Global Day of Action were worked out. Based on the course of action decided in the Zoom meeting, Nikita, Shantanu, Disha and others collaborated together to draft the Toolkit document," Prem Nath said. "The document that they drafted had secessionist and pro-Khalistani content embedded into it through links and texts," he claimed.  Investigators exploring options of approaching WhatsApp came a day after Joint Commissioner of Police Prem Nath claimed that Disha had deleted a Whatsapp group which she created to spread the toolkit. Police also claimed that Disha had asked Greta Thunberg, who shared the toolkit on Twitter, to delete her post fearing that it could lead to invoking UAPA against her. They also claimed Greta deleted it on Disha's request. Disha is claimed to have written to Greta on WhatsApp, saying, "Okay can you not tweet the toolkit at all. Can we just not say anything at all for a while. I am gonna talk to lawyers. I am sorry but our names are on it and we can literally get UAPA against us."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-police-writes-to-zoom-seeks-details-of-toolkit-meeting-participants-ahead-of-republic-day-951773.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Toolkit case: Disha Ravi's arrest made in accordance with law, says Delhi Police chief||Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Tuesday defended the arrest of activist Disha Ravi in the toolkit case, saying the action was taken as per law and it "does not differentiate between a 22-year-old or a 50-year-old". Shrivastava's remarks came even as activists and lawyers questioned why a transit remand was not obtained from a court in Bengaluru where Disha was arrested. "As far as Disha's arrest is concerned, it was done as per the procedures. Law doesn't differentiate between a 22-year-old and a 50-year-old," he told reporters. He said she was produced before a court on Sunday which sent her to five-day police custody for interrogation. "It is false when people say that there were lapses in the arrest," he added. Disha along with Mumbai lawyer Nikita Jacob and Pune-based engineer Shantanu has been accused of creating the toolkit on farmers' protest and shared it with others to tarnish India's image. On Monday, Joint Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Prem Nath also defended the action, saying that Disha was arrested in the presence of her mother in her residence in Bengaluru and the local Station House Officer. He had claimed all procedures were followed. However, lawyers and activists claimed that Delhi Police has violated the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on 'Arrest of an Accused Outside the State/UT jurisdiction' and the Criminal Procedure Code. A group of lawyers also filed a complaint with Bengaluru police claiming that the MHA's 2012 guidelines were violated.  The guideline was issued on May 16, 2012, after it came to notice that police officers carrying out an arrest in another state, bring back the arrested person and produce him before the magistrate in their own jurisdiction. "However, this procedure is not in accordance with the law," it had added. The Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) on Monday said that Disha should have been first produced before a competent court in Bengaluru for obtaining transit remand since she was being moved between states, but was not.  She was instead produced before the Duty Magistrate in Delhi, who is “by no means the nearest magistrate as required by clause (2) of Article 22”, it said adding Delhi Police have failed to follow any of the guidelines laid down by the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/toolkit-case-disha-ravis-arrest-made-in-accordance-with-law-says-delhi-police-chief-951775.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Bus accident: MP govt cancels event to be attended by Amit Shah||The Madhya Pradesh government has cancelled the 'grih pravesh' or house-warming ceremony to be attended virtually by Union Home Minister Amit Shah in view of the Tuesday's Sidhi bus accident in which many passengers are feared drowned. The cancellation of the event, which was scheduled to start at 11 am at Minto Hall here, was announced by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan after he reached the venue. Amit Shah was scheduled to take part via video conferencing in this programme for the beneficiaries of over one lakh houses constructed in Madhya Pradesh under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY). Many passengers are feared drowned after a bus fell off a bridge into a canal near Patna village in Sidhi district on Tuesday morning, police and eyewitnesses said. As per preliminary information, at least 50 passengers were travelling in the ill-fated bus at the time of the accident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bus-accident-mp-govt-cancels-event-to-be-attended-by-amit-shah-951776.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Sacred portals of Badrinath will be reopened for devotees on May 18||The sacred portals of Badrinath will be reopened for devotees on May 18 this year. The gates of the famous Himalayan temple located in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district are closed every year with the onset of winter during which it remains snowbound. The temple will be reopened for devotees at 4.15 am on May 18, a Chardham Devasthanam Board official said. The auspicious hour and date for the reopening of the Himalayan temple was decided at a ceremony held on the occasion of Basant Panchami on Tuesday at Narendra Nagar palace, the residence of the erstwhile Tehri royals, he said. The oil containing pitcher (Gadu Ghada) which is sent from the palace to the temple ahead of the opening of its gates will leave for its journey to Badrinath on April 29.         Badrinath had a delayed opening last year due to the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic and a substantially reduced number of pilgrims could visit it owing to COVID-19 restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sacred-portals-of-badrinath-will-be-reopened-for-devotees-on-may-18-951786.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Rahul Gandhi a 'migrant leader' who has taken refuge in Kerala after being rejected in Amethi: BJP||BJP on Tuesday attacked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, calling him a "migrant leader" who has taken "shelter" in Kerala after being rejected by people of Amethi, once a stronghold of his family. Targeting Gandhi, who represents Kerala's Wayanad seat in Lok Sabha, on the Sabarimala women entry issue, senior BJP leader and Union Minister Pralhad Joshi claimed that the national leadership and state leadership of the Congress have taken two different stands on the matter. He urged Gandhi to clear his position on the issue of faith. In a bid to woo Christian votes in the state, Joshi, who is the party's election in-charge for Kerala, also cited the "appeasement of Islamist fundamentalists" by the Congress and ruling Left in the state while raking up the issue of conversion of the Hagia Sophia church into a mosque in Turkey. In this context, he cited the statement of a leader of the Muslim League, a key Congress ally, reportedly favouring the Turkish President Erdogan's controversial decision. Addressing a press conference here to highlight the preparations for the BJP's 'Vijay Yatra' from Kasaragod on February 21, Joshi claimed Rahul Gandhi was a migrant leader who did nothing for the development of Amethi constituency in Uttar Pradesh despite being elected thrice from there. "There was no development. In fact, there was no X-Ray machine in the public health facility in his constituency," Joshi alleged. He said that after being rejected by the people there, Gandhi has now taken "shelter" in Kerala and claimed people of the state will also understand that by supporting Congress party, they are not going to gain anything. On the Sabarimala issue, the BJP leader alleged Gandhi supported the Supreme Court verdict granting entry of women of all age groups into the ancient hill shrine. However, the state leadership of the Congress took a different stand on the matter, he said. This shows that they have no commitment towards Hindu sentiments, Joshi alleged. "So far Rahul Gandhi has not uttered a single word on Sabarimala. I challenge Rahul Gandhi....what is your stand on the issue? You clarify your stand," he said. Accusing the Congress of indulging in appeasement of Islamist fundamentalists in Kerala, the BJP leader alleged senior IUML leader Panakkad Sadiq Ali Shihab Thangal had justified the Turkey government's controversial conversion of Istanbul's Hagia Sophia into a mosque. The BJP leader also attacked the ruling CPI(M) in Kerala and the previous Congress-led UDF government, alleging both had failed to address the issues of the people. "We will expose the failures of the LDF government and the previous UDF government. Both the LDF and the UDF have failed miserably," Joshi said. He said Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will flag-off the party's Vijay Yatra, led by state president K Surendran, at Kasargod on February 21. Senior party leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah will attend the yatra when it reaches Thiruvananthapuram on March 7, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rahul-gandhi-a-migrant-leader-who-has-taken-refuge-in-kerala-after-being-rejected-in-amethi-bjp-951791.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||J&K: Militants trigger IED blast to target CRPF vehicle in Anantnag, no casualty||Militants triggered an improvised explosive device (IED) to target a security forces vehicle in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday, but there was no loss of life, police said. Militants targeted a Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) bunker vehicle in Pazalpora area of Bijbehara in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district, a police officer said. He said that the blast injured a few civilian vehicles, but there was no loss of life reported. The security forces fired a few shots in the air after the blast, the official said, adding that the area was cordoned off and a hunt has been launched to nab the attackers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-militants-trigger-ied-blast-to-target-crpf-vehicle-in-anantnag-no-casualty-951792.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Petrol soars to all-time high to Rs 99.87 per litre in Rajasthan||Petrol price on Tuesday soared to Rs 99.87 per litre in Rajasthan -- the highest level India has ever seen -- as fuel prices were hiked for the eighth day in a row. Petrol price was raised by 30 paise per litre and diesel by 35 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Simultaneously, the oil firms hiked cooking gas (LPG) price by Rs 50 per cylinder and that of jet fuel (ATF) by 3.6 per cent. LPG now comes for Rs 769 per 14.2-kg cylinder in the national capital. The increase in petrol and diesel priced pushed retail rates, which differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local sales tax or VAT and freight charges, to their highest level. In Delhi, petrol now comes for Rs 89.29 per litre and diesel for Rs 79.70. Rates are higher in states that levy higher VAT. In Mumbai, petrol price rose to Rs 95.75 a litre and diesel was priced at Rs 86.72. Rajasthan, which levies the highest VAT on fuel in the country, had the highest petrol and diesel prices.   In Sriganganagar town of the state, petrol soared to Rs 99.87 and diesel jumped to Rs 91.86 per litre. While branded/premium or additive mixed petrol is already over Rs 100-mark at some places in three states of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, the Rs 99.87 a litre price of regular petrol is the highest that the country has ever seen. This is despite the Rajasthan government late last month cutting VAT on petrol and diesel by 2 per cent. VAT on petrol at 36 per cent plus Rs 1.5 per litre road cess is still the highest in the country. On diesel, the state levies 26 per cent and Rs 1.75 per litre road cess. Branded petrol at Sriganganagar was priced at Rs 102.65 a litre and similar grade diesel at Rs 95.52. Branded petrol is priced at Rs 92.12 per litre in Delhi and same grade diesel at Rs 82.99. The oil firms raised aviation turbine fuel (ATF) price by Rs 1,942.5 per kilolitre, or 3.6 per cent, to Rs 55,737.91 per kl in the national capital. While petrol and diesel prices are revised on a daily basis, LPG and ATF rates are revised on 1st and 16th of every month. In eight straight days, prices have gone up by Rs 2.34 per litre for petrol and Rs 2.57 for diesel. The relentless hike in prices has been criticised by the opposition parties including Congress that has demanded an immediate cut in taxes to ease the burden on the common man. Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan last week had told Parliament that the government is not considering a reduction in excise duty to cool rates from their record highs. Central and state taxes make up for 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 per cent of diesel. The union government levies Rs 32.90 per litre of excise duty on petrol and Rs Rs 31.80 a litre on diesel. Retail petrol rates have risen by Rs 19.7 per litre since mid-March 2020 after the government raised taxes by a record margin to mop up gains arising from fall in international oil prices. Diesel rates have gone up by Rs 17.41.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/petrol-soars-to-all-time-high-to-rs-9987-per-litre-in-rajasthan-951794.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Tractor rally violence: Delhi court extends Deep Sidhu's police custody by seven days||A Delhi court on Tuesday extended by seven days the police custody of actor-activist Deep Sidhu in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day during the farmers' tractor parade against the Centre's three new agri laws. Sidhu was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Bhujali after the expiry of his police custody in the case. Police sought extension of his custodial interrogation, saying it was required for further investigation and to identify other accused persons in the case. The court had on February 9 sent Sidhu to police custody for seven days after the police alleged he was one of the main instigators of the violent incidents at the Red Fort. The police had said there are videos where Sidhu can be allegedly seen at the site of the incident. "He was instigating the crowd. He was also one of the main rioters. Several social media accounts need to be searched to identify co-conspirators. Also, his permanent address is given as Nagpur but several places need to be visited in Punjab and Haryana to unearth further details," the police had alleged. "He can be seen coming out with the person who hoisted the flag and congratulating him. He came out and gave speeches in loud hailers and provoked the crowd there. He was the main instigator. He instigated the crowd due to which violence occurred. Several policemen were injured in the violence," the police alleged. Sidhu's counsel, however, claimed he had nothing to do with the violence and was at the wrong place at the wrong time. Sidhu has been arrested for several offences under the Indian Penal Code including rioting (147 and 148), unlawful assembly (149), attempt to murder (120-B), criminal conspiracy (120-B), assaulting or obstructing public servant (152), dacoity (395), culpable homicide (308) and disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant (188). He has also been arrested under sections of the Arms Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act. The police had announced a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh for information leading to Sidhu's arrest. Tens of thousands of protesting farmers clashed with the police in the national capital on January 26 during a tractor parade to highlight their demands. Many of them driving tractors reached the Red Fort and entered the monument, where a religious flag was also hoisted. Over 500 police personnel were injured and one protestor died.  In the FIR registered in connection with the Red Fort violence, police alleged two magazines with 20 live cartridges were snatched from two constables by protestors who also damaged vehicles and robbed anti-riot gear.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tractor-rally-violence-delhi-court-extends-deep-sidhus-police-custody-by-seven-days-951797.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||PM Modi lays foundation stone for warrior-king Suheldev's statue in Uttar Pradesh's Bahraich||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday laid the foundation stone for a statue of warrior-king Suheldev of Shravasti. He also unveiled through a video conferencing programmes for the beautification of Shravasti, Chittora Lake and Bahraich on the occasion.  The projects will focus on the development of various tourist amenities including a cafeteria, guest house and a children's park.  Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath was present at the event. King Suheldev, an icon of the Rajbhar community, had defeated and killed the Ghaznavid general Ghazi Saiyyad Salar Masud in a battle on the banks of the Chittora lake in Bahraich in 1033.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-modi-lays-foundation-stone-for-warrior-king-suheldevs-statue-in-uttar-pradeshs-bahraich-951801.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Can Gods ever die? Land record in Uttar Pradesh seems to have an answer||Can Gods ever die? The believers will certainly say no. But in the revenue records at Mohanlal Ganj town in Lucknow district, they (Gods) were shown as 'dead' and the ownership of the land on which their temple existed was transferred to their 'heir'. The shocking case of land grab took place at Kusmaura Haluapur village in the district. According to the reports, the land on which the 100-year-old temple existed was in the name of 'Krishna-Ram' (Lord Krishna and Lord Rama). A few decades back, the land was transferred in the name of Gaya Prasad stating that 'Krishna Ram' had died that the former was their father and the sole heir.  A few years later Gaya Prasad was also shown as 'dead' and the land was transferred in the name of his two brothers. On a complaint by the Trustee of the temple, an inquiry was conducted into the matter and it was found that the names of the gods 'Krishna and Rama' were clubbed together (Krishna Ram) to make it look as if it was the name of a person. This name was then entered into the revenue records. ''It is clear that the fraud was aimed at grabbing the precious land of the temple,'' said an official of the Revenue Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/can-gods-ever-die-land-record-in-uttar-pradesh-seems-to-have-an-answer-951807.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||BSP leader shot dead over old enmity in Uttar Pradesh's Azamgarh||A local BSP leader was shot dead in the Mehnagar police station area in Uttar Pradesh's Azamgarh district allegedly over an old rivalry, police said on Tuesday. Motorcycle-borne assailants opened fire on Kalamuddin Khan (60) late on Monday evening, when he was sitting in front of his house. Khan was rushed to the community health centre in Lalganj and was subsequently taken to a Varanasi hospital in a serious condition, where he was declared dead, the police said. An FIR has been lodged against six people, including a former village head, and three of them have been arrested. An old rivalry is stated to be the cause behind the crime, Superintendent of Police (SP) Sudhir Kumar Singh said. Khan also had a criminal record. He had six cases, including two of murder, against him, the SP said, adding that these days, he was living in Lucknow along with his son and working as a property dealer. Khan had returned here on Sunday. Four police teams have been constituted and raids are being carried out to nab the other culprits, the SP said. Khan had contested the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls on a Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) ticket twice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bsp-leader-shot-dead-over-old-enmity-in-uttar-pradeshs-azamgarh-951826.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC asks lower courts to file report on requisite infrastructure for holding hybrid hearings||The Delhi High Court Tuesday called for a report from subordinate courts on whether they have the infrastructure for holding hybrid proceedings wherein hearings are held both physically and via video conferencing simultaneously. Justice Prathiba M Singh asked the High Court's Registrar General to call for the report from the District and Sessions Judges (DSJs) of the subordinate courts on a plea moved by several lawyers who are senior citizens suffering from co-morbidities and apprehensive of attending physical hearings during the Covid-19 pandemic. The High Court also impleaded the Delhi government as a party in the matter and issued notice to it seeking its stand on the plea by the lawyers who wants that the district courts should allow them to attend hearings via video conference on days when they hold physical proceedings. The High Court on January 14 had issued a notification directing the subordinate courts to hold physical hearings on every alternate day. Justice Singh said the report called for shall indicate how the hearings were being held prior to January 14 and the availability of internet connectivity and devices in the court premises and residences of the judicial officers. Besides that, the report shall also indicate "whether it was feasible to hold hybrid hearings and if so, what would be the requirements for the same". The lawyers, in their plea, have claimed that even on days for virtual hearings, some district courts are not holding court via video conference due to poor connectivity on the part of lawyers, lack of proper infrastructure, etc. In some cases, even adverse orders, like closing the opportunity to lead evidence, have been passed when such lawyers have not appeared on physical hearing days, the petition has claimed. The high court listed the matter for further hearing on February 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-asks-lower-courts-to-file-report-on-requisite-infrastructure-for-holding-hybrid-hearings-951836.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand Floods: SDRF monitoring lake formation over Rishiganga||The SDRF on Tuesday said it is keeping a strict vigil around the Rishiganga river due to the formation of a lake five-six km above it after the recent glacial disaster in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district, despite the water body posing no immediate threat. Satellite pictures have recently confirmed the formation of the lake at a height of 14,000 feet in the catchment area of the Rishiganga, after which a State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) team was dispatched to the location to check the facts. The team found that water is seeping from the lake in a natural way, reducing the chances of an outburst that can cause a fresh flood downstream. Still, the SDRF has deployed its men from the lake up to Raini and Tapovan to maintain a constant vigil, commandant of the force Navneet Bhullar, who led the team to the lake, said. Besides, sensors have also been installed in the area under the early warning system to keep an eye on the flow of water in the Rishiganga and Dhauliganga rivers. An eye is also being kept on the lake through satellites, Bhullar said. On February 7, a flash flood triggered by a glacier burst in Chamoli killed a large number of people, besides demolishing a 13.2-MW hydel project in the Rishiganga, and caused extensive damage to the 520-MW Dhauliganga hydel project of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-floods-sdrf-monitoring-lake-formation-over-rishiganga-951840.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Delhi records 94 new Covid-19 cases, lowest in over 9 months||Delhi recorded 94 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the lowest in over nine months, while the positivity rate slipped to 0.17 per cent in the city, authorities said. One fatality was also registered, taking the death toll due to the viral disease to 10,894 in the national capital, according to the latest health bulletin issued by the Delhi government. Delhi had recorded 96 coronavirus cases on January 27, which was the lowest then in over nine months and the first time that the daily cases' count was below the 100-mark in that month. No death due to Covid-19 was recorded in the city on Saturday, the second time in February when the single-day fatality count was nil. On February 9, no fatality from the coronavirus infection was registered in the national capital after a gap of nearly nine months. The fatality count was two on February 2, 5 and 7. The 94 cases were detected in the 56,944 tests conducted the previous day, according to the bulletin. The Covid-19 case tally has climbed to 6,37,181 in the city, the authorities said, adding that the positivity rate has further declined to 0.17 per cent. Delhi recorded 141 Covid-19 cases and two deaths due to the disease on Monday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.36 per cent. The tally of active cases slightly rose to 1,036 on Tuesday from 1,031 the previous day, according to the bulletin. The total number of tests conducted the previous day included 34,679 RT-PCR tests and 22,265 rapid antigen tests, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-94-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-over-9-months-951866.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Students in Delhi protest against environmentalist Disha Ravi's detention||Students chanted slogans outside the Delhi police headquarters on Tuesday demanding the release of a 22-year-old environmentalist accused of sedition for an online document in support of farmers' protests. Police say Disha Ravi, a leader of the local arm of climate change campaigner Greta Thunberg's advocacy group, created and shared a "toolkit" or an action plan that was used to foment violence in Delhi last month during the protests. Her supporters have denied she did anything illegal and said the toolkit was an information pack about the protests, which erupted late last year to demand a rollback of three new agricultural laws, and was not designed to incite violence. "The way the police took her away is illegal," said Prasenajit Kumar, a leader of the student group which tried to march to the front gates of the police headquarters. Riot police were on standby and the protesters were pushed back. Her arrest in her hometown of Bengaluru on Sunday has stoked outrage and comes at a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government faces allegations it is suppressing dissent. The government denies the charge and says people are free to protest if it is done peacefully. Police said her detention was part of the investigation into the violence that took place on Jan. 26, Republic Day, when thousands of farmers tore down barricades and reached the historic Red Fort and raised a religious flag there. "As far as Disha's arrest is concerned, it was done as per the procedures. Law doesn't differentiate between a 22-year-old and a 50-year-old," Delhi police commissioner S.N. Srivastava said. A lawyer for Ravi has declined to comment. Thunberg said on Monday that she had no comment on Ravi's arrest. Police also have arrest warrants for two of Ravi's two associates, Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk. Jacob, a Mumbai-based lawyer, has petitioned a court, seeking to block her arrest. The court was due to hear her petition later on Tuesday. She said in her petition that she was trying to raise awareness about the plight of farmers protesting against deregulation of the produce market. There was no question of inciting violence, she said. Muluk could not be immediately reached for comment. Thousands of farmers remain camped on the outskirts of New Delhi. The government says the new laws open up opportunities to farmers by allowing them to directly sell produce to private buyers such as large retailers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-in-delhi-protest-against-environmentalist-disha-ravis-detention-951874.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Rescue operations in Uttarakhand to continue till last victim is reached: NDRF commandant||Amid fading hopes of the survival of those who went missing after a glacier disaster in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district 10 days ago, NDRF Commandant PK Tiwari on Tuesday said search-and-rescue operations will go on in the flood-hit hydel project sites till the last victim is reached. Asked about the chances of survival of those missing or trapped, the NDRF commandant said he cannot say anything with confidence but miracles do happen. "We found a survivor in Himachal Pradesh even on the 10th day of a similar tragedy. There are miracles. But there are lakhs of metric tonnes of sludge in the tunnel. However, as a soldier and a rescuer, I can only say the operations will continue till the last victim is reached," Tiwari told PTI. Describing the ongoing rescue operations at a tunnel of the damaged Tapovan-Vishnugad hydel project of the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) as unique, he said the muck-clearing exercise may take months, if not a year. "The tunnel is four-km long. We have reached about 160-165 metres inside it and have to go beyond that. Sludge-clearing through a tunnel, which took eight to 10 years to be built, may take months, if not a year," he said. On drilling a hole in the lower tunnel parallel to the intake adit tunnel, from where bodies are being recovered since Sunday, Tiwari said it was punctured in the hope of locating the trapped with the help of a camera, as vacuum was expected because of the presence of some vehicle like a Bolero or a Scorpio car inside the tunnel at the time of the avalanche. But it was realised later that the tunnel, where 25-35 people were feared trapped, was also badly choked with sludge. The rescue operations have to be suspended for a while whenever a body is found so as not to cause further harm to a decomposed body, Tiwari said. However, he said the rescue operations at Raini, where a smaller hydel project was nearly demolished in the avalanche, were nearing conclusion. "Since the start of the operations in Raini, our two teams have recovered 12 bodies. We are trying to reach a patch where villagers tell us there could be people. We will have the entire project site scoured by the end of the day," the NDRF commandant said. He said considering the pace at which the huge volume of muck and slush hurtled down following the glacier burst in the Rishiganga river, it must have flown down bodies till Rudraprayag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rescue-operations-in-uttarakhand-to-continue-till-last-victim-is-reached-ndrf-commandant-951910.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||SC takes exception to WhatsApp messages by district judge to woman judicial officer||The Supreme Court on Tuesday took exception to conduct of a former district judge from Madhya Pradesh, who allegedly sent offensive and inappropriate messages to a junior officer and justified this conduct as mere "flirting". Senior advocate Ravindra Shrivastava along with advocate Arjun Garg, representing Madhya Pradesh High Court, read out several WhatsApp messages sent by the district judge to a junior lady officer. Shrivastava said he is a senior judicial officer and hence his conduct should have been more appropriate with the lady officer. "WhatsApp messages are quite offensive and improper. For a judge this conduct with junior officer is not acceptable," a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian orally said. The bench, however, sought to know if they have some understanding with each other, is it good to go ahead. The court also said the petitioner, now retired, has already learnt a lesson and pointed towards a settlement between the parties. Shrivastava replied that the woman officer wanted a settlement, but the High Court committee probing this matter did not accept it. He added that the petitioner has admitted that he was flirting with the lady. "What kind of judicial officer is this? We don't understand," Shrivastava wondered. At this stage, the Chief Justice said it agreed with the submissions. Senior advocate R Balasubramanian, representing the district judge, submitted that the lady officer has withdrawn her complaint under the Prevention of Sexual Harassment Act, therefore the disciplinary proceedings by the High Court are not maintainable. To his contention, the bench said "the High Court wants to proceed, and it is duty-bound to do so limited to disciplinary proceedings. What is there in law which can prevent High Court proceedings?" Balasubramanian said that these charges were levelled during his client's promotion just to spoil his chances of being promoted. "All kinds of allegations come during promotion. We cannot generalise it. In this case there is allegation," the bench said, posting the matter for further consideration next week. On September 4, 2020, the top court had stayed disciplinary enquiry against the district judge on his plea against the HC's order of August 14, 2020, rejecting his petition. The petitioner contended the Gender Sensitisation Internal Complaint Committee had given a final report in the matter on April 30, 2019, but subsequently made a volte-face, favouring a disciplinary enquiry against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-takes-exception-to-whatsapp-messages-by-district-judge-to-woman-judicial-officer-951921.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Two members of PFI arrested with huge quantity of explosives in Uttar Pradesh||Two members of the Popular Front of India (PFI), planning a series of terrorist attacks at various places in the country, were arrested by the Special Task Forces in the state capital on Friday with a huge quantity of high quality explosives, a senior official said here. "Ansad Badruddin and Firoz Khan have been arrested from Kukrail trisection in Gudamba area here. With their arrest, the STF has foiled a series of terrorist attacks in various parts of the country on Basant Panchmi. Huge quantity of high quality explosives has been recovered from them," Additional Director General of Police (ADG), Law and Order, Prashant Kumar told reporters here.  The Uttar Pradesh government has earlier sought a ban on the PFI accusing it of inciting violence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-members-of-pfi-arrested-with-huge-quantity-of-explosives-in-uttar-pradesh-951994.html
16-02-2021||North and Central||Intern at AIIMS, Rishikesh dies 11 days after getting Covid vaccine dose||A 24-year-old intern died at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here on Sunday, 11 days after receiving the anti-Covid vaccine dose. Niraj Singh was administered the Covishield dose on February 3, AIIMS, Rishikesh PRO Harish Thapliyal said. However, he said the intern apparently did not die because of the vaccination as he might have been suffering from an infection, which he did not reveal in his consent letter before taking the shot. Singh had returned from encephalitis-hit Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh on January 30. He was administered the Covishield jab on February 3 as the frontline corona warriors had to be inoculated in the first week of February, Thapliyal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/intern-at-aiims-rishikesh-dies-11-days-after-getting-covid-vaccine-dose-951996.html
16-02-2021||Opinion||Why Left-Congress combine is focusing on the Muslim vote in Bengal||Politics is not only about power. It is equally about perception. An election, similarly, is a battle of contesting perceptions. But there is a third force, the Left-Congress combine, which has not been able to create any perception about itself. Apart from their small pockets of hardcore supporters, people at large still do not know why they should consider voting for this combine. And so, weeks before the commencement of elections, it is going in for what appears to be a desperate move. The desperate move we are talking about is the Left-Congress combine’s keenness to have an alliance with Pirzada Abbas Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front (ISF). Emergence of a Muslim outfit in Bengal To have a clear understanding of the situation, we must acquaint ourselves with the background of Pirzada. He belongs to Furfura Sharif, a shrine in Hooghly district in south-eastern Bengal. He founded a socio-religious organisation Ahale Sunnatul Jamat, which has quite a big following in the southern Bengal. This cleric, so far considered to be soft towards Mamata Banerjee, is known to hold radical positions, and has often been criticised by the RSS forthem. As far as Muslim identity politics is concerned, the buzz in Bengal was about AIMIM’s high voltage entry in Bengal electoral politics after its success in Bihar. Just then, out of the blue, emerged Pirzada Siddiqui and his new outfit. AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi visited Furfura Sharif in early January 2021, met Siddiqui, and then announced that they would contest the election in Bengal under Siddiqui’s leadership. Then on January 21, Siddiqui floated his own party. The TMC dubbed it as “vote-katua” and the BJP criticised it as a communal outfit. Initially, the Siddiqui-Owaisi combine was perceived as a fringe force that could slightly damage the TMC by attracting two to three per cent votes, without a doubt of the Muslims. But soon, senior Congress leader Abdul Mannan met Siddiqui and expressed willingness to fight the upcoming assembly election together. The CPI(M)) also followed suit. Now Siddiqui has started the process by writing formal letters to these parties.  It is quite evident that the AIMIM members too will contest election as Pirzada's party candidates. If the Left-Congress combine shares space with the Owaisi-Siddiqui duo, it will surely not go down well with the Hindus. Still, the keenness of the Left-Congress combine to share seats with this ‘radical’ Muslim outfit is not inexplicable. Instead, it reflects a definite strategy. The Left-Congress strategy The Left-Congress combine wants to grab a larger share of the Muslim votes (which is about 30 per cent of Bengal’s voting population). They think if they can take away a sizable chunk of Muslim votes, it will ensure Mamata’s defeat. Not only that. They also believe if the TMC is defeated, it will just wither away, and they will emerge as the challenger to the BJP in the future. This line of thinking has attracted them towards Siddiqui. In Muslim-dominated districts of North Bengal, i.e. North Dinajpur, Malda and Murshidabad, this combine still holds some sway over the Muslim population. Out of the six Lok Sabha constituencies in these districts, the Congress, TMC and BJP won two seats each. Now the Left-Congress combine needs an engine to propel them into a strong position in southern Bengal’s Muslim areas. In Siddiqui, they hope to have found the engine. The Left-Congress initiative shows that the combine is not confident of retaining their Hindu votes. But at the moment they are not concerned about this. Like TMC, they too believe monopoly over Muslim vote is a recipe for dominating the political scene in Bengal. And once upon a time, before the TMC’s rise, the Muslims were with them. So, regaining the lost vote-bank is now the top priority for the combine. (Diptendra Raychaudhuri is a Kolkata-based journalist and author of several books, including the recently published detective novel Mirchi Memsaab’s House of Faith) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-left-congress-combine-is-focusing-on-the-muslim-vote-in-bengal-951741.html
16-02-2021||South||Once termed as political ‘lightweight’, Edappadi K Palaniswami completes 4 years as CM||When Edappadi K Palaniswami, then just a minister and a district secretary in the AIADMK government, took over as chief minister, many thought his dispensation would not last beyond a few months. However, Palaniswami not just managed to keep the AIADMK flock together for four long years, but also consolidated his position within the party showing his challengers, notably his one-time boss O Panneerselvam, their place. On Tuesday, Palaniswami will complete four years in office as chief minister with the AIADMK government brought to power for a second consecutive term by late J Jayalalithaa set to complete its five-year tenure in May. Palaniswami began asserting his position from the beginning though his colleagues came to trust him and put their weight behind him much later – he occupied the chamber meant for chief minister, in a change of custom followed by OPS who continued to function from a room allotted to him as a minister. Palaniswami was handpicked by Sasikala as the leader of the AIADMK Legislature Party after her dream of sitting in the chief minister’s saddle was shattered by the Supreme Court ruling upholding a trial court order that sent her to four years in jail in a disproportionate assets (DA) case. As Sasikala cooled her heels in the Parappana Agrahara prison in Bengaluru, Palaniswami began consolidating his position within the government and the party. He displayed his political acumen by forcing OPS, who rebelled against Sasikala and functioned as a separate faction, to merge with the AIADMK and making him his deputy, a demotion for the man who was a standby for Jayalalithaa twice when she had to quit due to court cases. However, OPS, for the record, is his boss in the party hierarchy. Palaniswami along with OPS check-mated T T V Dhinakaran, Sasikala’s nephew, and threw him out of the AIADMK. “Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has utilised the extraordinary situation in the AIADMK to build his political career. He has balanced many situations and people by consolidating his position in the party. Despite not being a mass leader, the chief minister has been able to emerge as the face of the AIADMK,” political analyst Prof P Ramajayam told DH. If Palaniswami could run the government and the party for four years despite hurdles, including those created by Dhinakaran and his camp, it is also because of the support he received from the BJP, which has been taking many decisions for the regional party after Jayalalithaa’s death. AIADMK’s dependence on the BJP is one of the main issues that the Opposition DMK flags against the ruling party – DMK chief M K Stalin calls the AIADMK as being “subservient” to the Centre. “Not just circumstances, the Centre’s support is what facilitated a smooth sailing for the EPS administration. The breathing line for the EPS government was provided by the BJP and the Central Government. Without that, he could not have survived,” Prof Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, told DH. Despite a devastating defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Palaniswami ensured the victory of AIADMK candidates in by-elections held to two constituencies held by DMK and Congress. That is when he conveyed the message to his prime challenger, DMK President M K Stalin, that he is no pushover. Both EPS and Stalin are currently crisscrossing the state having launched their campaigns much earlier in the day. Now that Sasikala is back from prison and has announced that she will take a plunge into active politics, EPS may have to walk the extra mile to keep the party united as both he and the party face the acid test in the April-May Assembly polls. “He is far more vulnerable now than earlier. Because the person who placed him in the chief minister’s chair, Sasikala, is back in Chennai,” Manivannan added. To his credit, Palaniswami, with help from bureaucracy, ran the administration and brought in landmark legislation like providing 7.5% reservation for government school students in medical admissions. However, the crackdown on people for protesting against Salem-Chennai Highway and Sterlite Copper sullied the government’s image.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/once-termed-as-political-lightweight-edappadi-k-palaniswami-completes-4-years-as-cm-951732.html
16-02-2021||South||P Chidambaram wins 2009 Sivaganga poll victory case as Madras High Court dismisses challenging plea||Almost 12 years after he won from Sivaganga Lok Sabha constituency for a record seventh time, the Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed an election petition filed against the victory of former Union Minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram from his stronghold.  The petition was filed by R S Rajakannappan, the then AIADMK candidate who is now with the DMK, in 2009 immediately after he lost the parliamentary elections by a slender margin of 3,354 votes. Rajakannappan, in his petition, had contended that 3,354 votes secured by him were included in the votes secured by Chidambaram by officials concerned.  Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana dismissed the petition filed by Rajakannappan, holding that charges of corrupt practices in the election results have not been proved. The case, which was filed in 2009, dragged on for nearly 12 years. Chidambaram appeared during the hearing and denied all allegations levelled against him. In his petition, Rajakannappan had alleged that the 3,354 votes that he secured in Alangudi assembly constituency were transferred to Chidambaram. Else, Rajakannappan argued that he would have won by over 7,000 votes.  Chidambaram won from Sivaganga seven times, and lost once. His son Karti P Chidambaram lost the election from the seat in 2014 but won in 2019 in alliance with the DMK. The case gave a handle to Chidambaram’s detractors to take a dig at him often. Late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa had alleged that Chidambaram committed a “fraud on the nation” in her first press conference in New Delhi in June 2011 after she brought the AIADMK to power.  "Our party has always maintained that Mr Chidambaram's victory was through fraudulent means... His continuance in the Union council of ministers is untenable. Mr Chidambaram was never elected to Parliament in 2009. He has played a fraud on the nation. Our party candidate won the election," she had said. In his reaction to Jayalalithaa’s remarks, Chidambaram had said has the habit of "starting on the wrong foot"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/p-chidambaram-wins-2009-sivaganga-poll-victory-case-as-madras-high-court-dismisses-challenging-plea-951767.html
16-02-2021||South||Crisis looms over Puducherry govt as ministers resign; emergency meeting underway||The Congress government in Puducherry headed by Chief Minister V Narayanasamy has plunged into a crisis with a minister and another party legislator resigning from their posts. With this, the number of Congress legislators putting in their papers in the past one month has gone up to four.  The crisis has hit the Congress government, a day before Rahul Gandhi is set to launch his campaign for the assembly elections due in April-May.  A. Johnkumar, who once vacated his seat paving the way for Narayanasamy to enter the Assembly after he was sworn-in as Chief Minister, submitted his resignation to Speaker V P Sivakozhunthu. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said on Monday that he too has resigned.  PWD Minister A Namassivayam and another legislator resigned from their posts last month and joined the BJP. With four resignations and one member already disqualified by the Speaker, the Congress’ strength in Puducherry has come down to 10. DMK has 3 MLAs, and one legislator is independent. The total strength of the House is 30. On the opposition side, the AIADMK has 4 members, and NR Congress (7).  Dinesh Gundu Rao, AICC in-charge of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, told DH that the Congress would take a call on the situation after Wednesday’s rally to be addressed by Rahul Gandhi. “We are confident of the numbers. Anyway, we have to go to the people in the next few months. This crisis has been artificially created by the BJP,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/crisis-looms-over-puducherry-govt-as-ministers-resign-emergency-meeting-underway-951768.html
16-02-2021||South||Tamil Nadu: O Panneerselvam to present interim budget on February 23||Tamil Nadu deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, who holds finance portfolio, will present the state’s interim budget for the financial year 2021-2022 on February 23.  Assembly Secretary K Sreenivasan said in a statement that Speaker P Dhanapal has convened a session of the state assembly at 11 am on February 23 at the Kalaivanar Arangam. Panneerselvam will present the interim budget as the tenure of the AIADMK Government ends on May 24.  A full-fledged budget will be presented by the new government that gets elected after the April-May assembly polls. Sources said the government decided to present the budget on February 23 as there are indications that the Election Commission of India (ECI) might announce the dates for assembly elections in the last week of February or early March.  Tamil Nadu is expected to go to polls in April-May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-o-panneerselvam-to-present-interim-budget-on-february-23-951784.html
16-02-2021||South||Madras High Court dismisses petition against P Chidambaram’s Sivaganga victory in 2009||Almost 12 years after he won from Sivaganga Lok Sabha constituency for a record seventh time, the Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed an election petition filed against the victory of former Union Minister and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram from his stronghold. The petition was filed by R S Rajakannappan, the then AIADMK candidate who is now with the DMK, in 2009 immediately after he lost the Parliamentary elections by a slender margin of 3,354 votes. Rajakannappan, in his petition, had contended that 3,354 votes secured by him were included in the votes secured by Chidambaram by officials concerned. Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana dismissed the petition filed by Rajakannappan, holding that charges of corrupt practices in the election results have not been proved. The case, which was filed in 2009, dragged on for nearly 12 years. Chidambaram appeared during the hearing and denied all allegations levelled against him. In his petition, Rajakannappan had alleged that the 3,354 votes that he secured in Alangudi assembly constituency were transferred to Chidambaram. Else, Rajakannappan argued that, he would have won by over 7,000 votes. Chidambaram won from Sivaganga seven times, and lost once. His son Karti P Chidambaram lost the election from the seat in 2014 but won in 2019 in alliance with the DMK. The case gave a handle to Chidambaram’s detractors to take a dig at him often. Late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa had alleged that Chidambaram committed a “fraud on the nation” in her first press conference in New Delhi in June 2011 after she brought the AIADMK to power. "Our party has always maintained that Mr Chidambaram's victory was through fraudulent means... His continuance in the Union council of ministers is untenable. Mr Chidambaram was never elected to Parliament in 2009. He has played a fraud on the nation. Our party candidate won the election," she had said. In his reaction to Jayalalithaa’s remarks, Chidambaram had said has the habit of "starting on the wrong foot".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-high-court-dismisses-petition-against-p-chidambaram-s-sivaganga-victory-in-2009-951899.html
16-02-2021||South||O Panneerselvam to present Tamil Nadu interim budget on February 23||Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam, who holds the finance portfolio, will present the state’s interim budget for the financial year 2021-2022 on February 23. Assembly Secretary K Sreenivasan said in a statement that Speaker P Dhanapal has convened a session of the state Assembly at 11 am on February 23 at the Kalaivanar Arangam. Panneerselvam will present the interim budget as the tenure of the AIADMK Government ends on May 24. A full-fledged budget will be presented by the new government that gets elected after the April-May Assembly polls. Sources said the government decided to present the budget on February 23 as there are indications that the Election Commission of India (ECI) might announce the dates for assembly elections in the last week of February or early March. Tamil Nadu is expected to go to polls in April-May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/o-panneerselvam-to-present-tamil-nadu-interim-budget-on-february-23-951905.html
16-02-2021||South||Realty firm MD arrested in Kerala dollar smuggling case||A contractor associated with a controversial UAE agency-funded housing scheme of Kerala has been arrested by the Customs in connection with a case involving dollar-smuggling-accused former employees of the UAE consulate in Kerala and Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's former Principal Secretary M Sivasankar. Santosh Eapen, Managing Director of Unitac Builders, was arrested by the Customs on Tuesday. The case is related to the smuggling of $1,90,000 (around Rs 1.3 crore) by a consulate official, Egyptian national Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry. It was suspected to be the commission set aside for the housing project for the homeless funded by UAE's Red Crescent under the Kerala government's flagship project LIFE Mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/realty-firm-md-arrested-in-kerala-dollar-smuggling-case-951961.html
16-02-2021||South||Hiccups in Kerala NCP MLA Mani C Kappan’s UDF entry||The much-hyped entry of an NCP MLA in Kerala to the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) seems to be facing hiccups, with some senior Congress leaders voicing concerns. MLA Mani C Kappan has quit NCP, a coalition partner of CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala, protesting against the denial of his sitting seat Pala in Kottayam for the upcoming Assembly polls. He was accorded a rousing reception by UDF leaders including AICC general secretary and former chief minister Oommen Chandy and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala at a public function on Sunday. However, subsequent statements of Kerala PCC president Mullappally Ramachandran and UDF convenor M M Hassan have led to the speculation that all is not well with Kappan’s entry to the UDF. While Ramachandran said that the entry of a new party to the front required nod from the Congress high command, UDF convenor M M Hassan said that he only came across media reports quoting Kappan that the UDF assured three seats for him in the Assembly elections without discussing it within the Front. Mullappally felt that joining the Congress party was better for Kappan than floating a new party. Kappan, who was expelled from the NCP, announced that he would soon announce a new party, but it is still pending.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hiccups-in-kerala-ncp-mla-mani-c-kappan-s-udf-entry-951967.html
16-02-2021||South||Kerala CM alleges that Congress misleading agitating job aspirants||With the ongoing stir by job aspirants in Kerala snowballing into a major political row, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has alleged that the Opposition Congress was misleading the agitators for political gains. Claiming that his government had recruited more candidates than the previous Congress-led UDF government, Vijayan said that it was surprising that even former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy was trying to mislead the candidates. While the critical remarks by some CPI(M) leaders against the ongoing stir by job aspirants had triggered widespread resentment, Vijayan tried to mellow it out by reiterating that his government was very much concerned about the desire of the candidates for getting jobs. The government was helpless as the existing vacancies were filled and the validity of some rank lists expired while there was no provision to revive the rank lists. Hundreds of candidates in various rank lists published by the Kerala Public Service Commission, including those for recruitment to last grade posts and civil police officers, are on an indefinite stir in front of the government secretariat demanding immediate recruitment. Congress leaders have also joined the stir, but the government's version is that recruitments were already made to all existing vacancies, including those to upcoming vacancies till December 2021 to certain categories.  The job aspirants in the rank lists were more provoked by the regularisation of hundreds of temporary employees in various government institutions. Vijayan was justifying it citing that the previous UDF government also regularised over 5,000 temporary employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-alleges-that-congress-misleading-agitating-job-aspirants-951976.html
16-02-2021||South||Toddler in Kerala dies after sliding gate fell on him||In a tragic incident, a one-and-a-half-year-old child died after the sliding gate of his house fell over him at Wayanad in Kerala on Tuesday. Police identified the deceased as Muhammed Yamin, the eldest of the two children of Shanib - Afnita couple of Kambalakkad near Kalpetta. According to the police as well as some local sources, the gate fell after its stopper and support wheel on the top collapsed. The gate was quite old too. Yamin was near the gate while some other children were playing with it. The incident occurred at around 11.30 am. Though Yamin was rushed to a nearby private hospital, he succumbed to internal injuries in the head soon after. Other children did not suffer any injuries. Police said that since there was nothing suspicious in the incident no case was registered. The funeral was held in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/toddler-in-kerala-dies-after-sliding-gate-fell-on-him-951980.html
16-02-2021||South||Congress compromising on its ideology, says Pinarayi Vijayan||Accusing the Congress of compromising on their ideology, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday alleged that differences between that party and BJP were narrowing down in the country. Addressing a press conference, the senior CPI(M) leader cited the donation given by senior Congress leaders like Digvijaya Singh for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya and said it was a "dangerous move". "The Congress should realise that such a move amounts to giving recognition to the position being taken by the RSS," Vijayan said. He said this in response to a query on the controversy over a Congress MLA in Kerala recently making a donation for the construction of the Ram temple. Congress MLA Eldhose Kunnappiily had made a contribution to the RSS workers last week, kicking up a row in the state. When some Muslim groups protested in front of his residence against the donation, the Perumbavoor MLA had apologised, claiming he was 'misled' by Sangh Parivar workers and was not aware that the donation was for the temple. Lashing out at the Congress, Vijayan said the MLA was following the footsteps of his party's important leaders like Digvijay Singh on the issue. "This is a very dangerous move", the Chief Minister said. He said the Congress so far had not taken a firm stand on any of the issues being faced by the nation. "They (the Congress) are compromising with such issues as they think that they will lose the votes of a section", he said, adding that the Congress would not be able to oppose the communal forces. Vijayan said the CPI(M)-led alliance has a very strong presence in Kerala and the LDF would continue to very strongly oppose any form of communalism. He cited the political developments in Puducherry, where Congress MLAs quit the party and their reported move to join the BJP and said "the differences between the Congress and BJP are narrowing down".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-compromising-on-its-ideology-says-pinarayi-vijayan-952006.html
16-02-2021||State||Passengers from UK, South Africa, Brazil must have negative RT-PCR report, undergo 14-day quarantine: Karnataka govt||The state government has made it mandatory for passengers arriving to Karnataka from the United Kingdom, Brazil and South Africa to produce RT-PCR negative certificate to board the flight & additionally RT-PCR negative test certificate at Bengaluru Airport. They shall also, undergo home quarantine for 14 days and follow up RT-PCR shall be conducted on 7th day. All those arriving from Kerala and checking into hotels, resorts, hostels, homestays, and dormitories, etc shall compulsorily produce a negative RT-PCR certificate that is not older than 72 hours.    More details awaited...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/passengers-from-uk-south-africa-brazil-must-have-negative-rt-pcr-report-undergo-14-day-quarantine-karnataka-govt-951886.html
16-02-2021||State||Negative RT-PCR report now must for visitors from Kerala to Karnataka||All those arriving from Kerala and checking into hotels, resorts, hostels, homestays, dormitories, shall compulsorily produce a negative RT-PCR certificate that is not older than 72 hours. Owners of the above-mentioned places should ensure that the occupants produce negative RT-PCR certificates. An order to this effect was issued by Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Jawaid Akhtar here on Tuesday. lf there is a cluster of five or more cases of Covid-19 in hostels, boarding, residential, or educational institutions, such places shall be declared as "containment zones" by the local health authorities and special surveillance measures should be initiated. After seven days of notifying the containment zone, the students and staff should be re-tested with RT-PCR. Strict enforcement of Covid-19 precautions like compulsory wearing of face masks, physical distancing, use of hand sanitisers, monitoring for symptoms in hostels, educational institutions are very important, and heads of institutions shall be maderesponsible for any lapses in this regard. Positive samples (CT cycle less than 20) shall be sent to NIMHANS laboratory for genomic sequencing. Hostels and Colleges Residents should not be allowed to have visitors/relatives without obtaining express permission from the Covid nodal officers. A list of students travelling to and from Kerala from the hostel/college should be maintained by a competent authority. The students shall compulsorily produce RT-PCR negative test reports, not older than 72 hours, each time they return from Kerala and till the situation improves. Strictly no visitors are allowed to enter hostel premises for any purpose. Only urgent/necessary needs for taking things from the room are allowed; students staying in campus/security guards will help do the picking. As for as possible, all the students residing in the hostel should stay in separate rooms to maintain adequate physical distance and avoid crowding. Any potential for super spreading avenues (such as crowding in dining areas, waiting for halls, reading rooms, indoor playing areas, gymnasium etc) should be prevented inside the hostel and colleges/schools. The meal timing should be staggered to ensure that there is no crowding in the dining area. Day scholars travelling from Kerala to schools/colleges in any part of Karnataka shall be subjected to RTPCR testing every fortnightly. Those who have arrived from Kerala in the past two weeks (colleges, hospitals, nursing homes, hostel, hotel, lodge etc.) in Karnataka shall compulsorily be subjected to RT- PCR test. An exemption is given only to those who have a valid RT PCR negative test report not older than 72 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/negative-rt-pcr-report-now-must-for-visitors-from-kerala-to-karnataka-951889.html
16-02-2021||State||SC notice to Karnataka govt over Kolar civic body results||The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to the Karnataka government on a plea questioning the announcement of results of the Kolar Municipal Corporation elections despite having a  Karnataka High Court judgement against it. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari has sought a reply from the state government within two weeks. Petitioner N M Bhagyamma, represented by advocate Shekhar G Devasa, contended that a plea was made before the HC against the election process which was allowed on November 19, 2020.  "Despite that judgment, the authorities, for inexplicable reasons, proceeded to announce the results on 01.12.2020 without authority of law," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sc-notice-to-karnataka-govt-over-kolar-civic-body-results-951964.html
16-02-2021||State||Siddaramaiah says will not send donation for Ram Mandir construction||Former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Tuesday said he will not give a donation to build Ram Mandir in Ayodhya since it will be built in disputed place. "Had it built on the non-disputed area I would have given a donation. I would prefer to donate to Ram Temple built in my village," Congress leader said. "I want to know whether RSS giving a receipt to the public for donations. Will RSS conduct an audit for the donation received from the public," he told reporters here. However, he refused to react to an allegation made by Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy that Sangh Parivar activists marking houses of those who gave donations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/siddaramaiah-says-will-not-send-donation-for-ram-mandir-construction-951984.html
16-02-2021||State||Siddaramaiah demands probe against CM Yediyurappa family members||Former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, on Tuesday, said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should order a probe into corruption charges made by Basanagouda Basavaraj Patil (Yatnal) against Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa and his family. “The PM should immediately order a probe by a sitting Supreme Court judge so that the people know the truth,” Siddaramaiah told reporters in New Delhi.  “The PM shouldn’t just say ‘Naa khaoonga, na khaane doonga’ and sit quietly,” he said. "Yatnal's allegations are serious. All charges against the CM and his family members should be probed," Leader of Opposition said. He was reacting to BJP MLA Basanagouda Basavaraj Patil (Yatnal) allegations against CM and his family members. Yatnal, one of the staunchest critics of Yediyurappa, alleged that the CM and his family members were involved in corruption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/siddaramaiah-demands-probe-against-cm-yediyurappa-family-members-952005.html
16-02-2021||State||BJP, VHP hit out at Kumaraswamy for Nazi remark||After having compared the alleged labelling of homes as part of the Ram Mandir fund collection drive to the Nazi regime, for which he faced flak from BJP leaders, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy reasserted his stand on Tuesday.  On Monday, the JD(S) leader had tweeted commenting on alleged instances where organisations collecting funds for Ram Mandir construction were pasting stickers on people’s homes after donation of money. Kumaraswamy had said this was akin to the Nazi regime. It appears that those collecting donations for the construction of Ram Mandir have been separately marking the houses of those who paid money and those who did not. This is similar to what Nazis did in Germany during the regime of Hitler when lakhs of people lost their lives.. On Tuesday, Kumaraswamy reasserted his position on the issue. “Who gave them the permission to go door-to-door and collect funds for Ram Mandir? I am not against the construction of Ram Mandir. I have received specific information that they are sticking labels to homes that have contributed funds. This is creating unnecessary panic among people,” he said.  The Vishwa Hindu Parishad, which is involved in the donation drive in Karnataka, said it was “highly irresponsible” of Kumaraswamy to make statements that were “factually incorrect”. “The volunteers of various organisations including VHP are reaching out to all sections of the society. They don’t even demand money... The VHP has taken serious note of baseless allegations and condemns Kumaraswamy’s statement for unwarranted remarks against a patriotic organisation like RSS,” said Basavaraj, organising secretary, VHP.  Several BJP leaders also criticised Kumaraswamy defending the fund collection campaign. BJP general secretary Ashwathnarayan questioned whether Kumaraswamy was plotting an internal strife or whether he had lost his sanity, following the former CM’s comparison of RSS and VHP with the Nazis. “He should stop making such irresponsible statements immediately,” he said. Ashwathnarayan maintained that saffron organisations were not marking any houses during the ongoing fund collection drive for the construction of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-vhp-hit-out-at-kumaraswamy-for-nazi-remark-952023.html
16-02-2021||State||Farmers' stir: 3-hour rail roko on Feb 18 in Karnataka||Extending support to the nationwide call by farmer organisations, the union of farmer organisations in the state will organise a rail roko in the state on February 18. In a statement, Kurubur Shanthakumar, president of the Union, said that the rail roko will be held from 10 am to 12 pm, to impress upon the Central government to fulfil the demands by farmers groups.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/farmers-stir-3-hour-rail-roko-on-feb-18-in-karnataka-952033.html
16-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||IAF inducts Karnataka's Mudhol hounds to scare birds on runways: Report||Karnataka's Mudhol hounds have been inducted by the Indian Air Force (IAF) to chase away birds and animals that stray on airport runways and hamper the movement of flights. According to multiple reports, Deputy chief minister of Karnataka Govind M Karjol handed over four Mudhol hound puppies to the IAF on February 12 on behalf of the Canine Research and Information Centre (CRIC) in Bagalkot district of Karnataka. However, DH couldn't independently verify the report. Mudhol Hound, also known as Caravan Hound, is an Indian dog breed which gets its name from Mudhol in Bagalkot district in north Karnataka. The lean and lanky Mudhol Hound is the first Indian breed to serve the Indian Army, CRPF, CISF, BSF, SSB, ITBP, and police departments of a few states. "Mudhol hounds have earned the reputation of being fiercely loyal to their owners and are excellent hunting dogs. The breed is best known for its stamina, sharpness and agility. the services of the hounds are invaluable," Akashi was quoted as saying. According to the report, IAF had placed an order for seven of these puppies. The rest of the three puppies will be handed over after six months as per an agreement. A senior IAF official told the publication that bird-hits are a big problem at several airbases and that the qualities and temperament of the native Mudhol hounds were found suitable for bird scaring. "To address the problem of ground-dwelling birds such as lapwings and larks, IAF planned dog walking module. IAF chose a domestic breed as part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat. Taking a cue from PM's Mann ki Baat wherein he had praised this breed, we decided to try the Mudhol hound," he said. Air Force station has been selected as a pilot project and depending on the success of the project, it will be extended to other stations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/iaf-inducts-karnatakas-mudhol-hounds-to-scare-birds-on-runways-report-951790.html
16-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka minister makes a U-turn on BPL cards||A day after his statement on Below Poverty Line ration cardholders sparked a row, Karnataka Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti on Tuesday made a U-turn, saying there were no definite parameters for BPL and APL card holders over availing benefits. The minister emphasised that the BJP government in Karnataka headed by B S Yediyurappa was pro-poor and was committed to distributing more BPL cards. It will continue to give free foodgrains such as Ragi, corn and rice, he added. Having come under attack from the Congress and the JD(S), Katti told reporters here there were no definite parameters for BPL and APL (Above Poverty Line) and there was no need for anyone to worry as the government has not issued any statement in this regard. Retracting from his previous statement, the minister said, "I had only shared the information from Delhi with media. Neither those parameters (motorcycle, TV, fridge and land) were mine, nor the Chief Minister has given any such orders. I am not an irresponsible minister." However, he did not elaborate. Stating that his statement did not pertain to the BPL cardholders, he said further confusion on the matter was uncalled for. "I have not issued any order without consulting the Chief Minister. BPLs are BPLs and APLs are APLs," he said. Katti had on Monday said in Belagavi that those owning components such as motorcycle, TV, fridge and five acres of land are not entitled to hold a BPL card and they have to surrender them to the government by March 31, or else the government will take action. The opposition Congress and the JD(S) had come down heavily on Katti and the BJP government calling it anti-poor and anti-people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-minister-makes-a-u-turn-on-bpl-cards-951820.html
16-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka revenue officials to stay overnight in villages||Karnataka revenue officials will spend every third Saturday of the month in a village interacting with people and addressing issues. The programme will begin on February 20 with deputy commissioners, tahsildars, surveyors and all revenue officials concerned will stay overnight in villages. Revenue Minister R Ashoka himself will spend a night at Hosahalli in Doddaballapur. During their visits, officials will address any issue falling under the ambit of the revenue department such as land, pensions, BPL cards or other services. "There are 227 tahsildars in the state. Each month, 227 villages will be covered," Ashoka said. According to the minister, officials have been directed to address all issues on the spot without making citizens visit DC offices for a follow up. "Officials will have to spend a night in the village in a hostel or an anganwadi. This will help them get acquainted with the problems first-hand. That way, if there are infrastructure issues in these buildings, officials will immediately address them," Ashoka said. He added that he had directed all officials not to spend money on logistics for the same. "They will have to make do with whatever is available in the village. Female officials have been permitted to stay in anyone's home in the village, taking their safety into account," he said. As for his own visit to Hosahalli, he would be interacting with Dalits in the village and then staying in a government hostel later at night. Ashoka also said the new 'Navodaya' app will be used for pension payments. Based on the ration card details, the government will identify beneficiaries taking into account their age and income. Officials will collect photos and other relevant information from beneficiaries at their doorsteps and issue pension certificates. The pensions will be transferred to the bank accounts later. Through this, the government hopes to cull out bogus accounts, Ashoka said. As of now, the government pays pension to 69 lakh people and spends Rs 7,500 each year. Each year, about 4 lakh new beneficiaries are added. On Food & Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti's statement on ration card holders, Ashoka said owning a TV and mobile phone cannot be the basis to decide BPL. Katti had said households with a TV, fridge and bike will be asked to return the BPL cards. "He might have said that in some context. He's not against the poor," Ashoka defended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-revenue-officials-to-stay-overnight-in-villages-951838.html
16-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa orders action against the affluent who fail to return BPL cards||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday said that deputy commissioners had been given the authority to initiate action against affluent people who failed to return BPL cards voluntarily. Speaking to media persons, after inspecting the ongoing airport project work at Sogane near Shivamogga on Tuesday, he asked undeserving people to return the cards at the earliest. Replying to a query on demands made by various communities seeking reservation benefits, he said that the government would take suitable steps in this regard within the legal framework. The matter will be discussed in the cabinet meeting. He also said that the government will take a call on the issue cautiously. On criticism from Opposition leaders' that ministers are fighting for reservation benefits for their respective communities, the Chief Minister said criticising the government is the duty of Opposition party leaders. He also said he is observing their remarks with keen attention. He exuded confidence that Shivamogga airport project work would be completed in a year. It is being developed at a cost of Rs 384 crore to a specification that would allow aircraft such as the Airbus A320 to operate at the airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-orders-action-against-the-affluent-who-fail-to-return-bpl-cards-951865.html
16-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NSUI activists stage protest against Disha Ravi's arrest in Bengaluru||Activists of the National Students' Union of India, the student's wing of the Congress, staged a demonstration here on Tuesday against the arrest of city based environment activist Disha Ravi in the 'toolkit' case. They raised slogans and demanded her release. The Left-wing "All India Students' Association" had on Monday staged a similar protest here. Holding placards and wearing black masks, the agitators raised slogans, "Free Disha Ravi". Their placards read, "Standing for Farmers is not sedition", and "When injustice becomes law, Resistance becomes duty". A protest was organised in the city on Monday as well, where historian Ramachandra Guha too had participated. Guha said people are being persecuted for their views. He alleged that people are arrested even if they participate in non-violent protests. The Congress Karnataka unit chief D K Shivakumar on Tuesday condemned the arrest and said India was becoming an authoritarian state, which the citizens must realise. "The arrest of Disha Ravi is an attack to weaken the moral strength of India's youth and make dissent illegal," Shivakumar alleged. Former Chief Minister and Congress leader Siddaramaiah had asked how an act of supporting farmers could be charged under sedition and had condemned the "politically motivated act by Delhi Police".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nsui-activists-stage-protest-against-disha-ravis-arrest-in-bengaluru-951916.html
16-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Child with killer disease gets new lease of life after $2.1 mn treatment at Bengaluru hospital||Fourteen-month old Fatima faced a bleak future afflicted with a killer muscular disorder, but a Rs 16 crore 'revolutionary' gene therapy she underwent at a city hospital after winning a 'lottery' has given her a new lease of life. Fatima, daughter of Mohammed Basil and Khadija from Bhatkal town in the coastal Uttara Kannada district in Karnataka, is recovering after she was given 'Zolgensma', the gene therapy at Bangalore Baptist Hospital late last month. She emerged "a lucky winner of a lottery" through a compassionate access programme by drug major Novartis that helped her get the costly treatment, affordable only by multi-millionaires, the hospital said. "The cost of this medicine is about 2.1 million US dollars, which is roughly about Rs. 16 crore," hospital Director (CEO) Naveen Thomas said. "There is gradual improvement. She is now able to move her leg. It will take time to become like a normal child," her father Basil told PTI. The toddler was diagnosed with Spinal Muscular Atrophy or SMA, a disease caused by loss of nerve cells, which carry electrical signals from the brain to the muscles. The protein needed for this signaling is coded by a gene for which everyone has two copies --- one from the mother and the other from the father, according to Thomas. He said a child develops this disorder only if both the copies were faulty and without treatment, this disease was ultimately fatal. But the problem is that the treatment is out of reach of most people. "Only multi-millionaires can afford it! Current treatment options range from medicines, which increase these proteins to replacing the faulty gene. Zolgensma, a gene therapy is a revolutionary treatment, which aims at curing the disease by replacing the faulty gene", he said. "For the first time in Karnataka, Zolgensma was given at Bangalore Baptist hospital to a child who was the lucky winner of a lottery through a compassionate access programme by Novartis", Thomas said. Incidentally, the couple had earlier lost a child, who was also suffering from SMA. "On the 21st day of the 21st year of the 21st century, the baby was given the injection, which is a one-shot cure for this rare disease, said Dr Ann Agnes Mathew, Consultant Paediatric Neurologist and Neuromuscular Specialist. At present there were about 200 children getting treatment in the Baptist Hospital which is specialised in genetic diseases, more specifically SMA and Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), said the doctor. She added that previous year alone, 38 children who were getting treatment in the hospital breathed their last in the absence of this expensive treatment. In Fatima's case, Thomas said: It is a dream come true for doctors in this field. We hope more children receive this treatment and many such treatments will become affordable in the future."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/child-with-killer-disease-gets-new-lease-of-life-after-21-mn-treatment-at-bengaluru-hospital-951991.html
16-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Place on record cabinet decision on online betting: Karnataka High Court||The High Court on Tuesday directed the government to place on record the decision taken by the cabinet on the issue of regulating online betting/gambling activities. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was informed that the issue pertaining to online betting is placed before the cabinet. The government advocate told the court that a decision is likely to be taken soon. The PIL is filed by D R Sharada, a resident of Davangere. The petition has sought a direction for banning all forms of online gambling and betting activities until appropriate regulations are framed. Meanwhile, The Online Rummy Federation (TORF), a Mumbai-based non-profit society has filed an interlocutory application seeking to implead as a respondent in the PIL. The court allowed the application and directed the newly added respondent to file a statement of objections by March 31, the next date of hearing. Appearing for TORF, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi informed the court that the federation aims to encourage, develop, facilitate and support the online rummy operators to adopt a common set of standards and practices with the goal of building a self-regulatory framework that will lead to a responsible industry and protect players’interests.  “The impleading applicant estimates that a licence fee-based regulation can generate over Rs 1,000 crore in revenue for the State of Karnataka over the next five years. Operators can also contribute to the tune of Rs 100 crore over the next five years to help players in psychological distress,” the applicationsaid. The application said that a license fee-based regulatory approach has the added advantage of eliminating the illegal and unscrupulous operators. The application claimed that Rummy is a game of skill and not gambling. As such, the Karnataka Police Act, 1963, makes it amply clear that Rummy is a game of skill and is exempted from the applicability of the penal provisions under the Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/place-on-record-cabinet-decision-on-online-betting-karnataka-high-court-952014.html
16-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||After slaughter ban, Karnataka govt mulls more cash for cattle sheds||The government is planning to put more money into the hands of farmers to construct cattle sheds.  This is seen as a move to assuage their anger over the new anti-cow slaughter law. Authorities, however, deny any link between the two.  Under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), farmers are given cash benefits to construct cattle sheds, soak pits, farm ponds as well as to grow horticulture crops, undertake sericulture among other farming activities.  To build a cattle shed, SC/ST farmers get Rs 43,500 and those from other communities get Rs 19,625. The government is now planning to hike the amount for non-SC/ST farmers.  This comes at a time when the government has amended the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, which imposes a blanket prohibition on the slaughter of cows and allows only buffaloes above 13 years of age to be butchered.  It is feared that this will burden farmers as they will have to take care of cattle, especially cows, even after they become barren. While the government is mum on providing financial support in taking care of cattle after they become barren, it has asked farmers to leave the animals at any of the 188 non-government gaushalas across the state. The government is also mulling over building its own gaushalas.  Authorities are currently working out an estimation on hiking the cash benefit for non-SC/ST farmers to build cattle sheds. Apparently, there was ‘heartburn’ that the cash benefit difference between SC/ST farmers and non-SC/ST farmers was huge.   “Cattle sheds will help improve and increase the productivity of livestock,” L K Atheeq, principal secretary to the department of rural development and panchayat raj, said.  This year, the RDPR department took up the Raitha Kriya Yojane campaign under which a ‘demand box’ was placed to understand the requirement of farmers. “Any farmer wanting individual benefit under NREGA could make an application. We got thousands of applications and there’s a lot of demand for cattle sheds,” Atheeq pointed out.  In June 2020, the government decided to hike the total quantum of individual benefits under NREGA to Rs 2.5 lakh. That means, a farmer can claim cash benefits up to Rs 2.5 lakh in a year.  NREGA dues The Centre is yet to give Karnataka Rs 560 crore towards material costs and wage payments under NREGA, according to government data. This includes Rs 112.44 crore in 2018-19, Rs 162.02 crore in 2019-20 and Rs 285.92 crore in 2020-21.  In the current fiscal, the government has achieved 12.73 crore person days against the target of 14.10 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/after-slaughter-ban-karnataka-govt-mulls-more-cash-for-cattle-sheds-952015.html
16-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||New academic year from July 15 in Karnataka||The commencement of 2021-22 academic year will be delayed at least by 45 days. The Department of Public Instruction has decided to start classes for 2021-22 academic year on July 15, 2021, as against June 1, usually done. Covid pandemic has derailed the academic calendar this year. According to the department officials, considering that the examination for class 10 and 12 will be held in May/June, the evaluation work will be completed by third week of June. “It has been decided to declare the results of both classes 10 and 12 before June-end, and give a few days’ break for the teachers, before commencing classes for the next academic year,” said an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-academic-year-from-july-15-in-karnataka-952016.html
16-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Livestock got sub-standard vaccines, admits Karnataka govt||Livestock in Karnataka were administered sub-standard vaccines, causing several side effects and fatality in some cases, the government has admitted.  In a written response to an unstarred question raised by Jewargi legislator Ajay Dharam Singh, Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan said the first round of vaccination given to livestock for Foot and Mouth disease under the National Animal Disease Control Programme (NADCP) was “sub-standard”. According to official data, between October and December 2020, 108 animals developed various side effects, 68 suffered abortion and 18 died. A majority of the cases of side effects and abortion were seen in Bengaluru Rural and Ramanagar districts. In the first round of vaccination in 2020-21, about 97 lakh livestock were administered 115 lakh doses of vaccination, the government said.  The vaccine was distributed by the Centre, Chauhan said. The poor quality of the vaccine had come to the Centre’s notice, he added.  Farmers’ leader Kuruburu Shanthakumar said the government’s data did not reflect the ground situation. “There are many more cases in each district,” he said. Karnataka Raitha Sangha member K T Gangadhar concurred. At least 30% of the vaccinated livestock suffered various side effects. “The situation is serious and persistent over the last 2-3 years,” he said. “It is being publicised only now, because the cases have increased. Otherwise, the issue of poor vaccination has persisted over the last 2-3 years at least. The side effects are as dangerous as the fatalities, as they impair the animals. It’s the cattle that suffer the most as their immunity is low,” he said. Even after administration of the vaccine, many cattle had leg pain, there was reduced milk production in milching cattle and udder infection among other side effects, Gangadhar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/livestock-got-sub-standard-vaccines-admits-karnataka-govt-952018.html
16-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Biodiversity board to develop 10 villages for benefit sharing||Implementing ABS, developing 100 small tanks across Karnataka as models for conservation, encouraging solar lighting and providing subsidy to 1 lakh farmers for installing solar energy are some of the proposals put forward by the Biodiversity Board for inclusion in the upcoming state budget.  In the recent meeting with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the Biodiversity Board batted for the need to showcase a model of the access benefit sharing (ABS) regime at 10 villages. As per the rules, pharma and ayurvedic industries that extract bio-resources from forests should pay for access ranging from 0.1% to 0.5% of annual gross ex-factory sales of the products to the local village committees to fund development and conservation works. However, over 15 years after notifying the Biodiversity Act and six years after the ABS rules came into force, the villages that provide the rich bio-resources are yet to get their share of the benefits reaped by the industries. "The village level committees have already been formed. Once we implement the system in 10 villages and showcase them as a model, it will be easy to send the message to others," said Anant Hegde Ashisar, chairman of the Board.  The Board has proposed to develop 100 small tanks across the state through Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) with the involvement of the public. The work involves desilting, ensuring pollutants do not flow into the tank and creating buffer zones. For farmers, the Board has sought to identify 10 amrut mahal kaval lands of 100 acres or above and develop them as model grasslands for providing fodder. If approved, the project will be taken up by the animal husbandry department.  Through the Energy department, the Board has proposed that the government can provide 50% of the cost of installing solar lighting and water heater solutions to 1 lakh farmers. Development of three biodiversity parks, including a 100-acre 'Smruti Vana' in memory of the late Shivakumara Swami, have also been proposed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/biodiversity-board-to-develop-10-villages-for-benefit-sharing-952019.html
16-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Grievance redress: R Ashoka, revenue officials to stay overnight in villages||Revenue officials will spend every third Saturday of the month in a village interacting with people and addressing issues. The programme will begin on February 20, with deputy commissioners, tahsildars, surveyors and all Revenue officials concerned, staying overnight in villages. Revenue Minister R Ashoka himself will spend a night at Hosahalli in Doddaballapur.  During their visits, officials will address any issue falling under the ambit of the Revenue department such as land, pension, BPL cards or other services. “There are 227 tahsildars in the state. Each month, 227 villages will be covered,” Ashoka said. According to the minister, officials have been directed to address all issues on the spot without making citizens visit DC offices for a follow-up. “Officials will have to spend a night in the village in a hostel or in an anganwadi. This will help them get acquainted with the problems first-hand. That way, if there are infrastructure issues in these buildings, officials will immediately address them,” Ashoka said. He added that he had directed all officials not to spend money on logistics for the same. “They will have to make do with whatever is available in the village. Female officials have been permitted to stay in anyone’s home in the village, taking their safety into account,” he said. As for his own visit to Hosahalli, he would be interacting with the Dalits in the village and then staying in a government hostel later, at night. Ashoka also said the new ‘Navodaya’ app will be used for pension payments. Based on the ration card details, the government will identify beneficiaries taking into account their age and income. Officials will collect photos and other relevant information from beneficiaries at their doorsteps and issue pension certificates. The pensions will be transferred to the bank accounts later. Through this, the government hopes to cull out bogus accounts, Ashoka said. As of now, the government pays pension to 69 lakh people and spends Rs 7,500 each year. Each year, about 4 lakh new beneficiaries are added. On Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti’s statement on ration card holders, Ashoka said owning a TV and mobile phone cannot be the basis to decide BPL. Katti had said households with a TV, fridge and bike will be asked to return BPL cards. “He might have said that in some context. He’s not against the poor,” Ashoka defended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/grievance-redress-r-ashoka-revenue-officials-to-stay-overnight-in-villages-952024.html
16-02-2021||West||Bangladesh Navy Ship Prottoy visited Mumbai||Bangladesh Navy Ship (BNS) Prottoy was on a two-day visit to Mumbai from 14-15 February. The ship commanded by Captain Ahamed Amin Abdullah with a crew of 137 personnel was docked at Mumbai Port Trust. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, routine courtesy call-on, social get-togethers, exchange visits and other sports fixtures between the visitors and host naval personnel were avoided. This visit of BNS Prottoy to Mumbai was significant in the backdrop that the two countries celebrated 50 years of Bangladesh's Independence recently. To commemorate the occasion, for the first time, a marching contingent and military band from Bangladesh participated in India’s Republic Day Parade. Since the formation of Bangladesh, both the nations have come a long way in nurturing strategic and defence relationships and these bonds are gradually growing in mutual trust and confidence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bangladesh-navy-ship-prottoy-visited-mumbai-951725.html
16-02-2021||West||Girls climb Dukes Nose; Boys climb Khadaparshi!||Pune-based Giripremi’s team of girls climbed 800-ft tall Dukes Nose, while the team of boys negotiated the challenge of 450-ft tall Khadaparshi successfully on Sunday. Priyanka Chinchorkar, Sayali Budhkar, Ketaki Pathak, Pallavi Vartak, Anjali Katre, Sneha Gude, Smita Karewadikar and Sneha Talwatkar completed the Dukes Nose challenge under the guidance of Samiran Kolhe. At the same time, Giripremi’s Varun Bhagwat and Rohan Desai climbed Khadaparshi pinnacle situated near Fort Jivdhan in Naneghat region. Khadaparshi, also known as Vanarlingi is a 450 ft tall pinnacle known for toughest rock-climbing routes in the country. The steep climb coupled with more than 3000 ft feet deep valley on one side brings several challenges to the climber. Girl climbers made it to the top of Dukes Nose after setting up the climb in two parts: 500 ft and 300 ft. The team performed really well to neutralize the challenge of the overhang located near the upper part of the pinnacle. 54-year-old Anjali Katre’s successful summit was the highlight of the expedition. Umesh Zirpe, a senior mountaineer and Shri Shiv Chhatrapati Awardee, has been mentoring and guiding both the teams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/girls-climb-dukes-nose-boys-climb-khadaparshi-951727.html
16-02-2021||West||Five killed in accident in Mumbai-Pune Expressway||Five persons, including a doctor and his family members, were killed, and five others injured after a speeding container-truck rammed into five cars and SUVs at the Mumbai-Pune Expressway in the wee hours of Tuesday. The accident took place at the Khalapur toll plaza in Khopoli in the Raigad district. The deceased were identified as Dr Vaibhav Vasant Zunjare (41), Usha Vasant Zunjare (63), Vaishali Vaibhav Zunjare (38), Shreya Vaibhav Zunjare (5) and Manju Prakash Nahar (58). The injured were identified as Swapnil Sonaji Kamble (30), Prakash Hemraj Nahar (65), Arnav Vaibhav Zunzare (11), Kisan Chaudhary and Kaluram Jamnaji Jat. According to police, Kisan and Kaluram are in serious condition. Dr Zunjare was working with the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) and was staying in Nerul. Dr Zunjaire, his wife, minor daughter and mother were killed in the accident. His son survived the accident. The Zunjare family were returning from Solapur, their native place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-killed-in-accident-in-mumbai-pune-expressway-951771.html
16-02-2021||West||West Bengal Polls: RSS chief visits Mithun’s Mumbai house||Ahead of the Assembly elections in West Bengal, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat met Bollywood veteran Mithun Chakraborty in Mumbai on Tuesday. The meeting at the Mithun's Madh bungalow lasted for over two hours where his entire family was present. The Bollywood star, who has a significant following in the poll-bound West Bengal, had earlier met the RSS chief nearly three years ago. In his brief comments, Mithun said, "I have a spiritual connection with Mohan Bhagwat. I had met him in Lucknow and later I had requested him to come to my home when he is in Mumbai." “He came to my house... do not speculate anything," he added. The 70-year-old actor is a former Rajya Sabha member and was long associated with the ruling Trinamool Congress in Bengal before he resigned from the party in 2016 over health issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/west-bengal-polls-rss-chief-visits-mithun-s-mumbai-house-951781.html
16-02-2021||West||BJP announces candidates for Gujarat bypolls||The BJP on Tuesday announced the names of candidates who will be contesting the by-elections for two Rajya Sabha seats in Gujarat, where polls will be held on March 1. The state BJP's OBC Morcha president Dinesh Anavadiya and Ram Mokariya, the founder-chairman of a courier company, will contest the bypolls. Anavadiya, a senior party leader from Banaskantha district, has served as the director of the Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation between 2014-17. While Mokariya said he has remained a dedicated party worker for over four decades. "I have been a party worker for the last 45 years and am happy that the party has nominated me as a candidate for the Rajya Sabha election," he said. The by-elections for two Rajya Sabha seats in Gujarat were necessitated following the demise of Congress leader Ahmed Patel and BJP leader Abhay Bhardwaj. The Rajya Sabha terms of Patel and Bhardwaj were to end in August 2023 and June 2026, respectively. However, both Patel and Bharadwaj died of Covid-19-related complications on November 25, 2020, and December 1, respectively. According to the Election Commission, polls for the two seats will be held separately on March 1 and counting of votes will take place the same evening. The BJP and Congress have 111 and 65 MLAs in the Gujarat Legislative Assembly, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-announces-candidates-for-gujarat-bypolls-951834.html
16-02-2021||West||Sanjay Rathod case: Shiv Sena trying to shield a minister, says BJP||BJP leader Atul Bhatkhalkar on Tuesday alleged the Shiv Sena was trying to shield its leader who is a minister in the Maharashtra cabinet, from any legal action in connection with the death of a 23-year-old woman. Some social media posts have claimed the woman, who died after falling from a building in Pune's Hadapsar area on February 8, was in a relationship with a cabinet minister in the state. Meanwhile, responding to a query on reports that state forest minister Sanjay Rathod has offered to resign, Bhatkhalkar said this is a "farce". "Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray should remove Rathod from the cabinet. The Sena is trying to wipe out all the evidences against Rathod and trying to shield him from any legal action," the BJP MLA said. Some reports in media have said that Rathod had sent in his resignation to "Matoshree", the private residence of CM Thackeray who also heads the Sena. An official from the office of the Chief Minister has denied any such development. Bhatkhalkar also alleged he had received several calls threatening and abusing him for raising the issue of the woman's death. "I have submitted the list of such malicious phone calls to the Mumbai Police. I am expecting a stern action against them," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-rathod-case-shiv-sena-trying-to-shield-a-minister-says-bjp-951851.html
16-02-2021||West||Covid-19 vaccination awareness van flagged off in Mumbai||Amid a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases and a lukewarm response to vaccination, a multi-media exhibition van was flagged off in Mumbai on Tuesday. The van will travel on 3 routes in Mumbai. The first being Bandra-Dharavi-Juhu-Andheri-Borivali. The second route is Goregaon-Chinchvali-Malad-Kandivali-Charkop-Borivali-Dahisar and the third route starts at Kurla goes via Chembur, Ghatkopar, Mankhurd, Turbhe, Bhandup and ends at Vikroli. These places in the financial capital had seen the most cases of Covid-19 previously and are considered vulnerable. Under this campaign, 16 specially fabricated vans with a message will travel across 36 districts of Maharashtra to spread awareness about Covid-19 vaccination. The vans will also display messages through LED screens and these vans will be live tracked using GPS through an integrated dashboard which can be accessed by scanning a QR code. The van was flagged off by Principal Secretary (Health) Dr Pradeep Kumar Vyas in presence of  Director General of Films Division Smita Vats Sharma and WHO’s Surveillance Medical Officer Dr Vivek R Pardeshi. “Again there has been a spike of Covid-19 cases since the last 10 days in the state, and under such a situation, this initiative is the right thing to do at this time,” said Dr Vyas. According to him, it is necessary to send across a few important messages to people now. One of which is that Covid-19 can occur even now and to anyone, even to one’s family members. The second message is that both the vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, are safe, effective and whichever vaccine is being given to someone, it should be taken, pregnant and lactating mothers and those aged below 18 are not being given the vaccine at the moment. When someone is being given a vaccine, not only an individual but the other people surrounding and interacting with that individual are also protected. “Thus, those who have got themselves tested and are found to have developed antibodies should also not hesitate to take the vaccine. The second dose of the vaccine has to be taken after 28 days,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-vaccination-awareness-van-flagged-off-in-mumbai-951884.html
16-02-2021||West||Follow Covid-19 protocols, SOPs or face another lockdown: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Rattled by the sudden spurt of Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday asked people to take all precautions and follow protocols and SOPs else be prepared to face another lockdown. The state government ordered a targeted contact tracing of 20 people per positive patient and wherever needed containment zones are created. “Whether we want a lockdown or not, it is people who are going to decide...please wear masks, avoid crowding or be prepared to face lockdown,” Thackeray said after a comprehensive review of the Covid-19 situation with divisional commissioners, district collectors, municipal commissioners, city police commissioners, inspector generals of ranges and district superintendents of police. The review comes in the wake of the sudden increase in the cases between 8-14 February in Vidarbha towns like Nagpur, Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal and Buldhana and the Chembur suburbs of Mumbai. Meanwhile, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked residents of Chembur and neighbouring areas to restrict the entry of outsiders to the building to a minimum, including milkman and maids., Besides, thermal screening at entry gates needs to be strictly followed by housing complexes. “In case of positive cases in the society, the family needs to maintain quarantine norms for 14 days,” according to the circular, which also added that high-risk contacts must get tested immediately. In the review meeting besides Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope were present. “Those who do not follow the rules, penal action should be taken against them,” the chief minister said. “Banquet hall owners, marriage hall owners should be punished if anybody is seen on the premises without a mask. Testing should be done in the area where patients are found. Police permissions will be required for marriage functions,” he said. Thackeray asked authorities to cancel permits and licenses of halls and auditoriums where SOPs are not followed during marriages and other social functions.   “The marriage ceremonies that held up for the past one year have resumed with the unlocking, social gatherings and parties have also begun without any safety rules. Timings of hotels and restaurants have been extended but safety norms have been neglected,’’ he said adding local authorities should keep a vigil and take immediate action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/follow-covid-19-protocols-sops-or-face-another-lockdown-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-951960.html
16-02-2021||West||Kangana Ranaut withdraws suit against BMC notice over merged flats||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on Tuesday withdrew her suit filed in a civil court here against the notice issued by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai for alleged illegal merger of flats. The MCGM, also known as the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), had in March 2018 issued a notice to Ranaut over merger of three flats owned by her in the Orchid Breeze building in Khar area. It was alleged that the flats were merged into a single unit in violation of sanctioned plans. In December last year, the Dindoshi civil court had dismissed her application challenging the notice, following which she moved the Bombay High Court. But later Ranaut withdrew the appeal and told the high court last week that she would apply to the MCGM for regularization of changes in the flat. Last year, the civic body had initiated demolition of alleged unauthorized construction at Ranaut's bungalow in Pali Hill area, but the high court subsequently termed the action as illegal and malicious.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kangana-ranaut-withdraws-suit-against-bmc-notice-over-merged-flats-951987.html
