17-02-2021||First Edit||Conspirators or victims of a conspiracy?||There is the need for a fair and independent investigation into the reported finding that one of the accused in the Bhima-Koregaon case, Rona Wilson, was framed as part of a conspiracy, and the evidence that was claimed to have been found against him in the case was planted. The claimed evidence is electronic, and according to a petition filed by Wilson in the Bombay High Court, examination by a US forensic audit firm has found that his computer was accessed by unknown hackers who planted documents in it. He has told the court that the malware introduced by the outsiders reportedly planted a hidden folder with documents in the computer. The police later retrieved the documents to show that he and other activists, who were also arrested and are in jail now, were linked to a banned Maoist organisation and were conspiring to assassinate the Prime Minister. This is a serious charge because Wilson and other activists, including well-known personalities, some of whom are old and ailing, are languishing in jail after being arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the Bhima-Koregaon violence. Violence erupted in the vicinity of a war memorial in Koregaon Bhima on January 1, 2018, allegedly after provocative speeches were made at the Elgar Parishad conclave a day earlier. They have also been accused of being part of a conspiracy, but if the audit firm’s findings are correct, they are victims of a conspiracy. The US lab made an examination of the forensic images of the digital devices which were made available to Wilson’s legal team by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). It has been claimed that Wilson’s computer was compromised as early as 2016 when he opened a file which was made to look like it was from Varavara Rao, another accused in the case. The US firm has said that “this is one of the most serious cases involving evidence tampering’’ it has ever encountered.   The NIA has denied the charges and said that the forensic analysis conducted in India by the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory, Pune, had shown no evidence of any malware in any device. It also said that there was “substantial documentary and oral evidence” against the persons charged in the case. But the findings were made by a lab which has high professional reputation and credibility. It was submitted to the court by Wilson as part of his defence and so it cannot be dismissed outrightly. It is for the court to find the truth in the case by ordering an investigation into the matter. This is especially important because the case against the activists has drawn criticism even without the forensic report which has come to light now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/conspirators-or-victims-of-a-conspiracy-952093.html
17-02-2021||In Perspective||Fiscal deficit target goes for a toss||An offshoot of the economic crisis triggered by the pandemic is manifest in the Centre coming out with the ‘real’ state of its finances. In the Budget presented on February 1 by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, the revised estimate (RE) for fiscal deficit in 2020-21 is put at 9.5% of GDP. This is almost three times the budget estimate (BE) of 3.5%, which itself was 0.5% higher than the 3% threshold required by the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM). It was justified by her as due to “far-reaching structural reforms with unanticipated fiscal implications.” The slippage is not just due to a shortfall in tax collection and non-tax revenue, especially proceeds from disinvestment, but also due to inclusion in the Union’s balance sheet of the so-called deferred subsidy payments (DSP) -- euphemism for unpaid dues remaining on the books of central agencies implementing its welfare schemes. For food subsidy, in Budget 2020-21, the BE was Rs 1.16 lakh crore; and another Rs 10,000 crore was given as supplementary grant, taking the total Rs 1.26 lakh crore. Against this, the requirement amounts to Rs 4.22 lakh crore. Under a business-as-usual scenario, the government would have asked the Food Corporation of India to borrow to make up for the shortfall. But RE for the year has been put at Rs 4.22 lakh crore, wiping out DSP under this head. This increases fiscal deficit by Rs 3 lakh crore. In the case of fertiliser subsidy, BE for 2020-21was about Rs 71,000 crore, against requirement of Rs 1.34 lakh crore. In the normal course, fertiliser manufacturers would have been forced to borrow Rs 63,000 crore to make up for the shortfall. Here again, in RE, Sitharaman has provided for all of Rs 1.34 lakh crore, implying nil DSP under this head, too. Fiscal deficit rises by another Rs 63,000 crore. A truthful reflection of all expenses on food and fertiliser subsidy in the Budget alone has contributed to a rise in fiscal deficit by nearly 2%. The Centre also asks the likes of National Highways Authority of India to incur capital expenditure on its behalf by borrowing, instead of providing budget support. Termed extra-budgetary resources (EBR), this, too, is used (in addition to DSP) to show lower fiscal deficit. If adjustment were made for EBR also, fiscal deficit for 2020-21 would have been higher than 9.5%. If these so-called off-budget liabilities (OBL) were to be captured in the Union’s balance sheet, then the much-trumpeted compliance with the fiscal consolidation roadmap in the past is fiction. For instance, making adjustment for OBLs, the fiscal deficit for 2017-18 and 2018-19 would be about 5.9% and 5.7% respectively, against the reported 3.5% and 3.4%. For 2021-22, when there is expected to be a V-shaped recovery and a nominal GDP growth of 15%, it is anomalous to target fiscal deficit at 6.8%. Although, there won’t be any DSP on food and fertilisers (at Rs 2.42 lakh crore and Rs 80,000 crore, BEs are adequate), this fiscal deficit figure does not capture EBR. If these are also reflected, fiscal deficit will be even higher. Worse still, Sitharaman has also drastically relaxed the trajectory of fiscal consolidation for the next five years, targeting a fiscal deficit of 4.5% in 2025-26. Even as the FRBM Act will be amended to ensure that the revised fiscal roadmap is within the ambit of law, it is abundantly clear that the Modi government has let loose the purse strings to a point whereby any talk of imposing fiscal discipline looks meaningless. Doing away with the practice of DSP is no consolation as this was a wrong that needed to be corrected anyway. Even so, window-dressing of accounts continues in the form of EBR. True, the government intends to spend more and generate impulses for accelerating growth. This gets reflected in the BE for capital expenditure at Rs 5.54 lakh crore during 2021-22, which is 26% higher than RE for 2020-21 at Rs 4.39 lakh crore. But the fiscal cost of this is an excessive 6.8% -- more than double the earlier projection of 3.3%. There is an urgent need to spend more on building assets by re-directing funds from unproductive uses such as subsidies and tapping the full potential of tax and non-tax revenue. That will be fiscally prudent as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/fiscal-deficit-target-goes-for-a-toss-952095.html
17-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Unauthorised street vendors to be evicted in Mangaluru||Mayor Diwakar and Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that the MCC will relaunch the drive to evict street vendors, who had encroached footpaths and roads, within two days. Special squads, with officials drawn from health department and police, will beset up to launch the drive against unauthorised street vendors obstructing the movement of vehicles and pedestrians in Mangaluru and Surathkal. “The teams will conduct the drive at regular intervals,” the Mayor and Commissioner said during a special meeting convened to discuss traffic woes. Corporators alleged that the vendors by encroaching footpaths were causing a lot inconveniences to pedestrians. The Commissioner said that a joint survey will be taken up to identify parking and no parking zones in the city limits. There are 56 non parking zones in the city. An advisory committee was constituted to scientifically study these zones and submit a report. Based on the report, a final notification will be issued.  The works of installing sign boards and laying humps were taken up after conducting a joint survey involving officials from the MCC and the police, he added. The MCC will consult experts from NITK to decide on long term plans to check the traffic woes, the Mayor assured. When corporators raised the issue of vehicles parked beside the roads, DCP Vinay Gaonkar said that seized vehicles can be disposed of only after a court order. Police had written to deputy commissioner on disposing the abandoned vehicles left on roads after getting them verified through RTO. The number of two-wheelers and four-wheelers had increased after the lockdown, thus leading to traffic congestion, he added. Corporators charged that city buses were curtailing services to Faisalnagara, Bajal, Veeranagara, Maroli, Kodikal, Mugrodi and other interior areas causing problems to passengers. Without proper bus facilities, people are forced to shell out money by travelling in autorickshaws. Corporators also demanded the removal of unscientific humps in different wards. The towing of vehicles should be stopped until the works initiated under different projects were completed in the city. Mayor responded and announced that vehicles will not be towed away in areas where smart city works are underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/unauthorised-street-vendors-to-be-evicted-in-mangaluru-952071.html
17-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vehicles without FASTag made to pay double toll fee||As FASTag was made mandatory for vehicles at toll gates from February 15, vehicles without it were forced to pay double the amount for entering FASTag lane at Talapady, Brahmarakootlu and Surathkal on Tuesday. Motorists demanded exemptions and staged a protest at toll plazas in Hejamady and Sasthana, with a few getting into verbal altercations with toll staff. Vehicles without the FASTag had to join serpentine queues and pay cash to continue their journey. The toll exemption for local vehicles continued at Surathkal toll plaza, sources told DH.  Navayuga Udupi Tollway Private Limited (NUTPL) had converted all lanes into FASTag lanes in the plazas at Talapady, Hejamady and Sasthana. Toll gates also had counters to help people get instant FASTags. The documents required for the same were vehicle registration certificate and a valid identity card. An estimated 30 per cent of the vehicles still do not have the FASTags, sources added. 'Stop illegal collection' Members of various organisations urged Union Minister of Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari to immediately stop the illegal collection of toll at NITK toll plaza on NH 66. Activist Yathish Baikamapdy led a delegation and submitted a memorandum to MP Nalin Kumar on Tuesday, pointing out that two toll gates within a distance of 15-km were causing trouble to residents and self-employed people owning small commercial vehicles in the city. With the steep increase in fuel prices, people have been struggling to make a living. The memorandum declared that money collected all these years at the illegal toll plaza in Surathkal by the NHAI should be deposited back to the MCC for development of service roads and installing proper streetlights along the NH that passes through the city. “Dismiss officials who mislead the department and supported the illegal toll plaza at NITK,” the memorandum stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vehicles-without-fastag-made-to-pay-double-toll-fee-952166.html
17-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||KPSC question paper leak accused arrested in Belagavi||Bengaluru Police arrested an accused in connection with Karnataka Public Service Commission question paper leak case in Belagavi. The accused, identified as Shivaling Patil, was arrested from a village in Gokak taluk. He used to run a coaching centre, which was closed a year ago. Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi said the case was being investigated by Bengaluru Police. Sources said Shivling Patil was arrested on Tuesday and taken to Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kpsc-question-paper-leak-accused-arrested-in-belagavi-952174.html
17-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Four arrested in Mysuru for gang rape, murder||City police arrested four persons in connection with alleged gang rape and murder of a woman, in the city. The names of the accused Manjunath, Krishna Manu, Revanna and Rafique.  The police took four persons into custody based on CCTV footages. However, another accused is at large, said the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-arrested-in-mysuru-for-gang-rape-murder-952207.html
17-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||FASTag: Marshalls deployed for enforcement, awareness||s toll plazas of National Highway Authority (NHAI)  of India started charging double the amount of road user fee for those who did not have FASTag, toll collectors and officials are facing a barrage of questions from commuters, especially those from rural areas and farmers. The NHAI and the concessionaires have together deployed 12 to 14 marshalls at each of the 45 plazas in the state to ensure smooth flow of traffic. “We have been facing some resistance. However, our marshalls are also trying to educate the commuters about the need for FASTag and its benefits,” NHAI Regional Officer R K Suryavamshisaid. He said the government’s direction of charging twice the amount of toll fee for those insisting on cash transactions has been implemented starting Monday. “We have provided several options to people to buy the FASTag. After all, it is going to help them avoid waiting in long queues,” he said. However, for farmers and many people who are not tech-savvy, the restriction on cash transactions was still a rude shock. At the Nelamangala toll, a farmer from Kunigal who had brought vegetables to the market at Yeshwantpur got into a long argument with the toll authorities. A staffer at the plaza expressed helplessness in trying to communicate to the middle-aged farmer that the rule was made by the Union government. “Despite explaining that we are only implementing the rule made by the Union government, the farmer said we are deliberately harassing him. He had an old mobile phone with keypad and it was obvious that he was tech savvy enough to understand the benefit of FASTag,” the staffertold DH. Minor traffic snarls were seen in some lanes when commuters started protesting that they would not pay double the amount of toll fee for cash transactions. A toll official said it was difficult to convince those who argued that the government has not informed them through themedia. “We have given advertisements and spread awareness on different platforms. Besides, over the last two years, many opportunities have been given to buy FASTag. At this stage, enforcement is necessary for greater common good,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fastag-marshalls-deployed-for-enforcement-awareness-952288.html
17-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Never challenged Siddaramaiah to consume beef, says Minister Chauhan||Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan on Wednesday clarified that he had not challenged Leader of Oppostion Siddaramaiah to consume beef. Speaking to reporters here on Wednesday, he said, "Siddaramaiah was repeatedly talking to the media about consuming beef. I had said, Siddaramaiah had been the chief minister of the state and now adorns the position of the Opposition leader. Such statements from him is not right. I never asked him to consume beef." Reacting to Siddaramaiah's statements of not donating to the construction of Ram Mandir, he said, "While Siddaramaiah says that he will not donate to Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, his son and nephew have donated." To H D Kumaraswamy's statement that the houses are being marked if they do not donate money for Ram Mandir, Chauhan said, "Kumaraswamy is lying. The fund collection is being done in a transparent manner. Being the Opposition parties, they have to oppose."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/never-challenged-siddaramaiah-to-consume-beef-says-minister-chauhan-952426.html
17-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cesc proposes tariff hike of Rs 1.44 per unit, consumers oppose||The authorities of Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (Cesc) have proposed to hike Rs 1.44 per unit for all categories of electricity consumers. However, the proposal was strongly objected by consumers. The Cesc authorities submitted the proposal to the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC) in a meeting chaired by Shambhu Dayal Meena, KERC Chairperson, at the deputy commissioner’s office here, on Wednesday. The Cesc authorities claimed the hike is inevitable as the corporation faces shortage of revenue of Rs 1,005 crore for the financial year (FY) 2021-22. According to the authorities, the Cesc needs Rs 6,024 crore for 2021- 2022 FY and only Rs 5,019 crore will be generated through electricity bills. Mysore Industries Association president, also former MLA Vasu urged the Commission to totally reject the tariff revision petition of Cesc and asked the commission to direct the Cesc to submit modified petition. He also demanded for separate tariff for Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs), Small Scale Industries. For Small Scale Industries, the present tariff may not be increased, but it should be brought down in order to encourage the industries. Rural industries are suffering a lot due to scheduled and unscheduled power cuts, interruptions, low voltage, delay in resuming power supply. The demand of Cesc should be rejected as power purchase cost should go down due to good monsoon. Wherein, hydropower was available to a large extent and thus, reducing the cost of purchase cost of power. As per the tariff policy, any tariff to be fixed should be within +/-20 % of ‘cost to serve’, which is very important parameter, but Cesc has not submitted it to the commission. As cost to serve has not been finalised by the commission, it is not possible to verify whether the proposed tariff is within the limits. The cost to serve a HT installation is very much less compared to LT power. If cost to serve is found out and tariff is fixed as per cost to serve, the tariff of HT 2 (a) category will have to be brought down by 50%, said Vasu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cesc-proposes-tariff-hike-of-rs-144-per-unit-consumers-oppose-952427.html
17-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid norms eased, hospitality sector shows signs of revival||The hospitality sector in the ‘City of Palaces’, which is largely dependent on tourism, is seeing a steady improvement, as Covid-19 guidelines are eased. Tourists footfall to the city, as well as tourist hotspots, has increased from January first week. A large number of tourists are visiting Mysuru Zoo, Chamundi Hill, and Mysuru Palace during weekends. The hospitality sector, including hotels and transport, was severely affected due to the lockdown, following the outbreak of Covid-19 in March, 2020. While a few hotels have permanently locked down, another few are yet to re-open. The business turnover of the hospitality sector in the city has picked up to 70%. According to Mysuru Hotel Owners' Association president C Narayana Gowda, business is returning to normalcy and it may takes a few more weeks to become stable. He said there are nearly 8,500 rooms, catering to tourists, and the occupancy was very less from March 20, 2020, due to the Covid crisis. Now, with the footfall improving from January first week, business has picked up, he said. Sudhir, a hotelier, said that a large number of floating population visits Mysuru. "Thus, hotel business is good. But, demand for rooms is yet to pick up. Among 20 rooms, hardly five rooms are booked in a week. Now, business is limping back to normalcy. It may take a few months to improve," he said. Even transportation has improved. Sandesh, a taxi operator, said that he owns three cars as taxis and the vehicles were stopped for five months. Now, he has resumed services and his vehicles are being hired. An officer attached to the Tourism department said, "Tourism has improved in 2021. By April, it may return to normal. Tourists from parts of Karnataka are visiting Mysuru. Only a few tourists are visiting outside the state. Lack of public transportation like train service has resulted in fewer footfalls from other states." Though hotels are facing loss, there is demand for employees. Narayana Gowda said, "Hotels are facing shortage of labourers. Soon after the lockdown in March, 2020, thousands of employees had lost jobs, but now the demand has resumed." Officials in the tourism sector say that it will take some more time for tourists from other states to visit. "Until then, intra-state tourism should be encouraged," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-norms-eased-hospitality-sector-shows-signs-of-revival-952428.html
17-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘52% posts lying vacant in Animal Husbandry dept’||Minister for Animal Husbandry Prabhu Chauhan said that 52% posts in the department are vacant and measures will be taken to fill them. Speaking to reporters here, on Wednesday, the minister said that he has spoken to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on the issue and measures will be taken to fill the vacant posts. 'Pashu Sanjeevani', an ambulance to offer treatment to livestock’, is available in 15 districts. The government has planned ‘Hi-tech Polyclinic’ in all districts, to treat livestock, he said. Chauhan met scion of the erstwhile royal family of Mysuru Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar and discussed about conservation of Amrit Mahal and Hallikar breeds of cattle. Yaduveer said that 45,000 acres of land was reserved as Amrit Mahal Kavals (Gomala) for the protection and development of Amrit Mahal breed. He ensured full support of Berunda Foundation for conservation and protection of Amrit Mahal and Hallikar breeds. The minister said that the department has aimed to grow grass on 5,000 acres of Amrit Mahal Kaval lands.   Complimenting the government for implementing the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act, 2020, Wadiyar said that the new policy will definitely help to protect desi cattle breeds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/52-posts-lying-vacant-in-animal-husbandry-dept-952430.html
17-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tourism picks up in Hassan district||The hospitality industry, which was affected due to the Covid-19 crisis, is slowly recovering and returning to normalcy, in Hassan district. The number of people visiting hotels and restaurants is on the rise. Homestays and resorts in the Malnad region are getting guests during holidays and weekends, giving hope to the people in the tourism and hospitality industry in Hassan district. But, around four to five hotels, that had closed down during the lockdown have not reopened. Belur, Halebid and Shravanabelagola are attracting visitors in large numbers every day. Guides and vendors near temples and pilgrim centres, who are dependent on tourism activity, are heaving a sigh of relief. In all, 1,61,263 people, including foreigners, visited the district, during the month of January, last year. But, after lockdown in March, there were no tourists. Around, 3,95,633 tourists have visited various tourist destinations in the district in the last four months. The historical Hasanamba temple had collected Rs 22.78 lakh in the year 2020. However, the collection was more than Rs 1 crore in 2019. Channakeshava temple in Belur, Jain Mutt in Shravanabelagola, Kodi Mutt in Arsikere, Madalu Gowramma, Jenukallu Siddeshwara temple, Maruti Sachchidananda Ashrama, Pushpagiri Mutt in Halebid have resumed 'Dasoha', providing food to devotees. The visitors are provided sanitisers and also boiled water for drinking.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tourism-picks-up-in-hassan-district-952431.html
17-02-2021||Main Article||Call for volunteers or vigilantes?||In his inaugural address as the 35th President of the United States America on January 20, 1961, John F Kennedy spoke these famous words, “Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country.” This was the call by a charismatic leader for public action. Kennedy appealed to Americans to think beyond themselves for a larger cause. In India, too, we remember the appeal of Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri to fellow Indians to give up one meal a week, considering national shortages and food inflation. In response to that appeal, thousands, perhaps even millions of Indians, responded spontaneously, and to this day there are people who observe a weekly fast, in remembrance of that noble appeal.  President Abdul Kalam, too, launched an anti-corruption movement, especially for the youth, called “What can I give” campaign. This, too, was an appeal to ethical values, and the spirit of giving, rather than taking. Prime Minister Narendra Modi often exhorts people on such things as the ‘Give Up’ LPG subsidy campaign. This was to enable the government to provide up to 80 million cooking gas connections to households from the lower-income strata, providing considerable health benefits and empowerment, especially to women. Rather than depend only on aggregate tax collections to pay for this social scheme, the PM asked his fellow Indians who could afford to join in the enterprise. In fact, the scheme also had a feature wherein the donor could see where the subsidy that he or she gave up had been directed. The appeal for donations for Covid relief to the PM Cares Fund, too, garnered significant amounts. That fund will now be used to pay for vaccinations, as reported by the Union Health Minister. However, that fund is not subject to scrutiny under the Right to Information. Of course, the modern State cannot simply function based on appeals to the ethical and moral values of citizens. It must adequately provide finances that can fund various social sector programmes that are aimed to benefit the vulnerable and the downtrodden. Philanthropy, charity, sacrifice and volunteerism can coexist, but cannot be at the cost of replacing or reducing the obligation of the State. The State’s functions and obligations are even more critical in the areas of law and order. For instance, as the saying goes, “you cannot take the law into your own hands.” Nor can the State enlist private citizens to discharge functions that relate to enforcing law and order. This is a very dicey proposition. In Maharashtra, there has been an experiment to enlist cleanliness marshals who are authorised to impose a fine on the spot for littering, spitting, etc. At the extreme of this continuum is the case of Salwa Judum, a private militia deployed for anti-insurgency movement against Naxalites, with the blessing, backing and training by the State. The Supreme Court passed an order in 2011 essentially outlawing the outfit. From cleanliness marshals to private militia is a long road, and that road is slippery. It is in this context that one must view and express concern about a recent initiative of the Union Home Ministry. Its cybercrime cell has started a new programme under which citizens can participate as volunteers to identify, flag and report to the government illegal and unlawful content including child pornography, rape, terrorism, radicalisation and anti-national activities. This is a pilot project which is being launched only in Jammu & Kashmir and Tripura and may later be extended to other states. This ‘cyber volunteer’ project is a far cry from the spirit of volunteerism sought by Kennedy. This enlistment can potentially grant extraordinary destructive powers to these so-called cyber volunteers who can become a vigilante force. There seems to be no accountability for their actions, and they can end up being a secret police reporting and ratting on people. Such enlistment takes us into the dark territory of a “surveillance state.” It is true that social media has been excessively infected with hate speech and speech that can incite violence, bigotry and cause disorder. But it is up to the State to set up mechanisms to regulate content on social media, and indeed this is the way things are evolving in many countries. Also, it is up to the State to identify those responsible for criminal offences on social media and cannot ask volunteers to do this job. Moreover, curtailing hate speech is always a dicey proposition as it should not end up infringing on the fundamental right to free speech. Hence, it cannot be left to private citizens who may have an incentive to wrongfully implicate others. A related development is a recent facility launched by the Income Tax department. This allows people to provide a tip-off about undisclosed foreign assets, benami properties, or tax evasion. There is now a link on the e-filing portal of the department and it also allows the informer to remain anonymous. A unique complaint number is generated. This, too, has shades of a surveillance state going down a slippery road. Is it not again a case of the State passing on its function of chasing tax-evaders to informers who may be motivated by malice? Asking citizens to volunteer in the giant enterprise of national development by making individual sacrifices or through positive actions like donations is one thing. But asking volunteers to secretly or anonymously spy on fellow citizens, become de-facto vigilantes and help in law-enforcement without any accountability, is quite another. It will lead to greater distrust and fear. The very foundation of a robustly functioning democracy is a high degree of social capital and trust. Let us not jeopardise that. (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/call-for-volunteers-or-vigilantes-952094.html
17-02-2021||National||Plan to save 50% of road related deaths by 2025: Gadkari||The Road Transport Ministry has rectified 2,500 black spots that caused accidents of the total of 6,000 identified nationwide and has urged states to cooperate in reducing related deaths by 50 per cent by 2025, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Tuesday. The Minister also suggested that smart villages, in line with smart cities, be developed to avoid migration of people from rural to urban areas, which, he claimed, was one of the reasons for the increase in accidents. He was participating in an event, along with Chief Minister K Palaniswami on 'Chennai Road Safety', organised by World Bank and Government of Tamil Nadu. Gadkari said India accounted for the highest number of accidents in the world, one of the major reasons for which was poor road engineering and also detailed project report. "In our country, every year about five lakh accidents take place and 1.50 lakh people lose their lives....majority of the victims are agedvbetween 18 and 45 ", he said. He said the Ministry has already rectified 2,500 of the identified 6,000 black spots. "We are in the process (to rectify the remaining).already the World Bank and ADB Bank have sanctioned a loan of Rs 14,000 crore and we are making improvements on the roads, particularly in removing the black spots", he said. Gadkari said the government has decided that the number of fatalities should be halved before 2025, for which he sought the cooperation of state governments. He said one of the reasons for the accidents was more number of people migrating from rural areas to metros, "at least 30 per cent of India's population," in search of jobs. "Also, as a MSME minister, I am going to insist everywhere that you need to develop every village (as smart villages) not only smart cities we need to develop smart villages, we need to stop this migration, without that we cannot solve the problem of urban areas and that is important for the country", he said. Gadkari said India was losing 3 to 5 per cent of Gross Domestic Product due to accidents. He noted that a person could get a driving license in India very easily unlike in the United States "It is also not good for me to tell you that when we referred to the records of driving licenses, at least 30 per cent of them were bogus and one person had 3-4 licenses", he said. "We have changed the system and with the help of the Income Tax department, were able to take some action on those people who had three-four driving licenses", he said. The Minister urged the Tamil Nadu government to make use of water transport through the use of hovercraft and motorboats as they were 'economically viable'. "Water transport is very important. When I was shipping Minister I wanted to start water transport between Chennai and Kannyakumari...there are lot of new technologies available like amphibious sea plane... I request the Chief Minister to give priority to water transport", he said. Earlier, Palaniswami said the state government has identified black spots that caused accidents and steps were being taken to remove them, besides providing speedy treatment to the injured and also creating awareness on road safety among students. As a result, the number of accident related deaths decreased from 17,218 in 2016 to 8,060 by end of 2020. The CM said the state had received two awards from the Road Transport Ministry for the year 2017-18 and 2018-19 for its measures on road safety. He said his government would take all initiatives to ensure there was nil accident related deaths in the state. The CM also thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Gadkari for allocating Rs 1 lakh crore for projects related to road development in the 2021-22 budget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plan-to-save-50-of-road-related-deaths-by-2025-gadkari-952035.html
17-02-2021||National||After defeating Covid-19, aim to clean Yamuna in next 3 years: Delhi Minister Satyendar Jain||Amid falling cases of Covid-19 and reduced fatalities, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said the pandemic has been "defeated" in the national capital through a number of combative measures. In a statement released on the completion of the Arvind Kejriwal government, Jain, who also holds the portfolio of the water department, said, the government will now aim to clean the Yamuna river in the next three years. The Delhi government has "firmly fought the war against coronavirus," he said. Delhi recorded 94 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the lowest in over nine months, while the positivity rate slipped to 0.17 per cent, authorities said. One fatality was also registered on Tuesday, taking the death toll in the city to 10,894, according to the latest health bulletin issued by the city government. Delhi had recorded 96 coronavirus cases on January 27, that time the lowest in over nine months, and the first time the daily count had stood below the 100-mark in that month. No death due to Covid-19 was recorded on Saturday in Delhi, second time in February when the single-day fatality count was nil. On February 9, no fatality due to Covid-19 was registered in the national capital, after a gap of nearly nine months. Also, on February 5 and F7, the fatality counts were two on both the days, same as on February 2. The minister also claimed that 73 per cent of people got "zero amount electricity bill during the pandemic period". "After defeating coronavirus, the Delhi government will aim to clean the Yamuna river in three years from now," he was quoted as saying in the statement. Jain said the world had never seen such a pandemic after the 1918 Spanish Flu, until coronavirus hit everyone. "Almost a year is about to end and people who were getting free electricity are getting it free, those who were getting at the half-rate, continued to get it on half-rate. In the last billing cycle, 73 per cent of people got zero amount electricity bills. Even the water bill of 13,66,000 people was zero in amount," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-defeating-covid-19-aim-to-clean-yamuna-in-next-3-years-delhi-minister-satyendar-jain-952042.html
17-02-2021||National||Delhi police has led by example, says Union Minister Kishan Reddy||Union Minister G Kishan Reddy on Tuesday lauded the Delhi Police for showing patience, bravery and restraint during the January 26 violence here and said the force has led by example, according to a statement. The minister of state for home was speaking at the 74th Raising Day of the Delhi Police. Delhi is always at the centre of all activities and hence, it is always on the target of "intolerant forces" that do not like the process of nation-building, Reddy was quoted as saying in the statement issued by the Delhi Police. The minister, who was the chief guest at the 74th Raising Day ceremony, lauded the patience, grit, bravery and restraint shown by police personnel, when "anti-national forces took shield of farmers and indulged in large-scale vandalism on January 26", it said. Tens of thousands of farmers broke barriers to storm the national capital on Republic, their tractor parade to highlight their demands dissolving into unprecedented scenes of anarchy as they fought with police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort, a privilege reserved for India’s tricolour. They had organised the parade as part of their protest against the Centre new agri laws. "However, not a single life was lost which demonstrates the commitment shown by the force, which saw more than 500 of its personnel injured," the statement said. Reddy said the Delhi Police has led by example while handling "violent organisations" in anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests last year with firm hands. He also praised the impartial, dedicated and scientific investigation of cases related to the northeast Delhi riots, the statement said. Reddy also paid tributes to late head constable Ratan Lal, who lost his life in the line of duty during these riots, it said. He commended the Delhi Police for 24-hour availability during the coronavirus crisis period and paid homage to 34 police personnel who lost their lives to the pandemic. Seventy-five police personnel were conferred medal for gallantry, President Medal for distinguished service, Police Medal for meritorious service, the Jeevan Raksha Padak and the Home Minister’s meritorious training service medal, the statement said. Reddy also flagged off the Jan Sampark Vahan to promote police-public relations and to publicise various online services, it stated. He also launched the Prabodhini Vahan to make citizens aware of the recent trends of various kinds of frauds. Delhi Police Commissioner SN Shrivastava congratulated the Republic Day Marching Contingent of the Delhi Police, which won the best marching contingent trophy after a gap of 14 years, the statement said. He also praised personnel for their firm handling of anti-CAA protests last year. With the view to make police personnel more professional and scientific, an MoU was signed with the National Forensic Science University, Gandhinagar, Gujarat for providing cyber and forensic experts to enhance investigative capabilities, it said. An agreement was arrived at with the Axis Bank for increasing significantly the insurance amount to deceased police personnel, the statement said. Karol Bagh police station bagged the trophy of the best police station, it said, adding that Seelampur and Moti Nagar were adjudged as first and second runners-up. The statement said that an MoU was signed with IIIT, Delhi for conducting research in areas of police work requiring technology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-police-has-led-by-example-says-union-minister-kishan-reddy-952051.html
17-02-2021||National||TRP case: Bombay High Court reserves verdict on ex-BARC CEO's bail plea||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday reserved its verdict on the bail plea filed by former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta, an accused in the TRP scam. During the day's hearing, Mumbai police opposed the bail plea with special public prosecutor Shishir Hiray telling a single bench presided over by Justice PD Naik that Dasgupta was not answering even the simplest of questions while in jail despite being given a questionnaire. He also said Dasgupta was an influential person and could tamper with evidence if let out on bail. "He is the kingpin and the one who holds considerable power," Hiray said, and told HC it was apparent from Dasgupta's WhatsApp chats that he had played a direct role in the manipulation of TRPs for TV news channels. On Monday, Dasgupta's counsel, senior advocate Abad Ponda, had urged HC to grant him bail saying the police had already filed its charge sheet in the case and Dasgupta's custodial interrogation was not required anymore. Ponda had also told HC that Dasgupta's WhatsApp chats, including those with Republic TV editor-in-chief and his co- accused Arnab Goswami, were merely "loose talks". Ponda ended his argument on Tuesday by citing a WhatsApp chat between Dasgupta and Goswami to show that the allegations against his client were false. In the chat between Dasgupta and Goswami, the former tells the latter that he will be his "friend" but would "not compromise" on his values. "You (Goswami) have too many enemies....I (Dasgupta) will be your friend....but not compromise my values," the chat cited by Ponda in HC read. Dasgupta approached HC after his bail plea was rejected by a city court in January this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trp-case-bombay-high-court-reserves-verdict-on-ex-barc-ceos-bail-plea-952090.html
17-02-2021||National||DH Toon: 'Rescue ops to go on till all victims found in Uttarakhand'||Amid fading hopes of the survival of those who went missing after a glacier disaster in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district 10 days ago, NDRF Commandant PK Tiwari on Tuesday said search-and-rescue operations will go on in the flood-hit hydel project sites till the last victim is reached.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-rescue-ops-to-go-on-till-all-victims-found-in-uttarakhand-952103.html
17-02-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices hiked for 9th day straight: Check fuel rates here||Petrol and diesel prices touched new highs on Wednesday after fuel rates were hiked for the ninth consecutive day.  In Delhi, petrol and diesel prices were increased by 25 paise each. Petrol is priced at Rs 89.54 per litre, while diesel at Rs 79.95 per litre in the national capital.  The petrol price in Mumbai has touched the Rs 96 per litre mark. In the financial capital, diesel is priced at Rs 86.98 per litre.  In Bengaluru, petrol is priced at Rs 91.76 per litre, and diesel at Rs 85.09 per litre.  The Congress on Tuesday hurled the “Modi Tax” accusation at the Centre as prices of petroleum products witnessed a sharp increase owing to steep excise duties levied on fuel. Congress leaders claimed that the Modi government had collected over Rs 20 lakh crore by imposing additional excise duty on petrol and diesel over the past six years and eight months. Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan last week had told Parliament that the government is not considering a reduction in excise duty to cool rates from their record highs. Central and state taxes make up for over 61 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and about 56 per cent of diesel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-for-9th-day-straight-check-fuel-rates-here-952121.html
17-02-2021||National||India reports 11,610 new Covid-19 cases, 100 deaths||With 11,610 fresh cases, India's Covid-19 tally has climbed to 1,09,37,320, while the number of recoveries has surged to 1,06,44,858, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. The death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,55,913 in the country with 100 more fatalities reported in a 24-hour period, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has climbed to 1,06,44,858, which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.33 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.43 per cent. There are 1,36,549 active cases of the coronavirus infection in the country currently, which accounts for only 1.25 per cent of its total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 20,79,77,229   samples have so far been tested for the viral disease in the country, including 6,44,931 on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-11610-new-covid-19-cases-100-deaths-952130.html
17-02-2021||National||India backs Iraq's request for UN observation of polls||India has strongly backed Iraq’s request for the UN observation of parliamentary elections in the country in October, saying it endorses any process that respects the Gulf nation's sovereignty and strengthens the democratic exercise. India’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti, speaking at the UN Security Council Briefing on ‘The Situation in Iraq’ on Tuesday, said that the parliamentary elections in Iraq in October 2021 will be a “valuable” opportunity to strengthen the roots of democracy in the country. “A transparent, free, fair and inclusive election, conducted in a violence-free environment with high voter turnout, will empower the new government to implement reforms, improve accountability, meet the genuine aspirations of Iraqi people, especially the women and youth, and promote inclusiveness and reconciliation,” he said. Tirumurti said that international assistance to the Independent High Electoral Commission of Iraq and UN observation of the electoral process would enhance the credibility of these elections and build confidence about the integrity of the results amongst the Iraqi people. “In this regard, India fully supports the government of Iraq’s request for UN observation of the upcoming elections in the country. We will support any process which respects Iraq’s sovereignty, strengthens the democratic exercise, and makes it credible, and consequently acceptable to the people of Iraq,” he said, adding that in line with its own strong democratic traditions, India has contributed to the democratic and electoral processes in Iraq by training Independent High Electoral Commission officials and sending election observers. The Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Iraq and head of United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert told the Council that for credible elections to take place in Iraq, it is imperative that parties and candidates operate in a free and safe environment. She called on all parties, stakeholders and authorities to come together, to agree on a ‘code of conduct’ and to allow all Iraqi candidates to operate freely -- irrespective of ethnicity, gender, language, religion, belief or background. Hennis-Plasschaert pointed out that a request from the Iraqi government for electoral observation is currently before the Security Council. “As I address this Council, I also would like to underline that, no matter what your response is, the elections will be Iraqi-led and Iraqi-owned at all times. And I sincerely hope that all of Iraq’s political leadership truly takes this to heart. Equally important, yet not always fully understood: the UN does not take sides. Our independence and impartiality define us,” she said. Tirumurti noted the “positive” progress in preparation for the upcoming elections and said the passage of the electoral law and allocation of funds to the Independent High Electoral Commission are significant steps. He said it is important that the remaining conditions for smooth elections like completion of biometric voter registration and agreement on the Federal Supreme Court’s membership are also fulfilled in a timely manner. As Tirumurti expressed condolences for those killed in the January 21 terrorist attacks in Baghdad, he said the international community must continue its support for Iraqi Security Forces and the government so that they can credibly address the menace of terrorism and provide an environment free of terror and fear. Referring to the report of the Analytical Support and Sanctions Monitoring Team of the 1267 Committee, which said that majority of the active 10,000 ISIS fighters in the region are in Iraq, Tirumurti voiced concern over the situation and said focus of the Security Council should be to eliminate every threat posed by the ISIS and other terror groups in Iraq and elsewhere in the world. He said the continued attacks on diplomatic establishments and convoys, including the one in Erbil by non-state armed groups are a “serious challenge” in maintaining the fragile peace that prevails in Iraq. While appreciating efforts by the government to provide protection to all diplomatic missions, Tirumurti expressed hope that a long-term solution can be found to this issue. Further, India commended concerted efforts of the Iraqi government and the Kurdistan Regional Government to resolve all outstanding issues, and encouraged both sides to continue the “constructive dialogue for a mutually satisfactory long-term sustainable agreement on these issues, including on revenue sharing and budget allocations.” Applauding the Iraqi government’s determined efforts to maintain friendly and cordial ties with its neighbours and other regional countries, the Indian envoy emphasised that the stability of Iraq should be of paramount importance to the region. “The country should not become a theatre for regional or global conflicts,” he said, reaffirming India’s steadfast support for Iraq’s sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. Tirumurti told the Council that India is the preferred destination for medical treatment for many Iraqi friends and this cooperation has continued during the Covid-19 pandemic. Under the ‘Air Bubble Arrangement’ between the countries, over 10,000 Iraqi nationals have travelled to India during the last four months alone for medical treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-backs-iraqs-request-for-un-observation-of-polls-952146.html
17-02-2021||National||Yoga with Baba Ramdev: Shashi Tharoor's swipe at Centre over fuel price hike||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor took a jibe at the Centre as fuel prices soared, by tweeting a cartoon of Baba Ramdev doing yoga. In the cartoon, Baba Ramdev is shown doing a headstand pose at a petrol station in front of a placard reading “Litre Rs 90”. With the image, Tharoor wrote, “If you took yoga lessons from Baba Ramdev, you too could see petrol prices at 06 rupees a litre!” The Thiruvananthapuram MP translated the Malayalam caption of the cartoon to English for his followers. Petrol and diesel prices touched new highs on Wednesday after fuel rates were hiked for the ninth consecutive day. In Delhi, petrol and diesel prices were increased by 25 paise each. Petrol is priced at Rs 89.54 per litre, while diesel at Rs 79.95 per litre in the national capital.  Congress leaders claimed that the Modi government had collected over Rs 20 lakh crore by imposing additional excise duty on petrol and diesel over the past six years and eight months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-with-baba-ramdev-shashi-tharoors-swipe-at-centre-over-fuel-price-hike-952151.html
17-02-2021||National||Rigidity okay with compassionate motive: Dalai Lama to Indian police||The Dalai Lama on Wednesday said that it is okay for police to be rigid on their job as long as the motivation of their action is larger good. "Rigidity is simply a method of discipline. Whether it is violent or not entirely depends on the motive. As police, under certain circumstances, you need to use harsh methods, but the larger motivation is protecting people," he said. The Dalai Lama was giving a talk on "Empathy and Compassion in Policing" at the request of the Indian Police Foundation. He was addressing the members of the police force virtually from his residence in Dharamshala in Himachal Pradesh. Emphasising the need for humans to be compassionate and empathetic, he said that such teachings should be part of one's education. "The west...the British introduced modern education, but you should also try to preserve the thousand-year-old traditions of the country, which are ahimsa, compassion, empathy. "We should pay more attention to educate students in a secular way. That kind of education will automatically make people more compassionate," the Dalai Lama said, adding that the Indian police is the "protector of karuna and ahimsa". He said with leaders such as Mahatma Gandhi, Jawaharlal Nehru and Rajendra Prasad, who preached non-violence, India could be an example for the rest of the world to learn about the co-existence of people of "different religions, languages, scripts". "India has people of different languages, different scripts, but all happily live together. Today, India should show other countries that people of different languages, customs can live together. India should be an example. Indians should make an effort to promote real harmony between nations. "I believe all human beings are the same. Race, language, culture are secondary and more importantly, we all have to live together on this planet. I appreciate the Indian police for protecting the country with this concept and democratic values," he said. The Dalai Lama, the highest spiritual leader of Tibet, has been living in exile in India ever since he fled during the 1959 Tibetan uprising. "All my life I have been with a security person. I have spent nine years with the Chinese police and 60 years with the Indian police, and the Indian police functions with democracy and principle," he said. Asked about the criminal justice system, the Dalai Lama said he was against the death penalty. "I am always against the death sentence. They (criminals) should be put in prison, but the death sentence is not right. Any person can make a mistake, but it is always possible to change through proper education and changing surroundings and atmosphere," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rigidity-okay-with-compassionate-motive-dalai-lama-to-indian-police-952164.html
17-02-2021||National||Ensure 50% attendance, meet for at least 150 minutes: RS Chairman Venkaiah Naidu to Parliamentary panel heads||Setting new targets for Parliamentary Standing Committees, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has asked heads of eight panels under the Upper House to take measures to ensure at least 50% attendance in meetings which should deliberate issues for at least two-and-half hours every time it meets. Naidu wrote to the Chairpersons of eight Standing Committees under Rajya Sabha on February 12 with an analysis of the functioning of the committees since September 2017, after he became the Rajya Sabha Chairman. Naidu emphasised the need for further improvement in attendance and duration "given the efforts and costs involved in holding meetings", sources said. The analysis, shared with the panel chairpersons, showed that attendance has improved by 15% and meeting durations by around 16% since the reconstitution of committees in September 2019 over that of the previous two years. Though attendance has improved, the analysis showed, 54 meetings since September 2017 did not have a requisite quorum and of this, 40% or 20 of them happened since September 2019. One of the reasons could be the MPs inability to reach Delhi during the Covid-19 pandemic. While eight Standing Committees -- Home, Transport, Education, Industry, Commerce, Personnel, Science and Technology and Health -- are under Rajya Sabha, 16 other panels are under the Lok Sabha. Each committee has 31 MPs -- 10 from Rajya Sabha and 21 from Lok Sabha and attendance of 11 constitutes the quorum. Since September 2017, the eight committees under Rajya Sabha have held a total of 355 meetings -- 134 in 2017-18, 49 in 2018-19 and 172 since September 2019. The average attendance of these committees since September 2019 was 49.34% in 172 meetings. While no committee recorded an average attendance of 50% during 2017-19, three committees clocked more than 50% attendance in the meetings held since September 2019.  The Committee on Education reported the highest average attendance of 65.30% followed by the Committee on Health (52.46%) and the Committee on Transport (50.42%). The average duration of meetings of these committees since September 2019 improved to 2:07 hours per meeting marking an increase of over 16% over the average duration of the meetings held during 2017-19. If one takes all the 355 meetings since September 2017, the average attendance comes to 46.01% and an average duration of 1:55 hours. When it comes to quorum, the Commerce panel had the highest number of meetings without a quorum since September 2019 -- six out of 25 meetings -- followed by Science and Technology -- four of the 17 meetings held during this period. The Commerce panel also has the highest number of meetings without quorum -- 13 -- since September 2017 followed by Home, Education and Science and Technology (10 each). The highest number of meetings since September 2017 was held by the Commerce panel during which 92:57 hours were spent on deliberations. The committees on education and home affairs had 50 meetings each. The education panel met for 116.21 hours since September 2017 while the Home panel met for 106:30 hours. Attendance percentage showed that the Education panel had the highest at 54.19% since September 2017. If one takes the attendance since September 2019, it rose to 65.29%  for the education panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ensure-50-attendance-meet-for-at-least-150-minutes-rs-chairman-venkaiah-naidu-to-parliamentary-panel-heads-952170.html
17-02-2021||National||India, Russia to work closely on key issues at the UN Security Council||India and Russia have agreed to work closely on key issues at the UN Security Council, in keeping with the special and privileged strategic partnership between the two countries. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said both sides held bilateral consultations in Moscow on Tuesday on issues which are on the agenda of the UN Security Council (UNSC). It said the Indian delegation at the director general-level meeting briefed the Russian side on India's priorities during its UNSC tenure. "Both sides agreed to work closely together on key issues on the UNSC agenda, in keeping with the special and privileged strategic partnership," the MEA said in a statement. India began its two-year tenure as a non-permanent member of the UNSC on January 1. In August, India is scheduled to serve as the president of the powerful UN body. The MEA said the two sides appreciated the intensive ongoing bilateral contacts on matters relating to the UN, including with respect to a wide range of issues on the UNSC agenda. Last week, India held similar discussions with China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-russia-to-work-closely-on-key-issues-at-the-un-security-council-952173.html
17-02-2021||National||No Covid-19 deaths in last 24 hours in 18 states, UTs: Health ministry||Eighteen states and Union Territories, including Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh, have not reported any death due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. India's cumulative recoveries have been showing a progressive increment on a daily basis, the ministry said. "Eighteen states/UTs have not reported any Covid-19 death in the last 24 hours. These are Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Puducherry, Himachal Pradesh, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Ladakh, Assam, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Tripura, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Daman and Diu," the ministry said in a statement. Nearly 90 lakh vaccine doses have been given to beneficiaries through 1,91,373 sessions till 8 am on Wednesday, as per the provisional report. These include 61,50,922 healthcare workers (first dose), 2,76,377 healthcare workers (second dose) and 25,71,931 frontline workers (first dose). A total of 36 cases of hospitalisation and 29 cases of deaths were reported among those who have been vaccinated till 4 pm on February 16, the ministry said. Out of 36 cases of hospitalisation, 22 were discharged after treatment. "Two are still under treatment and 12 cases (people) died. Out of the 29 deaths, 17 are outside hospital whereas 12 deaths are in hospital," it said. The ministry said no case of serious or severe AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) or death is attributable to vaccination to date. The administration of the second dose of Covid-19 vaccination started on February 13 for the beneficiaries who had completed 28 days after receipt of the first dose. As of day 32 (February 16) of the vaccination drive, a total of 2,76,943 doses were given across 7,001 sessions.  "Out of which, 1,60,691 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 1,16,252 HCWs received the second dose of vaccine," it said. "Eight states account for 57.8 per cent of the total vaccine doses administered in India. Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 10.4 per cent (9,34,962)," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-covid-19-deaths-in-last-24-hours-in-18-states-uts-health-ministry-952178.html
17-02-2021||National||Centre clears 20 food processing projects worth Rs 363.4 crore||The Union Food Processing Industries Ministry on Wednesday said it has cleared 20 projects worth Rs 363.4 crore under two central government schemes. The government will provide a grant-in-aid of Rs 102.91 crore for these projects, which together are expected to generate nearly 12,000 jobs and benefit 42,800 farmers, it said in a statement. A decision in this regard was taken in the Inter-Ministerial Approval Committee (IMAC) meeting chaired by the Food Processing Industries Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Junior Minister Rameshwar Teli and promoters of the projects were also present in the virtual meeting held on February 16. According to the ministry, the proposed projects have been cleared under the Scheme for Creation of Infrastructure for Agro-Processing Cluster (APC) and the scheme for Creation/ Expansion of Food Processing and Preservation Capacities (CEFPPC) under Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana (PMKSY) approved in May 2017. Under the CEFPPC, the ministry said 11 proposals with a project cost of Rs 113.08 crore including grants-in-aid of Rs 36.30 crore have been cleared. These projects will leverage private investment of Rs 76.78 crore and are likely to generate employment for 3,700 persons and benefit 6,800 farmers. These projects will come up in Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Karnataka, Mizoram and Gujarat. Whereas under the creation of infrastructure for APC, nine proposals with total project cost of Rs 250.32 crore including grants-in-aid of Rs 66.61 crore have been cleared in the state of Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, and Rajasthan. These projects will leverage private investment of Rs 183.71 crore and are expected to generate employment for 8,260 persons and benefit 36,000 farmers. The ministry said these proposed 20 projects are expected to increase the processing level and value addition of horticultural and agricultural produce and will lead to increase in farmers' income and job creation at local level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-clears-20-food-processing-projects-worth-rs-3634-crore-952182.html
17-02-2021||National||Govt understands yearning for progress among New India’s youth: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that the countrymen are “impatient for progress” and his government understands this yearning within the ‘New India’s’ youth. Addressing the Nasscom Technology and Leadership Forum (NTLF) here, Modi said it is the aspirations of over 130 crore Indians that inspire everybody to drive ahead at a fast pace. “New India and every citizen is impatient for development. Our government understands the emotions of New India’s youth. Over 130 crore Indians’ aspirations inspire us to drive ahead,” he said. The 'New India' looks up to the government and also to the private sector for progress going ahead, he said. Modi lauded the work done by the IT industry during the pandemic, specifically mentioning that the sector will have managed to grow over 2 per cent to USD 194 billion in FY21. He also exuded confidence that the IT industry’s growth momentum will be touching newer highs going forward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-understands-yearning-for-progress-among-new-india-s-youth-pm-modi-952187.html
17-02-2021||National||Delhi court acquits Priya Ramani in M J Akbar defamation case||A Delhi court on Wednesday acquitted journalist Priya Ramani in a defamation complaint filed by former Union Minister M J Akbar against sexual harassment charges levelled during the #MeToo campaign, saying the right of reputation cannot be protected at the cost of the right to life and dignity. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey said that the woman cannot be punished for raising voice against sexual abuse on the pretext of criminal complaint of defamation. The 91-page judgement came as a blow to Akbar, a veteran journalist, who had to resign as the Minister of State for External Affairs in 2018 after Ramani and other women shared their "trauma related to sexual harassment" during his stint as the editor of various publications. After the verdict, Ramani said that she felt vindicated and her counsel senior advocate Rebecca M John said that truth was her defence. Maintaining that sexual abuse, if committed against woman, takes away her dignity and self-confidence, the court said the attack on the character of sexual abuser or offender by the victim is a reaction of self-defence after the mental trauma she suffered regarding the shame attached with the crime committed against her.  The court rejected Akbar's contention that allegations were made decades later to tarnish his reputation. "Women have a right to put her grievance at any platform of her choice and even after decades," the judgment said. The court also accepted the contention of Ramani that Akbar is not a man of stellar reputation on the basis of the testimony of her and then senior colleague Ghazala Wahab. Ramani took the defence that publications of the article and tweet were made for public good about the true incident of her sexual harassment of December 1993 at Oberoi Hotel, Mumbai when Akbar called her for an interview at 07.00 pm in his bedroom of the hotel and sexually harassed her.  "It is shameful that the incidents of crime and violence against women are happening in the country where mega epics such as “Mahabarata” and “Ramayana” were written around the theme of respect for women," the court said. Akbar, in his complaint, contended he has never done anything to her, still has intentionally put forward malicious, fabricated and salacious imputations to harm his reputation. The court, however, rejected his complaint saying even a man of social status can be a sexual harasser.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-acquits-priya-ramani-in-m-j-akbar-defamation-case-952206.html
17-02-2021||National||Petrol crosses Rs 100-mark in Rajasthan; Rs 99.90 in Madhya Pradesh||For the first time ever, the price of petrol crossed the Rs 100 per litre mark in Rajasthan on Wednesday after fuel rates were hiked for the ninth day in a row. Petrol and diesel prices were increased by 25 paise per litre each, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. While branded or additive-laced petrol, which attracts higher taxes, had crossed the Rs 100-mark in some places in states like Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, this is the first time that regular petrol crossed the physiological mark. In Sriganganagar town of Rajasthan, petrol price soared to Rs 100.13 a litre on Wednesday. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest VAT on petrol in the country. After Wednesday's price increase, petrol in Delhi cost Rs 89.54 per litre and diesel Rs 79.95. In Mumbai, petrol price rose to Rs 96 a litre and diesel were priced at Rs 86.98. The record price in Rajasthan is despite the state government late last month cutting VAT on petrol and diesel by 2 per cent. The value-added tax (VAT) on petrol, after the cut, at 36 per cent plus Rs 1.5 per litre road cess is still the highest in the country. On diesel, the state levies 26 per cent and Rs 1.75 per litre road cess. Diesel in Sriganganagar is priced at 92.13 a litre. In Anuppur of Madhya Pradesh, petrol is priced at 99.90 per litre and diesel at Rs 90.35. Branded petrol at Sriganganagar was priced at Rs 102.91 a litre and similar grade diesel at Rs 95.79. Branded petrol is priced at Rs 92.37 per litre in Delhi and the same grade diesel at Rs 83.24. In nine straight days, prices have gone up by Rs 2.59 per litre for petrol and Rs 2.82 per litre for diesel. The relentless hike in prices has been criticised by the opposition parties including the Congress, that has demanded an immediate cut in taxes to ease the burden on the common man. Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan last week had told Parliament that the government is not considering a reduction in excise duty to cool rates from their record highs. Central and state taxes make up for 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 per cent of diesel. The union government levies Rs 32.90 per litre of excise duty on petrol and Rs 31.80 a litre on diesel. Retail petrol rates have risen by Rs 19.95 per litre since mid-March 2020 after the government raised taxes by a record margin to mop up gains arising from fall in international oil prices. Diesel rates have gone up by Rs 17.66.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-crosses-rs-100-mark-in-rajasthan-rs-9990-in-madhya-pradesh-952212.html
17-02-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi tells fishermen in Puducherry he wants to accompany them during fishing to understand their ordeals||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday interacted with members of fishermen community here and expressed his wish to travel along with them in their boats to see for himself and understand better their travails. The Congress MP, who arrived here to launch the party's campaign for the coming assembly polls in the union territory, said everything could not be explained through words and for better understanding, experience was needed. During a visit to a fishermen settlement here, he said the exercise was aimed at understanding their problems and issues as one could get to know only to an extent by posing questions. "...there is only so much one can understand by asking questions. Some things cannot be spoken. Some experiences cannot be explained. So I need one favour from you. Next time I come here, I want to go with you in the fishing boat to see what you experience," he said amid applause. Such an experience would help him understand the issues faced by Puducherry fishermen, he added. The elections to the Puducherry assembly are expected to be held in April and the ruling Congress is keen to win another term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-tells-fishermen-in-puducherry-he-wants-to-accompany-them-during-fishing-to-understand-their-ordeals-952216.html
17-02-2021||National||Toolkit case: Delhi cops seized hard disk from house, says Shantanu Muluk's father||Two persons claiming to be the personnel of Delhi Police seized a computer hard disk and other items from the house of green activist Shantanu Muluk, a suspect in the "toolkit" case related to the farmers' protest, without a search warrant on February 12, in Beed in Maharashtra, his father Shivlal Muluk has told local police. Beed superintendent of police Raja Ramaswami said on Wednesday that Shivlal Muluk made a representation to the police on Tuesday. "We got representation yesterday. We'll enquire & accordingly take needful action (sic)," reads the message texted to PTI by Ramaswami. On Tuesday, the Bombay High Court granted transit anticipatory bail to Shantanu Muluk for 10 days. Shivlal Muluk, 54, made the representation as a "responsible citizen" to Beed Police and urged the SP to take appropriate action regarding the 'search' conducted at his house, an official said. The letter stated that two persons visited the residence of the Muluks in Chanakyapuri area in Beed on February 12 around 5.30 am and introduced themselves as officials of the Delhi Police by showing their identity cards, the official said. The duo told the Muluk family that Delhi Police wanted to know about Shantanu, saying he had committed treason and he had been in contact with pro-Khalistan people, the official said quoting the letter. The duo then searched all rooms in the house and took away a hard disk, an environment-related poster, a book, and a mobile phone cover from Shantanu Muluk's room, it stated. According to Shivlal Muluk, the police officials did not show any search warrant and also didn't obtain any permission from the family before taking away these items, the letter said. The police officials also didn't prepare any 'panchnama' of the seized material, it stated. A Panchnama is a record of witness testimony, usually prepared by the police, during the investigation of a crime or after a death. The police officials also told the Muluk family that the seized material will be returned to them later, as per the representation. Shivlal Muluk also claimed that the visiting police team had asked him to come to the government guest house in Beed for questioning. The letter stated that Shivlal Muluk as a "responsible citizen" was informing about the visit of the Delhi Police to Beed SP as no local government official accompanied them. When contacted on phone, Shivlal Muluk said on Wednesday that he was not in a condition to speak. According to the Delhi police, Shantanu Muluk and Mumbai-based lawyer Nikita Jacob along with arrested accused Disha Ravi, an activist from Bengaluru, were allegedly involved in preparing the document and were in direct touch with "pro-Khalistani elements". On Wednesday, the Bombay HC also granted transit anticipatory bail to Jacob. The Delhi police on Monday alleged that Ravi along with Jacob and Shantanu had created the toolkit and shared it with others to tarnish India's image. Greta Thunberg, a celebrated climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend support to the farmers' agitation near Delhi borders against the Union government's new agri laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-delhi-cops-seized-hard-disk-from-house-says-shantanu-muluks-father-952219.html
17-02-2021||National||People have started socialising, going out to eat most sought after activity: GOQii survey||With the Covid-19 inoculation drive in full swing, Indians have gradually begun easing back into their routines and socialising, according to a survey carried out by GOQii, a smart-tech-enabled preventive healthcare company and a health and fitness tracking platform. The survey findings revealed that eating out at restaurants (27.10%), attending a family function, birthdays (25.95%) and attending weddings (19.54%) are among the top 3 activities that Indians did in the last three months. On the other hand, going to movies (2.42%) was the least sought activity by respondents. Restaurants are back to operating at almost full capacity and business is at 70% of pre-Covid 19 levels as per major aggregators. India has fought a great fight to curb its caseloads as compared to a lot of other countries and is on the path to recovery. This was gathered through the ‘Covid-19 Impact - The Way Forward’ survey that was conducted with over 10,000 respondents, spread across India, according to a press statement released on Wednesday. The survey found that 79% of the respondents felt that India was effective in curbing Covid-19. “India, which has the second-largest population in the world was suﬀering severely from Covid-19, leading to strict lockdowns and restriction measures being employed across the country,” it said. Speaking about the study, Vishal Gondal, Founder and CEO of GOQii said, ‘’The GOQii India Fit report sought to understand how the citizens of India felt towards the initiatives taken by the government and the vaccines launched by organizations to curb the pandemic.  During the last year, there has been a renewed focus on boosting immunity and staying healthy. One important lesson that we can all learn from this pandemic is that preventive healthcare is the only way forward.” During the lockdown period, many people continued their exercise, yoga, workout or any other form of physical activity from their home. Almost 19% of people who used to go to the gym or any other fitness centres mentioned that they stopped doing any physical activity including their workout. More than 50% of respondents said that they started working out on their own in their homes. This is a positive sign that a majority of the population are motivated to perform some physical activity on their own. A significant section of people said that they used to watch online training and workout videos on YouTube, Google, Instagram and other gym/fitness centre specific applications/websites and then performed their workout at home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-have-started-socialising-going-out-to-eat-most-sought-after-activity-goqii-survey-952232.html
17-02-2021||National||Youth Congress activists protest in Delhi against fuel price hike||A group of Indian Youth Congress (IYC) activists staged a demonstration at Connaught Place here on Wednesday against rising prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas, and demanded that the government roll back the hike. The protesters gathered at Outer Circle of Connaught Place, rode bicycles and wore cricket kits to highlight how petrol and diesel prices are rising and about to hit the century mark -- Rs 100 per litre. By increasing the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders again, the Modi government has made it clear that it was not concerned about the problems of the common people, said IYC president Srinivas BV. "...common people are badly hit by inflation. Petrol and diesel prices are increasing continuously despite the low prices of crude oil in the international market," he said. Petrol and diesel prices on Monday were hiked for the seventh day in a row as a rally in international oil prices took retail rates in India to new highs. Petrol price was increased by 26 paise per litre and diesel by 29 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. The hike took petrol price in Delhi to a record Rs 88.99 per litre and diesel to Rs 79.35 a litre. The cooking gas cylinder prices have increased by Rs 75 within the last 14 days. It is a "pity" for the Modi government that a new record is being set in the prices of petrol and diesel, Srinivas said. National media in-charge of IYC Rahul Rao said, "We demand that the increased prices should be withdrawn with immediate effect and the increase in excise duty should be rolled back to provide relief to the masses suffering from inflation and recession." The protesters also included IYC national secretary Khushboo Sharma, secretary Mukesh Kumar, Delhi Youth Congress vice president Ranvijay Singh Lochav and Shubham Sharma among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youth-congress-activists-protest-in-delhi-against-fuel-price-hike-952238.html
17-02-2021||National||Toolkit case: What is transit anticipatory bail?||The Bombay High Court granted transit anticipatory bail to advocate Nikita Jacob and environmental activist Shantanu Muluk, who are accused in a case registered by Delhi Police in connection with the "toolkit" shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg over the ongoing farmers' protest. What is a transit anticipatory bail? In case an FIR is registered against a person in a different district or state than the state of his or her residence, the said person can opt to file a transit anticipatory bail application before a Sessions Court or a High Court. This ensures temporary protection from arrest while the person travels from one state to another for approaching the appropriate court. In the case of Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk, an FIR has been lodged in Delhi and the accused live in Mumbai. Therefore, seeking protection against arrest, before they approach a Delhi court for an anticipatory bill, they had filed for a transit anticipatory bail. An anticipatory bail application can only be heard by a Session Court which has jurisdiction over the police station that has registered the FIR. Therefore, in this case, Shantanu Muluk who has been granted 10 days' transit anticipatory bail by the Bombay High Court has 10 days to apply for protection before the appropriate court in Delhi. Meanwhile, Nikita Jacob has been granted three weeks' time to approach the concerned court in Delhi for relief. The court in its order noted the applicant (Jacob) is a permanent resident of Mumbai and the FIR is lodged in Delhi, and the relief sought by her now is only temporary. Who are Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk? The two along with arrested accused Disha Ravi, an activist from Bengaluru, were allegedly involved in preparing the document and were in direct touch with "pro-Khalistani elements". The Delhi police alleged that Ravi along with Jacob and Shantanu created the "toolkit" and shared it with others to tarnish India's image. The accused persons have been booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 124(a) for sedition, 153(a) for promoting enmity between different sections of the society and 120(b) for criminal conspiracy. Greta Thunberg, a celebrated climate activist, had shared the "toolkit" to lend support to the farmers' agitation near Delhi borders against the Union government's new farm laws. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-what-is-transit-anticipatory-bail-952239.html
17-02-2021||National||Govt clears signing of India-Mauritius free trade pact; over 300 domestic items to get concessional market access||More than 300 domestic goods from agriculture, textiles, electronics and other sectors will get market access at concessional customs duties in Mauritius, with the Indian government on Wednesday approving signing of a free trade agreement between the two countries. The Union Cabinet, chaired by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has approved signing of the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation and Partnership Agreement (CECPA) between India and Mauritius, an official statement said. It said that Mauritius will benefit from preferential market access into India for its 615 products, including frozen fish, speciality sugar, biscuits, fresh fruits, juices, mineral water, beer, alcoholic drinks, soaps, bags, medical and surgical equipment, and apparel. "The CECPA between India and Mauritius covers 310 export items for India, including food stuff and beverages (80 lines), agricultural products (25 lines), textile and textile articles (27 lines), base metals and articles thereof (32 lines), electricals and electronic item (13 lines), plastics and chemicals (20 lines), wood and articles thereof (15 lines), and others," the statement said. In a free trade agreement, two trading partners cut or eliminate customs duties on a host of products besides liberalising norms to promote services trade. With respect to trade in services, Indian service providers will have access to around 115 sub-sectors from the 11 broad service segments such as research and development, telecommunication, construction, distribution, education, environmental, financial, tourism, recreational, yoga, audio-visual services, and transport services. On the other hand, India has offered around 95 sub-sectors from the 11 broad services sectors, including professional services, R&D, telecommunication, financial, distribution, higher education, environmental, health, tourism, recreational and transport services. Both sides have also agreed to negotiate an Automatic Trigger Safeguard Mechanism (ATSM) for a limited number of highly sensitive products within two years of the signing of the pact. The agreement will be signed on a mutually convenient date and will come into force from the first date of the following month. According to the statement, it will be the first trade agreement to be signed by India with a country in Africa. It is a limited agreement, which will cover trade in goods, rules of origin, trade in services, technical barriers to trade, sanitary and phytosanitary (related with food safety and animal and plant health protection) measures, dispute settlement, movement of professionals, telecom, financial services, customs procedures and cooperation in other areas, it added. India and Mauritius have been negotiating this pact since 2005. This is the first such agreement approved for signing by the Modi government since it came to power in 2014. The bilateral trade between the countries dipped to USD 690 million in 2019-20 from USD 1.2 billion in 2018-19. While India's exports in 2019-20 aggregated to USD 662 million, the imports stood at USD 27.89 million. Mauritius was the second top source of foreign direct investment into India in 2019-20. India received USD 8.24 billion (about Rs 57,785 crore) foreign inflows from that country in the last fiscal. India has implemented free trade pacts with countries like Japan, Korea and ASEAN (Association of South East Asian Nations). It is also negotiating similar agreements with Australia, New Zealand and European Union.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-clears-signing-of-india-mauritius-free-trade-pact-over-300-domestic-items-to-get-concessional-market-access-952244.html
17-02-2021||National||I feel amazing, I feel vindicated: Priya Ramani on M J Akbar defamation case acquittal||"I feel amazing, I feel vindicated," journalist Priya Ramani said on Wednesday after having come out of travails of trial in a defamation case lodged by M J Akbar. “I hope it will make women speak up and discourage powerful men from filing false cases against women who share their truth," Ramani said on her acquittal in the case. Senior advocate Rebecca M John, who appeared as a defence lawyer, stated, "The court has believed Priya and said that whatever she has said is her truth and there is no reason to disbelieve her."  A Delhi court, which acquitted Ramani in the case, said that women can't be punished for raising instances of sexual abuse. "The Constitution allowed women to put forward her grievances before any forum and at any time," the court said. "Ramani's disclosure was in the interest of anti-sexual harassment at the workplace," the court said, also taking into consideration instances of systematic abuse at the workplace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-feel-amazing-i-feel-vindicated-priya-ramani-on-m-j-akbar-defamation-case-acquittal-952246.html
17-02-2021||National||Rail Roko: Railways deploys 20 additional RPSF companies, focus on Punjab, Haryana, UP||The railways have deployed 20 additional companies of the RPSF across the country, with focus on Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, in the wake of the "rail roko" called on Thursday by farmer groups protesting against the Centre's new agri laws. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of protesting farmer unions which is spearheading the protest, last week had announced the rail blockade to press for its demand to repeal the legislations. Director-General, Railway Protection Force, Arun Kumar on Wednesday said, "I appeal to everyone to maintain peace. We will be liaisoning with district administrations and will have a control room in place." "We will gather intelligence. States such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, and some other areas will be our focus. We have deployed 20 companies (around 20,000 personnel) of the Railway Protection Special Force (RPSF) in these areas," he said. "We want to persuade them to not cause inconvenience for passengers. We have a four-hour window and we want it (rail roko) to get over peacefully," Kumar said. The SKM had said that the rail blockade will be held across the country from 12 pm to 4 pm. The announcement came amid the ongoing protests against the laws at Delhi's borders by farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, and 'mahapanchayats' that are being organised in these states to garner support for the movement. On Tuesday, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni had said that farmer unions will hold meetings in poll-bound West Bengal as well and indicated that they will ask people there not to vote for those who are "snatching our livelihood". Farmers are protesting against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rail-roko-railways-deploys-20-additional-rpsf-companies-focus-on-punjab-haryana-up-952247.html
17-02-2021||National||UGC asks varsities to encourage students to take voluntary online exam on 'cow science'||The University Grants Commission (UGC) has asked vice-chancellors of varsities across the country to "encourage" students to take an online voluntary national-level exam to test their knowledge on 'gau vigyan' (cow science). The 'Kamdhenu Gau Vigyan Prachar-Prasar Examination', for which there is no registration fee, will be held on February 25, and students from primary, secondary and senior secondary schools as well as colleges can take the test being conducted by the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA). Besides, them anyone from the general public can also take the hour-long multiple choice question-based exam that will be held in 11 regional languages and English. The commission was constituted by the government for conservation, preservation, protection and development of cows. The exam on February 25 aims to "infuse curiosity into all Indians about cows and make them aware of the unexplored potential and business opportunities a cow can offer, even after it stops giving milk", the RKA had said in its notification for the exam on January 5. UGC secretary Rajnish Jain in a letter to vice-chancellors said that "you are aware the Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Government of India, established in February 2019, has been working on dissemination of information on economic, scientific, environmental, health, agriculture and spiritual relevance of indigenous cow in the country". The RKA is going to conduct the all-India online 'Kamdhenu Gau Vigyan Prachar-Prasar Examination' for students of primary, secondary and senior secondary schools, colleges, universities and for all citizens, Jain said. "I write this to request you, to give wide publicity to this initiative and encourage students to enrol or register themselves for this examination. This may also be brought to the notice of the colleges affiliated to your university," he said in the letter to vice-chancellors. The exam will be conducted in English, Hindi, Gujarati, Sanskrit, Punjabi, Marathi, Kannada, Malayalam, Tamil, Marathi, Telugu and Odia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ugc-asks-varsities-to-encourage-students-to-take-voluntary-online-exam-on-cow-science-952251.html
17-02-2021||National||Petrol at Rs 100: PM Modi says reducing dependence on energy import||On a day when petrol crossed the Rs 100 mark, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday said the middle-class would not have been burdened if the previous governments had focussed on reducing India's energy import dependence. Without referring to the relentless increase in retail fuel prices, which are linked to international rates, he said India imported over 85 per cent of its oil needs in the 2019-20 financial year and nearly 53 per cent of its gas requirement. "Can we be so import dependent? I don't want to criticise anyone but I want to say (that) had we focussed on this subject earlier, our middle-class would not have been burdened," he said at a function to inaugurate oil and gas projects in poll-bound Tamil Nadu. Price of petrol crossed the Rs 100 per litre mark in Rajasthan after fuel rates were hiked for the ninth day in a row. Since India imports majority of its oil needs, retail rates are benchmarked to international prices, which have spiralled in recent weeks. Modi said his government is sensitive to concerns of the middle-class and so has focussed on raising share of ethanol mixing in petrol. Ethanol extracted from sugarcane will help cut imports as well as give farmers alternate source of income. India, he said, is looking to cut energy import dependence as well as diversify its sources to reduce risks. The focus now is also towards using renewable sources of energy, which will by 2030 form 40 per cent of energy generated in the country, he said. Also, the government is working towards raising the share of natural gas in the energy basket to 15 per cent from the current 6.3 per cent and is committed to bringing it under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime to eliminate cascading effect of multiple taxes, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-at-rs-100-pm-modi-says-reducing-dependence-on-energy-import-952257.html
17-02-2021||National||'I forgive,' says Rahul Gandhi on his father Rajiv's killers||Amid a debate over the release of seven persons convicted for Rajiv Gandhi's assassination, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday reiterated that he does not hold any “anger or hatred” towards the killers of his father and has “forgiven” them. Gandhi made the comments during an interaction with students of Bharathidasan Women's College in Puducherry. His comments hold significance as the issue of the release of the Rajiv Gandhi case convicts is back on the centre stage yet again in Tamil Nadu. "I don't have anger or hatred towards anybody. Of course, I lost my father and for me it was a very difficult time. It feels like someone has cut your heart out. I felt tremendous pain, but I don't feel anger, I don't feel any hatred or any anger. I forgive," he said. Gandhi was responding to a question on his say on the killing of his father by the now defunct Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). To another question, he said he still "carries" his father with him. “Understand something. Violence cannot take away anything from you at all. You can give up something, but violence cannot take away anything from you. My father is alive in me. By the way, a lot of things you have heard today came to me from my father. My father is talking through me," he added. The issue of release of seven convicts, including Nalini and her husband Murugan, is a sensitive topic in Tamil Nadu. The AIADMK government had in September 2018 passed a resolution recommending Governor Banwarilal Purohit to release them. After almost 2.5 years, the governor has now told the Supreme Court that the competent authority to decide on their release is the President.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-forgive-says-rahul-gandhi-on-his-father-rajivs-killers-952268.html
17-02-2021||National||Cabinet nod to juvenile justice law amendments gives more powers to District Magistrates||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday cleared amendments to the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act 2015 that gives more powers to the district magistrates in adoption cases besides bringing child protection units and specialised juvenile justice police units under their jurisdiction. The government is likely to bring the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, 2021 in the second leg of Budget Session. It had already indicated its intent to bring this bill in January when it placed it in a list of legislations it proposed to bring during the Budget Session circulated among MPs. The Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi cleared the amendments, which made it clear that District Magistrates (DMs) along with Additional DMs will monitor the functions of the agencies implementing Juvenile Justice Act in every district. Bringing in more efficiency in the functioning of Child Welfare Committees, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani said, the amendments also propose background checks of members being chosen to these panels. So far, no such checks have been conducted. Streamlining the registration of Child Care Institutions, Irani said DMs will conduct a background check of the applicants, including the institution's capacity, before recommending its suitability for registration by the state government. At present, there is no such mechanism to examine the capacity and other facilities of institutions seeking registration. The DMs will also independently evaluate the functioning of Child Welfare Committees, specialised juvenile justice police units and registered institutions. The scope of JJ Act has also been enlarged to consider children who are victims of trafficking, drug abuse, abandonment by guardians and those rescued from child labour in category of "Children In Need of Care and Protection" (CNCP). Another proposed amendment said that offences where the maximum sentence is more than seven years but no minimum sentence is prescribed or a minimum sentence of less than 7 years is provided shall be treated as serious offences within the JJ Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cabinet-nod-to-juvenile-justice-law-amendments-gives-more-powers-to-district-magistrates-952270.html
17-02-2021||National||'Covid-19 human barricade to keep cases under control in India'||With falling rates of Covid-19 infection in India and surveys suggesting nearly 300 million people may already have antibodies, some experts believe the worst of the disease has passed, despite a recent uptick in two hard-hit states. "There is a human barricade for the virus," said Bhramar Mukherjee, an epidemiologist at the University of Michigan, who with a team of researchers, has been modelling the trajectory of the outbreak in India. "By the end of March, we should see a very slow, steady decline (in cases)," she added. Cases that were rising by nearly 100,000 a day in September are now growing at just 10,000 a day. And India's official number of total infections, which was projected to surpass that of the United States in late 2020, now stands at 11 million, well behind the US tally of about 28 million. Total deaths so far in India are just under 156,000, the world's fourth-highest number of fatalities. "India suffered through a lot and because it suffered through a lot, it's reached the other shore now," said Ramanan Laxminarayan, an epidemiologist at the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy, a research firm based in Washington, DC and New Delhi. "I don't see the prospect of a second wave in India. If it does happen, it will likely be a modest one." A recent government serological survey indicated 21.5% of Indians were likely infected by Covid-19, giving them a degree of immunity, while antibody tests on more than 700,000 people by a diagnostic company showed that 55% of Indians may have already been infected. To be sure, not all epidemiologists agree India is out of the woods. The country is currently battling a surge in cases in two states - Maharashtra and Kerala, which account for a combined 70% of nationwide active cases. Even those predicting further declines in cases, like Mukherjee, warn that India will need to continue Covid-19 containment measures and surveillance of new variants, besides aggressively vaccinating its people. More socializing, coupled with a recent restart of local trains in the financial hub of Mumbai, could be causing the spike in Maharashtra, say experts, while a restart of schools in Kerala is being blamed for the surge there. New clusters have also been identified in the tech hub of Bengaluru. "Even though there are advisories against large gatherings, people have started to take it easy," said Pradeep Awate, a senior health official in Maharashtra. Still, Mukherjee notes the "percentage of cases that require hospitalizations in Kerala and Maharashtra has gone down." Vaccination The reason why millions of Indians are asymptomatic — as survey numbers suggest — has flummoxed experts. Theories range from India's early lockdown implementation to its youthful population and an intrinsic immunity among Indians. Some say an open-air lifestyle in villages could have prevented a surge in rural India, where two-thirds of India's 1.3 billion people live. But epidemiologists say finding the true reason will require research that could take years. While experts agree many Covid-19 cases and deaths may be under-reported in India, available indicators like hospital-bed utilization rates point to a falling curve. Epidemiologists say a key factor would be how aggressively India moves on its vaccination drive. "If vaccines are given in large numbers right away, we're going to be in a very good position," said Mukherjee. "By the time infection-induced immunity wanes, people will get vaccine-induced immunity."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-human-barricade-to-keep-cases-under-control-in-india-952276.html
17-02-2021||National||No efficacy data of India’s Covid-19 vaccines against South Africa, Brazil variants: Scientists||Preliminary research shows the two vaccines against Covid-19 approved in India are effective against the UK variant of the novel coronavirus but there is no data on their efficacy against the South African and Brazilian mutants detected in the country. On Tuesday, the Health Ministry said four people were detected with the South Africa variant of SARS-CoV-2 and one tested positive for the Brazil variant, a first for India, prompting scientists to stress the need for more data and studies so the country’s vaccine programme can be tailored to evolving exigencies. The number of people who have tested positive for the UK variant in the country has climbed to 187, officials added. The vaccines currently approved for emergency use in India are Covishield, from the Oxford-AstraZeneca stable manufactured by Pune’s Serum Institute of India, and Covaxin, developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Virology (NIV). Answering the question uppermost in many minds, researcher Deepak Sehgal said it is difficult to say how effective the two will be against the new emerging variants, particularly the South African and Brazilian ones, unless scientists have studied them properly. “Having said that, among the two vaccines currently in India, Covaxin may do better against the new mutants because it generates protection against the whole virus. The Covishield vaccine is targeted at only one protein of the virus,” Sehgal, head of the department of Life Sciences, Shiv Nadar University, Uttar Pradesh, told PTI. Covaxin, he explained, can produce antibodies against many epitopes, or many regions of the complete virus, while Covishield produces antibodies against only a specific region of the virus. “So even if there is a mutation in one region, there are antibodies being produced against other regions of the virus which will be effective in case of Covaxin,” he added. Covaxin is an "inactivated" vaccine developed by chemically treating novel coronavirus samples to make them incapable of reproduction. This process leaves the viral proteins, including the spike protein of the coronavirus which it uses to enter the human cells, intact. Covishield contains an engineered version of adenoviruses that infect chimpanzees to carry the gene responsible for the spike protein of the novel coronavirus. Adenoviruses are common viruses that typically cause mild cold or flu-like illnesses. Both the vaccines claim to have some efficacy against the UK variant. According to a yet-to-be-published study on 26 participants, Covaxin was found to be effective against the UK variant, Bharat Biotech said in late January. Similarly, a study by Oxford University found that the ChAdOx1-nCoV19 vaccine, known as Covishield in India, was effective in tackling the UK variant. Immunologist Vineeta Bal noted that the UK variant had only one mutation that mattered and hence these results were not surprising. “While Bharat Biotech results were on a small number of samples to check inhibition against UK virus in the present evolving situation, this can be taken as adequate preliminary data,” Bal, from Pune’s Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), said. However, both the South African and Brazilian variants have many more mutations and hence significant decrease in efficacy may be seen, she said. “We do not have an answer for the efficacy against the new variants yet. I am sure efforts are on to test sera (blood) from vaccinated individuals for their ability to block the growth of new variants in the tissue culture system,” Bal told PTI. “For that the variant virus has to be available and also the testing facility. NIV, for example, has competence to do it and I am sure they are attempting to test,” she said, adding that no results are available in the public domain yet. Globally, 10 Covid-19 vaccines have been either approved by several countries or are under limited emergency use. New variants of coronavirus are emerging that are more infectious than the one that started the pandemic. UK government scientific advisers say the Covid-19 variant now predominant in the country may be 30-70 per cent more "deadly" than previous variants, underscoring concerns about how mutations may change the characteristics of the disease. A recent study suggests the vaccine co-developed by the American pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and the German biotechnology company BioNTech can neutralise variants of the novel coronavirus that were first reported in the UK and South Africa. The research, published in the journal Nature Medicine, noted that the vaccine is effective against coronavirus variants carrying the N501Y and E484K mutations. In January, US biotechnology firm Moderna said lab studies showed its Covid-19 vaccine would remain protective against variants of the coronavirus first identified in the UK and South Africa. However, out of caution, the company will test adding a second booster of its vaccine -- to make three shots in total -- and has begun preclinical studies on a booster specifically for the South African variant. In the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, the messenger RNA -- or mRNA -- acts as a blueprint for the production of the coronavirus spike protein and is encapsulated by lipid molecules and delivered into human cells.mRNAs contain a blueprint for producing proteins in cells Based on the reports rather than solid published data, it appears that rapid spread of these emerging variants would pose some risk to individuals who have recovered from earlier infection as well as those already vaccinated, Bal said. “In India we do not know how effectively testing, screening and quarantine is implemented for contacts and cases. “Depending upon that, spread can be curtailed with varying efficiency and hopefully serious spread will not happen and another round of lockdown will not be needed,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-efficacy-data-of-india-s-covid-19-vaccines-against-south-africa-brazil-variants-scientists-952281.html
17-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Priya Ramani acquitted in defamation case filed by M J Akbar||In your evening news brief, Priya Ramani acquitted in a defamation complaint filed by M J Akbar; Price of petrol crosses the Rs 100 per litre mark in Rajasthan and Activist Nikita Jacob granted three-week transit bail.  A Delhi court on Wednesday acquitted journalist Priya Ramani in a defamation complaint filed by former Union Minister M J Akbar against sexual harassment charges levelled against him by the former during the #MeToo campaign. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey let off Ramani in a judgment, saying the right of reputation can't be protected at the cost of the right to dignity and sexual abuse takes away dignity and self-confidence. Having noted that the incident happened two decades ago, the court said that the society must understand the impact of sexual abuse and harassment on its victims and the social stigma attached with the allegations. For the first time ever, the price of petrol crossed the Rs 100 per litre mark in Rajasthan on Wednesday after fuel rates were hiked for the ninth day in a row. Petrol and diesel prices were increased by 25 paise per litre each, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. While branded or additive-laced petrol, which attracts higher taxes, had crossed the Rs 100-mark in some places in states like Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, this is the first time that regular petrol crossed the physiological mark. In nine straight days, prices have gone up by Rs 2.59 per litre for petrol and Rs 2.82 per litre for diesel. Activist Nikita Jacob, who has been accused in the Greta Thunberg toolkit case, was granted three-week transit bail by the Bombay High Court. After the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi, Delhi Police had intensified efforts to nab two other activists Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Mallick after obtaining non-bailable warrants against them, alleging that they were involved in preparing the "toolkit" related to the farmers' protest along with pro-Khalistani elements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-priya-ramani-acquitted-in-defamation-case-filed-by-m-j-akbar-952285.html
17-02-2021||National||PM Modi thinks of himself as the king of India, alleges Rahul Gandhi in Puducherry||Attacking Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday alleged none can get justice from the judicial system in the country without being terrified of the consequences. Addressing his first public meeting for elections to the Puducherry Assembly likely in April, he alleged, "Today, an Indian person cannot get justice from the judicial system without being terrified of what will be done to him." While journalists feared for their lives, Bills were passed in the Parliament without any discussion and elected leaders like him were not allowed to speak in the Lok Sabha because "one man thinks he is not the Prime Minister but he is the king of the country," he said. Gandhi accused Modi of not allowing the Congress government in the union territory to function for the last nearly five years, a reference to the running feud between the Narayanasamy ministry and outgoing Lt Governor Kiran Bedi over many issues. He alleged the Prime Minister destroyed the institution of the Lt Governor and did not value the people's mandate. "Through the office of the LG, he has repeatedly sent you a message saying that your vote does not matter." "PM Modi has taken your dreams, aspirations and worked against them by destroying the institution of the Lt Governor, just like he destroys all other institutions," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-thinks-of-himself-as-the-king-of-india-alleges-rahul-gandhi-in-puducherry-952306.html
17-02-2021||National||India hosting meet on Covid-19 management; Pakistan, 8 other nations invited||India is hosting on Thursday a regional conclave on the management of coronavirus pandemic and nine countries, including Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka, have been invited for it, official sources said. They said Mauritius and Seychelles too have been invited for the meeting on "Covid-19 Management: Experience, Good Practices and Way Forward". The sources said India's health secretary will chair the event and each country has been invited to participate in one-plus-one format -- health secretary and head of the technical team in charge of Covid-19 management.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-hosting-meet-on-covid-19-management-pakistan-8-other-nations-invited-952353.html
17-02-2021||National||Taapsee, Richa and others celebrate Priya Ramani's acquittal in MJ Akbar defamation case||Prominent Bollywood celebrities, including actors Taapsee Pannu, Richa Chadha, and filmmaker Onir on Wednesday hailed journalist Priya Ramani's acquittal in MJ Akbar's criminal defamation case over allegations of sexual harassment. Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey dismissed the complaint filed by Akbar, saying that no charges were proved against Ramani. The celebrities termed the judgement as a landmark moment for women and their fight against workplace sexual harassment. Taking to Twitter, Pannu said that the verdict had instilled her faith in justice at a time when the world looked bleak.  "Amidst all the wrongs and unfair happening around, this did bring a ray of hope that somewhere something is keeping our hope in righteousness alive. Long live truth and justice," the "Thappad" star wrote. Chadha wrote, "Hope Mr Burns spends the rest of his disgraced days in a radioactive den." Ramani had made an allegation of sexual misconduct against Akbar in the wake of #MeToo movement in 2018. In response, Akbar had filed the complaint against Ramani for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct decades ago. Onir called the Delhi court's verdict a "milestone judgement". "This is spectacular. A milestone judgement when it comes to sexual harassment. Important that the court points out that it’s not time-bound. Amazing #PriyaRamani #Rebeccajon" he tweeted. Screenwriter-editor Apurva Asrani said Ramani's acquittal is a "relief" for those women who found the courage to call out their abusers but said it's only half the battle won.  "MJ Akbar must be held accountable for the harassment that she has endured. #MeToo," he wrote. Actor Mini Mathur said: "Priya Ramani is acquitted. The fact that she needed to defend her accusations of harassment against a powerful man notwithstanding, this is a huge step forward for women speaking up against sexual harassment. Big shoutout to her lawyer Rebecca John as well #justice" Singers Chinmayi Sripaada and Sona Mohapatra, who had come out with their own stories of sexual harassment in the wake of #MeToo movement, also hailed the judgement. "It is our right to identify and expose our molesters. File a case when we have the strength and support to do so. #PriyaRamani" Sripaada tweeted. Mohapatra said, "Mr MJ Akbar’s reputation is one that stinks. So protecting it would mean harming a whole society & its dignity. This case is one for #India's protection. Not just her women but also all the good people of this country. #ThankYou #PriyaRamani for standing strong. @IndiaMeToo" Akbar, who had resigned as Union minister in October 2018, has denied all the allegations of sexual harassment by women who came forward during #MeToo campaign against him. Reacting to the judgment, Ramani said that it feels great to have your truth validated before court. “It feels amazing, truly does. I feel vindicated on behalf of all the women who have ever spoken out against sexual harassment at work place. "It was me the victim who had to stand up in the court as an accused. I thank everyone who stood by me especially my witnesses Ghazala Wahab and Niloufer Venkatraman who came to the court and testified on my behalf," Ramani said as she thanked lawyer Rebecca John and her team for putting their heart and soul in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taapsee-richa-and-others-celebrate-priya-ramanis-acquittal-in-mj-akbar-defamation-case-952361.html
17-02-2021||National||India offers to vaccinate all 95,000 UN peacekeepers||India will donate 2,00,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines for the United Nations’ peacekeepers deployed in the conflict zones around the world, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday. He also called upon the nations to desist from “vaccine nationalism”. His appeal came even as the UN Secretary General, Antonio Guterres, pointed out that only 10 countries had so far administered 75% of all the vaccines, while more than 130 countries had not yet received a single dose. “Those affected by conflict & (and) insecurity are being left behind. Everyone, everywhere, must be vaccinated as soon as possible,” Guterres posted on Twitter. The External Affairs Minister participated in a virtual meeting of the Foreign Ministers representing the five permanent and 15 non-permanent members UN Security Council. The meeting was convened by the British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab primarily to discuss access to the Covid-19 vaccines in conflict situations. The External Affairs Minister pointed out that India had already supplied Covid-19 vaccines to 25 nations, while it would provide the jabs to 49 other countries soon. He then announced that India would provide the UN with 2,00,000 doses of vaccines exclusively for the UN peacekeepers. Altogether 81,832 UN peacekeepers are deployed in 13 conflict zones in South and West Asia, Africa and Europe, according to a December 31, 2020 report of the international organisations. “Do your work with the welfare of others always in mind,” the External Affairs Minister said, quoting the Bhagavad Gita. Indi, till a week ago, supplied a total of 229.7 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccines to the global community – 64.7 lakh doses supplied as a grant, while 165 lakh doses supplied on commercial contracts. Jaishankar made nine suggestions at the UNSC meeting, including persisting with the vaccination drive, collaboration on genomic surveillance and exchange information, effectively addressing public resistance to vaccines, addressing public resistance to vaccines and improving public health expenditures to build capacity. “Stop ‘Vaccine nationalism’; promote internationalism. Strengthen COVAX; ensure equitable distribution. Urgently resume immunization programs. Stop disinformation campaigns and proactively prepare for the next global pandemic,” the External Affairs Minister suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-offers-to-vaccinate-all-95000-un-peacekeepers-952372.html
17-02-2021||National||India surpasses China in FinTech deals||India has emerged as Asia's biggest destination for financial technology (FinTech) deals, leaving behind China in the quarter ended June 2020, a research report said on Wednesday. With around 33 deals valued at $647.5 million, India has the highest investment in the FinTech segment compared to China's $284.9 million during the quarter ended June 30, 2020, the report released by RBSA Advisors said. Total investments in India's FinTech sector crossed the $10 billion mark over the last four and half years (calendar year 2016 to H1 of 2020). "Amid Covid-19, India has seen a 60 per cent increase in FinTech investments to $1467 million in H12020 compared to the $919 million for the same period last year," the leading valuation, investment banking and transaction advisory firm said in a statement. Bengaluru and Mumbai remain the top two headquartered cities for FinTech companies. "While the FinTech industry is still in its early adoption stage, we believe it is well-positioned to witness long-term growth in the coming years. The changes will be more focused on digital lending (alternative finance) and open banking", RBSA Advisors MD and CEO, Rajeev Shah, said. Out of total 21 unicorns in India, around one-third are FinTech companies, Paytm being the highest valued unicorn, at $16 billion. The FinTech market in India was valued at Rs 1,920 billion in 2019 and is expected to reach Rs 6,207 billion by 2025, expanding at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of about 22 per cent during the 2020-2025 period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-surpasses-china-in-fintech-deals-952373.html
17-02-2021||National||MHA denies permission to 600 Sikh pilgrims planning to visit Pakistan||The Union Home Ministry Thursday denied permission to 600 Sikh pilgrims intending to visit gurdwaras in Pakistan citing the security and Covid-19 situation in that country, officials said. In a communication to the Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC), the home ministry said that the security situation in Pakistan continues to be adverse and there is a threat to Indian citizens in that country. Besides, the Covid-19 pandemic has affected five lakh people in Pakistan and 10,000 people lost their lives due to the disease. The health infrastructure in Pakistan is also not adequate, the ministry said. It also said that both passenger, as well as trade traffic between India and Pakistan, has stopped since March 2020 due to the pandemic. Citing these reasons, the home ministry conveyed to the SGPC that it has decided not to accord permission to the Jatha comprising 600 pilgrims which intended to cross over to Pakistan on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-denies-permission-to-600-sikh-pilgrims-planning-to-visit-pakistan-952377.html
17-02-2021||National||Stop vaccine nationalism, encourage internationalism: India at UNSC meeting on Covid-19||India, which has shipped ‘Made In India’ Covid-19 vaccines to around 25 nations, on Wednesday urged the international community to stop “vaccine nationalism” and actively encourage “internationalism”, underlining that hoarding superfluous doses will defeat global efforts to attain collective health security and combat the pandemic. Addressing the UN Security Council, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar outlined nine points for consideration of the international community to help the world put the Covid-19 pandemic decisively behind it and to emerge more resilient. “Stop ‘vaccine nationalism’; indeed, actively encourage internationalism. Hoarding superfluous doses will defeat our efforts towards attaining collective health security,” he said, speaking at the open debate on the implementation of resolution 2532 (2020) on the cessation of hostilities in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic. He also emphasised that disinformation campaigns taking advantage of the pandemic to advance their nefarious objectives and activities must be stopped. Jaishankar voiced concern that lack of global coordination regarding vaccine distribution will hit conflict affected areas and poorer countries the hardest. He cited the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) estimates that more than 60 million people in such areas are at risk. India is also concerned over a “glaring disparity” in accessibility of vaccines globally and Jaishankar emphasised that equity in access to vaccines is important for mitigating the impact of pandemic. “This disparity calls for cooperation within the framework of COVAX, which is trying to secure adequate vaccine doses for the world’s poorest nations,” he said. He further called for strengthening the COVAX facility to ensure equitable distribution of vaccines to all countries in a fair and equitable manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stop-vaccine-nationalism-encourage-internationalism-india-at-unsc-meeting-on-covid-19-952381.html
17-02-2021||National||In a first, Centre approves financial powers of Rs 200 crore for top military officers||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved financial powers to clear projects worth up to Rs 200 crore to the deputy chiefs and command heads of the armed forces for capital procurement projects, officials said. The financial powers have been approved for projects under the 'Other Capital Procurement Procedure' category, they said. Financial powers to clear projects worth up to Rs 200 crore have been delegated to Deputy Chief of Army Staff, Air Officer Maintenance and Deputy Chief of Integrated Defence Staff as well as to additional director general of Indian Coast Guard. "This delegation of powers within service headquarters and up to command level for items of capital nature such as overhauls, refits, upgrades etc. will enhance the utility of existing assets and will facilitate faster processing and implementation of projects," the defence ministry said. As per the approval, financial powers for capital procurement projects worth up to Rs 100 crore have been delegated to General Officer Commanding-in-Chief (GOC-in-C), Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief (FOC-in-C), Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief (AOC-in-C) at services commands and regional commands, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-a-first-centre-approves-financial-powers-of-rs-200-crore-for-top-military-officers-952383.html
17-02-2021||National||PM Modi to address Visva- Bharati university convocation on Feb 19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the convocation of the Visva-Bharati University on Friday via video conferencing, the Prime Minister's Office said. West Bengal Governor and Rector of Visva-Bharati Jagdeep Dhankhar, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and Union MoS for Education Sanjay Dhotre will also be present on the occasion. Prime Minister Modi will address the convocation of Visva-Bharati on February 19 at 11 AM via video conferencing, the PMO said in a statement. A total of 2,535 students will receive their degrees during the ceremony, the statement said. Visva-Bharati, situated at Shantiniketan, was founded by Rabindranath Tagore in 1921. It is the oldest central university in the country. In May 1951, Visva-Bharati was declared to be a central university and "an Institution of National Importance" by an Act of Parliament. The university followed the pedagogy devised by Tagore, though gradually it evolved in the format in which modern universities developed elsewhere. The prime minister is also the chancellor of the university.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-address-visva-bharati-university-convocation-on-feb-19-952411.html
17-02-2021||National||D-company conspired, sent shooter to kill BJP leader Zadaphia to avenge 2002 riots: Gujarat ATS||The Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has said that the suspected sharp-shooter arrested after a raid in August last year had allegedly come to kill former Minister of State for Home Gordhan Zadaphia to "avenge atrocities on Muslims during 2002 post-Godhra riots." The ATS in its chargesheet, filed last week, has mentioned several times that the motive of the Mumbai-based shooter was to kill Zadaphia, currently the vice-president of Gujarat BJP, at the behest of fugitive underworld don Chhota Shakeel, who is said to be a close associate of another fugitive gangster Dawood Ibrahim Kaskar. In the chargesheet, filed before a special court in the city, ATS has said that the interrogation of the alleged shooter Irfan Ismail Shaikh alias Kalia, 23, revealed that he was sent from Mumbai to kill Zadaphia as part of a conspiracy hatched by the members of Dawood's gang. "Dawood Ibrahim, currently residing in Pakistan, his gang members Shakeel Babu Shaikh alias Chhota Shakeel, Syed Muddassar Hussain alias Munna Jhingada and Shabbir conspired to kill Zadaphia, who was the Minister of State for Home when the 2002 riots broke out, to avenge the loss of lives and properties of Muslims," ATS said in the chargesheet. The chargesheet, accessed by DH, states that Shabbir, whose full identity is yet to be established, contacted accused number 2 in the case, Siddesh Kharade, a resident of Mumbai and offered him Rs10 lakh to eliminate Zadaphia. Kharade has been quoted in the chargesheet as saying, "12/13/08/2020 ke roz subah me WhatsApp call karke shabbir Haji ne mujhe bola ki Ahmedabad me Bhajpa ka neta Gordhan Zadaphia ko tapkane ki sopari Chhota Shakeel aur Munna Jhingada ne diya hai, toh tumse wo kaam hoga? Toh maine usko na bola uske baad usne mujhe kaha ki tu ik kaam kar tere pahchan ka aur koi daringwala chokra ready kar aur use hathiyar leke bhej denge aur uske sath hamara dusra adami jayega aur dono milke kam khatam kar denge aur ye kaam hone par tujhe Rs10 lakh mil jayega. Maine ye baat sunkar paison ki lalach me use haan bola diya aur khoob sochne ke baad tarikh 16/8/2020 ke roj maine mere dost Irfan ko yeh bataya aur use ye kaam ke liye Rs5 lakh dene ki baat kiya toh wo taiyar ho gaya (On 12/13/08/2020 morning, Shabbir Haji called me on WhatsApp and said that Chhota Shakeel and Munna Jhingada have given contract to kill BJP leader Gordhan Zadaphia in Ahmedabad. Can you do it? When I refused, he asked me to find out a daring person who can do it. He will be sent with weapons and joined by another man to finish the job, and he will get Rs10 lakh for doing the job. I got greedy and told my friend Irfan on 16/08/2020, and I offered him Rs5 lakh, he accepted." Kharade has been quoted as saying that he received a bag containing weapons and Rs 3000, which he gave to Irfan for the job. He also said that he never met Shabbir and came in contact through a friend who was murdered by local goons a few days later. Irfan came to Ahmedabad by bus on August 18 early morning and checked-in at the hotel "Vinus" near Lal Darwaja. On the same day, he did a recce of state BJP headquarters 'Kamalam' in Gandhinagar. He took a video of the office and shared it with Shabbir, who sent him a link containing a picture of Zadaphia. Shabbir reportedly told Irfan after receiving the video that "Munna Jhingada tere kaam se khush ho gaya hai (Munna Jhingada is happy with your work)." The chargesheet states that Irfan was supposed to be joined by one Salman, whose full identity is yet to be established, but on the same night, August 18 at 10:00 pm, Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Himanshu Shukla received a secret message which stated, "Shakeel Babu Shaikh alias Chhota Shakeel's, currently living in Pakistan, gang has sent sharp-shooters from Mumbai to Ahmedabad to kill Hindu leaders and the sharp-shooters are staying at a hotel called Vinus in the area around Relief Road in the city." Based on this specific information, the ATS team raided room number 105 of the hotel at midnight when Irfan opened fire in a bid to escape. No one was injured as one of the officers B P Rozia pushed him away in the nick of time. The chargesheet has listed 47 witnesses in the case, including Shukla, then Superintendent of police, ATS, Deepan Bhadran, Deputy Superintendent of Police K K Patel, who were part of the raiding team.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/d-company-conspired-sent-shooter-to-kill-bjp-leader-zadaphia-to-avenge-2002-riots-gujarat-ats-952412.html
17-02-2021||National||PM Modi to launch several development projects in Kerala on Feb 19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of key projects of power and urban sectors in the poll-bound Kerala on February 19 via video conferencing.  The PMO said on Wednesday that Modi will inaugurate 320 KV Pugalur (Tamil Nadu) - Thrissur (Kerala) power transmission project, noting that it is a voltage source convertor (VSC) based high voltage direct current (HVDC) project and has India's first HVDC link featuring state-of-the-art VSC technology.  Built at a cost of Rs 5,070 crore, it will facilitate transfer of 2000 MW power from the western region and help meet the growth in load for the people of Kerala.  This VSC based system features integration of HVDC XLPE (cross-linked polyethylene) cable with overhead lines which saves right-of-way as well as has 35-40 per cent less land footprint compared to conventional HVDC system. The PMO said he will also dedicate to the nation the 50 MW Kasaragod solar power project, which has been developed under the national solar energy mission. Set up over 250 acres of land spread across Paivalike, Meenja and Chippar villages of Kasaragod district, it has been built with the central government's investment of around Rs 280 crore. Among other projects, he will lay the foundation stone of the integrated command and control centre at Thiruvananthapuram. Projected to be built at a cost of Rs 94 crore, it is being set up to host smart solutions for Thiruvananthapuram Municipal Corporation, and will act as a common point of action during emergency situations to facilitate coordinated action. Besides, he will also lay the foundation stone of the smart roads project in Thiruvananthapuram, which has an estimated cost of Rs 427 crore and envisages converting 37 km of existing roads in the state's capital to world class smart roads by bringing all overhead utilities underneath and undertaking road and junction improvements. The prime minister will also inaugurate the 75 MLD (million litres per day) water treatment plant at Aruvikkara, built under the AMRUT Mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-launch-several-development-projects-in-kerala-on-feb-19-952433.html
17-02-2021||National||40-50K Covid-19 vaccination sessions per day in the third phase; big involvement of private sector||Nearly 40,000-50,000 vaccination sessions would be held daily with big-time involvement of the private sector as India gears up for the third round of Covid-19 vaccination in which 270 million people – mostly those above 50 years of age – will be inoculated. P K Mishra, Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister on Wednesday reviewed the preparation for the most ambitious stage of the Covid-19 vaccination drive that may kick start in another two-three weeks. Besides the 50-plus group, a section of people below 50 years but having serious comorbidities would also receive the vaccine. “Currently 10,000-11,000 immunisation sessions are being conducted. It is planned to scale up this by four to five times when the next phase is started. Presently about 2,000 private hospitals are engaged in the vaccination effort. As we go ahead, a much larger number of private hospitals will be engaged in Covid 19 vaccination, the Union Health Ministry said in a statement after the review meeting. The reality, however, is that India is yet to vaccinate 10 million people in the last one month, though it plans to give the shot to 30 million healthcare and frontline workers first before moving forward to 270 million general population. As of February 17, just about 9 million people — 91,86,757 to be exact — received the vaccine, of which 6.5 million are healthcare workers and the rest are frontline staff. About 68% of those eligible for the first dose received the vaccine while the number drops to 42.4% when it comes to those who are eligible for the second dose. Around 29% of frontline workers received the vaccine. Officials admit that there is vaccine hesitancy because of which people are not coming forward for inoculation. But they hoped that with time the hesitancy would go away. During the review for the third phase of vaccination, Mishra was also appraised on version 2.0 of the Co-Win digital platform that would be used for self-registration of the vaccine beneficiaries. The new version is ready and will be launched in near future. Health Ministry officials said the necessary systems – the Co-WIN to handle the huge demand and finalising APIs (application programming interface or in simpler terms smartphone Apps) for interfacing with CoWIN platform – are in place. The entire process is now being stabilised The top PMO official was also briefed on how relevant databases - details about the citizens’ age, address, ID, keeping track of progress on CoWIN platform, delivery of second dose and issue of vaccination certificate - would be used in the digital database to conduct the never-done-before exercise in a smooth fashion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/40-50k-covid-19-vaccination-sessions-per-day-in-the-third-phase-big-involvement-of-private-sector-952434.html
17-02-2021||National||India puts flyers from Brazil, South Africa, Britain under scanner for Covid-19 strain||India has stepped up surveillance on travellers from Britain, South Africa and Brazil as more infectious variants of the coronavirus from these countries were detected from across the country. According to the new standard operating procedures (SOPs) for international travellers, the government has asked airlines to segregate passengers from Brazil and South Africa so that they could be subjected to self-paid confirmatory tests for the disease. The new SOPs will come into effect from 23.59 hours on February 22 till further orders. “All the travellers arriving from/transiting through flights originating in the United Kingdom, Europe or the Middle East shall be mandatorily subjected to self-paid confirmatory molecular tests on arrival,” Ministry of Health said in a statement. India has reported at least four cases of the South African strain, one case of the Brazilian strain and 187 cases of the Britain strain of the virus. Health officials said the South African and Brazilian strains can more easily infect a person's lungs than the UK variant of the coronavirus. The government has asked airlines to identify the international travellers arriving from/transiting through Britain, Brazil and South Africa (during past 14 days) and segregate them in-flight or while disembarking to facilitate the authorities to follow the due protocol in respect of these travellers. India does not have direct flights from Brazil and South Africa, and most people travelling from these countries generally transit through Middle Eastern airports. All passengers will also have to carry a recent Covid-negative report before boarding any flight to India, except in extraordinary circumstances like death in a family. The government has suspended international scheduled flights till February 28. Overseas flights to and from India are currently operated as per air bubble agreements with various countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-puts-flyers-from-brazil-south-africa-britain-under-scanner-for-covid-19-strain-952443.html
17-02-2021||National Politics||Grossly negligent: Rahul Gandhi slams govt over South African Covid-19 strain||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday accused the Centre of being "grossly" negligent and overconfident about the handling of the coronavirus situation, saying the pandemic was not over yet. The comments came after South African and Brazilian variants of the pathogen were detected in India. "GOI is being grossly negligent and overconfident about Covid-19. It's not over yet," Gandhi tweeted. For the first time in India, four people were detected with the South Africa variant of SARS-CoV-2 and one tested positive for the Brazil variant in the country, the Health Ministry had said on Tuesday. In India, the South Africa strain has been detected in four returnees, one from Angola, one from Tanzania and two from South Africa in January, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava had said. With 11,610 fresh cases, India's Covid-19 tally has climbed to 1,09,37,320 on Wednesday, while the number of recoveries has surged to 1,06,44,858, the ministry said. The death has gone up to 1,55,913 in the country with 100 more fatalities reported in a 24-hour period, as per the ministry's data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/grossly-negligent-rahul-gandhi-slams-govt-over-south-african-covid-19-strain-952154.html
17-02-2021||National Politics||Congress wins six of seven municipal corporations in Punjab civic polls||The ruling Congress won six of the seven municipal corporations in the civic polls in Punjab for which results were declared Wednesday, officials said. The Congress won in Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Abohar, Batala and Pathankot. The result for the seventh corporation was expected later in the day. The counting of votes for yet another corporation will take place on Thursday. The outcome of the elections held against the backdrop of the farmers’ agitation against the BJP-led government at the Centre has come as a boost for the Congress, which is also eyeing to win the assembly elections due early next year. The Shiromani Akali Dal, the Aam Aadmi party and the Bharatiya Janata Party failed to make a mark in the elections for the municipal corporations. Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar said people have rejected the “negative politics” of parties like the BJP, SAD and AAP. “We contested on the development agenda. This victory will embolden our workers to work hard,” Jakhar told reporters. The State Election Commission had ordered repolling at two booths for the Mohali municipal corporation. Therefore, the counting for the entire civic body will take place on Thursday. Over 70 per cent voting was recorded in the civic body elections on February 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-wins-six-of-seven-municipal-corporations-in-punjab-civic-polls-952175.html
17-02-2021||National Politics||PM Modi disrespected people's vote in Puducherry by using Lt Governor against elected govt, says Rahul Gandhi||As the Congress party-led government faces a major crisis in Puducherry, its former President Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday tore into Prime Minister Narendra Modi for “disrespecting the vote” of the people of Puducherry by misusing the office of Lt. Governor and not letting an elected government function. Launching the Congress' election campaign in tiny Union Territory by addressing a rally in Puducherry town, Gandhi also accused Modi of “destroying” the institution of Lt. Governor much like “he destroyed other institutions” in the country. “For the past five years, the prime minister of the country has not allowed the government of Puducherry to function. The prime minister has personally insulted the vote of the people of Puducherry. Through the office of the L-G, he has repeatedly sent you a message that your vote does not matter, and the only thing that matters is he is the prime minister,” Gandhi told the rally. The Wayanad MP's attack came as the Congress battles a major internal crisis — two ministers and as many legislators have put in their papers complaining against the chief minister's style of functioning. Two have already joined the BJP, and more are likely to follow suit. Continuing his attack against Modi, Gandhi alleged that Modi took away the “dreams of the people of Puducherry". "Today, an Indian person cannot get justice from the judicial system without being terrified of what will be done to him,” said Gandhi. The Congress has made the functioning of the L-G and “interference” from the Centre a major election issue. Claiming that Modi thinks he is the “king and not the prime minister”, Gandhi told the people of Puducherry to remember what Modi did to them when they go to vote. “When you go to vote, remember the last time the prime minister has challenged your vote. He disrespected your vote, your tradition, and your history. A person who has disrespected your tradition in the past will disrespect you in the future. It is not an electoral battle, but the battle for the spirit of Puducherry,” he added. Training his guns on Bedi, Gandhi sought to know who gave the right to her to decide on behalf of the people of Puducherry. “How dare somebody decide to do this to you? Just because they have control of the government? Just because they control the CBI? Just because they control the ED? We are never going to allow this,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-disrespected-peoples-vote-in-puducherry-by-using-lt-governor-against-elected-govt-says-rahul-gandhi-952397.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||No suo motu contempt case registered against journalist Rajdeep Sardesai: SC clarifies||The Supreme Court on Tuesday clarified that it has not registered a suo motu criminal contempt case against journalist Rajdeep Sardesai for his tweets. The clarification came after news reports talking about the suo moto criminal contempt proceeding against Sardesai by the Supreme Court on a petition by one Aastha Khurana started doing the rounds.  "It is made clear that no such proceeding has been initiated against Sardesai," an official said. The case was shown as registered on the SC website inadvertently and appropriate action to rectify it was under process, he added in a note. In September last year, Attorney General K K Venugopal had declined to give consent to initiate criminal contempt against Sardesai on a request by Khurana. However, she filed a petition in the top court, which was shown on the Supreme Court website as having been registered on February 13. The petitioner cited several tweets by Sardesai, published in August 2020, including the one where he had criticized the one-rupee penalty imposed on advocate Prashant Bhushan in a contempt of court case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-suo-motu-contempt-case-registered-against-journalist-rajdeep-sardesai-sc-clarifies-952043.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh accident: Last-minute route change; family's bravery||A last-minute route diversion due to a heavy traffic jam proved fatal for most passengers of a private bus in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday even as tales of bravery and human instinct to help those in distress emerged from the tragedy. Showing immense courage, five members of a local family, including a girl named Shivrani Lonia and her brother - all aged between 16 and 22 years - saved seven passengers but one of them died later during treatment. Passengers unsuccessfully tried to break the windows of the ill-fated bus, carrying more than 55 people, including students, when it rolled down into a canal after skidding off the road near a village in Sidhi district, said a survivor. At least 45 passengers, including 20 women, were killed in the accident which took place in the morning. The bus was speeding and the driver fled as soon as the bus fell into the canal. "The bus got filled with water and people frantically tried to break the window panes to save themselves but failed, said Vibha Prajapati, who was going to Satna to appear in an examination for ANM (Auxiliary Nursing Midwifery). Prajapati, with tears rolling down her cheeks, told reporters she tried to save her brother, who was travelling with her in the bus, but does not where he is now. I brought my brother half-way but he was left behind. Nobody is searching for my brother, she said. Prajapati said the bus was carrying 30-35 students who were going for appearing for the ANM examination in Satna. She said the bus was overcrowded and at least 15-20 passengers were standing and three persons were sitting on some of the seats meant for two. There should be at least 55 passengers in the bus. Some people got off at Churhat (a town between Sidhi and Satna) because there was no seat for them in the bus, Prajapati said. A witness to the tragedy, Shivrani Lonia said the ill-fated bus was speeding and skidded off the road and rolled down into the water-filled canal. I saw the speeding bus coming from there (pointing towards a direction) and it plunged into the canal after skidding off from the road, Lonia told reporters. I along with my brother jumped into the canal water and saved two persons," she said. District collector Ravindra Kumar Choudhary said Lonia and her family members saved seven passengers, including women. Choudhary said, Shivrani Lonia, her brother Lavkush and three others rescued seven persons from the ill-fated bus just after the accident. However, one of the survivors died during treatment." "All the persons who rescued the passengers belonged to one family and they were aged between 16 and 22 years," the collector said. Choudhary said they took these passengers out of water after jumping into the canal though they are not professional swimmers, but knew swimming. He praised the Lonia family members for their act of bravery. At the time of the accident, he said, the water level in the canal was about 25 feet. Meanwhile, several people, including Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, praised Shivrani Lonias bravery. I salute the courage shown by daughter Shivrani. Not caring for her life, this daughter saved the lives of two passengers by jumping into the canal in Sidhi. I thank the daughter. The entire state is proud of you," the CM said in Bhopal. A senior official said the accident took place near Patna village, around 80km from the Sidhi district headquarters, when the ill-fated bus was on its way to Satna from Sidhi. Sources said the ill-fated bus took the new route via Patna village after diverting from its regular route passing through the Chhuhiya Ghati. There was a heavy traffic jam at the Chhuhiya Ghati, which falls between Sidhi and Govindgarh town on way to Satna, leading to the route change, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-accident-last-minute-route-change-familys-bravery-952081.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Sharda Peeth is under illegal occupation, India will take it back: J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina||Sharda Peeth, situated in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, is under illegal occupation of the neighbouring country and India will take it back, Jammu and Kashmir BJP President Ravinder Raina said here on Tuesday. Raina was the addressing a "Yuva Jodo Sankalp Abhiyan", a youth connect programme, of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) at the party headquarters here. "Today is Sharda Ashtami, and we all have to take a pledge that Sharda Peeth will be freed from the illegal occupation of Pakistan," he said, adding, "We will take it back and unfurl the Indian flag there." Raina also said that the party's fight in the union territory was against the “anti-national” forces conspiring against the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country. Sharda Peeth is an abandoned temple located in the village of Sharda along the Neelum river near the Line of Control and was a major centre of learning. It is regarded as one of the 18 highly revered temples throughout south Asia. Raina lauded the young wing of the BJP for launching the 45-day-long campaign and expressed hope that thousands of youth would connect with the party in its course. "You have to take this campaign to the nook and corner of Jammu and Kashmir and attract the youth towards the party, which is not after power but is a gathering of nationalists who are standing up against the anti-national forces conspiring to harm the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country," he said. "I congratulate the youth of Kashmir for linking with the BJP and making the lotus (party's symbol) blossom in the Valley as well after the party registered a spectacular success across Jammu region in the recently held District Development Council (DDC) elections," Raina said. He said the BJYM has a big responsibility to strengthen the party at the grassroots level and take a pledge to safeguard the country from its enemies. Praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Raina said, "Today, the whole world is saluting India and the credit for that goes to Modi and the people of the country." Modi's vision not only provided relief to the citizens of the country, but also gave a befitting response to Pakistan and China, besides the anti-national forces, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sharda-peeth-is-under-illegal-occupation-india-will-take-it-back-jk-bjp-president-ravinder-raina-952091.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||One held for attacking SHO at Singhu border, fleeing with his car: Police||A man has been arrested for allegedly attacking an SHO of the Delhi Police and fleeing with his car at the Singhu border, where farmers are protesting against three new agriculture laws of the Centre, officials said on Wednesday. The incident that resulted in minor injuries to the officer took place around 8 pm on Tuesday, they said. According to the police, the accused, who was in an inebriated state, snatched the car keys of one of the officers at the protest site and fled the spot. Being chased by the police, the accused abandoned the vehicle, snatched a two-wheeler from another man and fled. The security personnel finally overpowered him near the Mukarba Chowk around 8.30 pm and the station house officer (SHO) sustained injuries caused by a sword on his finger and neck while trying to nab him, a senior police officer said. The SHO was admitted to a hospital, from where he was discharged after treatment, the police said. The accused has been arrested and further investigation is underway, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-held-for-attacking-sho-at-singhu-border-fleeing-with-his-car-police-952137.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh bus accident: 2 more bodies recovered, death toll rises to 51||The death toll in the bus accident in Madhya Pradesh's Sidhi district has gone up to 51 with the recovery of four more bodies on Wednesday, officials said. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan also left Bhopal to visit the accident spot in Sidhi. On Tuesday, bodies of 47 people, including 20 women and two children, were recovered after the packed private bus skidded off the road and plunged into a water-filled canal in Sidhi. The rescue operations, which were halted late Tuesday night, resumed on Wednesday morning. Four more bodies, including a woman and six-month-old girl, were recovered on Wednesday, taking the toll to 51, Sidhi Collector Ravindra Kumar Choudhary said. Three bodies were swept away and found in a part of the canal in adjoining Rewa district, while one was found about six km from the accident spot, said Ashok Pandey, in- charge of Rampur Naikin police station, under whose jurisdiction the accident spot is located. The bus driver, who had fled from the accident site, has been detained, Sidhi's Superintendent of Police Pankaj Kumawat said, but did not divulge any further information. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday left from the state capital to visit the accident spot in Sidhi and meet families of the victims. "It is a very tragic incident. I wanted to reach the spot and meet the bereaved families on Tuesday, but it could have affected the rescue operation," Chouhan told reporters in Bhopal before leaving for Sidhi. The chief minister said he would meet family members of the deceased and console them. The accident took place on Tuesday morning near Patna village, around 80 km from the Sidhi district headquarters when the bus heading from Sidhi to Satna fell into the canal, which is part of the Bansagar dam project. Nearly 600 personnel, including from the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and local authorities, from five districts, are engaged in the rescue operation since Tuesday morning, officials said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday expressed grief at the 'horrific' bus accident and approved an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced a separate ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased. Chouhan on Tuesday said he ordered to stop the water outflow from the Bansagar dam so that water level in the canal could go down and help in the rescue operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bus-accident-2-more-bodies-recovered-death-toll-rises-to-51-952138.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||EU envoys arrive in Srinagar to assess situation in J&K||A delegation of European Union envoys, which is on a two-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, landed in Srinagar on Wednesday, officials said. The delegation is scheduled to meet various groups in Kashmir on Wednesday before having similar interactions in Jammu on Thursday. This will be the third foreign delegation visiting the valley to assess the ground situation in the union territory after the Central government scrapped the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019. As per the reports, the delegation is scheduled to meet civil society members in central Kashmir's Budgam district today. They are also scheduled to have meetings with newly elected district development council (DDC) members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eu-envoys-arrive-in-srinagar-to-assess-situation-in-jk-952140.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Asaram Bapu hospitalised after complaining of restlessness||Self-styled godman Asaram Bapu has been admitted to a hospital in Rajasthan after he complained of restlessness, discomfort in knees and other ailments.  Bapu is serving life imprisonment in Jodhpur Central Jail in a rape case. Rajasthan: Self-styled godman Asaram Bapu admitted to a hospital after he complained of restlessness, discomfort in knees and other ailments. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/asaram-bapu-hospitalised-after-complaining-of-restlessness-952142.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Mayawati hits out at UP govt over law and order situation||BSP president Mayawati lashed out at the Uttar Pradesh government on Wednesday for the spate of murders in the recent past, demanding that the ruling dispensation pay attention to law and order. Mayawati said the BSP legislators had been directed to try and make the government accountable to the public for the "gross negligence and malicious actions" on the issue of crime and law and order, along with important issues of farmers and public interest. "It's alarming that a phase of murders of leaders, lawyers, and traders has started before the Assembly and panchayat elections," Mayawati tweeted. "And, it is very unfortunate and condemnable that these incidents are not being taken seriously and being termed cases of old rivalry. The government should pay attention."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-hits-out-at-up-govt-over-law-and-order-situation-952150.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Suspicious object found lying roadside in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri||A suspicious object, believed to be an improvised explosive device (IED), was found on the roadside along the Jammu-Poonch highway in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on Wednesday, officials said. The bomb disposal squad of the Army has reached the site at Manjakote and is inspecting the suspicious object, they added. Station House Officer (SHO) of the Manjakote police station Pankaj Sharma said the bomb-like object was found on the roadside around 8.30 am. "The whole area was immediately cordoned off and the Army's bomb disposal squad was requisitioned to inspect the object," he said, adding that the traffic on the highway was suspended as a precautionary measure from both sides. The traffic movement resumed subsequently after the spot was secured with sandbags and an armoured vehicle, the SHO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspicious-object-found-lying-roadside-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-952152.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Devotee donates over 4 kg gold, 3 kg silver to Puri Jagannath Temple||A devotee of Lord Jagannath has donated over 4 kg gold and 3 kg silver jewellery for the trinity - Lord Balabhadra, Devi Subhadra and Lord Jagannath, on the occasion of Shree Panchami, Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) said. A representative of the devotee met the SJTA Chief Administrator Krishan Kumar and handed over the precious ornaments at the temple office in presence of some management committee members and other officials on Tuesday. "The devotee has requested not to reveal his identity as he does not want publicity for the donation," Kumar said. The ornaments are made up of 4.858 kg of gold and 3.867 kg of silver, sources said, adding that the ornaments specially designed for the trinity will be used on special pujas. The gold jewellery included 'Jhoba' (middle part of the idol), 'Srimukha' (face) and 'The Padma' (lotus) for three deities of the 12th-century shrine. A total of 40 'Shree Mukha Padma' and two 'Jhobaa' ornaments is donated for Lord Balabhadra, while 53 'Shree Mukha Padma' and two 'Jhobaa' for Lord Jagannatha and two 'Tadaki' and two 'Jhobaa' for Devi Subhadra were donated to the temple. After receipt of the ornaments, these were kept at the temple office's treasury amid tight security. The temple administration will hand over the jewellery to the 'Bhandara Mekapa' (temple treasurer) on Wednesday. Earlier, a devotee from Bhubaneswar donated 'Surjya' (Sun) and 'Chandra' (Moon) ornaments to the deities of the Srimandir. On January 10, a devotee had donated gold ornaments weighing over 300 gm to the deities. Earlier, another devotee had pledged to donate 21 kg of silver ornaments, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/devotee-donates-over-4-kg-gold-3-kg-silver-to-puri-jagannath-temple-952162.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Tax sops, free security: Jammu and Kashmir gearing up to woo Bollywood||To woo Bollywood filmmakers, Jammu and Kashmir government is soon coming up with a comprehensive film policy under which a number of sops, including free of cost security and financial assistance, will be offered for shooting. “The draft film policy is almost complete and is likely to be released after including suggestions of the top Bollywood filmmakers to whom J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha met two days before in Mumbai,” sources told DH. They said the leading film producers and directors, who met Sinha in Mumbai and those who spoke to him on the telephone, have offered certain suggestions for inclusion in the policy. “Once the suggestions are received, the draft policy will be released,” sources said. “In the policy, the government considers providing free of cost security to the filmmakers. The step is aimed at boosting the morale of the film unit including actors, producers and directors,” they said and added that security concerns of some of the producers would be addressed to the maximum possible extent. The government might also offer administrative assistance to ease filmmaking in the union territory, sources said and added that the first-ever film policy might also offer attractive schemes of financial support and tax exemptions to the filmmakers. Owing to its natural beauty, Kashmir was an integral part of Bollywood films till militancy erupted in the late 1980s and the latter lost its connection with the Valley. However, as the situation improved over the years, Bollywood again returned to its choice locations in Kashmir. Legendary Bollywood filmmaker Yash Chopra shot his last film Jab Tak Hai Jaan in Kashmir in 2012. However, civilian unrest which broke out in the Valley after the killing of Hizbul Mujahideen commander Burhan Wani in July 2016, not only hit the tourists footfall in Kashmir, but Bollywood crews too avoided the Valley. The J&K government believes that the return of Bollywood to Kashmir this time will encourage tourism and send a message of peace in the union territory especially in the Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tax-sops-free-security-jammu-and-kashmir-gearing-up-to-woo-bollywood-952165.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh Budget session to commence from Thursday||The Budget Session of the Uttar Pradesh legislature will begin with Governor Anandiben Patel's address to a joint sitting of both Houses of the state legislature on Thursday. The Yogi Adityanath government is slated to present its annual budget for 2021-22 on Monday. This will be the last budget of the BJP government before the state goes to polls early next year. As the opposition parties prepared to grill the government on pressing issues, particularly those relating to the ongoing farmer protests, law and order and the handling of the coronavirus pandemic, Assembly Speaker Hriday Narain Dixit sought the cooperation of leaders of all parties for smooth conduct of business. Dixit held an all-party meeting on Wednesday where Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Ram Govind Chaudhary (Samajwadi Party) and leaders of other parties were present. The Speaker said Uttar Pradesh, having the largest Legislative Assembly in the country, has an obligation to conduct the proceedings of the House with a firm commitment to the Constitution. "The cooperation of all is required for a substantive and quality discussion in the House," he said. This will be the first time that the budget will be paperless and printed copies will not be available. All legislators will get the budget document on their iPads and it will also be uploaded on the Assembly's website. Legislators were also given the training to help them use iPads smoothly. At the all-party meeting, the chief minister said, "We are committed to meaningful and constructive debates and deliberations to run proceedings for the maximum time. Keeping the high dignity of the House, if the serious discussion is carried forward, the dignity of the members will enhance and the public's faith in democracy will increase. The conduct of all of us in the House affects the society, gives a new direction, through which society then decides its direction." "We will always be ready to successfully conduct the proceedings on behalf of the government and discuss the issues raised by the members," he said. The chief minister said the government will make every effort to ensure positive action on all matters raised by members. "This is the collective responsibility of the ruling party and the opposition. In this session, the e-budget of the country's largest state Uttar Pradesh will be presented on February 22," he said. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Kumar Khanna too sought cooperation from all party leaders for the successful and smooth functioning of the House. Bahujan Samaj Party leader Lalji Verma and Aradhana Mishra Mona of the Congress, Apna Dal (S) leader Neel Ratan Patel and Triveni Ram of the Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party also attended the meeting. Besides the presentation of the annual budget, the government is also likely to table important bills, including the one replacing the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, which was promulgated with the approval of the governor in November last year. The state cabinet had earlier approved the draft ordinance to curb forcible or "dishonest" religious conversions, including those for the sake of marriage, which could land violators in jail for up to 10 years. In the backdrop of the coronavirus pandemic, all preparations are being made to conduct Covid-19 test of MLAs, MLCs and other staff members, including the security personnel. The Speaker, who had convened a meeting in this regard on Tuesday, said Covid-19 test of the legislators were going on while the process for the staff members of the House has been completed. The Assembly Secretariat has issued a circular, making it mandatory for all MLAs and MLCs to undergo Covid-19 test before the commencement of the Budget Session. All district magistrates and chief medical officers were directed to make arrangements for Covid-19 test for the legislators in their respective districts. For the second consecutive time, media persons will not be allowed access to the press gallery. Two LED screens have been put up in the Tilak Hall, from where they can watch the proceedings. According to the tentative schedule of the Assembly, the session is likely to continue till March 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-budget-session-to-commence-from-thursday-952168.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||R-Day violence: Man seen swinging swords at Red Fort arrested||A 30-year-old man, who was seen allegedly swinging swords to "motivate and energise" protesters at Red Fort during the violence on Republic Day following farmers' tractor rally has been arrested. Delhi Police said Maninder Singh was arrested at around 7.45 pm on Tuesday in Pitampura. A car mechanic by profession, Singh also runs a sword training school near his home in Swaroop Nagar in northwest Delhi. Two 4.3 feet long swords allegedly used by Singh have been recovered from his house. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Pramod Singh Kushwah claimed Singh was seen in a video swinging two swords at Red Fort with the "intent of motivating or radicalising and energising violent anti-national elements indulging in brutal assault and attacking" police persons on duty with swords, 'khandas', iron rods, axes and sticks and damage Red Fort. Singh did a sword dance at the iconic monument and it "motivated violent protesters to cause more mayhem at Red Fort by indulging in all sorts of violence against public servants, including policemen on duty there, and causing damage to the Red Fort",  Kushwah claimed. Police had earlier arrested over 120 people in connection with the violence across Delhi on January 26. Actor-turned-activist Deep Siddhu was earlier arrested in connection with the conspiracy into the violence in Red Fort on Republic Day. Police claimed Singh saw a number of provoking Facebook posts of various groups, frequently visited the Singhu border, one of the protest hotspots, and was "highly motivated" by speeches made by farmer leaders there. Singh also "motivated" six people from the neighbourhood who had accompanied the tractor parade, they claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/r-day-violence-man-seen-swinging-swords-at-red-fort-arrested-952179.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||After 31 years, bells ring in Srinagar's Sheetal Nath temple on the occasion of Basant Panchami||After remaining closed for more than three decades, a temple in Srinagar was reopened for devotees on Tuesday on the auspicious occasion of Basant Panchami. No pooja or havan could be performed at the Sheetal Nath temple in Kralakhud area of old city Srinagar since the militancy erupted in Kashmir in 1990. However, on Tuesday for the first time in more than 31-years, around 30 Kashmiri Pandits (Hindus) attended the prayers while prasad was also distributed among the devotees. Upendra Handoo, a priest said that they have formally re-opened the temple and termed it a big confidence-building measure “which would send out a message outside the Valley that Kashmir is safe.” Reminiscing old days, he said, “Basant Panchmi puja in Srinagar used to be performed at the Sheetal Nath Mandir where hundreds of Kashmiri Pandits congregated before militancy erupted. Firecrackers were burst and vendors would set up stalls in the area in the run-up to the celebrations.” He said that all these years, the devotees who wanted to visit this temple were being allowed to come, “but this is for the first time after 31 years, we performed pooja here." He added that the day is significant for the Kashmiri Pandits as the community starts the formal education of their newborns on this day. Ravinder Razdan, who participated in the pooja said the temple was damaged in a fire incident in 1991. “The Hawan Shala was also damaged. The temple was for the 115 families living in the locality. There are Muslims living in the vicinity as well,” he said. Razdan credited the Muslim neighbourhood for protecting the temple and the land adjacent to it. “They (Muslims) protected this huge chunk of land from greedy land mafia even during tough times. The Muslims always informed us to come and visit this temple as they have protected this land and religious place from the land mafia for long,” Razdan added. Around 55,000 Pandit families left their ancestral homes in 1990 and migrated to Jammu and other parts of the country when an insurgency broke out in Kashmir in 1989. According to official figures, 219 Kashmiri Pandits were killed in the militancy-related violence in J&K. Meanwhile, Srinagar Mayor Junaid Azim Mattu also visited the temple and stated that the Hindu High School along with Sheetal Nath temple will have beautification and plantation drive. He said that all the measures would be taken to restore sanctity, its pristine glory and heritage of both the structures and its proper protection at the site.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-31-years-bells-ring-in-srinagars-sheetal-nath-temple-on-the-occasion-of-basant-panchami-952183.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Set up separate toilet facilities for transgender people in offices: Delhi govt to depts, MCDs||The Delhi government has directed all its departments, district authorities, municipal corporations and autonomous bodies to set up separate toilet facilities for transgender persons at their respective offices in the national capital. In an order, the government said in case such toilets cannot be constructed immediately, the existing facility available for persons with disabilities (PwD) should be designated for the use of transgender persons for the time being. "In compliance with the provisions of section 22 of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 for ensuring adequate welfare measures for transgender persons, all public buildings under all the departments, autonomous bodies, PSUs, corporations and local bodies of Government of NCT Delhi are hereby directed to create separate identified public toilet facilities for transgender persons," the order said. In the annual budget for 2021-22, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has decided to provide public toilets exclusively for the third gender in the national capital. The deadline for building toilets for transgender people is two years. "Such toilets will display symbols for both PwDs and T for transgender persons. Trans people shall continue to be allowed to use gender-based toilets as per their self-identified gender," the social welfare department said in its order issued last week. Apart from the NDMC chairman and the Delhi Police commissioner, the order has been sent to the secretaries of the departments, the CEO of the Delhi Cantonment board and all-district magistrates, among others, for compliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/set-up-separate-toilet-facilities-for-transgender-people-in-offices-delhi-govt-to-depts-mcds-952193.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Delegations 'come and go': Mehbooba Mufti on visit of EU envoys||The former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and PDP chief, Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday while reacting to the ongoing visit of a delegation of European Union envoys to J&K said, "Delegations will come and go but the situation in Jammu and Kashmir is not good." “The approach that has confined the movement of Jammu and Kashmir's leadership is not good. We are being caged in our own homes," the PDP chief told reporters on the sidelines of her visit to north Kashmir’s Kupwara. The moderate faction of the Hurriyat Conference led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq while reacting to the EU envoys' visit said, “Curated tour of foreign dignitaries to showcase normalcy in the valley to the outside world is misleading.” “People's spontaneous strike, the only means of protest left to them, speaks volumes to the world of what people feel and want,” a spokesperson of the separatist conglomerate said in an emailed statement. Meanwhile, a partial shutdown was observed in parts of Srinagar on Wednesday as foreign envoys, including ambassadors and diplomats from the European Union, arrived in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delegations-come-and-go-mehbooba-mufti-on-visit-of-eu-envoys-952196.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||India may witness hanging of first woman since Independence in Uttar Pradesh jail||Uttar Pradesh's Mathura district jail may witness the hanging of the first woman in India after Independence. According to the sources, Shabnam, who with her lover Salim had hacked to death seven members of her family in the state's Amroha district on April 14, 2008, maybe hanged in the Mathura district jail. However, the date of the hanging is yet to be decided as her death warrant had not been issued.  Sources said that Pawan Jallad, who had hanged the killers of Nirbhaya, had visited the Mathura jail twice in the past few months. An order has been placed to procure the rope for this purpose, as per sources. The gallows in the Mathura district jail were constructed about 150 years back but so far no one had been hanged there. It is the only gallows in the state for the women. Sources said that the jail authorities had started the preparations for the hanging after Shabnam's mercy petition was rejected by former President of India Pranab Mukherjee. Shabnam, a resident of Bawankheri village in Amroha, had an affair with one Salim, also a resident of the same village. Shabnam's family, however, was against their relationship. On April 14, 2008, Shabnam managed to mix sedatives in the drinks of her parents, two brothers, sister-in-law, cousin and her ten-month-old nephew. She then called her lover to her house and both of them hacked all the seven members of the family to death. The lovers were sentenced to death by the district court. The high court and the Supreme Court also upheld the district court's judgment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-may-witness-hanging-of-first-woman-since-independence-in-uttar-pradesh-jail-952221.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Major tragedy averted as Army destroys suspected IED on busy highway in J&K's Rajouri||A major tragedy was averted on Wednesday with the timely detection of a suspected Improvised Explosive Device (IED) planted inside a pressure cooker on a busy highway in Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said. The suspected IED was found on the roadside at Manjakote on Jammu-Poonch highway and was subsequently destroyed by the Army's Bomb Disposal Squad (BDS), the officials said. Senior Superintendent of Police, Rajouri, Chandan Kohli said, "This morning a road opening patrol of the Army found a suspicious object along the highway near Manjakote." "Soon, traffic was controlled on the highway and a bomb disposal squad was called in. The suspected material, packed in a fruit packing box, has been destroyed through a controlled explosion," he said. The officer said a case under relevant sections of law was registered at the police station and further investigation is on. An Army officer said the suspected IED was noticed planted inside a three-litre pressure cooker apparently during the intervening night to set off an explosion. Earlier, the Station House Officer (SHO) of the Manjakote police station Pankaj Sharma said the bomb-like object was found on the roadside at around 8.30 am. He said the traffic on the highway was immediately suspended as a precautionary measure from both sides. However, the traffic movement resumed nearly two hours later after the spot was secured with sandbags and an armoured vehicle, the SHO said, adding the suspected material was destroyed around 1.30 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/major-tragedy-averted-as-army-destroys-suspected-ied-on-busy-highway-in-jks-rajouri-952222.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Tales of survival, sadness and hope from Uttarakhand disaster||The Uttarakhand glacier disaster has become a prolonged nightmare for many. The tragedy that gripped Chamoli district on February 7 not only took the lives of at least 58 people but left a deep scar on the psyche of the survivors. Trapped amid the desolation of snow-clad mountains, they lurked in the region between night and death. As they finally came out, they had a tale to tell. A story of courage and determination against adversity. Above all, it made us realize that the true meaning and beauty of life, in the end, is the hunger to live, and that is what drives human beings to struggle for existence. A ray of hope in mobile network They had lost any hope of survival when one of them found that his mobile phone network was working. They contacted the authorities who rescued them from an underground tunnel at Tapovan. "We heard people screaming at us to come out of the tunnel but before we could react, a sudden gush of water and heavy silt swamped upon us," rescued Tapovan power project worker Lal Bahadur said. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) saved him along with his 11 colleagues. Until today, eleven bodies have been recovered from the tunnel at the National Thermal Power Corporation's Tapovan-Vishnugad project site, where about 30 people were initially feared trapped. 300 metres deep in tunnel In the minds of the rescued workers, the moment when water gushed inside the tunnel, the sounds of people screaming and the rush to cling on to something remain vivid. "We were 300 metres deep in the tunnel when the water gushed in. We got trapped," Nepal resident Basant said. They were not the only ones frightened. When Rajesh Kumar saw the water flooding the hydroelectric power complex near the tunnel where he and his colleagues were working, he thought of only one thing: Death. “We didn’t think we were going to make it,” the 28-year-old told the AFP news agency from his hospital bed. “Suddenly, there was a sound of whistling … there was shouting, people were telling us to come out. We thought it was a fire. We started to run, but the water gushed in. It was like a Hollywood movie." Even now, bright lights illuminate the surreal scene deep inside the tunnel: slush and mud, tread marks of vehicles that have been going in and out for the past week, and a single excavator still at work. Three more bodies of the estimated 30 people initially feared trapped inside the Tapovan hydel project tunnel in Uttarakhand’s Chamoli district were pulled out Tuesday. But the pace of work during the day has been slow, officials say. Water is seeping out from the yet to be cleared portion of the tunnel, and is being continuously pumped out. 'Thank God our hands didn't lose their grip' Many rescued workers who were stuck inside the tunnel for days did not give up. The men clung to scaffolding rods in the tunnel for four hours, keeping their heads above water and debris, and shouted words of encouragement. “We just kept telling each other – come what may, we must not let go of the rods. Thank god our hands did not lose their grip,” said Kumar.   They climbed across the rock debris and finally reached the mouth of the tunnel. As the proverbial phrase goes, there was light at the end of the tunnel, giving the hint of a small opening. It was enough for them to shout for help, to let the rescuers know about their existence. Repeated appeals to save their home The villagers living there also have a story to recount. It is one of fear, of repeated appeals to protect nature, of desperate attempts to save their home. The rampant drilling of stones, reckless muck dumping next to the river bed, and felling of trees, forced the locals from Raini village, where the Rishiganga project had come up, to move Uttarakhand High Court in 2019. A perpetual fear has gripped the villagers. After all, they are the ones dependent on the mountains for livelihood and shelter. No connectivity "Raini Chak Lata, Pang, Suki, Bhallagaon, Suraithota, Tolma, Long Segdi (Tamak) and Jumma –located across the river Rishiganga have lost road connectivity, Sher Singh Butola, Assistant Commandant, First Battalion," ITBP said. “We have pressed helicopters into service, and they have been evacuating those requiring medical help and airdropping food supplies,” he added. The villagers are waiting to be connected with the outside world, desperate to hear the familiar voices of their loved ones who are missing since the day of the tragedy. Riveting tale of rescue operation Multiple agencies including the Indian Army, Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) were pressed to carry out rescue operations for those feared trapped in tunnels at Tapovan. When the ITBP battalion stationed at Joshimath heard the sound of the glacier burst, they immediately knew what the danger was and rushed to Raini village. A second-team had reached the NTPC site at Tapovan. The team at Raini village reported that everything there had been submerged. When all that was beautiful was gone... The scene in front of the teams was a chaotic one. For Aparna, it was traumatic. All that was beautiful was gone, all that became familiar vanished in the blink of an eye. And then, a humungous rescue operation began. The team at Raini was called back at Tapovan, as chances of finding survivors there were deemed higher. A huge boulder blocked the silt flushing tunnel, and the team had barely any equipment. They broke it using whatever implements they had at hand, removed the slush with their bare hands. The rescuers cleared the debris with the spades, used axes to remove other obstructions and rescued 12 people using ropes. Miracles do happen As Aparna describes, "That was one of the most miraculous rescues they had done. This was the quickest response. It was only a miracle that we could rescue those people."  (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tales-of-survival-sadness-and-hope-from-uttarakhand-disaster-952233.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Built separate toilets for transgenders in government buildings: Delhi government||In what could cheer the transgenders, Delhi government has directed all its departments, municipal corporations and autonomous bodies to set up separate toilet facilities for transgender persons at their respective offices. The order said if separate toilets cannot be buiilt immediately, the facility available for persons with disabilities should be designated for the use of transgender persons for the time being. "In compliance with the provisions of section 22 of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 for ensuring adequate welfare measures for transgender persons, all public buildings under all the departments, autonomous bodies, PSUs, corporations and local bodies of Government of NCT Delhi are hereby directed to create separate identified public toilet facilities for transgender persons," the order said. "Such toilets will display symbols for both PwDs and T for transgender persons. Trans people shall continue to be allowed to use gender-based toilets as per their self-identified gender," the Social Welfare Department said in its order issued last week. The deadline set for building toilets for transgender people is two years.The order has been sent to New Delhi Municipal Corporation, Delhi Police, secretaries of the departments, the CEO of the Delhi Cantonment board and all district magistrates, among others, for compliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/built-separate-toilets-for-transgenders-in-government-buildings-delhi-government-952249.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Farmers will not return home till they win: BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni||The Bharatiya Kisan Union is fighting for farmers' rights and they will not return home from Delhi's borders till the new Agri laws are repealed, the farm organisation's Haryana president Gurnam Singh Chaduni said on Wednesday. He also said the union will hold programmes, such as panchayats and mahapanchayats, to make the country aware that the government at the Centre is "not for the people but of corporates". Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi's borders against the legislation since November 28 last year and demanding these be repealed. "We are fighting for the rights of farmers and they will not return home till they win, and time does not matter in this struggle," Chaduni, who was on his way to Moradabad for a mahapanchayat, told reporters in Uttar Pradesh's Gelua village. "This government is not for the people but of corporates and only people can fight with it. We will hold panchayats in the entire country and make people aware and associate them with us," he said, a day ahead of a "rail roko" announced by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions which is spearheading the protest. Chaduni alleged that the entire Agri business was being given to corporates and said the farmers' movement was for their "survival". "Agriculture is our livelihood and not our business. The food grains of the country will go into godowns of corporates and they will indulge in black marketing. This is an 'andolan' (movement) not only of farmers but of all," he said. Farmers are protesting against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The three farm laws, enacted in September last year, have been projected by the government as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell anywhere in the country. However, the protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of Minimum Support Price and do away with the mandis, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Centre has repeatedly asserted that these mechanisms will remain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-will-not-return-home-till-they-win-bku-leader-gurnam-singh-chaduni-952282.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Foreign envoys begin 2-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir to assess situation||A delegation of envoys from Europe, Africa, South America and a few OIC member states arrived in Srinagar on a two-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday for assessing the situation following the scrapping of its special status in 2019. Officials said the envoys from Europe, Africa and four member states of Organization of Islamic Countries (OIC) - Malaysia, Bangladesh, Senegal and Tajikistan - arrived in Srinagar on Wednesday morning amid heightened security arrangements. During the two-day visit, the delegation will assess the ground situation in the newly-carved union territory (UT) by meeting civil society groups, elected representatives, political leaders and students. On the first day of their visit, the envoys drove straight to Magam in central Kashmir’s Budgam district to meet district development council (DDC) members, reports said. In Magam, the envoys visited a government college where they were received in a traditional way and after the customary rituals by the administration, they interacted with the locals. It was a free-flowing exchange of ideas by the delegation with the locals, the officials said. The envoys were briefed on Panchayati Raj and other government programmes like ‘Back to Village’. Later in the afternoon, the delegation met Mayor of the Srinagar Municipal Corporation (SMC), Junaid Azim Mattu and other elected representatives at a five star hotel in Srinagar, where they are putting up. The envoys also visited the revered Hazratbal shrine on the banks of Dal Lake as well. Parts of Srinagar observed a shutdown to mark the arrival of the envoys’ delegation to Jammu and Kashmir. Shops in city center Lal Chowk and surrounding areas remained shut as authorities deployed extra security personnel to ensure that the visit of the envoys passes off without any untoward incident. On Thursday, the envoys would visit Jammu where they are scheduled to meet J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, besides some of the DDC members and representatives of some social organisations. It may be recalled that in October 2019, a group of largely right-wing EU parliamentarians had visited Kashmir, prompting outrage from opposition parties, who had not been allowed to go. The parliamentarians were given a tightly controlled tour of Srinagar. They met about 15 hand-picked delegations, including traders and students, before being taken for a boat ride in Dal Lake in Srinagar. However, the government had said the delegation was on a “private visit” to the country. Later in January last year, 16 envoys including the US ambassador to India had visited Jammu and Kashmir and met over 100 people, including senior Valley-based politicians, top newspaper editors and grassroots representatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/foreign-envoys-begin-2-day-visit-to-jammu-and-kashmir-to-assess-situation-952298.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Centre denies link between Chardham road widening and glacier burst in SC||The Centre on Wednesday maintained before the Supreme Court that there was no connection between the 'Chardham' road widening project and the flash floods last week that claimed many lives in Uttarakhand. Attorney General K K Venugopal, appearing for the defence ministry, submitted before a bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman that he needs some time to respond to the allegations made by the chief of an expert committee appointed by the top court claiming such a connection. Venugopal cited the letter from the chairman of the High-Powered Committee (HPC) that there was a link between the road widening and the Uttarakhand disaster. "But according to us, there is no such connection. We want to reply to the allegations and need time," Venugopal said before the bench also comprising Justices Hemant Gupta and B R Gavai. Ravi Chopra, chairman of HPC, in a letter dated February 13 to the top court, had said the recent disaster in the Rishiganga valley took place in the region north of the Main Central Thrust (MCT), which is highly prone to landslides, flash floods and earthquakes. "A section of the defence road to the India-China border and a bridge across the Rishiganga river on that road have been swept away, lending credence to our argument for disaster resilience in the region," said the letter. He added that he was compelled to write this letter to the Supreme Court in the light of the recent dam disaster in Uttarakhand's Chardham region. Chopra in the letter added, "I am told that after the recent tragedy, the local residents are grateful for the Supreme Court's order of 2014 staying the 24 proposed projects. Had that stay not been given, three more under construction projects just upstream and downstream of the Rishiganga HEP would have manifold magnified the deadly flood impact." Chopra added that the vulnerability and disaster proneness of this region is bound to increase with extensive disturbances like deforestation, slope cutting, blasting, tunnelling, damming of rivers, excessive tourism, etc. "The cumulative impact of such activities on the nearby glaciers cannot be ignored," said the letter. On February 7, a glacier burst in the upper Himalayas led to massive flash floods in the Alakananda-Dhauliganga river systems in Uttarakhand, which led to deaths of over 50 people, with around 150 still missing. The top court-appointed panel is monitoring the 900-kilometre Chardham highway project which aims to connect four Hindu holy towns of Yamunotri, Gangotri, Kedarnath, and Badrinath in Uttarakhand. The project is also deemed strategically important in the backdrop of the recent India-China military standoff on the LAC. Chopra said the report submitted by him and two members strongly argued that disaster resilience is more critical than simply wide highways. "Several chronic landslide-prone locations and stretches, where the slope stability is precarious, exist on the three Chardham highways identified by the Ministry of Defence (MoD) as defence feeder roads. MoRTH data submitted to the HPC have identified 161 sensitive locations in 574 kms (on NH-94 Rishikesh to Uttarkashi, NH-58 Rishikesh to Mana and NH-125 Tanakpur to Pithoragarh), about one location every 3.5 km," said the letter. Chopra added that no convincing argument exists in the recent affidavit of the MoD to ignore and override the profound and irreversible ecological damage to the Himalayas that will impact each and every one of us and generations to come. The top court has granted two weeks to the government to come up with a response. Last year, the Supreme Court ordered that the highway project, which was planned as a 10-metre wide road, can only be 5.5 metres wide. The defence ministry moved the court citing the necessity of road widening for swift movement of armed forces and their equipment along the India-China border and it will also ensure better amenities for the locals. Of the 26 members of the court-appointed panel, 21 favoured road widening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-denies-link-between-chardham-road-widening-and-glacier-burst-in-sc-952310.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Labourer thrashed to death, accused missing in UP||A labourer was beaten to death by a man allegedly over some dispute in Jora Kalyanpur village in Barkheda area here, police said on Wednesday. Raju (45) was beaten using sticks by Dwarika Prasad on Tuesday night when he questioned the latter, who had apparently abused his relative, ASP Pavitra Mohan Tripathi said. A local resident said the accused also hit the victim with a stone. Police has sent the body for a post-mortem and launched a manhunt to catch hold of the missing accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/labourer-thrashed-to-death-accused-missing-in-up-952311.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Militants shoot at dhaba owner’s son in Srinagar||Unidentified militants shot at and injured the son of a popular eatery owner in Sonwar area on Wednesday evening. Militants fired upon Aakash Mehra, son of Ramesh Kumar Mehra at ‘Krishna Dhaba’, police officials said. Aakash was immediately shifted to SMHS hospital for treatment, where his condition is said to be critical, he added. Immediately after the attack, police cordoned off the whole area to nab the attackers. Reports said the eatery is barely a kilometre away from Army’s 15-Corps headquarters. Earlier on January 1, a jewellery outlet owner was killed by militants in Sarai Bala area near city centre Lal Chowk. The 70-year-old jeweller from Punjab settled in Srinagar for the past four decades was shot dead months after he got a domicile certificate and reportedly purchased a shop and a house in Srinagar. The Resistance Front (TRF), believed to be a frontal organisation of Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) outfit while claiming responsibility for the killing had said the new domicile law was “unacceptable” and everyone other than indigenous Kashmiris would be treated as "occupiers” if they purchase property in Jammu and Kashmir. "More to come," TRF had said in a statement circulated through social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-shoot-at-dhaba-owner-s-son-in-srinagar-952369.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Coordinator and facilitator of terror activities of various groups held at Jammu airport: Police||A coordinator and facilitator of terror activities of various groups was arrested from Jammu airport on Wednesday soon after his arrival from abroad, police said here. The man was identified by the police as Sher Ali. "Sher Ali is the main coordinator and facilitator of terrorist activities of various groups. He is involved in facilitating infiltration of terrorists, smuggling of arms and ammunition and narcotics from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) to Indian territory from Balakote area of Poonch district," the police said in a statement here. Police sources said Ali was arrested based on specific information immediately after his arrival at the Jammu airport. "He has been arrested in connection with a case lodged at police station Mendhar last year. He is also involved in many other cases (related to his terror activities)," the statement said. Sitting abroad, the police said, Ali facilitated the entry of two Pakistani terrorists from Dabbi area of Balakote sector (Poonch) on the intervening night of November 24 and 25 last year at the behest of his Pakistani handler, Sultan. Both the terrorists of the J&K Ghaznavi Force were later killed in an encounter on December 13 last year in the Poshana area of Surankote. "Ali also smuggled arms and ammunition, which included three pistols and one IED, besides other ammunition through Balakote sector," the police said. Ali's father, Mushtaq Ahmed, and sister, Raskeem Akhter, were arrested by the Poonch Police on September 11 for receiving the arms consignment from PoK, and an FIR stands registered at the Mendhar police station in this case, the police said. So far, the police said, five overground workers -- Mushtafa, Mohd Yaseen, Younis, Irfan and Raskeem -- involved in the terror network led by Ali have been arrested. "Ali was also involved in drug smuggling along with smuggling of arms and ammunition, and 2 kg heroine, worth over Rs 8 crores in the international market, was also recovered from this terror network which was meant to be used for terror financing," the police said. It said five pistols, 13 grenades and one live IED had been recovered from the busted network. Further investigation is in progress, the police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coordinator-and-facilitator-of-terror-activities-of-various-groups-held-at-jammu-airport-police-952405.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Char Dham project: SC urged to not allow ‘wide’ roads in Himalayas||A week after a killer flash flood washed away two hydropower stations and affected over 200 people in Uttarakhand, environmentalists have petitioned the Supreme Court urging not to allow construction of 10-metre-wide roads in the Himalayas at the cost of the environment as part of the ‘Char Dham’ project. In a fresh affidavit and a letter to the apex court, they pointed out how the Ministry of Defence (MoD) and the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) shifted their positions in the last six months demanding a 10-metre-wide road high up in the hills citing national security after agreeing to a 7-metre-width road. The Modi government’s Rs 12,000-crore pet project seeks to create two-lane express highway to connect Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri— four places of religious importance. But the scheme has been a controversial one from the beginning after the Centre bypassed the environmental impact assessment norms by splitting 889 km of road construction into 53 smaller segments, each less than 100 km, to avoid scrutiny. Subsequently, the Supreme Court set up a High Powered Committee (HPC) under the chairmanship of Ravi Chopra, director of People’s Science Institute, Dehradun, to review the project. In a peculiar turn of events, the panel is now divided, resulting in two reports, both of which are before the top court. While the majority, mostly government officials, favour wider roads, there is a minority report that recommends an intermediate width in order to lessen the hill cutting and reduce ecological damage. “There are repeated warnings of the devastating outcome if we do not reign in our appetite for reckless development. The repeated ignoring of these warnings now amounts to criminal negligence given the enormity of the human tragedy we are witnessing. The ‘Char Dham’ project also stands on a similar crossroads,” the environmentalists said in the affidavit. In the letter, Chopra pointed out that the MoD was in agreement for a 7-metre-wide road till November 27, but changed its position after the MoRTH came out with a notification on December 15 favouring 10-metre-wide road and overruling its 2018 order that mandated 5.5-metre road width in the hills. Almost simultaneously at a meeting of the Chopra Committee in Dehradun, Defence Ministry officials said it was absolutely necessary to develop these strategic highways to two-lane specifications of road width 10-12 metres due to the strategic requirement. Naming the people who authored the minority report (Chopra and two other environmentalists), MoD said it was surprising that the minority in the HFC was prepared to reject the need of the armed forces for defending the country as such wide roads are needed to cater to the areas close to the India-China border. The environmentalists, however, took strong objections to how the MoD singled out authors of the minority report in its affidavit. “From a point of view of defence preparedness, a disaster-resilient road (7 m) is much more critical than a DL+PS (10 m) road that is prone to frequent blockages, landslides and recurring slope failures. An intermediate width is more judicious,” they informed the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/char-dham-project-sc-urged-to-not-allow-wide-roads-in-himalayas-952425.html
17-02-2021||North and Central||Toolkit case: Delhi Police to probe role of UK-based woman||The Delhi Police will investigate the role of a woman based in the UK after its probe revealed that she, along with lawyer Nikita Jacob and engineer Shantanu Muluk, allegedly drafted the content of a "Twitter storm" campaign in February in support of the ongoing farmer agitation, officials said on Wednesday. The Delhi Police, probing the "toolkit Google doc" backing the farmers’ agitation shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg, has arrested Bengaluru-based activist Disha Ravi while Mumbai lawyer Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk have been granted pre-arrest bail by court. The police claimed that the woman, who is a member of the UK chapter of Extinction Rebellion (XR), along with Jacob and Muluk drafted the content between February 1 and 2 for the "twitter storm" campaign planned for February 4 and 5. "The UK-based woman joined them. She made a package and added to the document through hyperlink. The toolkit was accidently published when she was simultaneously editing it. She wrote that police are attacking protesters...many injured, many disappearing and many individuals are already reported dead. This was created to mislead in future. They wrote it before the actual thing happened," a senior police officer told reporters. While examining their WhatsApp chats, another name Thilaka, also a member of XR, emerged. During investigation, the police found that Thilaka also helped them in drafting the document and was in contact with Jacob and Disha Ravi, the officer claimed. However, the police did not divulge deatils on Thilaka and said it is part of investigation. Elaborating sequence of the event, the officer said Jacob, Muluk and Disha Ravi connected with each other between 2019-2020. Puneet, a Canada-based woman and member of the Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF), connected with Jacob and Muluk on Instagram in the first week of December. On December 6, Jacob, Muluk and Disha Ravi started a WhatsApp group. Muluk created an email id -- scrapfarmacts@gmail.com -- on December 11. PJF started its work on the January 26 protest on January 3. On January 9, PJF announced Global Day of Action on January 26, the police claimed. A Zoom meeting was held on January 11 between all collaborators, including PJF founder Mo Dhaliwal, its co-founder Anita Lal along with Jacob, Muluk and others, the police claimed. PJF and other organisations added several hyperlinks to the toolkit document. One of these is genocidewatch.com, they claimed. Jacob, Muluk, Disha Ravi and others collaborated with others to finalise the toolkit content between January 11-12. On January 18, AskIndiaWhy.com site was launched by PJF, the police said. On January 20, the draft toolkit Google doc was shared between Jacob, Muluk and Disha Ravi for final vetting. Muluk was in the national capital from January 21 to 27 at a farmer protest site, the police said. The police claimed that despite violent activity by farmers on Republic Day, the collaborators failed to achieve "desired" impact due to the police's restrain. On February 3 morning, Disha Ravi shared the toolkit with Greta Thunberg who accidently shared it on Twitter by evening, the police said. By the same night, Disha Ravi took admin rights and removed her name from the toolkit, the police said. Later, she shared the edited toolkit with Greta for sharing it. On February 4, Disha Ravi allegedly deleted her WhatsApp group and other data, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/toolkit-case-delhi-police-to-probe-role-of-uk-based-woman-952446.html
17-02-2021||Oasis||Live one day at a time||Time is a very precious commodity. It is supplied to us on a daily basis to utilize it to the fullest. This supply is constant throughout our life, from the day we are born to the day we die.  We will never receive a second more or a second less on any given day, irrespective of whether we are old or young, rich or poor, sick or healthy, male or female, believers or atheists, genius or idiot. The allocation of time is equal to everyone in this universe. How well we utilise it, and make the most of it to suit our needs and content, depends on how carefully we plan to live within the budget of twenty-four hours, like we learn to live within the budget of our funds by covering all proper items of income and expenditure.  Time = Life, therefore, waste your time and waste your life, or master your time and master your life, says Alan Lakein. Arnold Bennet, in his book ‘How to Live on Twenty Four Hours a Day’ says, you wake up in the morning, and lo! Your purse is magically filled with twenty-four hours, which is yours – the most precious of possessions, which no one can take or steal from you and no one, receives either more or less than you receive. Time is such a commodity that, even if we waste it, the supply will never be withheld from us. We cannot waste tomorrow because it is kept for us in abeyance for the next day. Most importantly, we cannot draw time from the future or get into debt. Therefore, if we can budget these twenty-four hours of our daily time spending on healthcare, pleasure, content, leisure, respect and spiritual activities for our soul, then happiness – the ultimate and most sought after treasure, will not elude us. The song titled ‘One day at a time’ by Kris Kristofferson prays for “One day at a time sweet Jesus, That’s all I’m asking of you, I’m only Human, Just give me the strength, To do every day what I have to do, Yesterday’s gone, and tomorrow may never be mine, Lord help me today, show me the way and teach me to take, one day at a time”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/live-one-day-at-a-time-952099.html
17-02-2021||Opinion||What Trump, San Francisco and the deer in my backyard have in common||By Thomas L. Friedman, What do the left-wing San Francisco Board of Education, Donald Trump’s right-wing GOP and all the deer that hang out in my neighborhood have in common? So much more than you’d think. And the future of American democracy rides on understanding why. Let me start with the deer. The reason they are so comfortable lollygagging through our yards and multiplying like rabbits is that they know from experience that they have no predators — no hunters, no mountain lions out here in suburban Maryland. So, they do all sorts of stupid stuff, like walk into the middle of the road and get hit by cars, rub the bark off tree trunks and eat all our flowers. Well, those deer are like the San Francisco Board of Education when it recently decided — in a self-parody of political correctness — to prioritize renaming 44 public schools that had been named for people who, it argued, had exhibited racist behaviours in their lifetimes, including Abraham Lincoln, Paul Revere and Sen. Dianne Feinstein. They put this task ahead of getting kids back into those schools, which have been shut for the pandemic. Such nonsense happens because, like my deer, San Francisco’s school board has no political predators. Liberal democrats dominate politics there, so there’s no serious threat from a conservative alternative. That is a lot like Trump and his followers, whose attachment to him has become so cultlike that every other Republican leader knows that challenging Trump is potential political suicide. The result: He, too, has no serious predators (I don’t count a waffling Mitch McConnell). This reality, plus Trump’s warped character, made him so reckless that he believed that he could shoot a whole branch of the US government in the middle of Pennsylvania Avenue and his base would stick with him. And he was right! My deer and San Francisco’s school board are local problems. The fact that one of our two national parties would stick with a leader who dispatched a mob to ransack the Capitol in hopes of overturning our last election is an acute national problem — cancer, in fact. And like any cancer, the required treatment is going to be painful for the patient. For me, that starts with getting rid of the filibuster in the Senate, granting the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico statehood (they each have more U.S. citizens than Wyoming) and passing a new Voting Rights Act that forbids voter suppression. While that may sound hyperpartisan, it’s necessary, but not sufficient, remedy for America to regain its political health. Some quick history. A new Republican Party was supposed to have been born after Mitt Romney’s defeat by Barack Obama in 2012, when the Republican National Committee the next year produced a blueprint for a new GOP, called the Growth and Opportunity Project. As ABC News wrote, it was “an extensive plan the RNC believes will lead the party to victory with an extensive outreach to women, African American, Asian, Hispanic and gay voters.” A key proposal was “backing ‘comprehensive immigration reform.’ ” But instead of adopting that plan, the party doubled down on its old ways: It tried to gain and hold power one more time with a guy named Trump winking at white supremacy, defending Confederate statues and using every voter suppression trick in the book to protect a predominantly white Christian America. Why not, it asked? More and more, Republican members of the House were being elected from gerrymandered districts drawn up by Republican state legislators from gerrymandered districts. Meanwhile, the Senate overrepresented sparsely populated red states, meaning the Electoral College favoured Republican presidential candidates, who could then stack the court system with conservative judges who would allow Republican politicians to suppress the votes of Black and other Democratic-leaning constituencies. So why not rinse and repeat? The result of years of GOP reliance on this strategy is that “an American system of government that was meant to preserve minority rights has instead ended up enabling minority rule,” observed presidential expert and Nasdaq World Reimagined contributor Gautam Mukunda. “Republicans have only won a plurality of the popular vote once since 1989,” he added. “Democrats have done it seven times. Governing effectively enough to win a majority is hard. Appealing to the grievances of a minority is easy. Is anyone surprised the Republicans keep choosing the easy path? If we want to revive American democracy, we have to close off that easy path for them once and for all.” That starts with getting rid of the filibuster so President Joe Biden can enact his agenda for both reviving the economy and rebuilding our infrastructure. It also involves adding two senators each from D.C. and Puerto Rico — most likely Democrats at first. That will tell the GOP that if it wants to hold power it has to once and for all abandon its fantasy of minority rule based largely on white voters — and take up the “growth and opportunity” strategy of that 2013 RNC report. For America to be healthy, this white-grievance, QAnon-embracing GOP has to die. It is not a governing party. Can you imagine how much healthier American politics would be if we had a centre-right conservative party that was embracing diversity, inclusion, climate change mitigation, and common-sense health care and immigration reform — based on conservative, small-government, more market-oriented solutions — competing with a center-left party? I guarantee you THAT GOP could mount viable challenges for power again in San Francisco and across California — and compete for senators from D.C. and Puerto Rico. In the 2020 election, California voters rejected four liberal ballot initiatives — on affirmative action, gig worker rights, criminal justice reform and voting rights for 17-year-olds — that Democratic state lawmakers had passed. And nationally Trump actually gained ground with some Black and Latino voters. It tells you that there is a market for a centre-right conservative party that appeals to today’s America, not yesterday’s. But is there such a party? It’s been suppressed. My friend former Secretary of State George Shultz, a lifelong Republican who recently passed away, was calling me with his conservative strategies for all of these 21st-century issues right up until two weeks before he died — when he was still riding around the Stanford campus in his Prius hybrid from his partially solar-powered home. Shultz had more ideas in a week — at age 100 — on how to make the GOP inclusive and relevant to today’s challenges than Trump and McConnell have had in four years. All they cared about was staying in power to stay in power. In fact, can you name a single big idea that Trump said he was just burning to implement in his second term, other than burning more fossil fuels? There wasn’t one. This Trump-cult GOP is sick and must be kept away from power until it heals and broadens itself. “Only if the GOP is competitive in 21st-century America can America be competitive in the 21st-century world,” Mukunda said. Because remember, we also lost our national predator: the Soviet Union. And it is another reason that we’ve been spinning apart. The Soviet communist threat helped to cement us together for 40 years after World War II. Today, that sense of shared association and the shared lofty aspirations it generated — like going to the moon — are both missing, right when we’ve become a more diverse society than ever. We cannot and will not realize our full potential as a nation unless we have both parties working to forge a new sense of shared association that can enable a much more diverse America to journey together into the 21st century. Today, sadly, only one party is in that business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-trump-san-francisco-and-the-deer-in-my-backyard-have-in-common-952122.html
17-02-2021||Opinion||When you don’t have Trump to hide behind||By Frank Bruni, In case you hadn’t noticed, the Lincoln Project — an organization as pointedly anti-Trump as any other, its rise and political relevance symbiotically tied to his — is unravelling. It's unravelling because one of its founders, John Weaver, was using his position to proposition young men. It’s unravelling because peers of his in the organization apparently sat on complaints about that, too pumped up by their currency as Trump slayers to let accusations against Weaver impede their mission and kill their buzz. It’s unravelling because it can no longer hide what a financial boondoggle it was for some of its central players, who spoke of principle while lining their pockets. Yes, they made dynamite ads and an eloquent case about former President Donald Trump’s betrayal of America. Their firms also made money from the hero status that they were accorded by Trump haters the world over. But the Lincoln Project is unravelling for an additional reason. It’s unravelling because Trump is out of office, and that not only deprives the organization of its fiercest mission and tight focus. His departure also opens the political actors there — and political actors everywhere — to more scrutiny and more reproach than they received when he was still around. Trump urgently demanded and rightly sopped up so much of the public’s contempt and the media’s attention that there wasn’t all that much space left over for other scandals. In that way, he was like a concealer slathered over pox and warts beyond his own. He was also in instances a get-out-of-jail-free card. If you raged against him, your past was wiped clean. Your own preening and avarice were laundered by your denunciations of his. The Lincoln Project isn’t the only example of this, but it may be the best one, and I say that as someone who had his own hand in celebrating it. I wrote a column in July about the Lincoln Project’s founders as the quintessential NeverTrumpers, which was the designation for Republicans who had broken with their party, permanently or temporarily, because of Trump. My take on them was flattering. I expressed some scepticism, noting that they possibly had a mix of motives, that they had found themselves “in high demand as commentators and book authors” and that “through some of their anti-Trump organizations, funded by donors, some of them have arranged employment no longer available to them in conventional Republican circles.” But I cast them as patriots who knew that they’d never get their party back and had consigned themselves to that. “They’re not fighting to come in from the wilderness,” I wrote. “The wilderness is a given. They’re just fighting to get rid of this one sun-hogging, diseased redwood — or orangewood, as the case may be.” And that was true. But like many other journalists, I didn’t get into the ugliness in some founders’ pasts, such as a 2002 ad by Rick Wilson that tied Max Cleland, a Democratic senator who lost both legs and part of one arm during his military service in Vietnam, to Osama bin Laden. (“Worse than disgraceful,” John McCain said of it at the time. “Reprehensible.”) Also like many other journalists, I skimmed over questions about the extent to which the Lincoln Project was enriching its leaders. Some answers have recently emerged. The Lincoln Project “raised more than $87 million in the 2020 election cycle,” as Miranda Green reported in New York magazine last week, and “much of the money was paid to firms run by the Lincoln Project’s co-founders, including nearly $25 million to Summit Strategic Communications,” run by Reed Galen. A firm run by another founder, Ron Steslow, received more than $20 million. We have such specific information now because the filing of financial disclosure forms lags the collection and dispersal of funds by many months. And the Weaver scandal broke only recently not because journalists had known about and ignored his behaviour but because the reporters who were tipped off to it finally had the interviews and evidence that they needed. But the just determination to nail down when Weaver’s colleagues were warned about him, the widespread belief that they’re lying about that, the infighting between them, the exodus of many of them and the coverage of it have a post-Trump feel. His monopoly on our conversations and our fury has been broken up. Also, consider this: If the Trump of today were the Trump of yore — which is to say, if he had won the election, hadn’t been kicked off social media and was still tweeting to his spleen’s content — he would have fired off such excessively cruel, overwrought nastiness about the Lincoln Project that these attacks would have competed with the organization’s sins for notice and censure. But Trump is off Twitter, which puts others on the spit. That dynamic may be having an impact on Gov. Andrew Cuomo. Would his concealment of Covid-19 deaths among New York’s nursing home residents be sparking as much outrage if Trump were still in the White House to mismanage the pandemic and lie more extravagantly about it than anyone else — and to deflect criticism of his own failings with hyperbolic rants about Cuomo’s? Recall that Cuomo won acclaim during the first chapter of the pandemic in part by specifically styling himself as Trump’s public-relations antonym and holding news conferences that were (supposedly) as factual as Trump’s were fantastical. He no longer has that counterpoint and counterpart to burnish him. Trump, sadly, isn’t going away: He retains more sway over the Republican Party than any other individual. Candidates who have his blessing, mirror his positions and even try to mimic his style will shape political debates, keep Trumpism alive and give anti-Trumpism continued relevance. But as a yardstick by which everyone else measures bigger and better than they otherwise might, he won’t be as prevalent. As a crisis through which to define one’s political identity, he won’t be as present. And as a monster against whom people on different points of the ideological spectrum can unite, he won’t be as handy. The post-Trump landscape is a profoundly changed one. Proceed with caution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/when-you-don-t-have-trump-to-hide-behind-952301.html
17-02-2021||Panorama||Environment Impact Assessment and the Chamoli disaster||Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is a tool that helps disclose the environmental impacts of a development project through a systematically prepared EIA Report. The Environment Ministry uses the findings of the report to decide whether a project should be granted Environmental Clearance (EC) or not. The 2019-20 Annual Report of the Ministry of Environment, Forest & Climate Change (MoEFCC) indicates that 322 projects were granted EC between April and December 2019. The report is silent on the number of projects that were not granted EC in this period. It also does not say how many projects were considered in total. Reporting only EC approvals may seem appropriate in an economic growth report but seems hardly a benchmark of annual performance for an Environment Ministry. Last year, the MoEFCC issued draft guidelines for making changes in the EIA notification. The draft guidelines were vehemently opposed by many environmental groups who wanted the ministry to strengthen, and not weaken, the EIA and EC process. A key change proposed is the dilution of public consultation. This means that the views and opinions of the project-affected persons will matter less than it did earlier. But the views and opinions of project-affected persons were not given due consideration even earlier. If they had been, locals in Chamoli district would not have needed to approach the Uttarakhand High Court in 2019 with a PIL against the Rishi Ganga Power Project (RGPP). At least, the MoEFCC would have suspended the work at this project site, pending investigation. The RGPP was the most severely hit hydropower project in the February 7 disaster that probably began with a landslide. The PIL highlighted the alleged unfair and hazardous practices adopted by the proponents of the RGPP. These included stone-crushing on the riverbed and use of loud explosives. The use of the explosives was causing wild animals from the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve to flee and enter villages. The Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve (NDBR) is a UNESCO World Heritage Site known for its Outstanding Universal Values. The RGPP and other under-construction projects located close to NDBR pose great risk to the wildlife species, habitat and pristine ecology that has been maintained for decades. The 2019 PIL offered a focused account of how the risks associated with the construction of these “development” projects were translating into actual harm for the biodiversity and wildlife. Elsewhere in this Himalayan state, similar concerns have been expressed by locals with regards to ongoing construction work for an all-weather road that will connect several villages. While some locals are protesting against unattended debris -- a potential landslide hazard which can also cause flash floods -- others have expressed concern about declining stability of the Himalayas due to clear-cutting of forests to build roads. This poses serious and long-term threats to the Himalayas, local people, pilgrims and to the forest and wildlife of this global biodiversity hotspot. The debris also can change the course of rivers and greatly alter water quality and aquatic biodiversity. There have been protests and PILs against this project as well. The locals, who understand the Himalayan ecosystem well, know that this all-weather road project is nothing less than a major environmental setback. The 2019 PIL was filed by Kundan Singh, who belongs to Raini village. Raini is the historical village of Chipko Andolan fame. Despite its international recognition, Raini village has yet to witness the arrival of basic facilities such as schools and health centres. But the residents of Raini village are hill people, well-versed in the traditional knowledge of surviving in the Himalayas. The 2019 PIL did not mention the issue of lack of access to healthcare, despite an upcoming “development” project nearby. Instead, Kundan Singh’s petition indicated that the villagers’ access to the historic Chipko forest had been blocked because of these projects. Downstream of RGPP is the construction site of the NTPC’s Tapovan-Vishnugad Power Project. Tapovan-Vishnugad was hit by the debris of the RGPP. An EIA Report of Tapovan-Vishnugad prepared by NTPC for the Asian Development Bank states that the project area is prone to landslides. It also highlights how the site of the project is very susceptible to earthquakes since the earthquake hazard for a large area of Uttarakhand is regarded as likely. Further, the project is located only 5 km downstream from the Nanda Devi Biosphere Reserve. Weak explanations are given in the Environmental Assessment and Summary EIA Reports for minimising damage to environment and wildlife. For instance, the project impact on fish migration is said to lessen in the long run because several other hydroelectric projects are planned which will anyway reduce, if not eliminate, fish population in the river. No aspect of the project makes it viable and it should have been dismissed as soon as it was proposed. Yet, somehow, the authorities allowed digging of tunnels in the fragile Himalayas and were preparing to divert river water into them. In doing so, the huge risk factor was completely ignored and men were sent in harm’s way. The approved project cost of the Tapovan-Vishnugad Power Project was close to Rs 3,000 crore. The project has now incurred a loss of at least Rs 1,500 crore due to the February 7 disaster. An amount of Rs 20 crore also had to be released from Uttarakhand State Disaster Response Fund to carry out rescue and relief operations. But the greatest loss is that of human beings who would still be alive if the findings of the EIA were considered during decision-making. Let us hope better sense prevails and our bureaucracy and politicians stop viewing the Himalayas simply as a source of hydroelectric power. (Govind Singh and Armin Rosencranz are Associate Professor and Dean, respectively, at Jindal School of Environment & Sustainability, O P Jindal Global University, Haryana)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/environment-impact-assessment-and-the-chamoli-disaster-952097.html
17-02-2021||Panorama||Better to have loved and lost...||It starts off as a crush.  The adrenaline rush follows.  Suddenly, but surely, we are on a constant high.  It is fascinating to be struck by the cupid arrow.  Yet when the pursuit of love has been successfully accomplished, what do we do with it when we get it?  Once the sheen of youthful romance wanes and calls for a lasting promise does love continue to be just as charming and enticing? Or does it become tiresome and a burden to carry on with unceasing constancy and commitment?       With Valentine’s Day around the corner, these questions surfaced in my mind.  Whichever way the pendulum would swing, I reckoned that ultimately the pointer is always towards love.  For, psychology claims that the innate need for a human being is to love and to be loved. At the core, we are all social beings.  We need each other.  We must take care of each other and allow others to take care of us. This basic desire to connect with another is what drives us also to commit ourselves to the other.  In keeping with this basic nature, we fall in line and dare to take another for “better or for worse, in sickness or health, until death us do part.” Love thus culminating in a commitment is always a decision, one that desires to experience life in all its seasons, in a life-long companionship with one chosen person.      Contrary to what it seems, love is not a momentary or an impulsive feeling. It is a choice to care for another despite not knowing what could become of that choice. Yet, the amazing outcome of the choice is that it multiplies our happiness, divides our burdens and leads us to a meaningful companionship to live life together in ways that will be fulfilling and liberating.  By choosing to rough it out together in spite of differences and conflicts the journey of life unfolds into an adventure we rather not experience alone without a significant other to share it with.    It is a fact that love can also enhance our well-being and optimism.  We are most alive when we are in love.  Love acts as a natural defense to face life’s troubles with fortitude.  And yet, we know just as plainly that it takes a life time’s work to live daily the love that is professed over a romantic Valentine’s Day celebration.  For, beneath the surface of romance, the spirit of love has to be dug out just as a fossil of great value submerged deep in the ground would have to be excavated. The digging calls for determination and the humane tools of patience, kindness and empathy.  With these tools dwindling in the modern era, has it become a daunting task to the younger generation of our times to really endure in love?   Going by the current dipping marriage rates it appears that presently love that demands commitment could be losing its lustre.  A permanent pledge such as marriage is seen both as restricting and boring. However if one appreciates the truth that anything worthwhile takes time and effort, perhaps then it becomes obvious that long term commitment though a life-long work, is worth investing in. Besides, anything of significance always begins with an intention and a promise and seldom with guarantees or certainties.   Yet again, commitments often come with expectations from both partners. We want our relationships to be a perfect blend of excitement, stability, fulfilment and harmony.  However, no one person can meet all of our expectations all the time.  No one person can be everything for another. We need to have a wider circle of friends, an extended family, worthy hobbies and deeper interests from which we can get additional support to lessen the expectations we have from our partners.  And all we can do, even the best of us, is to try constantly and sincerely. As we try and live the day-in and day-out of our love through simple acts of service and tolerance to our partners, families and others, we will also unearth the rewards of love in sublime ways.  The rewards will usher in a life that embodies the values that make us humans. It will create a happier world.  It will make us stronger and our life’s journey lighter.  But even if all of this theory is not convincing enough for the contemporary world, we will do well to remember that, “it is better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/better-to-have-loved-and-lost-952098.html
17-02-2021||Right in the Middle||Dream a dream||Have we as a society become too obsessed with mathematics and science? So it seems. Last year, my neighbour’s daughter topped her Class 12 board exams in Humanities at her school.  I went to congratulate the girl and her parents. While the girl accepted my compliments with a smile, her parents didn’t look that ecstatic. Her father said that he had actually wanted his daughter to take up science after Class 10, but she was inherently inclined towards literature. The girl’s decision to take up literature as a main subject at the college level was initially met with strong parental disapproval, but she dug in her heels. Her parents had little choice but to agree to what their daughter decided. This was another case of parental ambition riding roughshod over a child’s academic interest. Like any other over-ambitious parents, the girl’s father clung to a dated worldview. No wonder, even today, students pursuing literature at the college level rarely find well-wishers supporting their choice of stream. We have been conditioned to believe in a stereotype that a “good student” is expected to pursue science for a bright future. Every year, thousands of students join coaching classes in Rajasthan’s Kota to make a career in engineering and medicine. These coaching classes are nothing but assembly lines manufacturing copies. The pressure to succeed is so high that many aspiring students end their lives for their fear of failure. The reason why many artistic and literary talents are crushed at a young age is that we don’t make an effort to identify and channel talent in the right direction. Many parents force their children to choose science or mathematics after Class 10 despite their lack of interest in these subjects. Is it any surprise that most of these kids do not show even a scintilla of enthusiasm for complex mathematical sums and recondite chemical equations and formulas? Students with a creative bent of mind rarely pass muster in our technology-driven society. The famous author Paulo Coelho once said that it took him almost 40 years to pen his first book. His father, who was an engineer by profession always felt that if his son became a writer, he would starve to death. For some students, science and mathematics are right up their alley, while for others it could be literature or even music. It all boils down to their respective area of interest. The problem is, Indian parents always want their child to become an engineer, a doctor or a scientist, and rarely a musician, singer or a painter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/dream-a-dream-952096.html
17-02-2021||Second Edit||A dangerous precedent has been set||The US Senate’s acquittal of former President Donald Trump on charges of inciting a violent insurrection has dealt America’s democracy, the rule of law, justice and accountability, a deadly blow. Trump was not expected to be convicted, of course. An impeachment trial requires two-thirds support in the Senate to secure a conviction. It was evident from the start that such support was lacking. Still, one hoped that Republican Senators would rise to the occasion to vote on the basis of the evidence placed before them. Although the prosecution placed solid evidence, including audio and video recordings of Trump inciting his supporters and of mobs vandalising the Capitol building in an effort to stop the certification of the results of the presidential election, Republican senators simply ignored it all to acquit him. Crucial evidence of Trump’s behaviour even after the Capitol violence had started was ignored on the basis of a mere technicality. But for seven Republicans, who voted with 50 Democrat Senators in favour of Trump’s conviction, the rest prioritised their own political survival and personal interests over principles to let Trump off the hook. The Senate trial was not just about Trump; it was about the Republican Party, too. Did its senators summon the political and moral courage to uphold the American Constitution and act in the long-term interests of democratic institutions and values? They did not. Senate Republicans failed the test. The Senate trial had provided the Republican Party with an opportunity to right the wrong it had done by enabling Trump’s gross misconduct over the past four years. Trump’s conviction would have banished him from politics. By acquitting him, Republicans have given his political career another lease of life. By endorsing his destructive politics, they have thrown away a chance to carve out a constructive path for the party’s future. His acquittal could embolden Trump and his supporters to indulge in violent adventurism yet again. Trump’s acquittal may also have set a dangerous precedent. Forty-four Republican Senators voted to dismiss the impeachment trial against Trump as “unconstitutional” because he is no longer in office. Instead of sending out a clear message to future Presidents that inciting insurrections and mob violence are unacceptable in a democracy, these Senators have emboldened future Presidents to engage in similar unconstitutional conduct. It could encourage future Presidents and others in elected office to refuse to accept election results and use any means, including violence, in their final days in office to hang on to power, knowing well that once out of office they will not be liable for impeachment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-dangerous-precedent-has-been-set-952092.html
17-02-2021||South||Congress compromising on its ideology, says Pinarayi Vijayan||Accusing the Congress of compromising on their ideology, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday alleged that differences between that party and BJP were narrowing down in the country. Addressing a press conference, the senior CPI(M) leader cited the donation given by senior Congress leaders like Digvijaya Singh for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya and said it was a "dangerous move". "The Congress should realise that such a move amounts to giving recognition to the position being taken by the RSS," Vijayan said. He said this in response to a query on the controversy over a Congress MLA in Kerala recently making a donation for the construction of the Ram temple. Congress MLA Eldhose Kunnappiily had made a contribution to the RSS workers last week, kicking up a row in the state. When some Muslim groups protested in front of his residence against the donation, the Perumbavoor MLA had apologised, claiming he was 'misled' by Sangh Parivar workers and was not aware that the donation was for the temple. Lashing out at the Congress, Vijayan said the MLA was following the footsteps of his party's important leaders like Digvijay Singh on the issue. "This is a very dangerous move", the Chief Minister said. He said the Congress so far had not taken a firm stand on any of the issues being faced by the nation. "They (the Congress) are compromising with such issues as they think that they will lose the votes of a section", he said, adding that the Congress would not be able to oppose the communal forces. Vijayan said the CPI(M)-led alliance has a very strong presence in Kerala and the LDF would continue to very strongly oppose any form of communalism. He cited the political developments in Puducherry, where Congress MLAs quit the party and their reported move to join the BJP and said "the differences between the Congress and BJP are narrowing down".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-compromising-on-its-ideology-says-pinarayi-vijayan-952087.html
17-02-2021||South||Puducherry's future now in hands of people: Kiran Bedi after being removed as Lieutenant Governor||Hours after being removed as the Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry, Kiran Bedi took to Twitter to thank the people of union territory and all the public officials for being a part of her journey.  "I thank the Government of India for a lifetime experience in serving Puducherry, as its Lt Governor," Bedi said in a statement.  Stating that Puducherry has a very bright future, Bedi added that its future is now in the hands of the people.  Bedi also tweeted a message she found on the cover of her diary that told her to have a "kind heart, fierce mind and brave spirit". On Tuesday, Kiran Bedi was removed as Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry with President Ram Nath Kovind giving additional charge of the Union Territory to Telangana Governor Tamilisai Sundari Soundarajan. A Rashtrapati Bhavan communique said that the President has directed that Bedi "shall cease to hold the office of the Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry". It also said that the President has asked Soundarajan to discharge the functions of LG of Puducherry in addition to her own duties until regular arrangements are made. Bedi, country's first woman IPS officer and BJP's Chief Ministerial candidate in Delhi in 2015, was appointed LG on May 28, 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherrys-future-now-in-hands-of-people-kiran-bedi-after-being-removed-as-lieutenant-governor-952123.html
17-02-2021||South||Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy alleges BJP carrying out operation lotus||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy slammed the BJP after two cabinet ministers handed their resignation, alleging that the saffron party is carrying out "Operation Lotus" in the union territory.  Operation Lotus is the name given by the Opposition to BJP's ploy to orchestrate defections and dethrone governments. MLAs Malladi Krishna Rao and John Kumar handed in their resignations to the Puducherry Assembly Speaker on Monday, although their stepping down is yet to be accepted, Narayanasamy added. The resignation of the two ministers relegated the ruling Congress Party to a minority in the Assembly. Narayanasamy said Rao's reason for resigning was out of friction and irritation with ousted Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi, while Kumar's reason is unknown. The report added that Rao is likely to join the BJP. The developments come just a few months before Puducherry heads to the Assembly polls. On Monday night, Kiran Bedi was removed as Lieutenant Governor by the Centre and replaced with Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-cm-v-narayanasamy-alleges-bjp-carrying-out-operation-lotus-952133.html
17-02-2021||South||Whatever done was sacred duty fulfilling constitutional and moral responsibilities: Bedi||Outgoing Lt Governor of Puducherry Kiran Bedi on Wednesday said whatever work done was a sacred duty fulfilling her constitutional and moral responsibilities. A day after she was removed as the Lt Governor of the Union Territory, the former IPS officer thanked the Centre for a lifetime experience in serving Puducherry. She also thanked all those who worked with her closely. Bedi said that she could say with a deep sense of satisfaction that during her tenure 'Team Raj Nivas diligently worked to serve larger public interest'. Bedi, who has been at loggerheads with the elected government and particularly with Chief Minister V Narayanasamy also said, "whatever was done was a sacred duty fulfilling my constitutional and moral responsibilities." She asserted that Puducherry has a very bright future. "It is now in the hands of the people." She wished for a prosperous Puducherry. In a surprise development late on Tuesday, the Rashtrapati Bhavan announced that Bedi will cease to hold the office of Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry, just a week after Narayanasamy petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind, urging him to recall her. Hailing the replacement of Bedi, the CM had said, "it marks a victory for the rights of the people". Telangana Governor Tamizhisai Soundararajan has been assigned additional charge of Puducherry following removal of Lt Governor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/whatever-done-was-sacred-duty-fulfilling-constitutional-and-moral-responsibilities-bedi-952147.html
17-02-2021||South||All you need to know about Congress crisis in Puducherry||In a sudden political development, the Congress government in the union territory lost its majority with another ruling party MLA resigning on Tuesday, while Lt Governor Kiran Bedi, whose recall has been demanded by the ruling party for long, was removed from the post. The resignation by John Kumar, who became the fourth legislator to quit the assembly last month, reduced the numbers of the Congress-DMK alliance to 14 in the assembly with an effective strength of 28, prompting calls by the Opposition for the resignation of Chief Minister V Narayanasamy. The union territory is headed by the Congress and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam alliance, which, looking at developments in the recent days, maybe headed towards a collapse if they fail to prove majority. Amid a resignation spree in Congress, DMK announced that they would contest 30 seats in the upcoming Assembly elections. What is the rift between DMK and Congress? DMK chief M K Stalin and Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy have enjoyed a good relationship over the years but DMK’s Jagathrakshagan has been emerging as a central power in the union territory has disturbed the working of Congress. There have also been reports that DMK is aggressively pushing for Jagathrakshagan to be the CM candidate, creating differences in the alliance. Congress MLAs go on a resignation spree The exodus of Congress MLAs started with the resignation of then Minister A Namassivayam and E Theeppainjan last month with the two later joining the BJP. Malladi Krishna Rao, also a minister, resigned from the government and also as MLA on Monday. The Speaker has accepted the resignations of Kumar and Rao, reported PTI  quoting sources in the Assembly. Another Congress MLA N Dhanavelou was disqualified for alleged anti-party activities in July last year. The Congress had won 15 assembly seats in the 2016 polls. The strength of the Congress in the Assembly has decreased to 10 including the Speaker. Its ally DMK has three members and an independent also supports the government. The simple majority in the assembly with the reduced strength is 15. The Opposition also has 14 MLAs in the 33-member House. The party position in the Assembly as od February 17: Congress (10), DMK (3), All-India NR Congress (7), AIADMK (4), BJP (3) (all nominated and have voting rights) and one independent.  (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/all-you-need-to-know-about-congress-crisis-in-puducherry-952156.html
17-02-2021||South||Opposition asks Puducherry CM Narayanasamy to prove majority in assembly; petitions Lt Governor's office||Opposition parties in the Union Territory of Puducherry on Thursday demanded that Chief Minister V Narayanasamy prove his majority on the floor of the Assembly following a spate of resignations by legislators belonging to the ruling Congress government. The government has plunged into a minority with two ministers and as many legislators resigning as MLAs, bringing down the party's strength in the 30-member Assembly to 14. Adding three nominated members, the strength of the House stands at 33. After the recent resignations, the Opposition and the ruling combine are on par with both sides having the support of 14 MLAs each. A delegation of leaders from the N R Congress, AIADMK and BJP, which has three nominated members, on Wednesday petitioned officials at the Raj Nivas, in the absence of a Lt Governor, demanding that Narayanasamy prove his majority on the floor of the House. “The Congress-DMK government in Puducherry has lost majority. The Congress government should be asked to prove its majority,” former Chief Minister and Opposition leader N R Rangasamy told reporters outside Raj Nivas. Since Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan is yet to assume additional charge as Lt Governor of the UT, Rangasamy and the MLAs met the Secretary to the L-G. Soundararajan, who will be sworn in as Puducherry L-G on Thursday, is likely to call on the demand of the Opposition parties after settling in. The crisis has hit the Congress government just months before the UT is set to face assembly elections. The ministers and legislators who quit their posts and party have blamed Narayanasamy's style of functioning for their decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/opposition-asks-puducherry-cm-narayanasamy-to-prove-majority-in-assembly-petitions-lt-governors-office-952184.html
17-02-2021||South||Man dies after self-immolation bid in Kerala protesting snapping of power supply to house||A 39-year-old man died of burns on Wednesday, a day after he set himself ablaze in protest against the alleged disconnection of power supply to his house near here, in a suspected fallout of political enmity, police said. Neyyattinkara resident Sanil doused himself with kerosene and set himself afire on Tuesday night. He died at a city hospital this morning, they said. Sanil is a social activist and a politician. He told the doctors about the power disconnection issue. We need to verify other facts too, they added. Locals alleged that the power supply to the victim's house was disconnected following pressure exerted on the Kerala State Electricity Board authorities by his political rivals. Sanil had unsuccessfully contested the local body elections held in December last.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-dies-after-self-immolation-bid-in-kerala-protesting-snapping-of-power-supply-to-house-952271.html
17-02-2021||South||Doctors in Kerala remove whistle stuck in woman's respiratory system for 25 years||Doctors at the government medical college here have removed a tiny whistle from the respiratory system of a 40-year-old woman who had accidentally swallowed it in her teenage and was bothered by a racking cough for over two decades. According to doctors, the woman hailing from Mattannur in Kannur district was referred to the government medical college on Tuesday by a private clinic pulmonologist who suspected the presence of the foreign body in her airways that lead from the trachea into the lungs. She went to the doctor following the continuous cough she had been experiencing for long, particularly during the cold season. A team of doctors at the medical college, led by doctors Dr Rajiv Ram and Dr Padmanabhan, examined her and found an object was stuck in the bronchus (passage or airway in the respiratory system that conducts air into the lungs), Medical College Superintendent Dr Sudeep told PTI. She was subjected to bronchoscopy and the whistle she had accidentally swallowed 25 years ago while playing with her friends was removed, doctors said. Doctors said the woman had thought that she was having breathing difficulties due to asthma. But when the object was removed she recalled the incident, they said, adding, she is now relieved of her breathing problems and cough. She told doctors that she drank a lot of water to dislodge the object but was unaware that it got lodged in the bronchus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/doctors-in-kerala-remove-whistle-stuck-in-womans-respiratory-system-for-25-years-952299.html
17-02-2021||South||Over 80% polling in Andhra Pradesh gram panchayats polls Phase III||Over 80 per cent polling was reported in the third phase of elections to gram panchayats in Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday, which witnessed stray incidents of skirmishes between the ruling YSR Congress and the opposition Telugu Desam Party at some places. An assistant presiding officer died of a heart attack while on poll duty in East Godavari district. Panchayat Raj Commissioner M Girija Shankar said the East Godavari district Collector has been asked to send a report on the APO's death, based on which ex-gratia would be paid to the deceased's family. The Commissioner said 80.71 per cent of 55.75 lakh voters exercised their franchise in all 13 districts in the state. Vizianagaram reported the highest 87.09 per cent polling while Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy's native Kadapa district was at the bottom with 72.85 per cent. Counting of votes was continuing when reports last came in and the final results are expected only after midnight, sources in the State Election Commission said. Polling was held in the third phase to elect 2,639 sarpanches and 19,553 village ward members under 160 revenue mandals in 13 districts. Already 579 sarpanch posts and 11,753 ward members posts were bagged unopposed in the elections conducted on an apolitical basis. In Vizianagaram district, YSRC and TDP workers clashed inside a polling booth at Chowdavaram village over the issue of bringing in voters to the polling station. Tension prevailed in the area as workers of the parties hurled chairs at each other in the presence of police and other officials. Police, however, swung into action, dispersed them and ensured that the polling process was not disrupted, the SEC sources said. Another such incident was reported in Guntur district as well, but there was nothing serious.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-80-polling-in-andhra-pradesh-gram-panchayats-polls-phase-iii-952312.html
17-02-2021||South||Kerala CPM uses Puducherry political development, Ram Mandir fundraiser issues ahead of Assembly polls||The ongoing political developments at Puducherry and the contribution made by a Kerala Congress MLA to the Ram Mandir fundraising drive are being utilised by the CPM in Kerala tin drawing parallels between the Congress and BJP ahead of the upcoming Assembly polls. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that all these developments are proving that there is not much difference between the Congress and BJP. "Did the Congress take any strong stand on any communal issues? They are triggering communal sentiment for electoral gains," he accused. The CPM in Kerala has been campaigning that it is the only secular force to counter the communal agendas of the Congress and BJP. Hence, the switching over of some Congress MLAs in Puducherry to BJP camps is being highlighted by CPM in Kerala. A campaign that many Congress leaders in Kerala are also on the verge of joining the BJP is also doing the rounds for quite some time. Meanwhile, Congress MLA in Kerala Eldose Kunnapillil was caught up in a row after he made a donation to the Ram temple fundraising being carried out by the RSS. The issue came out after a picture of the Eldose making the contribution became viral. As it triggered strong protests from various quarters, the MLA put up a defence that some temple committee members approached him seeking donation for a temple and he was not specifically told that they were RSS workers and it was for Ram temple construction. Hence, he gave Rs. 1,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cpm-uses-puducherry-political-development-ram-mandir-fundraiser-issues-ahead-of-assembly-polls-952326.html
17-02-2021||South||Kerala HC rejects rape convict priest’s bail plea to marry survivor||A rape convict Catholic priest's plea in Kerala for bail to marry the survivor has been rejected by the Kerala High Court maintaining that accused in sexual offences deserved no leniency. Robin Vadakumcherry, a former priest of the Mananthavady diocese in Wayanad in Kerala, was convicted by a POCSO court in Kannur in 2019 on charges of raping and impregnating a minor girl. He sought bail last year expressing desire to marry the survivor, who has now attained the age of 18 and take care of their child. Citing earlier court orders, the HC maintained that a lenient approach cannot be taken when dealing with sexual offences. The court also pointed out that since the appeal against the trial court order convicting Vadakumcherry was still remaining and hence allowing him bail to marry the survivor at this point would amount to giving legal sanctity to the offence. The police and prosecution had earlier opposed the bail plea maintaining that the wish to marry could be a ploy to get bail. Vadakumcherry, who is in his mid-fifties, raped the survivor belonging to his parish several times during 2016. The girl, who was only 16 at that time was impregnated and delivered a child later. Efforts were made to conceal the crime. He was held just ahead of his bid to leave the country. He was defrocked after he was convicted by a lower court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-rejects-rape-convict-priest-s-bail-plea-to-marry-survivor-952356.html
17-02-2021||South||By removing Kiran Bedi, BJP snatches major issue from Puducherry CM Narayanasamy ahead of assembly polls||Former IPS officer Kiran Bedi's removal as Puducherry's Lt Governor is a well-thought-out political decision by the BJP, which is moving its cards in a bid to not just open its account in the tiny Union Territory but also to play a “key role” in the formation of the next government after the Assembly elections. In her four-year stay at the Raj Nivas in Puducherry, Bedi, who has a penchant for stoking controversies, came under severe criticism from various quarters, including the general public, for her “publicity stunts”, especially with regard to issuing challans personally to two-wheeler riders for not wearing helmets. Politically shrewd Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, who has had a running battle with Bedi on various aspects of administration, made Bedi's style of functioning and her “obstructing work” as major issues ahead of the Assembly elections due in April-May. That the duo never got along is a different story altogether. Though the post of Lt Governor is “non-political”, the BJP understood that Bedi was considered as an integral part of the party and her continuance in the post during the election would have placed it at a “disadvantageous position". Narayanasamy had consistently attacking Bedi and the BJP, thereby shifting the focus from the much-talked-about anti-incumbency and the rebellion from within the government against his leadership – two ministers and as many MLAs have so far resigned blaming him. “Narayanasamy was actually hiding behind Bedi by making her unilateral functioning the major poll issue. Now that she has been removed, Narayanasamy will face questions about his governance, especially from those legislators who have quit the Congress and joined the BJP,” senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh told DH. The BJP has been making concerted efforts to make inroads in Puducherry, as a precursor to its mega plans for neighbouring Tamil Nadu, since 2016 – Bedi appointed three BJP leaders as nominated members to the Assembly. With its efforts not bearing fruit, the BJP has now taken to its time-tested method to get a hold on winning elections – poaching Congress MLAs and fielding them as candidates in the upcoming elections. The BJP is pinning hopes on former Congress legislators to open its account in Puducherry. Hoping to win a handful of seats, the BJP feels its legislators could play an important role in the formation of the next government in the event of a hung assembly. Even being a small part of the government will be a major leap for the BJP, which is trying hard to expand its footprint in southern India, especially in a UT so close to Tamil Nadu that has rejected the party so far.  The replacement for Bedi is also an interesting choice – Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan – a seasoned politician and an ideal person for the BJP to play the Tamil card. However, some feel the removal of Bedi is unlikely to help the BJP due to the party's lack of a base in the UT. “The decision has come too late in the day. It could have helped the BJP if Bedi was shunted out a few months back. The BJP should also realise that the sentiments against the party are still strong, and those feelings won't go away in a few months,” a political observer who did not wish to be quoted said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/by-removing-kiran-bedi-bjp-snatches-major-issue-from-puducherry-cm-narayanasamy-ahead-of-assembly-polls-952384.html
17-02-2021||South||Kerala stalls regularising temporary staff, creates 3,051 new permanent posts||As the protests by job aspirants mount, the Kerala government on Wednesday decided to create 3,051 more permanent posts in government service and to stop pending proposals of regularising temporary staff in various government institutions. Reiterating his allegation against opposition Congress, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that a section was trying to tarnish the image of the government by misleading the job aspirants on strike and the government would not bow down before such attempts.   Meanwhile, the Kerala High Court on Wednesday asked the Kerala government to give a report on the norms being followed for regularising temporary staff in various government institutions. The Youth Congress, which has launched an indefinite protest against regularising temporary staff, had moved the HC earlier. The Chief Minister said that only temporary staff serving for more than ten years were regularised. However, he did not give the number of temporary staff regularised by his government so far. With the creation of 3,051 more posts in various government departments and institutions, the total permanent posts created by the current government crossed 30,000 and it would be more than 50,000 when considering the temporary posts created, said Vijayan. The rank holders in various recruitment lists of Kerala Public Service Commission who are on indefinite stir reiterated that they would call off the stir only if at least one-fifth of the candidates in the rank lists were given posting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-stalls-regularising-temporary-staff-creates-3051-new-permanent-posts-952390.html
17-02-2021||South||Will move Assembly resolution opposing Vizag Steel Plant privatisation: CM Reddy assures support to workers||Andhra Pradesh CM Jaganmohan Reddy has said that his government would do everything in its capacity to stop Vizag Steel Plant's privatisation, including sending a resolution passed by the state Assembly opposing the Centre's plans. The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) has, last month, in-principle approved 100 per cent strategic disinvestment of the Centre's shareholding in Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd., the corporate entity of the Vizag Steel Plant, along with management control by way of privatisation. The decision has sparked widespread protests in the state especially in Visakhapatnam, where the 7.3 million tonne capacity per annum plant is located. VSP employs about 15,000 permanent and 20,000 contract workers and provides indirect livelihood to over 65,000 people. The plant thus supports one lakh jobs and about five lakh people – about a quarter of Vizag city population, unions say. VSP foundation was laid in 1977 by the then prime minister Indira Gandhi, after prolonged agitation, when people rallied under the popular slogan “Visakha ukku-Andhrula hakku” (Vizag Steel is Andhra's right). The agitation reportedly claimed over 30 lives. The plant was finally commissioned in 1992. The opposition TDP is faulting the YSRCP government for “failing to protect the workers and state's interest.” On Tuesday, former CM Chandrababu Naidu visited Vizag in support of the agitation by the unions and his party men. On Wednesday, Reddy met the steel plant employees' representatives on the sidelines of his visit to Sharada Peetham run by a religious guru in the city. “We should note that VSP is a central PSU. We can only build every kind of pressure (to make the centre withdraw its plans),” Reddy told them. Reddy had earlier this month written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealing against VSP privatisation plans. He urged for some supportive measures like “allotting captive iron ore mines to bring down the input costs, swapping high-cost debt with low-cost debt, and converting debt into equity through equity conversion, to help make the plant become profitable again.” “We are expecting that the central government would react positively by the time of the budget session. But if needed, we will build further pressure on the centre by passing a resolution against the proposal,” Reddy assured the agitated workers. At the same time, the CM appealed to the workers to “ensure that steel production is not hit and the output is maintained at the optimum level.” “You can protest during your break time.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-move-assembly-resolution-opposing-vizag-steel-plant-privatisation-cm-reddy-assures-support-to-workers-952399.html
17-02-2021||South||POSCO keen on setting up plant in Andhra Pradesh; scouting for suitable locations: AP CM Jaganmohan Reddy||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy has said that POSCO is keen on setting up a steel plant in the state. On Wednesday, Reddy met with the representatives of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant employees who are agitated by the Narendra Modi government plans to privatise the 7.3 MTPA capacity plant located in the port city, also known as steel city because of the steel PSU. Reddy admitted that the South Korean steel giant’s officials had met him recently. “But it is wrong to say that they are trying hard to come to Vizag. However, it is true that they are very keen on AP and are scouting for suitable locations. I have appealed to them to set up a plant at Kadapa or else at Krishnapatnam or Bhavanapadu,” Reddy said during the interaction. Stating POSCO as a large, reputed organisation, CM Reddy said that “such a company establishing its plant here would fetch us jobs and boost the state's economy.” “Even yesterday, they had visited Krishnapatnam.” Reddy assured the workers that his YSRCP government is committed towards keeping the Vizag Steel Plant within the government sector and would protect the employee interests. VSP is a Navratna company operating under the Ministry of Steel and is the largest public-sector industrial unit in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/posco-keen-on-setting-up-plant-in-andhra-pradesh-scouting-for-suitable-locations-ap-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-952424.html
17-02-2021||South||Telangana Guv Tamilisai Soundararajan to be sworn-in as Puducherry Lt Governor on Feb 18||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who has been given additional charge of Puducherry, will be sworn-in at a function in Raj Nivas here on Thursday. A communication from the government said that she will be sworn in at 9 am. She has been posted as Lt Governor incharge after former IPS officer Kiran Bedi was removed from office through a Presidential order on Tuesday. Bedi was Lt Governor here since May 2016. Soundararajan arrived here today evening and sources said she offered worship at a Pillayar temple in the neighbourhood of Raj Nivas. Chief Minister V Narayanasamy accompanied by Deputy Speaker M N R Balan and Government whip R K R Anandaraman met her at Raj Nivas and felicitated her. A delegation of legislators belonging to the opposition and headed by leader of the opposition and former Chief Minister N Rangasamy (AINRC) called on her and presented bouquets. Earlier, an official of the union territory handed over the warrant of appointment to the Telangana Governor at Hyderabad. Krishna Kumar Singh, Spl.Resident Commissioner, Pondicherry, called on the Telangana governor at Raj Bhavan and handed over the Warrant of Appointment "to discharge the duties as the Lt Governor of Pondicherry," a Raj Bhavan press communique said in Hyderabad. Puducherry has had four women as Lt Governor earlier including Kiran Bedi. This is the first time in the history of Puducherry that a Tamil speaking person has been posted as Lt governor. Outgoing Lt Governor Kiran Bedi was given a farewell guard of honour by Puducherry Police outside Raj Nivas. Sources said Bedi however would remain in Raj Nivas as per her desire till Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-guv-tamilisai-soundararajan-to-be-sworn-in-as-puducherry-lt-governor-on-feb-18-952432.html
17-02-2021||South||Lawyer couple hacked to death in Telangana||A lawyer couple was brutally hacked to death in broad daylight in Telangana on Wednesday. The offenders intercepted the car in which Gattu Vaman Rao and his wife P V Nagamani were travelling on a highway in Peddapalli district towards Hyderabad after attending some court work in Manthani. Both were practising advocates in the Telangana High Court and succumbed to the savage attack while being rushed to a hospital. In his last moments, Rao reportedly mentioned the name of one Kunta Srinivas, said to be the president of the ruling TRS party’s Manthani Mandal unit. Rao’s brother also suspected Srinivas’s involvement in the murder. Ramagundam Police Commissioner V Satyanarayana said that the incident occurred at around 2:30 pm and that six special teams had been formed to catch the culprits at the earliest. The Bar Council of Telangana has issued a statement strongly condemning the attack. “We demand the police to probe the matter immediately and arrest the culprits. The country is witnessing frequent attacks on advocates. No person can take law into his hands and resort to illegal activities,” the council said. The council also demanded the government to enact legislation for advocate protection, “to safeguard the community discharging duties to protect the citizen rights.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lawyer-couple-hacked-to-death-in-telangana-952439.html
17-02-2021||State||I was threatened for Ram Mandir fund collection: H D Kumaraswamy||Former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy on Wednesday claimed that he was threatened by some people who came to his house seeking a donation for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Continuing his attack on the donation drive, Kumaraswamy questioned the legitimacy of those approaching citizens seeking money for the temple. Speaking to reporters, the JD(S) legislature party leader said three people turned up at his door a fortnight ago seeking funds. "When I questioned them about it, one woman in the group tried to threaten me by saying the Ram Mandir was the nation’s symbol and that I had to make the donation. If they can say this to me, imagine how they must be intimidating common people," Kumaraswamy said. Training his guns at those involved in the donation drive - he said some of them were “goons” - Kumaraswamy sought to know who had authorized the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) to collect funds. “Even registered NGOs working for a social cause need to provide financial accountability to the government. I am neither questioning the fund collection itself nor am I against the construction of Ram Mandir. I am only pointing out the issue of accountability. Earlier, they collected funds during the Rath Yatra for Ram Mandir, too. No accounts were given for it," he said. He said he would donate funds for the construction of Ram Mandir as long as “authorised people” approached him. Lashing out at BJP leaders who criticised the JD(S) in the wake of his comments, Kumaraswamy said his party never used religion for politics.  "You are the ones misusing the name of Ram. This is religious corruption," he charged. He said pro-Hindu outfits had admitted to pasting stickers on people's homes claiming that it was meant to " encourage" more people to donate. "Why stick it on individual homes and cause panic among people? Why can't they just advertise it generally by putting up posters?" he said. The JD(S) leader going after the Sangh is seen as him separating his party’s recent bonhomie with the BJP in the Legislative Council. Commenting on the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi, Kumaraswamy expressed concerns about the muzzling of voices. “Anyone who opposes the government is branded an anti-national. This is an undeclared emergency,” he said. The JD(S) leader also lashed out at Congress leader Siddaramaiah. "He is reportedly interested in Ahinda now. He was the CM for five years. Why couldn't he have worked for Ahinda welfare back then,” he said. “One party is using religion to gain power and another is using Ahinda. They are only interested in power.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/i-was-threatened-for-ram-mandir-fund-collection-h-d-kumaraswamy-952226.html
17-02-2021||State||New FASTag deadline boosts electronic toll collection||The Centre’s new deadline for enforcement of FASTag has given a big push to the number of vehicles adopting the electronic toll collection (ETC) system with the last two weeks seeing a big jump in the rate of compliance.  National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) Regional Officer R K Suryavamshi said the average ETC which stood at about 70% till recently has seen a significant improvement over the last one week.  “Karnataka has 45 toll plazas and 488 lanes which recorded an average ETC collection of about 70% till last week. As per the data from February 14, a day before the deadline, the average collection has gone up to 84% with the plaza at Surathkal (Dakshina Kannada) recording 93%,” he said. The increase in ETC directly translates to reduced queues at the toll plazas as the automatic payments eliminate the time consumed in cash transactions. Interestingly, data showed that the electronic toll collection in plazas in the Bengaluru area was much lower at about 75%, compared to the other parts of the state. This, officials believe, due to the number of travellers who rarely take their vehicles to the national highways. The official said that more people are expected to switch over to ETC collection over the next one week. Those who questioned the need to adopt FASTag citing occasional or rare travel are also falling in line. The data for Monday is being assessed and officials hope to see a big improvement in compliance within the next one week.  Two types of FASTag Suryavamshi noted that the NHAI has made it further easy for commuters to buy the radio frequency-identity based tags. “The FASTag offered by the banks that require deposits of up to Rs 250. Now, the Indian Highway Management Company Limited (IHMCL) has offered another FASTag that doesn’t require a deposit and can be bought for even Rs 100,” he explained. Over the last one week, point of sale counters were set up at several toll plazas to help people buy the FASTag. Officials said they are seeing good response from the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/new-fastag-deadline-boosts-electronic-toll-collection-952287.html
17-02-2021||State||I-T officials raid business premises in Mangaluru||Income tax officials on Wednesday conducted simultaneous raids on the offices and houses of four businessmen running hospitals in the city and suburbs. Official sources said six teams conducted the raids. The hospitals owned by them were also searched. Some documents were seized from the houses and institutions and being examined, the sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/i-t-officials-raid-business-premises-in-mangaluru-952360.html
17-02-2021||State||Law against 'love jihad' likely in next legislature session: Nalin Kumar Kateel||The BJP's Karnataka unit chief Nalin Kumar Kateel said on Wednesday the Yediyurappa government might introduce a law against "love jihad" in the next assembly session. "There is love jihad going on in the state.I am confident that in the next session our government will bring a law to control love jihad in the state," Kateel said after inaugurating the BJP state unit meet at the Kittur Rani Chennamma community building. In the recent past, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, both ruled by the BJP, have brought religious freedom laws to stop conversion through marriage or by any other fraudulent means. "Love Jihad" is a term used by right wing activists to refer to the alleged campaign of Muslims forcing Hindu girls to convert in the guise of love. Kateel said the state government has already fulfilled the long pending demand of ban on cow slaughter by bringing in a law in the previous legislature session. Speaking about the administration of the BJP government in Karnataka, Kateel said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has been striving hard to mop up more revenue. The BJP government has made the state drug-free, he said and alleged that the previous Congress government ran on 'drug money'. "When the Congress government was ruling the state, they ran the administration using 'drug money', whereas the Yediyurappa government made Karnataka drug-free," Kateel told the gathering||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/law-against-love-jihad-likely-in-next-legislature-session-nalin-kumar-kateel-952367.html
17-02-2021||State||New Covid clusters in Bengaluru: Too early to call it second wave, say experts||The emergence of three new Covid-19 clusters in the state over the last two weeks has reignited fears that a potential second wave is starting in the state, although members of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) said it was too early to tell. On Tuesday, the discovery of a cluster of 103 infected individuals at an apartment complex in Bommanahalli, Bengaluru, substantially raised the number of cluster cases, following as it did, a cluster of 40 cases among out-of-state nursing students studying in Bengaluru last week, plus another cluster of 49 nursing students at Ullal in the first week of February. However, Dr M K Sudarshan, Chairman of the TAC told DH that it was too early to tell if these clusters indicated the beginnings of a second wave, saying that further clarity would be shed by the results of the second sero-survey which is expected at the end of February. He was speaking ahead of a special media interaction to discuss vaccine-related issues. In December, the TAC report had postulated that a second wave could potentially start between mid-January and March. “That statement was made based on historical data,” clarified Dr V Ravi, the noted virologist and a member of the TAC. “If some cluster events cross a critical point then we will have a second wave. That is not to say that the emergence of these particular clusters means a second wave. A second wave occurs through a series of cluster events building up. It all depends on how individual citizens take this information and change their behavior,” he added. Despite the emergence of the clusters, the daily Covid-19 update from the government has not shown a significant bump in the daily numbers. Dr Arundathi Chandrashekar, Director, State Surveillance Unit (SSU), said that the authorities are concerned about the clusters, but said that no cases were being missed out. “We are conducting more targeted testing of people with symptoms while limiting broader testing in areas with large crowds. The daily target for testing is now 75,000. We are matching those targets,” she said. The authorities, however, maintained that no clusters are being missed. Dr Thrilok Chandra, the new Commissioner of Health, correlated missed cases with an increased death toll. “This is what we saw in the middle of last year. Delayed diagnosis meant many people were ending up in hospitals in critical condition. The death toll was high. If such cases are being missed out now, we would see a similar increase in the number of critical cases in hospitals, which is not the case,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/new-covid-clusters-in-bengaluru-too-early-to-call-it-second-wave-say-experts-952404.html
17-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt issues fresh guidelines for people coming from Kerala||The Karnataka government on Tuesday issued a fresh set of guidelines for people coming from Kerala, which has seen an increase in Covid-19 cases, saying these would come into force with immediate effect. Based on recommendations of the Technical Advisory Committee on COVID-19, new special surveillance measures for those arriving from Kerala have been introduced, Additional Chief Secretary Jawaid Akhtar said in a release. It would now be mandatory for those arriving from that state and checking into hotels, resorts, hostels, home stays and dormitories to have a negative RT-PCR certificate, "which should not be older than 72 hours." The government said positive samples would be sent to NIMHANS here for genomic sequencing. Those in hostels and colleges would not be allowed to have visitors or relatives without obtaining express permission from the Covid nodal officers. A list of students travelling to and from Kerala from hostels or colleges should be maintained by a competent authority, the order said. The government said students should compulsorily produce RT-PCR negative test reports, not older than 72 hours, each time they return from Kerala and till the situation improves. The order said that day scholars travelling from Kerala to schools and colleges in any part of Karnataka would be subjected to RT-PCR test every fortnight. Those who had already arrived to the state from Kerala over the past two weeks should compulsorily undergo this test. The government said the authorities concerned have to appoint a nodal person in hostels and classes to monitor the students' health condition and that of others. Anyone not complying with the order would immediately be reported to the nodal person or authorities and made to stay in the designated "quarantine room "in the facility till RT- PCR test report turned negative. The government asked the authorities to ramp up testing and strengthen COVID-19 surveillance activities in all colleges, residential facilities, which have accommodated the students and others from Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-issues-fresh-guidelines-for-people-coming-from-kerala-952070.html
17-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka makes Covid-19 test mandatory for fliers from UK, Brazil and South Africa||Following the detection of four cases of new Covid virus strains, the state government has made it mandatory for passengers arriving to Karnataka from the United Kingdom, Brazil and South Africa to produce RT-PCR negative certificate to board the flight and additionally undergo an RT-PCR test at Bengaluru Airport. Even if they test negative, they shall undergo home quarantine for 14 days and follow-up RT-PCR test shall be conducted on the seventh day.  An order to this effect was issued by Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Jawaid Akhtar here on Tuesday.  The measure was taken after the Union health ministry on Tuesday said four cases of South Africa variants and one case of the Brazilian variant have been found in India. The four SA strains were found in individuals who returned from Angola, Tanzania and South Africa. Those who test positive shall undergo institutional quarantine for 14 days and positive samples shall be sent to Nimhans for genomic sequencing. They shall be discharged after consecutive two samples are negative through RTPCR, done 24 hoursapart.  Passengers from Kerala Similarly, passengers who have travelled to Karnataka from Kerala in the past two weeks shall compulsorily be subjected to RT- PCR test. An exemption is given only to those who have a valid RT-PCR negative test report not olderthan 72 hours.  The students from Kerala who reside in the hostels shall avoid frequently travelling to their native place unless it is strongly justified. Such students returning from Kerala shall bring a negative RT-PCR test report.  The employees of multinational companies, hotels, resorts, lodges, home stays should get the test done at their own cost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-makes-covid-19-test-mandatory-for-fliers-from-uk-brazil-and-south-africa-952100.html
17-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||I-T raids underway in medical colleges in Bengaluru, Mangaluru and Davangere||Searches are being carried out in various medical colleges in Karnataka by I-T sleuths, sources in the Income Tax department said on Wednesday. The raids were conducted in certain colleges in Bengaluru, Mangaluru and Davangere. The I-T sleuths accompanied by Enforcement Directorate officials swooped down on institutions, offices and residences belonging to owners of the medical colleges this morning. In the state capital, raids were carried out at two colleges. However, officials did not divulge any information on the raids.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/i-t-raids-underway-in-medical-colleges-in-bengaluru-mangaluru-and-davangere-952172.html
17-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Modi, Yediyurappa tax' looting, fleecing citizens, says Surjewala on fuel price hike||AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala on Wednesday asked the B S Yediyurappa-led BJP government to cut its share of tax to reduce fuel prices like Rajasthan has done, while slamming the saffron party for “looting and fleecing” citizens. “The Rajasthan government reduced the local VAT rate for the state so that relief can be given to people. Why is the BJP government in Karnataka not reducing its own VAT rate on petrol and diesel so that relief can be given,” Surjewala asked, while speaking to reporters. “The BJP and the Modi government are looting and fleecing the people of this country, more so the people of Karnataka. For the 9th day in a row, petrol and diesel prices are now touching the sky. We have Modi and Yediyurappa tax on petrol and diesel. This loot must end,” he said. The Congress leader said the actual cost of petrol and diesel in India is barely Rs 30. “While people - farmers, salaried class and middle class - are being made to pay from their pocket, Rs 20 lakh crore loot has happened in the last 6.5 years of BJP’s rule,” he said. Surjewala also pointed out that the cost of cooking gas had crossed Rs 770 per cylinder. “And tragically, only today it has been disclosed that for the 2021 financial year, the Modi government proposes to collect another Rs 2 lakh crore from taxes on petrol and diesel alone. If you add the state taxes and dealers' commission, it'd probably nationally come to Rs 3 lakh crore. Is that the way we're going to ameliorate the conditions of the people?” he said. Surjewala, who is in charge of the Congress’ affairs in Karnataka, is slated to hold one-on-one meetings with party leaders ahead of elections to the BBMP, taluk panchayats and zilla panchayats. “We’re trying to collate information based on the opinions of party leaders, workers and past candidates so that an action plan for the development of Karnataka’s rural hinterland as also for Bengaluru, a vision paper, can be presented on which the Congress will go to polls,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/modi-yediyurappa-tax-looting-fleecing-citizens-says-surjewala-on-fuel-price-hike-952213.html
17-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||PES University students set to launch second microsatellite||The students of PES University are all set to launch their second microsatellite (RSAT) on February 28 with the support from the Defence Research and  Development Organisation (DRDO).  The first such satellite was launched by PES University students in the year 2016. For second satellite, RSAT, around eight students were involved along with seven faculty members in a programme headed by senior faculty Dr Sambashiva Rao. This RSAT is configured and being developed at PES University for carrying satellite-based automatic identification system (SB-AIS) payload for monitoring the ships on high seas and providing vital information about ship movement. In a press conference on Wednesday, Prof Mr Doreswamy, Chancellor PES University said, "Based on the successful completion of the project carried out for NRB, PES university proposes to develop SB-AIS technology with an aim not only to create opportunity for students to gain practical experience in space technology but also to help the country to be at par with foreign countries in SB-AIS applications as well." As per those involved in the development of the satellite, it will be launched into about 500 km polar sun-synchronous orbit. "RSAT is a 3-axis stabilised agile microsatellite weighing about 15 kg and measuring 300mmX300mmX300mm in size with deployable solar panels," one of its makers said. "The satellite payload receives AIS signals transmitted by ships in VHF band, stores onboard, processes and transmits the ship's information to the ground station in X-band through a high gain phased array antenna during ground station visibility period. Satellite with S-based omni antenna system supports tracking, telemetering and commanding. Onboard control system with reaction wheels and magnetic torquers controls the satellite for sun tracking during sun lit period to generate maximum power and also tracks ground station for data transfer during ground station visibility period," explained team members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pes-university-students-set-to-launch-second-microsatellite-952283.html
17-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Keep personal interests away: BJP's diktat to rabble-rousers||BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who is in charge of Karnataka, asked his party colleagues to keep their personal interests at bay in a comment directed at former Union minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal.  Singh was talking to reporters upon his arrival in Bengaluru.  “Here is a BJP government under BS Yediyurappa. Our core ideology includes banning cow slaughter, which the Yediyurappa-led BJP government has done. We are going ahead with Ram Mandir and we’ve abrogated Article 370. These core issues resonate with people. So, people should keep their personal interests away and see that they work for the ideology,” Singh said when asked about Yatnal.  The party has issued a showcause notice to Yatnal, the Bijapur City MLA, for his repeated censure of the Yediyurappa administration. He continued to attack the government even after the notice was issued.  Singh also attacked the Congress saying it is a party without leadership. “Everyone saw Rahul Gandhi’s ridiculous speech in Parliament,” he said. “The Congress has a failed leadership. Even in Karnataka, it is a divided house," he added. Both Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi have no right to speak on farmers’ welfare, Singh said, claiming that both of them do not even know the difference between "chana" and "matar". “They haven’t even seen farming on farmland, they haven’t met farmers. They can’t speak about farmers’ welfare,” he said.  ‘What’s HDK’s problem?’ Taking exception to former JD(S) chief minister HD Kumaraswamy’s statements on the Ram Mandir donation drive, Singh said people were free to give money for the temple. “If people are donating voluntarily, what’s his problem? I don’t understand this mindset. It’s ridiculous. I don’t know why Kumaraswamy is saying this,” Singh said.  Asked how he would justify the BJP’s alliance with the JD(S) in the Legislative Council, Singh said: “We have not joined hands. The JD(S) supported our candidate (for the post of deputy chairperson). Since we didn’t have a majority, we supported their candidate (for the post of chairperson). That’s all.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/keep-personal-interests-away-bjps-diktat-to-rabble-rousers-952363.html
17-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Japan's envoy to India nudges Karnataka govt to offer better business environment for Japanese companies||Japan’s national carrier will launch direct flights linking the country’s capital with Bengaluru once the Covid-19 pandemic subsides, Tokyo’s envoy to New Delhi, Satoshi Suzuki, said, even as he subtly nudged the Karnataka state government to offer a better business environment for Japanese companies. Suzuki said that Japan Airlines had plans to start a direct flight linking Tokyo-Bengaluru in March 2020, but it had to be postponed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. “But I am hopeful that once Covid-19 is subsided and the direct flight route connecting the two cities opens, people-to-people exchanges between Japan and Karnataka will expand appreciably. I am sure (the) JAL (Japan Airlines) will be in operation soon,” he said, speaking on “Japan’s connect with Karnataka” at an event organized by the FICCI Forum of Parliamentarians. Tokyo’s envoy to New Delhi said that Japanese government had been assisting and would continue to do so to build basic infrastructure in Karnataka to promote investment by the companies based in his country. “The better business environment you offer, the more Japanese companies will willingly come to Karnataka. We cannot be complacent. We should move further ahead,” he said. He said that the JAL’s Bengaluru-Tokyo flight would also offer seamless connectivity to North America via the capital city of Japan. “I look forward to seeing (the) Japan Airlines flights supporting overseas activities of Bengaluru’s IT (Information Technology) talents,” he said, adding: “Furthermore, in the post-Covid-19 times, this route could serve as a main artery of tourist transportation network as well.” Japan was the fifth-largest source of Foreign Direct Investment in Karnataka from 2014 to 2019. The investment by the East Asian nation’s companies in the state grew 5.4 times from $1.3 billion in 2016 to $7.2 billion in 2019, with the IT and healthcare being the focus sector. Not only Toyota and Honda, but as many as 217 Japanese companies are at present operating in Karnataka, mainly in the automobile industry. “We will continue to cooperate with various parties to promote Japanese companies’ operations there. Let me add, though, that for Japanese companies operating in India, a stable business environment as well as smooth labour management relationship is very important,” said Suzuki, adding: “It would be much appreciated if they could continue to receive necessary assistance from stakeholders in Karnataka.” He referred to Japan’s investment in several infrastructure projects in Karnataka, including the Bangalore Metro Phase 1. “Now we are conducting a feasibility study of lines 2A and 2B, which will connect the eastern side of the Outer Ring Road and Kempegowda International Airport,” said Japan’s ambassador to India. He also requested the Government of Karnataka to encourage its people to utilise Japan’s “Technical Intern Training Program” or (the) TITP, which was designed to contribute to the development of sending countries through on-the-job training of foreign nationals who wish to acquire certain skills. Tokyo and New Delhi also signed a Memorandum of Cooperation to facilitate citizens of India to travel to Japan and take advantage of the newly-launched “Specified Skilled Worker” programme launched by the Japanese Government in 2019. The new scheme was designed to allow foreign nationals with a certain level of expertise and skills to work in Japan, not as trainees, but as any other Japanese. The Government of Japan is currently engaged in discussions with the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE) of the Government of India to establish an effective cooperation mechanism for implementing this new scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/japans-envoy-to-india-nudges-karnataka-govt-to-offer-better-business-environment-for-japanese-companies-952379.html
17-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, Vokkaligas gear up to fight for more quota||Close on the heels of the Veerashaiva-Lingayats seeking a bigger share in the reservation, the other dominant Vokkaliga community has decided to launch its own agitation for a better quota. Influential Vokkaliga pontiffs Nirmalanandanatha Swami of the Adichunchunagiri Mutt and Nanjavadhuta Swami of the Gurugunda Brahmeshwara Mutt chaired a meeting with community leaders to discuss this. It was decided to seek enhancement of reservation for Vokkaligas, formation of a Vokkaliga Development Authority and greater quota access to the urban poor of the community, according to a statement from Nirmalanandanatha Swami. “Not all 115 sub-sects of the Vokkaliga community have been included under OBC. As a result, many sub-sects are deprived of government benefits. All sub-sects must be included under OBC and we must campaign for this,” the statement said. The pontiff also said that Vokkaligas in urban areas were in dire straits and they needed more reservation. At present, some 20 sub-sects of Vokkaligas come under Category 3A with a 4 per cent reservation in Karnataka. The meeting also discussed the possibility of hiking the quota on the lines of Tamil Nadu’s 69 per cent reservation. It was decided to tread on this subject with caution by weighing the pros and cons, the statement said. To mount pressure on the government, two committees have been constituted - a Vokkaliga Reservation Campaign Committee and a Vokkaliga Development Authority Campaign Committee. Former High Court Justice Chandrashekaraiah, former IAS officer MK Shankarlinge Gowda, academic HC Boralingaiah among others were picked to give shape to the agitation and draft the guidelines for the proposed Authority. Nanjavadhuta Swami warned of attempts to divide the community. “If some sub-sects walk out of the community, there’s a fear that they’ll become minorities. Community leaders should take measures to rectify such mistakes,” he said, according to the statement. The Vokkaliga agitation is expected to add to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s woes as he is already faced with many other such demands. The Veerashaiva-Lingayats are rallying to get included under the national OBC list whereas the Panchamasali sub-sect wants Category 2A reservation in the state. Also, the backward Kuruba community wants ST status at the national level, whereas the ST Valmiki community has demanded hiking their quota from 3 per cent to 7.5 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-vokkaligas-gear-up-to-fight-for-more-quota-952387.html
17-02-2021||West||36 lakh using local trains daily in Mumbai since Feb 1||Some 36 lakh commuters are using Mumbai's suburban train network every day after its services were thrown open to the general public with restricted timings on February 1 amid the coronavirus outbreak, officials said on Tuesday. The daily suburban train ridership comprises 19.30 lakh people on Central Railway and 16.50 lakh on Western Railway, they informed. Since February 1, CR has fined 2,060 passengers a cumulative sum of 1.21 lakh for not wearing masks while the figure of those penalised on WR was 2,558 and the amount was Rs 3.21 lakh, the official said. "We just assisted the BMC in taking action against those traveling without masks," said CR CPRO Shivaji Sutar. Train services for the general public with restricted timings started on February 1 after a gap of 320 days, having been stopped in March 22 last year as the nation went into lockdown to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. From June, 15, it was thrown open for frontline and essential staff engaged in the fight against the outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/36-lakh-using-local-trains-daily-in-mumbai-since-feb-1-952084.html
17-02-2021||West||Why Covid-19 cases are surging in Maharashtra||Multiple factors including the crowding during the mid-January gram panchayat polls, the lackadaisical approach of citizens towards face masks and protocols/SOPs, opening up of recreation and entertainment activities have resulted in the sudden increase in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. “A lot of efforts have gone in controlling the situation throughout 2020 but the way we started off 2021 and lowered the guard is concerning,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, President, Indian Medical Association-Maharashtra State. It is nearly a fortnight since the local trains have been opened for the general public, though with restricted timings in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). The situation in the financial capital of India and its suburban areas need to be closely monitored. Talking to DH, Dr Bhondwe also expressed concern over the fact that the vaccination drive is not getting the support that it should be. "Awareness needs to be increased so that more people turn up," he said.  “We would have to look into the cases in greater detail. The gram panchayat polls are held in 34 out of the 36 districts. Nearly 50 per cent of the state’s gram panchayat went to polls....we have seen the videos and photos going viral...we have seen the crowd...and some of the top leaders of the state have addressed meetings that attracted crowds,” said Dr Bhondwe. Besides, he pointed out that crowds were also witnessed in marriage events. “Where only 50 are permitted, more than 500 have attended...in some places, there has been a gathering of 2,000 plus people,” he said. Dr Bhondwe, a Pune-based consulting family physician, also pointed out that people have started going to bazaars, malls, restaurants. “That is not an issue...but what about protection...in public places, we have seen that people are not wearing masks and many even if they are wearing they are not wearing it properly,” he said. He also said that in January, there has been a slight drop in temperature. “Now there is also a forecast of rains in parts of Maharashtra....sudden drop of temperature, unseasonal rains can be contributory factors for the spread of respiratory illnesses,” he said. The veteran doctor also pointed out that that contact tracing and testing has to be increased. “All loose ends need to be plugged,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-covid-19-cases-are-surging-in-maharashtra-952126.html
17-02-2021||West||Nikita Jacob gets pre-arrest bail in toolkit case||Activist Nikita Jacob, who has been accused in the Greta Thunberg toolkit case, was granted three-week transit bail by the Bombay High Court.  A transit bail is filed to seek protection from arrest during transit if a case is registered against you in a distant district or another state. The bail filed before the Session court grants one protection till the time one files the actual anticipatory bail application before the court, which actually has jurisdiction to hear your anticipatory bail application. An anticipatory bail application can be heard only by Session court which has jurisdiction over the police station that has registered FIR against you. In case of arrest, she will be released on a personal bond and surety of Rs 25,000 each. After the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi, Delhi Police had intensified efforts to nab two other activists Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Mallick after obtaining non-bailable warrants against them, alleging that they were involved in preparing the "toolkit" related to the farmers' protest along with pro-Khalistani elements. The police action immediately attracted criticism with senior Congress MP Jairam Ramesh tweeting, "Delhi Police on the rampage. After Disha Ravi, it is now the turn of another young woman, Nikita Jacob. More will no doubt follow...This is tanashahi (dictatorship) in New India called Amit Shahi!" Joint Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Prem Nath told reporters that Nikita, a lawyer practicing in Bombay High Court, had fled from her house in Mumbai, while Shantanu, an engineer, was not at his residence in Maharashtra's Beed when police went there this weekend. According to Prem Nath, Nikita and Shantanu were in a Zoom meeting with around 60-70 people organised by the pro-Khalistani Poetic Justice Foundation and collaborated with them to prepare the 'toolkit' on farmers' protest. Searches "during day time" at Nikita's residence yielded two laptops and an I-phone. She was asked to give a written undertaking that she would join the investigation at her residence on February 12 but she was found absconding when the investigators reached there, he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nikita-jacob-gets-pre-arrest-bail-in-toolkit-case-952157.html
17-02-2021||West||Over 15 lakh caught without masks in Mumbai since April 2020||Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the Mumbai civic body has caught over 15 lakh people without face masks at public places in the city since April last year and collected more than Rs 30 crore as fine from them, officials said on Wednesday. Out of these offenders, 13,008 were caught on Monday and a fine of Rs 26,01,600 was collected from them, a Brihnamumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. Concerned over the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday asked citizens to strictly follow government-mandated guidelines on masks and social distancing or be prepared to face another round of lockdown. The BMC has been imposing a fine of Rs 200 for not wearing a face mask in public places. From April 1, 2020, to February 15 this year, the BMC caught 15,16,398 people without face masks and collected a total of Rs 30,69,09,800 from them, civic officials said. As per the BMC data, the highest number of 1,08,069 people were caught without face masks in Mumbai's K-West ward, which includes areas like Juhu, Andheri (West) and Versova. Besides, the lowest number of 25,847 offenders were found in M-East ward, which comprises Anushakti Nagar, Deonar, Cheetah Camp and Shivaji Nagar areas. The BMC has repeatedly appealed to citizens to follow all Covid-19 protocols, including wearing of face mask, maintaining social distance and sanitising hands regularly. Of late, the city has been witnessing a spike in daily Covid-19 cases, and some civic wards have issued letters to housing societies under their jurisdiction and instructed them to follow the Covid-19 guidelines, a civic official said. "At present, the M-west ward is reporting highest daily cases, which is a matter of concern, and there are chances that we might have to impose local lockdown measures," said a notice issued to society in the M-West ward. The notice further said sealing of buildings/ societies having a high prevalence of positivity has been started in the ward. "If the same is observed in your society, the same restrictions with sealing can be imposed in your society," the notice warned. In the notice, the civic body also instructed housing societies to restrict the entry of outsiders to a minimum, including domestic help and milk delivery persons. It asked the housing societies take measures like thermal screening and if a positive case is found, then the family members should follow strict quarantine guidelines for 14 days and get tested compulsorily. Any other symptomatic person in the society should also get checked for the coronavirus infection, it added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-15-lakh-caught-without-masks-in-mumbai-since-april-2020-952160.html
17-02-2021||West||Pune gangster booked hours after his release||Hours after gangster Gajanan Marne was released from the high-security Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, he was booked by the police to ensure public order is maintained. Soon after his release, Marne started towards Pune and a procession of his followers formed outside the prison premises, who were cheering for him and bursting firecrackers. Marne alias Gaja Pandharinath Marne alias Maharaj (50), was going back via the Mumbai-Pune Expressway after his release following an acquittal in a murder case. Flower petals were showered, drones were used and firecrackers were burst, which was a total violation of the Covid-19 norms, according to eye-witnesses. A case under Sections 188, 143, 286 of Indian Penal Code read with Section 37(1) with 135 of Maharashtra Police Act and Section 7 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act was registered at Talegaon Dabhade police station. “It is a serious issue...he has been booked,” Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner Krishna Prakash said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-gangster-booked-hours-after-his-release-952163.html
17-02-2021||West||Hailstorm likely in Vidarbha, Marathwada in next 2 days, says IMD||Hailstorms are likely at some places in Vidarbha and Marathwada regions of Maharashtra in the next two days in view of the moisture-laden winds from the Bay of Bengal, an IMD official said on Wednesday. This poses a threat to Rabi crops which have still not been harvested. Gondia and Nagpur districts in the Vidarbha region received thundershowers on Tuesday, the official from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) here said. There are chances of hailstorm over Vidarbha and Marathwada in the next two days, she said. "The upper air pressure is around 650 Hectopascal (hPa), leading to a 50 per cent chance of hailstorm over Marathwada and Vidarbha. If the pressure drops even to 50 hPa, there will definitely be a hailstorm over the same regions. We are closely monitoring the situation," the official said. Due to the moisture-laden winds, Gondia district reported 7 mm showers and Nagpur recorded 0.2 mm rain on Tuesday, she said. There could be light showers in neighbouring districts. Such a small amount of showers are referred to as "trace" and the IMD does not count it, the official said. "The trough developed over Maharashtra's eastern region is shifting away from the state. The possibility of thunderstorms and hail has been predicted for Thursday and Friday. The weather is likely to remain dry after that," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hailstorm-likely-in-vidarbha-marathwada-in-next-2-days-says-imd-952180.html
17-02-2021||West||Mumbai mayor hits the streets amid rising Covid-19 cases||Amid concerns of a Covid-19 spike, Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar hit the streets of India’s financial capital to ensure that citizens wear masks, use sanitisers and maintain social distancing norms – in a bid to prevent another lockdown. “I have hit the streets myself....we have to collectively ensure that the pandemic does not spread again,” Pedkenar said, adding that the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on its part is doing everything possible to ensure that Covid-19 is contained. A grassroots Shiv Sainik and a good administrator, 58-year-old Pednekar was seen moving in streets, lanes and bylanes of Mumbai and also boarded local trains and inspected railway stations. With folded hands, Pednekar, who was accompanied by municipal and police officials, was seen requesting people to wear masks.  “The protocols, SOPs and directives are very clear...you have to wear masks, use sanitisers and maintain social distancing,” she said. Pednekar also said that she has already registered for vaccination and would move around more freely. According to her, only 40 per cent of the train commuters are using masks – posing a big risk that can take the situation out of hands. Last April, when the Covid-19 cases were zooming in Mumbai, Pednekar, a former nurse, donned the uniform and boosted the confidence and morale of health care workers and nursing students. A four-time corporator, she incidentally is a corporator form G/South Ward, which covers Worli, once one of the worst-affected areas of Mumbai. Meanwhile, the BMC’s Ward Officers have started writing to chairpersons/secretaries of housing societies on the need to follow SOPs and the urgent measures that need to be taken – like whom to allow in and whom to not and the drill that needs to be followed in case if a positive patient is found in society. On Tuesday, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned of a lockdown if people do not cooperate. “There has been a rise in cases over the last few days,” said Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani, who heads the Public Health Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-mayor-hits-the-streets-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-952192.html
17-02-2021||West||Covid-19 cases rising in Maharashtra: What we know so far||Maharashtra reported 3,663 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, as the state sees a rising trend in Covid-19 cases in the last few days, a health official said. It also recorded 39 new fatalities. Since last Wednesday, Maharashtra has been reporting more than 3,000 cases on daily basis. On Sunday, it recorded 4,092 cases, the highest single-day spike in more than a month. Since cases in Maharashtra are on the rise, here are some possible reasons behind the surge: Experts believe that the rise in cases could be because of people’s casual attitude toward wearing masks and following all government-announced protocols. Multiple factors including the crowding during the mid-January gram panchayat polls, the lackadaisical approach of citizens towards face masks and protocols/SOPs, opening up of recreation and entertainment activities have resulted in the sudden increase in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. Experts also feel that a large number of people turning up at wedding events, restaurants, pubs, malls could be another reason for the sudden spike. What is the government doing? The Maharashtra government is rattled by the sudden spurt in the number of infections. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, on Tuesday, warned people of another lockdown if Covid-19 protocols were not followed properly. The state government ordered a targeted contact tracing of 20 people per positive patient and wherever needed containment zones are created. Meanwhile, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked residents of Chembur and neighbouring areas to restrict the entry of outsiders to the building to a minimum, including milkman and maids., Besides, thermal screening at entry gates needs to be strictly followed by housing complexes. In order to control the cases, Mumbai's Mayor, on Wednesday, hit the streets and requested the citizens to wear masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-cases-rising-in-maharashtra-what-we-know-so-far-952205.html
17-02-2021||West||Response to Covid-19 vaccination drive slack, Goa Home Minister suggests modifications||An irate Health Minister Vishwajit Rane on Wednesday criticised the slack attitude of healthcare workers and Covid-19 frontline warriors over the poor response to vaccination drive in the state. Speaking to reporters at the State Secretariat, Rane said that despite regular intimations and procedural follow-ups many candidates who had been enrolled for the Covid-19 vaccination shot had not been turning up and said that a flexible approach to the central government-controlled vaccination drive would help state agencies manage it better. "Mobile messages are sent, they are delivered, but if no one turns up, what else should we do? Should we send a vehicle to their homes along with the messages?" Rane told reporters when asked about the poor response to the vaccination drive, which has entered the second phase in the state. "What can be done? We are sending out messages, but ultimately it is on him (enrolled health and frontline workers). Many times people take it casually and don't turn up. Then he loses his chance. But actually, it is in his interest because it is supposed to be a good vaccine," the Health Minister also said. According to Health Ministry statistics, 10,000 health care workers have been vaccinated so far from the 18,000-odd health workers who are enrolled on the central government's Covid-19 vaccination roll-out portal. The Health Minister also said that an element of flexibility, in allowing the state government to select alternatives for enrolled persons skipping their appointment for vaccination, would help carry out the exercise more efficiently, with less wastage of resources. "Some people are not taking vaccines. You cannot force someone to take vaccines, even if their name comes (up)... I think we have to spread the spectrum, so that we do not waste the vaccination (effort). If someone does not come, we should be in a position to give someone else the vaccine," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/response-to-covid-19-vaccination-drive-slack-goa-home-minister-suggests-modifications-952261.html
17-02-2021||West||Bombay HC extends protection to NCP's Eknath Khadse till Feb 24 in land deal case||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday extended till February 24 the interim protection from coercive action granted to Maharashtra NCP leader Eknath Khadse in a land deal case. The former BJP minister approached the high court in January urging it to quash the summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) registered by the agency in October 2020. Last month, the ED had opposed Khadse's plea, saying it was "not maintainable." Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, who appeared for the ED, had told a bench of justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale that an ECIR was not like an FIR but an internal document. Therefore, there was no question of quashing of the ECIR, Singh had said. The summons and ECIR pertain to a case the ED had lodged in connection with the 2016 land deal involving Khadse's family in Pune's Bhosari area. Senior advocate Abad Ponda, who appeared for Khadse, argued on Wednesday that the NCP leader was entitled to seeking every relief from the high court, including the quashing of summons. The court adjourned further hearing in the case to February 24 and extended till then, the interim protection that it had granted to Khadse on the last hearing. In mid-January, Khadse (68), who quit the BJP and joined the NCP last year, had appeared before the ED in connection with the case. He had resigned from the Devendra Fadnavis cabinet in 2016 after facing allegations regarding the controversial land deal. It was alleged that he misused his official powers to facilitate the purchase of government land by his family. Khadse has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. Earlier, the Maharashtra Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) had investigated the matter and submitted a closure report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-extends-protection-to-ncps-eknath-khadse-till-feb-24-in-land-deal-case-952365.html
17-02-2021||West||Maharashtra govt approves caravan tourism policy||Giving a major boost to travel and leisure, the Maharashtra government approved a caravan tourism policy on Wednesday. The policy comprises two parts -- caravan parks and caravan tourism -- and is aimed at enabling tourists to take advantage of the diverse natural beauty of the state. The policy was approved at the weekly Cabinet meeting presided over by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. “The caravan tourism will add to the experiences offered to the tourists,” state Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray said. “Registration of caravans and caravan parks will be required with the Directorate of Tourism. The caravan and caravan park professionals will be trained in marketing, hygiene and management through the Directorate of Tourism,” officials said. It may be recalled that the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation in September last year had released a draft policy seeking suggestions and objections from various stakeholders. The government hopes to promote caravan tourism considering that Maharashtra is known for scenic beaches, forts, mountain ranges, hill stations, forests, heritage sites, caves and dams. These vans will have a kitchen with bed facility, toilet, sofa, table and is built for rest and accommodation. There will be different types of caravans such as single-axle conventional caravan, twin axle caravan, tent trailer, folding caravan and camper trailer. The caravan parks can be set up by private landowners or developers on private or government land. The parking lot will have the necessary facilities as well as separate water, road and electricity connections. The place will also have a tourist facility centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-approves-caravan-tourism-policy-952366.html
17-02-2021||West||Daily Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Maharashtra||The daily Covid-19 cases in the Mumbai metropolitan region and elsewhere in Maharashtra shot up significantly on Wednesday, setting off an alarm. In the last 24 hours, the state recorded 4,787 cases and 40 deaths, taking the progressive total to 20,76,093 and 51,631, respectively. As far as MMR is concerned, the 24-hour tally stood at 1,237, including 721 in Mumbai. During the day, 3,853 patients were discharged, taking the total number of recovered patients to 19,35,261. Last Saturday, the state recorded 3,611 cases, which jumped to 4,092 on Sunday, however, on Monday and Tuesday, it was 3,365 and 3,663, respectively. The cases jumped to the level of 4,500-plus for the first time in late January-early February this year after mid-December which saw such a figure in 24 hours' time. “It is a big jump, we have to be very careful otherwise the hard work would go waste,” said Dr Suhas Pingle, Chairman, Action Committee, IMA-Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/daily-covid-19-cases-continue-to-rise-in-maharashtra-952375.html
