18-02-2021||First Edit||Mapping: One big welcome reform||The liberalisation of the country’s geospatial data policy, announced by the government on Monday, will have a positive impact on many areas of national life and activity. The acquisition and production of geospatial data will no longer be constrained by rules of limitation and exclusion and maps will now be open books that can be created and distributed to suit requirements. The government and its agencies have dominated the sector till now, with strict rules on surveying, mapping and their use. The new norms have done away with them, except in some sensitive areas. The private sector will be allowed to collect mapping data and offer map services in the open market. Indian companies can carry out street-view surveys and terrestrial mobile mapping and surveys in the country's territorial waters. The maps can be about infrastructure projects, the spread of a disease, or the movement of traffic, all of which have their uses and may need to be updated from time to time.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi has described the change as a “landmark reform” and a big step towards Atmanirbhar Bharat. He also said that democratising data will enable the rise of new technologies and platforms in many fields. It has also been pointed out that the decision would lead to a high level of value creation in the economy, benefiting about 70% of it. It has been claimed that the entry of private players would make it a Rs 1 lakh-crore sector which would create nearly 2.2 million jobs by 2030. Data can be collected using ground-based surveys and satellite images, drones, etc. Indian companies will be allowed to acquire and store high-resolution satellite images. They will be able to buy data from institutions like ISRO. There is scope for new companies, especially start-ups, to emerge in the field and it can give a boost to innovation in many areas.   The advancement of technology and the availability of data at the global level had made the government’s restrictions irrelevant. Comprehensive and accurate data is necessary for development of infrastructure and growth of social and economic sectors. The government alone cannot collect and supply all the data required. If private companies are given a role, competition among them will make the process faster and help to yield more accurate information. As the new guidelines come into effect, local maps which are more detailed and with real-time updates will be available. A prominent Indian company in the area has already announced a tie-up with ISRO for creation of new maps. The sector can attract a lot of investment in the coming years and has export potential.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/mapping-one-big-welcome-reform-952471.html
18-02-2021||In Perspective||Children, stories and the pandemic||I was conducting an online storytelling session with a group of young children during the pandemic. Post storytelling, while we discussed diverse aspects of anxiety, a four-year-old extended his hand and said, “My heartbeat goes fast when I am worried about something.” His response surprised me. He was intently listening and absorbing facets of the story and relating to the character’s feelings simultaneously. This interaction reinstated my belief in children’s literature, especially during these difficult times. Children tend to feel lost, anxious and disillusioned under challenging circumstances. Resorting to literature in such unprecedented situations can be both comforting and joyful for children. Although, for many children, accessibility to literature might be a significant issue. To bridge this gap, digital platforms like Story Weaver and Apps like KathaKhazana among others have played a significant role. These online resources have made books accessible for children when schools and libraries are practically closed everywhere. There are a plethora of picture books on varied subjects from which we can choose. Think of any topic and you can find a children’s book on it. There are stories about fun and laughter, friendship, and belonging. Then there are storybooks on complex emotions like anger and fear. There are picture books on troubled times like war and military deployment. Until recently, children’s books did not address topics like death, divorce, and sexuality. Now there are enough titles on these topics as well. At the onset of the pandemic, child experts, psychologists, doctors, illustrators, and writers swung into action to create an impressive list of books for children worldwide on Covid-19 pandemic. We can find some exciting, culturally relevant titles by Indian publishers like Pratham Books, Tulika, and Karadi Tales. Recognising the importance of bringing stories to children, we witnessed an upsurge in storytelling sessions and read-aloud sessions organised by various publishing houses, storytellers, writers, and schools during the lockdown period. Not only this, many audiobooks were made free for children to access during the lockdown period. Parents and teachers can play a vital role in introducing children to diverse kinds of literature. Worldwide, many children live through challenging circumstances like war, poverty, deprivation, and violence. We should perhaps place more value on the culture of reading, listening, and telling relevant stories here is why: First and foremost, listening to stories or reading is fun, especially while everything around us is upside down. When children are immersed in reading and listening to stories, it’s perhaps easier for them to escape chaos. Secondly, books can provide resilience and hope during troubled times. Evidence suggests that exposure to relevant literature can go a long way in enhancing children’s well-being. Through books, children learn to navigate difficult emotions by connecting to the characters in the story. We can introduce children to stories related to anxiety and loneliness they may experience during troubled times to cope better. Children’s books are great conversation starters. Storytelling sessions or reading aloud provides a safe structure to discuss children’s worries under challenging circumstances. I have observed that it is simpler for children to discuss how a character responds to her fear than talking about their worries. Reading aloud and storytelling can even have a cathartic effect on children-helps them release their fears and tensions. Thirdly, books help deliver the right messages when there is so much confusion and uncertainty around us. Researchers suggest that we can use children’s books to enhance children’s knowledge when dealing with life-changing events. For instance, books explained what the Coronavirus is and what can we do to slow the spread and help each other through beautiful illustrations and simple text. These simple messages played a significant role in comforting children. Fourthly, when schools are closed, and there are fewer avenues of interaction with other children, books can help enhance children’s social and emotional skills. These skills allow people “to “understand and manage their emotions, set and achieve positive goals, feel and show empathy for others, establish and maintain positive relationships, and make responsible decisions” (CASEL). Evidence suggests that human brains treat interactions between fictional characters similar to real-life social interactions—a good reason to feed children with a healthy dose of fiction. Lastly, stories are relatable and inspiring. I was once narrating a story on Malala Yousafzai. Participants were simply amazed by her tale. A six-year-old informed me, “I want to initiate change too.” Stories that resonate well with children can inspire them to think and behave differently. Evidence also suggests that stories can stimulate young minds to reason and act alternatively. When a character in the book can stay indoors, then I too can. Inspiring characters in stories also enable long-term behavioural change in children. During the pandemic, children learned the significance of washing hands, staying indoors, and wearing masks by modelling the story characters. There are enough and more reasons to engage children with literature during crises. Children who spend time reading books are more likely to turn to literature during unprecedented times of crisis. It is our responsibility to connect our young minds with diverse kinds of literature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/children-stories-and-the-pandemic-952473.html
18-02-2021||In Perspective||A ‘toolkit’ to amplify vaccine messaging||The Covid-19 vaccine was launched in Karnataka on January 16. This week, the state started administering the second dose of vaccination to those who had taken the first. Of the targeted 8.2 lakh healthcare workers, about 50% have taken the first dose. About 52,608 of them had taken the second dose until February 17. Out of 2.8 lakh frontline workers, such as civic workers and police, only 34% have taken the first dose of the vaccine, as per the Karnataka Health and Family Welfare media bulletin on February 17. In the next phase of inoculation, beginning end of March, people in the general population over 50 years of age and those below 50 but with co-morbid conditions are to be given the vaccine. Four main issues have been responsible for the low uptake of the vaccine so far. The first is the technical glitches in the CoWIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network) portal. For example, details of some of the recipients of the first dose did not show up on the portal. Second, in many cases, the date, place and time of the vaccination was not communicated to the recipients or they were informed late. Third, there is no mechanism to resolve queries and clear doubts about the vaccine, side-effects, personal medical conditions, or even about the interval between the two doses. Many doctors and health workers prefer 8-10 weeks between doses, as per WHO guidelines, as opposed to the four weeks’ gap being followed in India. There is also hesitancy toward the second dose among those who had developed fever, swelling, vomiting, nausea, headache and other mild ailments when they took the first dose. The fourth issue is misinformation. Thus, the main problems in the vaccination drive are related to information and two-way communication between people and the authorities. Vaccine hesitancy and a wait-and-watch approach will continue if public communication is not ramped up. Now is the time to develop various sets of clear messages and information, education and communication (IEC) materials and media kits and send them out to people of different age groups and health and personal conditions. Broadcasting accurate messages at the community level, particularly in rural areas, is key to preventing the spread of misinformation/rumours and to alleviate apprehensions and increase vaccine acceptance. The Union Health Ministry has provided guidance on national, state and district-level communication activities. Advocacy, capacity-building, media engagement and social media, social mobilisation and community engagement and AEFI (Adverse Effects Following Immunisation) crisis communication are the key elements of this strategy. The Karnataka government’s present communication outreach is inadequate. It will have to ramp up training mechanisms to develop an extensive network of volunteers and champions to implement the communication plan. Online training can be a useful mode to reach scale with speed. Content development for electronic, print and community and social media should be taken up to amplify factual information. Communication plans and materials should be developed and disseminated in Kannada and other regional languages. Proactive messaging involving celebrities will help build a positive media narrative and public discourse. Several organisations, including the private sector, are willing to contribute in the vaccination effort. Releasing communication packages for them to use will help influencers and mobilisers at various levels on the ground to speak in one voice. Hard-to-reach areas, traditionally hesitant and resistant groups can be identified and reached through NGOs. Given the digital divide, there has to be clear communication on the process of registration on CoWIN, specifying where, how, when (date and time) and what documents are required to enrol. The information should clarify eligibility criteria and pre-conditions for vaccination as also ways to access post-vaccination care and support, if required. This will to a great extent address vaccine hesitancy that could arise out of apprehensions, misconceptions, myths and lack of information. Personnel at the state and district control rooms and call centres should be specially trained to answer FAQs. In case of any AEFI, a clear communication strategy can support mobilisers and health workforce to manage crisis situations. A mechanism needs to be developed to help the general public, patients and healthcare professionals to report adverse events post-vaccination through call centres and other modes. Integrating gender perspectives in this communication is important. It should take into account how women receive information, their health-seeking behaviours, media habits and how they perceive and act upon health messages. It is generally observed that personal, face-to-face communications, such as through ASHA and anganwadi workers work best. Given the complexity of rolling out vaccination at such a large scale, and the observed complacency and vaccine hesitancy, a well-devised communication strategy is key to speeding up the effort. (The writer is a Research Scientist and Assistant Professor at the Ramalingaswami Centre on Equity and Social Determinants of Health, Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-toolkit-to-amplify-vaccine-messaging-952821.html
18-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bal Bhavan Society submits proposal to regularise staff, reach students in remote areas||The State Bal Bhavan Society has framed Cadre and Recruitment (C&R) rules to regularise the staff of Bal Bhavan in 30 districts. It will also appoint 3 special officers to monitor the functioning of Bal Bhavans across the state. State Bal Bhavan Society Chairperson Chikkamma Basavaraj said on Wednesday that each Bal Bhavan has a programme assistant and a coordinator, appointed on a contract basis. As they get paid less, many leave in between, thus affecting activities of Bal Bhavans, she added. Talking to media persons, she said that to overcome the problem, a proposal to regularise the services of the staff has been submitted to the government, which is likely to be approved shortly. This will cost the government close to Rs 2.68 crore annually, she added. Online classes on different subjects are being conducted to engage students from rural areas during the Covid-19 pandemic. Dakshina Kannada district has seen 42 online sessions. The Women and Child Development department was asked to identify land in taluk centres to set up Bal Bhavan at taluk level to engage students from remote areas. Taluk-level Bal Bhavans have been set up in 11 taluks in the state as of now. If the land is identified, measures will be initiated to set up Bal Bhavans in all the taluks in Dakshina Kannada district. Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, offline activities in Bal Bhavan remained suspended since last March. The government is yet to chalk out plans to restart the activities during the year. Chikkamma said the government had released Rs 10 crore for the activities of Bal Bhavan Society in previous year. “This year we have proposed an action plan for Rs 17 crore.” Bal Bhavan in Mangaluru had been organising summer camp, Kalasri camp, weekend activities and Balasri award camps to unearth hidden talents in children. The Bal Bhavan through Women and Child Development department has submitted a proposal of Rs 25 lakh to repair its building, compound wall and renovate the play area at Bal Bhavan in Kadri to Mangaluru Smart City Limited. When the contractor in-charge of maintenance of Bala Mangala Express of Bal Bhavan at Kadri Park, highlighted the uneven track of the toy, the Chairperson directed officials to submit a proposal on setting the track on level path.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bal-bhavan-society-submits-proposal-to-regularise-staff-reach-students-in-remote-areas-952539.html
18-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||New platform to be launched for Tulu films||Karkera Brothers of Namma Kudla group are launching TV channel 'Namma Kudla talkies' to screen Tulu films before they release in the theatres so fans can watch them in the safety of their homes. Moviegoers have shied away from going to the cinema due to Covid-19 pandemic.  If everything goes according to plan, the screening of Tulu films on the channel will begin from the first Sunday in March. "I have been watching the Tulu film industry from close quarters. It is a challenge to get back the money invested in the movie. Many films had won the hearts of the people. Many had failed miserably. To give a new market for Tulu films, we are introducing Namma Kudla talkies. A family has to spend thousands of rupees to watch a film in multiplex or cinema halls during the weekend. Through Namma Kudla talkies, Tulu films can be watched by paying just Rs 120," said Leelaksha Karkera of Namma Kudla talkies.   "There are many movies in Coastalwood that had received permission from the Censor Board. Our team will watch the film and seek rights for broadcasting the film for one month after entering into an agreement. We will pay a fixed amount to the makers of the film. The film will be shown three times on Sunday (noon, evening and night) through Namma Kudla talkies. During the broadcasting of film in Namma Kudla talkies, the producers cannot release it in theatres. After a month, they can screen the film anywhere," explained Karkera.  Namma Kudla talkies channel will be launched at the earliest. It will telecast the film during a fixed time on Sundays. The customers can watch films by paying Rs 120 to the cable operator or Rs 160 fixed for HD connection. In 2018, 15 Tulu films had hit the screens while only 10 released in 2019. Owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, no film released in 2020. The logo of Namma Kudla Talkies will be launched on February 18. Since the release of first Tulu film, 'Enna Tangadi' in 1979, 114 Tulu films had screened so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-platform-to-be-launched-for-tulu-films-952602.html
18-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mining resumes at NMDC's Donimalai mine in Karnataka||State-owned NMDC on Thursday announced resuming mining operations at its Donimalai iron ore mine in Karnataka. The operations have been resumed after receiving permission from the state government, NMDC said in a BSE filing. In 2018, NMDC had suspended iron ore mining at the mine following a decision of the state government to impose 80 per cent premium on the iron ore sales from the mine. "After obtaining the lease extension of Donimalai iron ore mine (ML-2396) for 20 years w.e.f (with effect from) March 11, 2018, from the Government of Karnataka and completing the associated statutory requirements, (it) was restarted on February 18, 2021, forenoon," the filing said. NMDC, under the Ministry of Steel, is the country's largest iron ore miner. The company, which has been in the business of mining iron ore for over six decades, operates three iron ore complexes in the country. While one is located at Donimalai in Karnataka, two are in the Dantewada district of Chhattisgarh, contributing 70 per cent to the company's total output. The capacity of Donimalai mine is 7 million tonnes per annum (MTPA). The mine has reserves of about 90-100 million tonne (MT) which may last for the next 15-20 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mining-resumes-at-nmdcs-donimalai-mine-in-karnataka-952714.html
18-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||KRRS & Hasiru Sene renamed||Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene is renamed as ‘Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha’, during a programme in memory of farmers' leader ‘K S Putannaiah’, at Kalamandira here, on Thursday. A new towel, carrying the picture of a plough, new logo, new flag and a bulletin ‘Negila Haadu’, were unveiled in the function held in memory of the late MLA. Farmers leader Badagalpura Nagendra, who released the constitution of the association, said, it is decided to display boards carrying ‘Namma Bhoomi, Namma Hakku, Anyarige Maratakilla’ (Our Land Our Right, No Sale for Strangers), in every village across the state. The association will give priority to women and youths, he said. Association honorary president Chamarasa Malipatil said that politicians like Agriculture Minister B C Patil misuse green shawl and name of farmers for politics. The association’s website, www.krrs.org and facebook account were launched on the occasion. Puttannaiah’s wife Sunitha Puttannaiah and his daughter Smitha got emotional on the occasion. The association’s women wing president Nandini Jayaram was present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/krrs-hasiru-sene-renamed-952780.html
18-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘We don’t oppose Hindi, but it’s imposition as national language’||Kannada actor and former chairman of Kannada Development Authority Mukhyamantri Chandru on Thursday, said, “We don’t oppose Hindi, but we will never accept Hindi as the national language.” Addressing a gathering, after inaugurating the first Mysuru City Kannada Sahitya Sammelana in the city, Chandru said, “Let the government effect an amendment to the Indian Constitution and take up the matter for discussion. If all states agree, let the matter be decided.” Chandru said that Kannada language is neglected in Union government programmes including the one held in Bhadravati, recently. “Kannada language should be used in events held in Karnataka. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and MPs of Karnataka are not questioning the imposition of Hindi,” he said. Chandru said, “Kannada is humiliated in Karnataka due to lapses of all governments, so far. We should be united when it comes to language and border issues.” Earlier during the day, a procession was taken out and a host of folk artistes performed at the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/we-don-t-oppose-hindi-but-it-s-imposition-as-national-language-952782.html
18-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Health dept begins screening of passengers from Kerala||With the number of people returning from the neighbouring state of Kerala testing positive for Covid-19, the district administration has geared up to check the spread of the pandemic and has taken precautionary measures at the Karnataka-Chamarajanagar border. Health, Revenue, Forest and Police department personnel are on their toes, monitoring the vehicles at Molehole and Kekkanahall checkposts and are subjecting the passengers to thermal screening. Taluk health officer Dr Ravikumar said that all vehicles coming from Kerala are stopped and the passengers are screened with thermal scanners. Cars, buses, tempos, lorries, tipper vehicles and motorbikes are intercepted at the checkposts. If the passengers are found to have variations in body temperature, all measures are taken to conduct tests on them at Kaggala Primary Health Centre, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/health-dept-begins-screening-of-passengers-from-kerala-952783.html
18-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Protesters slap PM Modi, CM Yediyurappa on their portraits||The agitators against farm laws slapped the portraits of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa with chappals, during the 'rail roko', in Mysuru on Thursday. They were demanding the Union government to withdraw amendments to three agriculture laws. The protesters slapped the photographs of Modi and Yediyurappa, displayed on a KSRTC bus, which was brought to take the farmers into custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/protesters-slap-pm-modi-cm-yediyurappa-on-their-portraits-952784.html
18-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Siddaramaiah pays last respect to departed fan in Mandya||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah paid his last respect to the youth, who ended his life at Kodidoddi village near Keragodu, Mandya district on Thursday, and consoled the family members. The deceased is Ramakrishna (25), son of late Chandrappa, and a hardcore fan of Siddaramaiah and actor Yash. Of late, Ramakrishna was suffering from depression and took the extreme step, villagers said. He had left a death note, requesting Siddaramaiah and Yash to visit. Ramakrishna, a bachelor, was working at a petrol bunk at Besagarahalli in Maddur taluk. He was living with his mother and elder brother. According to villagers, Ramakrishna had not gone to work since four to five days. On Wednesday, he hanged himself with a saree, when there was no one in the house, leaving a death note. The incident came to light, when his family members returned home. Post-mortem was conducted at the district hospital. Keragodu police have registered a case. Learning about the incident, Siddaramaiah, visited the village on Thursday. After paying his last respects, he said, “The young man was like a pillar to the family. He was also my follower. But, his death has caused pain. Nobody should take such extreme step, but should develop strength to face challenges in life.” Yash did not visit the village, but tweeted about the incident. “The love of the fans are our life and pride. But, is it possible to be proud of the suicide of Ramakrishna of Mandya? Let this not be a model for others. Let him rest in peace. Om Shanti”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/siddaramaiah-pays-last-respect-to-departed-fan-in-mandya-952785.html
18-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Skyrocketing prices of essential commodities hit common man hard||The recent hike of Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders by Rs 50 has come as a huge shocker for the people, who are already in financial distress induced by Covid-19. This was one more nail in the coffin of the common man who is helplessly watching the spiralling price of essential commodities, including cooking oil, dals and lentils by around 20% to 30%. This has aggravated the problems of the people in economically weaker sections. The recession caused by Covid, has already left the people to suffer reduction in wages. This has affected the sales of non-essential commodities, and the traders are yet to recover from the lockdown pressure. Besides, the lifestyle of the people belonging to different sections of the society has changed. Vanaja, a homemaker said that the kitchen budget has increased by at least 40%. "Earlier, we could manage the kitchen with around Rs 7,000, for a four-member family. Now, the same has jumped to Rs 10,000. It is difficult to follow the same budget over the whole month as the price of petrol, vegetables and fruits increase twice or thrice a month. As we are struggling to maintain our budget with limited income, savings and weekly outings have taken a backseat." Nayan Kumar, who works for a multi-national company, said that several companies have slashed the salaries up to 25% due to Covid and lockdown. "But, every day expenses are rising considerably. It is difficult for the common man to stage a protest. Opposition at the Centre has neither raised its voice nor held a protest to make the government realise the issue. People are burdened by the hike in price of vegetable, refined oils, cereals and pulses. Fuel prices are skyrocketing. Petrol price on February 17 was Rs 92.14 per litre and diesel Rs 84.89 per litre in Mysuru," he said. Suresha, a vegetable vendor, said, "Rise in price of fuel is a main factor for increasing price of commodities. Our profit margin is affected due to increase in price of vegetables." The worst affected is the middle-class, especially salaried working class, which has to maintain a reasonable standard of living in a fixed income, said Ravi, who works for a private company. "I have two college-going children. Now, the rise in prices has made it difficult to bear all expenses," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/skyrocketing-prices-of-essential-commodities-hit-common-man-hard-952786.html
18-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 test mandatory for visitors from Kerala||With several people from Kerala, who visited Mysuru, testing positive for Covid-19, the district Health department has made it mandatory for travellers to produce Covid test report. Nursing students from Kerala, studying in Mysuru-based colleges and several tourists, have tested positive for Covid over last few days. The Health department and the district administration have directed the education institutions and accommodation facilities to get Covid test reports from the students and visitors before allowing them into their facility.    More than 70 persons, including nearly, 60 nursing students from Kerala, who returned to colleges in Mysuru, tested positive for Covid. The infected persons are quarantined and under treatment. The authorities concerned are directed to monitor the health of the people coming from Kerala to Mysuru. District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Amarnath said, "Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test is compulsory for visitors from Kerala and the travellers must submit their test report soon after their arrival, either in college or hotel. Hotels, resorts and homestays are directed not to entertain people from Kerala without RT-PCR test report." Colleges and nursing homes are given the responsibility of conducting RT-PCR test of students. If anyone is found to be positive for Covid, they should be quarantined separately for 14 days. The institutions must make arrangements for treatment and again RT-PCR test should be conducted. The students must be allowed to attend classes only if they test negative.     The DHO said that the department has taken measures to conduct RT-PCR test on suspected persons. The DHO warned the people to be more cautious about Covid. The virus still exists, but, as shopping malls, theatres, swimming pools, choultries are opened, people are in a relaxed mood. They should be cautious about the spread of the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-test-mandatory-for-visitors-from-kerala-952787.html
18-02-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farm laws: Farmers taken into preventive custody for ‘rail roko’||The city police took several protesters, including women, into custody for trying to stop trains as a mark of protest against amendment of three farm laws, on Thursday. The protesters, members of organisations of farmers, SC communities, and employees gathered in front of Mysuru Railway station. They had called for 'rail roko' to support the agitation in Delhi. Following the 'rail roko' call, the police had intensified security near the railway station and blocked the path by erecting barricades. The police had restricted traffic movement of JLB Road and Irwin Road. The police took 60 members into custody when a few agitators tried to enter the railway station, by removing the barricades. Attihalli Devaraj of Sugarcane Growers' Association said, "The government, which claims that farmers are the backbone of the nation, is breaking the bones. Democracy will be destroyed if protest is not held against anti-farmer policies. 'Rail roko' was inevitable to alert the government."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farm-laws-farmers-taken-into-preventive-custody-for-rail-roko-952789.html
18-02-2021||Main Article||A Digital Age crisis||Propaganda and deception are perhaps two of the most pervasive elements in politics. Yet, the study of propaganda has received little attention from political scientists, and the longer-term consequences of the practice of political deception even less so. The rise of the ‘Digital Age’ and the rapid growth of digital platforms, while democratising access to and distribution of information, together have spelt the death of expertise and the decline of knowledge. Internet-based digital communication has opened a myriad of opportunities for powerful actors, including the apparatus of the State, and non-State actors to manipulate the beliefs and conduct of the less informed and gullible public, sometimes to tragic consequences. Digital deception refers simply to the intentional control of information in a technologically mediated message to create a false belief in the receiver of the message. It is designed to mislead some target population. Recent events arising from the agitation over the farm laws, concerns about fake news, and foreign propaganda activities, culminating in the call by the government for ‘cyber volunteers’ to monitor digital communications raise profound questions at the intersection of deception and technology. Finding answers is especially important because circumstances have subsumed a wide array of stakeholders -- politicians, activists, the media, civil society, and the courts. To understand the emerging crises of the Digital Age is, above all, to understand the conflicting ideas and attitudes that underlie them. The contentious politics of our time and the words and deeds of the protagonists and the antagonists, regardless of who you identify as the one or the other, cannot be understood except in the context of the issues that divide them. This division arises from a fundamental disagreement about the ends of life. If as a society, we never disagreed on the ends that we seek, human progress would be the poorer for it; and perhaps we would find ourselves replacing the governance of people by the mere administration of things, as appears the case now. Political and ethical problems cannot be turned into technological ones. In essence, our own attitudes and responses to history unfolding may remain incomprehensible, unless we recognise the dominant issues of our own time. The most urgent of these, arguably, is the battle for the public mind space between two competing sets of ideas on what has long been the central question of the political state: the question of freedom and coercion; or from a constitutional perspective, rights versus duties. Though the Supreme Court has weighed in on this question on several occasions, two operational issues continue to confound democratic practice: What are the limits to a citizen’s freedom to act as she will? And who, and to what degree, can restrict the citizen’s freedom? It is axiomatic that the lesser the interference, the greater is the freedom; and it follows that the maximum freedom from interference consonant with basic social order and justice will most likely promote human progress best. The obverse of this -- and we should as a society guard against this -- is insidious coercion that compels each stakeholder of democracy to be constrained to her allotted slot. The history of the 20th century in India and elsewhere has made these dangers all too plain. One problem more than any other that has time and again stood in the way of societies imbibing historical ideals -- justice, equality, fraternity -- is that of the one and the many. Neither political equality nor social justice is, for instance, compatible with Laissez-faire. This inherent conflict of values gets accentuated in a vast and diverse country like India and points to the urgent need to change the paradigm -- from the centralised politics of the few to decentralised political power by the many. This simply means we need more democracy, not less. Pluralism must therefore determine political practise, and this is as true for the digital world. To seek one value or one central authority aided by cyber volunteers, if you will, to control and direct a hydra-headed monster is to assume that all values can be measured by one scale. To not recognise human beings as free agents and their daily struggles as compelling existential and moral choices is to practise statecraft as a simple operation that a slide rule might perform. To counter political deception in the Digital Age, the principle of non-partisan enquiry would serve citizens well. Civil society must ask some fundamental questions: What is the frequency of lying in digital communications? Which stakeholders, and in what matters, are most likely to lie? What are the political consequences of their lying? Often, the notions of truth and falsehood are rendered meaningless because some ontologies are incompatible. For instance, people who have a religious ontology often cannot be brought into the secular realm; those who claim to be secular do not appear to agree on what secularism means. Therefore, for the citizens, the truth is quite simply the correspondence between what is claimed and empirical fact. A digital lie comprises three components: a factual claim about empirical reality that can be proved wrong by commonly accepted methods; a statement made by someone who knew, or ought to have known, that it was untrue, when he or she made the statement; engaging in sophistry, or making a statement intended to deceive on the basis of empirically unverifiable statements. For the purposes of understanding political deception, half-truths must be held to be deception. All people lie, all people speak the truth, some just more than others. Explanations for political deception are not that they are required for successful policy, still less that they serve the national or the public interest. There is no reason why those that constitute the digital public life should not be held to the same high standards of truth as immutable, as the common citizen. If it is any comfort, there always is a digital trail and therefore it should be easier to nail political deception, provided that as citizens, we learn to distinguish between truth and untruth. (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-digital-age-crisis-952472.html
18-02-2021||Main Article||Fleas and egrets on a cow’s back ||It is not unexpected when Khalistani outfits, Pakistani ISI-sponsored elements, along with local miscreants, infiltrate a movement like the farmers’ protest in Delhi, which comprises a large number of Sikh farmers from Punjab. It is also naive to be surprised if opposition parties, genuine firebrand activists and NGOs as well as professional protesters, whom PM Modi colourfully but derisively described as ‘andolanjeevis’, try to hitch a ride on the farmers’ bandwagon. Can the BJP forget that it was a big cheer leader of the India Against Corruption movement led by Anna Hazare against UPA 2? Hazare’s organisation was similarly discredited by the then government and accused of receiving support from foreign groups inimical to the national interest -- that is, against the interest of the ruling party. Then as now, many such as Baba Ramdev made common cause with Hazare, and the ruling party hounded them.  Over time, a large, amorphous protest, a commingling of scores of farmer unions from far flung regions comprising different religions, ethnicities, united and driven by a common weal and zeal, becomes vulnerable and susceptible. They are in danger of getting derailed and morphing unwittingly into a confusing, promiscuous heap. The movement can get diluted and altogether hijacked. The leaders then have to reassess their tactics, strategise anew and identify and shun those who have blended in and dented their image. They should realign their forces to achieve their overarching objectives. Mahatma Gandhi was an astute leader who repeatedly called off his Satyagraha when he sensed that it was likely to turn violent, with hardliners and hawks disagreeing with his approach, and as a result the goal of independence would recede. The farmers’ leaders must take lessons from Gandhi and not lose their heart or their bearings, nor their resolve, and plan well and communicate clearly their future course of action, lead the protests with purposive action and swear by non-violence. Most critically, be united and convey to the government unambiguously their demands. Gandhi, while unwavering in his demand, progressed toward it by making incremental gains, with give and take compromises over many years of relentless struggle. Maybe the farmers should take a leaf out of Gandhi’s playbook.   But to return to our subject, there may be Khalistani elements who are supporting the farmers’ protest. But does it make the farmers’ movement a Khalistan conspiracy? Have the Sikh farmers given a call to arms to secede from India or have they simply demanded the repeal of farm laws, joining with other farm unions on the issue? As one columnist observed, “If a flea attaches itself to a cow’s behind, should those who sniff conspiracy milk the flea? Should the cow be killed to get rid of the flea?” A professional intelligence agency would investigate discreetly and identify the infiltrators, trace the money trail, gather incontrovertible evidence and isolate and expose them so that the farmers are forewarned and disassociate themselves. Even though the government may be on the other side of the table from the farmers, it is prudent (even politically) and behoves the government to protect the farmers’ movement from infiltrators who wish to destabilise it. It’s good sportsmanship not to cheat in a game. Tarring the entire farmers’ movement as misguided and foreign-inspired and heaping ignominy on them to break up the protest will at best result in a Pyrrhic victory for the government. Instead, it is in the national interest to bring the farmers back to the table to find a just solution.  The arrest of Disha Ravi, a young environmental activist barely out of her teens, by the Delhi police and, more tellingly, the crude manner of her arrest on charges of sedition, for promoting a ‘toolkit’ to amplify the messages of the farmers, to be able to mobilise support for their movement, reminded me of an aphorism attributed to the Buddha: “To every man is given the key to the gates of heaven; the same key also opens the gates of hell.” The toolkit that Disha shared with 18-year-old Greta Thunberg, is like the key -- it can be used for noble things, and it can also enable evil. Like all other things -- the gunpowder or the printing press, for example -- it can make bombs or dynamite for construction, it can print good books or incendiary material or pornography. Does the suspicion and charge that Disha had exchanged messages with the Poetic Justice Foundation, an organisation said to be sympathetic to the Khalistan movement, and had participated in an international conference call along with 20 others in support of the farmers’ protest, make her a terrorist plotting to overthrow the elected government through incitement to arms and violence? Would someone organising a violent coup openly post messages and videos and share it with a young foreign celebrity who has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize? Even if there was ground to suspect Disha of being a Khalistani supporter, could she not have been put under discreet surveillance? Is that not what a professional police and intelligence agency would have done, as such agencies do the world over, to unearth potential deeper conspiracies and networks? Have we -- a mighty and mature democracy -- not exposed ourselves to global ridicule with our paranoia and insecurities, tilting at the windmills in the US, Canada and Sweden? And finally, was it sensible for Delhi Police to attack international celebrities like Rihanna, Greta Thunberg and others who have wide following globally among the youth and bring upon itself international focus on the heavy and ham-handed way we are dealing with our protesting farmers and activists? While goons and criminals and violent Khalistani secessionists may be fleas on the cow’s back, the Rihannas, Greta Thunbergs, Rupi Kaurs and Disha Ravis of the world, who are young and idealistic, may be misguided at times or mistaken about the Indian State, but they are akin to the egrets who relieve the cattle of fleas and ticks. They may, at times, gore the flesh of cattle, but they are the do-gooders of the ecosystem. Democracies the world over need them. When they voice their opinion or criticise, for the government discretion, discernment and indifference, and perhaps reflection, may be the better part of valour.  (The writer is a farmer, soldier and entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/fleas-and-egrets-on-a-cow-s-back-952820.html
18-02-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru police took farmers into custody for trying to stop trains||City police detained farmers near Mysuru railway station for trying to stop trains as mark of protest against three agriculture related policies. The rail Rokho was called by Samyukta Kisan morcha and the farmers were gathered near the railway station. However, the police intensified security and blocked farmers from entering the railway station through barricades. The farmers staged protest near the railway station and the police took them into custody for trying to entre the railway station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-police-took-farmers-into-custody-for-trying-to-stop-trains-952634.html
18-02-2021||National||India, China cannot have 'normal' relationship if there is 'transgression' in border areas: Shringla||India's relationship with China is "complex" and the two countries cannot have a "normal" bilateral relationship if there is "transgression" in the border areas, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said here on Wednesday. Addressing a meeting hosted by the Diplomatic Academy of Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Shringla also said that the relationship between the two Asian giants is definitely dependent on the normal situation at the border. "As I told our friends in China, we cannot have a normal bilateral relationship if there is no peace and tranquility in our border areas. The relationship is definitely dependent on the normal situation at the border," Shringla, on a two-day official visit to Moscow, said. "We cannot have our troops having loss of life, having situation of transgression at the border and still go about a normal relationship,” he said. Indian and Chinese militaries are locked in a bitter standoff in eastern Ladakh since May last year. The two countries last week reached an agreement on disengagement in the North and South banks of Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh that mandates both sides to "cease" forward deployment of troops in a "phased, coordinated and verifiable" manner, in a breakthrough after a nine-month border standoff. "In the last few days we have started disengagement at border and have come to disengagement after nine months of engagements," Shringla said, adding that in next two to three days, this process will come to a conclusion. He said the relationship with China is "complex." But he said that bilateral ties have seen a fair amount of growth in the past few decades. In the 1980s, both the countries decided that they will set aside their differences on the boundary issue while work to develop cooperation in other areas like trade and science and technology, he said. "We don't have a common perception on boundaries. There will be special envoys who will look into the issue. Meanwhile, we will work on developing other areas of cooperation like trade and science and technology… In last few years, trade has gone up significantly with China," he said. He, however, said the developments last year at the border where the presence of a very large number of Chinese troops at India’s border and multiple transgressions attempts along the Line of Actual Control did create a situation that impacted on the larger relationship. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry even as the two sides continued military and diplomatic talks. He underlined that the two countries have historical linkages through Buddhism, trade of different nature et al. When asked about America's vision to isolate China in the Indo-Pacific region, Shringla said, "Our vision and concept of Indo-Pacific is a free, open and inclusive area where countries work to promote cooperation, promote connectivity, promote your idea of rules-based international order in which freedom of navigation is given." He said that when Prime Minister Narendra Modi talks about the security in the region his vision is “free, open, transparent, inclusive region in which all countries can participate and participate in a cooperative manner that delivers results for people all over. It's a win-win situation." On India-US relations, Shringla said, "we do believe that we have in many senses established the basis for a bipartisan support for the relationship between India and the US. In other words, the Democrats or the Republicans, we have support for a strong India-US ties." "The relationship is based on shared values and principles, but of course there is also a very large people to people contact and we have four million people of Indian origin in the US. We also have strong trade and economic relationships. We have strong investments in each other's countries. There is a very strong synergy and there is a potential to take it further always exist,” he said. He said India would like to work more closely with Russia on taking forward the cooperation in the region, in particular along with its friends from the ASEAN, South East Asia and under organisations like the ASEAN regional forum and the East Asia summit. "A multi-polar world and a multi-polar Asia is important for both India and Russia and this is not possible without the involvement of both the countries," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-cannot-have-normal-relationship-if-there-is-transgression-in-border-areas-shringla-952452.html
18-02-2021||National||Indian appointed by UN Chief Guterres as Under-Secretary-General and Associate Administrator of UNDP||Leading investment professional Usha Rao-Monari of India has been appointed by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres as Under-Secretary-General and Associate Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). A statement issued by the UN Spokesperson here on Wednesday said that Rao-Monari, Senior Adviser to Blackstone’s Infrastructure Group, is an investment professional with almost three decades of investment experience, particularly in the infrastructure area. Rao-Monari previously served as Chief Executive Officer of Global Water Development Partners, a Blackstone portfolio company, and held several senior positions, including Director of the Sustainable Business Advisory Group at the International Finance Corporation, part of the World Bank Group, the statement said. She currently serves on the Boards of a number organisations in the field of sustainable development and has held a number of Board and advisory positions in the areas of water, natural capital, biodiversity and environment, it added. Guterres expressed his gratitude and appreciation to Mourad Wahba of Egypt for his commitment as Associate Administrator ad interim and 30 years of service in the United Nations. He also voiced appreciation to Tegegnework Gettu of Ethiopia for his long-standing career at the United Nations and for his significant contributions to the development agenda as UNDP’s Associate Administrator. Rao-Monari holds a Master’s degree in International Affairs and Finance from Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs/School of Business, a Master’s degree in Management Studies from Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management in Mumbai and a B.A. Honours Economics from Delhi University. The announcement of her appointment comes just two days after the UN Capital Development Fund (UNCDF), which focusses on providing micro-finance access to least developed countries (LDCs), said Preeti Sinha has commenced her tenure as Executive Secretary of the UN agency. In 2019, Anita Bhatia of India, an experienced leader in the area of strategic partnerships, resource mobilisation and management, was appointed by Guterres as Assistant Secretary-General for Resource Management, Sustainability and Partnerships and Deputy Executive Director of the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-appointed-by-un-chief-guterres-as-under-secretary-general-and-associate-administrator-of-undp-952459.html
18-02-2021||National||Jaishankar to travel to Bangladesh early next month to prepare ground for PM Modi's visit||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is expected to travel to Bangladesh on March 4 to prepare the ground for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's upcoming visit to that country to further broadbase bilateral ties, people familiar with the development said. In Dhaka, Jaishankar is scheduled to hold talks with his Bangladeshi counterpart AK Abdul Momen on a range of bilateral and regional issues, they said. Modi is likely to pay a two-day visit to Bangladesh beginning March 26 to participate in the 50th anniversary celebrations of the liberation of Bangladesh, the people said. Bangladesh Foreign Secretary Masud Bin Momen visited India last month during which both sides extensively deliberated on Modi's visit to Dhaka. The two sides also reviewed progress in the bilateral relationship, including in the areas of defence and security, border management, trade, connectivity, power, energy and cooperation in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic. The ties between India and Bangladesh have witnessed a major upswing in the last few years. At a virtual summit with his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina in December, Modi described the neighbouring country as a "key pillar" of India's 'Neighbourhood First' policy. In reflection of close ties, India is also hosting a number of events to mark the 50th anniversary of the 1971 war that led to liberation of Bangladesh. Around 93,000 Pakistani troops had surrendered before the joint forces of the Indian Army and the "Mukti Bahini" on December 16, 1971 that led to the birth of Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-to-travel-to-bangladesh-early-next-month-to-prepare-ground-for-pm-modis-visit-952460.html
18-02-2021||National||Some Indian tigers are inbred: Study||A new study has found that while Indian tigers have a high amount of genetic variation, some individuals are inbred. Scientists said the findings reveal population bottlenecks and ongoing impacts of habitat fragmentation. The findings mean that the country can no longer just count on the success of tiger populations by numbers alone. "Our study reveals that while the total variation in Indian tiger genomes is high, they have also been dramatically shaped by population bottlenecks. The genomic variation of Indian tigers continues to be shaped by the ongoing loss of habitat connectivity,” said Dr Uma Ramakrishnan, a molecular ecologist at the National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), who is the co-senior and co-corresponding author of the study. She added, “Population management and conservation action must incorporate information on genetic variation. Doing so will help India maintain the gains in tiger conservation achieved so far.” Novel data at the Stanford University found that Russian far eastern tigers have one of the lowest genetic diversity of tiger populations worldwide, that they have no trace of inbreeding.  “Why do the Russian tigers have the least amount of variation and the least inbreeding? We think it is because they have large, connected habitats, which allows them to mix freely,” Dr Ramakrishnan said. She added that the inbreeding in India could have transpired over a period of just the last 100 years. What will happen in the next 100 years? “Further studies need to be carried out. But we need to facilitate connectivity between tiger populations,” she said, adding that the finding was, however, not yet a cause for alarm. “The genetic mixing is an ongoing process and we have not yet seen ‘inbreeding depression’ which would be manifested by tigers with bad mutations,” she said. The team sequenced whole genomes from 65 individual tigers from four subspecies, with a specific aim to enhance genomes from wild tigers in different habitats in India. They used these data to conduct a variety of population genomic analyses. Co-senior author Elizabeth Hadly of the Stanford University described the tiger as a good example of the historic events which sculpt a species' genomic diversity. “It points to the importance of understanding this diversity as we attempt to stave off extinction of our most precious species on earth. While some populations demonstrate the importance of adaptation to local conditions, other evidence suggests that particular populations may suffer the effects of climatic change in the Anthropocene.” The researchers added that such information will be critical to the success of genetic rescue efforts, which should take local adaptation into consideration.  In addition to NCBS and Stanford University, researchers from zoological parks and NGOs across the world were involved in the three-year project. The study was published in Molecular Biology and Evolution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-indian-tigers-are-inbred-study-952464.html
18-02-2021||National||Give protection to Unnao survivor, admit her to AIIMS Delhi immediately, demands Bhim Army Chief Chandra Shekhar Azad||After two minor Dalit girls were found dead in a field in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao with the third girl, whose body was found along with the other two, undergoing treatment at a hospital in the district, Bhim Army Chief Chandra Shekar Azad demanded that the survivor should be immediately taken to AIIMS Delhi via an air ambulance. "It is important to provide protection and give better treatment to the only witness child in the Unnao case. The child should be immediately taken to AIIMS Delhi via an air ambulance," Azad said in a tweet.   "The country saw during the Hathras case how the Uttar Pradesh government provides protection to the criminals and how it functions in case of criminals," he added.  "We won't let the government repeat Hathras again at any cost," Azad said in another tweet, adding that his team was heading to the incident spot and that there should be no compromise when it comes to the security and honour of sisters. Three minor girls were found in the field on Wednesday evening by the villagers when they did not return after they left their house to bring fodder for the cattle, the police said. The villagers informed the police and rushed the girls to a hospital, where two of them were declared brought dead while one was taken to the Unnao hospital for treatment, they added. The bodies of the victims have been sent for postmortem and an investigation is underway, police said. "The doctor states that there are symptoms of poisoning; probe on," Unnao SP told ANI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/give-protection-to-unnao-survivor-admit-her-to-aiims-delhi-immediately-demands-bhim-army-chief-chandra-shekhar-azad-952498.html
18-02-2021||National||DH Toon | M J Akbar not a man of 'stellar reputation'?||A Delhi court on Wednesday acquitted journalist Priya Ramani in a defamation complaint filed by former Union Minister M J Akbar against sexual harassment charges levelled during the #MeToo campaign, saying the right of reputation cannot be protected at the cost of the right to life and dignity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-m-j-akbar-not-a-man-of-stellar-reputation-952505.html
18-02-2021||National||Petrol, diesel prices hiked for 10th day in a row: Check fuel rates here||There is no relief in sight for vehicle owners as petrol and diesel prices were revised upwards for the tenth day straight. Petrol price in New Delhi stands at Rs 89.88 per litre after a hike of 34 paise, and diesel at Rs 80.27 per litre with an increase of 32 paise. In Mumbai, diesel and petrol prices are up by 34 paise and 32 paise, respectively. After the hike, diesel is priced at Rs 87.32 per litre, and petrol at Rs 96.32 per litre. Petrol in Bengaluru costs Rs 92.89 per litre, while diesel is at Rs 85.09 per litre. The relentless hike in prices has been criticised by the opposition parties, including Congress that has demanded an immediate cut in taxes to ease the burden on the common man. However, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan had told Parliament during the Budget session that the government is not considering a reduction in excise duty to cool rates from their record highs. Rates have risen as international oil prices touched $61 per barrel for the first time in more than a year on improving demand outlook amid the global rollout of Covid-19 vaccines, he had said.  Central and state taxes make up for over 61 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and about 56 per cent of diesel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-for-10th-day-in-a-row-check-fuel-rates-here-952507.html
18-02-2021||National||India reports 12,881 new Covid-19 cases, 101 deaths||India's tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 1,09,50,201 with 12,881 new infections, while the recoveries surged to 1,06,56,845, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll increased to 1,56,014 with 101 fresh fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.    The Covid-19 case fatality rate has dropped to 1.42 per cent, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,06,56,845 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.32 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload remained below 1.5 lakh. There are 1,37,342 active cases of coronavirus infections in the country which comprises 1.25 per cent of the total cases, the data stated.  India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.  According to the ICMR, 20,87,03,791 samples have been tested up to February 17 with 7,26,562 samples being tested on Wednesday. The  101 new fatalities include 40 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 10 from Punjab. A total of  1,56,014 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 51,631 from Maharashtra followed by 12,438 from Tamil Nadu, 12,276 from Karnataka, 10,894 from Delhi, 10,237 from West Bengal, 8,707 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,165 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of  Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-12881-new-covid-19-cases-101-deaths-952528.html
18-02-2021||National||Ranjan Gogoi sexual harassment case: Supreme Court disposes of suo motu proceedings||The Supreme Court on Thursday closed a suo motu case, registered in 2019 on emergence of sexual harassment charges against then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi. A three-judge bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said a court-appointed panel headed by former SC judge Justice A K Patnaik has already submitted its report. A three-judge in-house panel headed by Justice S A Bobde had already given clean chit to Justice Gogoi on May 6, 2019. "There was some reason to believe that some judgements had led to a conspiracy being hatched against the then CJI. The report by the former judge enquired whether a decision by then CJI on the judicial side had triggered off conspiracy against him. Two years have passed and the possibility of recovery of electronic evidence now is unlikely," the bench said. Since there is no possibility of recovery of electronic evidence, no purpose would be served to keep the case going on, the court added. The court pointed out that the Justice Patnaik committee report said a conspiracy against the CJI, in this case, cannot be ruled out. The report said the allegation could have been because of a tough stand taken by then CJI on the judicial and administrative side. Justice Gogoi, who demitted office as the CJI in November 2019, is at present a nominated member of Rajya Sabha. The sensational allegations by a 36-year-old employee against Justice Gogoi had first surfaced in the media on April 19, 2019, after a news portal published her affidavit sent to SC judges. Separately, former SC judge Justice Patnaik was also appointed on the judicial side by a three-judge bench to inquire into "conspiracy aspect" on the basis of an affidavit submitted by an advocate, Utsav Singh Bains. The woman employee who was then dismissed was subsequently reinstated in the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ranjan-gogoi-sexual-harassment-case-supreme-court-disposes-of-suo-motu-proceedings-952552.html
18-02-2021||National||M J Akbar vs Priya Ramani defamation case: Key legal takeaways||In what is being considered as a victory for the #MeToo movement in India, a Delhi court acquitted journalist Priya Ramani in the criminal defamation case filed against her by former Union Minister M J Akbar. Ramani had published an article in Vogue Magazine alleging that the former minister had sexually harassed her when she was called to a hotel in Mumbai for a job interview in 1993. Social media celebrated Ramani’s acquittal and the journalist said that she felt vindicated on behalf of all the women who have ever spoken out against sexual harassment at workplace. 1. The woman has a right to put her grievance at any platform of her choice and even after decades. 2. The court takes consideration of the systematic abuse at the workplace due to lack of the mechanism to redress the grievance of sexual harassment at the time of the incident of sexual harassment against the accused Priya Ramani and witness Ghazala Wahab prior to the issuance of Vishaka Guidelines by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India and enactment of The Sexual Harassment of women at workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, or their option to not lodge the complaint of sexual ­harassment due to the social stigma attached with the sexual ­harassment of women. 3. It cannot be ignored that most of the time, the offence of sexual harassment and sexual abuse is committed behind the close doors or privately. Sometimes the victim herself does not understand what is happening to them or what is happening to them is wrong. 4. The time has come for our society to understand the sexual abuse and sexual ­harassment and its implications on victims. The society should understand that an abusive person is just like the rest of the other persons and he too has family and friends. He can also be a well-respected person in society. 5. The victims of the sexual ­abuse do not even speak a word about abuse for many years because sometimes she herself has no idea that she is a victim of abuse. The victim may keep believing that she is at fault and the victim may live with that shame for years or for decades. 6. The attack on the character of sex­ abuser or offender by a sex abuse victim is the reaction of self-defence after the mental trauma suffered by the victim regarding the shame attached with the crime committed against her. The woman cannot be punished for raising voice against the sex abuse on the pretext of criminal complaint of defamation as the right of reputation cannot be protected at the cost of the right of life and dignity of woman as guaranteed in Indian Constitution under article 21 and right of equality before the law and equal protection of the law as guaranteed under article 14 of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/m-j-akbar-vs-priya-ramani-defamation-case-key-legal-takeaways-952553.html
18-02-2021||National||5 Indian-origin persons, Indian activist feature in TIME magazine's list of 100 emerging leaders||Five Indian-origin personalities, including Twitter’s top lawyer Vijaya Gadde and UK’s finance minister Rishi Sunak, and an Indian activist feature in TIME magazine’s annual list of 100 “emerging leaders who are shaping the future". The 2021 TIME100 Next, released on Wednesday, is an expansion of TIME’s flagship TIME100 franchise of the most influential people in the world and highlights 100 emerging leaders who are shaping the future. “Everyone on this list is poised to make history. And in fact, many already have,” Dan Macsai, the editorial director of the TIME100, said. Other Indian-origin personalities on the list are Instacart founder and CEO Apoorva Mehta, doctor and Executive Director of nonprofit Get Us PPE Shikha Gupta and founder of nonprofit Upsolve Rohan Pavuluri. Bhim Army chief Chandra Shekhar Aazad is also on the list. Sunak’s profile in the TIME feature says that a little over a year ago, the 40-year old was an “unknown junior minister in the British government” but after he was named to lead Britain’s Treasury last year, he “quickly became the benevolent face of the government’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic, approving large handouts for many citizens whose jobs were disrupted by the virus.” Sunak has however also been criticised for advocating early relaxation of lockdown rules, the profile said. "Nonetheless, Sunak remains the country’s most popular politician, according to the pollster YouGov. And he’s the oddsmakers’ favourite to be Britain’s next Prime Minister,” it added. On Mehta, 34, the TIME profile said that in the initial days of the Covid-19 pandemic, Instacart “faced a tidal wave of orders, as people with means opted en masse to pay the service’s workers to buy groceries for them.” Mehta describes that period as a “wartime moment,” it said. However, later Instacart also “faced new criticism about the way it treated its workers, including labyrinthine sick-pay policies, frequent rule changes for shoppers and demanding performance metrics.” Instacart continues its focus on expansion. “The smartphone is the supermarket of the future. We are going to help co-create that,” Mehta said in the TIME article. The TIME profile described Gadde, 46, as “one of Twitter’s most powerful executives” who was the one to convey the news to CEO Jack Dorsey that President Donald Trump’s Twitter account had been suspended following the Capitol attack of January 6. Dorsey "has delegated to her Twitter’s content-moderation decisions; she was the architect of the 2019 decision to ban all political advertising, and is responsible for the warning labels that Twitter applied to Covid-19 and election-interference misinformation in 2020. "While Twitter is still home to much misinformation and harassment, Gadde’s influence is slowly turning the company into one that sees free speech not as sacrosanct, but as just one human right among many that need to be weighed against one another,” the TIME profile said. Aazad, 34, is the leader of the Bhim Army, which runs schools to help Dalits escape poverty through education and also “practices a distinct brand of assertiveness, sweeping into villages on loud motorbikes to protect victims of caste-based violence and organising provocative demonstrations against discrimination,” the TIME profile on him says. Aazad and the Bhim army also “spearheaded a campaign for justice” in the case of the fatal gang-rape of a 19-year old Dalit woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras. TIME said Gupta and her team stepped up to meet the growing demand for personal protective equipment for healthcare professionals at a time when there was a “leadership vacuum” from the White House. “In a crisis, small acts can make a big impact. And in extraordinary times, ordinary people, driven by service, can do extraordinary things. The early days of the Covid-19 pandemic were some of the darkest in America’s history. A leadership vacuum from the White House contributed to health care professionals across the country lacking the personal protective equipment they needed to stay safe and save lives,” it said. Gupta, who “wasn’t on the White House Task Force” or a governor or member of Congress, took action to solve the problem. Gupta leads the Get Us PPE organisation and along with a group of medical professionals and team members, the organisation helped distribute more than 6.5 million pieces of PPE to frontline workers. Pavuluri is the 25-year founder of the free online tool that helps users fill out bankruptcy forms on their own. TIME said that as the Covid-19 pandemic brought varied economic hardships to Americans, filing for personal bankruptcy was seen as an effective way to eliminate debt but entailed high legal costs and complex paperwork. Upsolve, which Pavuluri founded in 2018, has till date helped American users relieve more than $300 million in debt, the TIME profile of him said. “We’ve found a way to use technology to address a civil rights injustice at scale,” Pavuluri said in the TIME profile.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-indian-origin-persons-indian-activist-feature-in-time-magazines-list-of-100-emerging-leaders-952566.html
18-02-2021||National||PM Modi’s 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' to be held online due to Covid-19, says Education Min||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s annual interaction with students Pariksha Pe Charcha will be held online in this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said on Thursday. The interaction with students from classes 9 to 12 ahead of their exams will be held in March, the minister said. "I feel happy to share that the interaction every student was waiting for is back! Get ready to smile your way through exams with PM @narendramodi in #ParikshaPeCharcha2021," he said in a tweet. “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, this year the interaction will be conducted online,” he said in another tweet. The registration for the programme will begin from Thursday and conclude on March 14. Students who will get to ask questions will be selected through a competition. The first edition of the prime minister's interaction programme with school and college students Pariksha Pe Charcha 1.0 was held at Talkatora Stadium on February 16, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-s-pariksha-pe-charcha-to-be-held-online-due-to-covid-19-says-education-min-952573.html
18-02-2021||National||CID to probe bomb attack on Bengal minister||The West Bengal government on Thursday handed over the investigation into the attack on state minister Jakir Hossain, who was seriously injured in a bomb blast, to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID). Hossain was seriously injured after unidentified attackers hurled a crude bomb at him at Nimtita railway station in Murshidabad district on Wednesday night. At least two other persons, who were with the Trinamool Congress MLA of Jangipur, were also injured in the incident which occurred ahead of the assembly election in the state due in April-May this year. Hossain was brought to the SSKM Hospital here on Thursday morning and admitted to the Trauma Care Unit, state minister Firhad Hakim said, adding that a medical board has been formed to look into his health condition. "The investigation has been handed over to the CID. A team of forensic experts have visited the spot this morning," a senior police officer said. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and senior TMC leaders went to the state-run hospital here to inquire about his health. "Hossain is presently admitted to the Trauma Care Unit. A medical board is looking after his health. He is stable now and has injuries in his fingers and foot," Hakim said. Hossain, the minister of state for labour, was waiting at platform no 2 of the station to catch a train to Kolkata at around 10 pm on Wednesday when he was attacked, the officer said. "The incident shows that West Bengal is not safe even for ministers. The government has failed to control the law and order," state BJP president Dilip Ghosh said. Meanwhile, BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari's rally was attacked by unknown miscreants in Beleghata area of north Kolkata on Wednesday night. Two BJP activists, including party's North Kolkata district president Sivaji Singha Roy, were injured in the incident. Both are admitted to a hospital here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cid-to-probe-bomb-attack-on-bengal-minister-952576.html
18-02-2021||National||Indian army briefs foreign envoys visiting J-K on role of Pak in running terror factories across LoC||Senior Indian army officials on Thursday briefed envoys from 24 countries visiting Jammu and Kashmir about the role of the Pakistani army in running terror factories across the Line of Control by organising training camps, officials said. The envoys, including from member states of the European Union (EU), Brazil, Malaysia, were also briefed about the role of the Pakistani army in helping terrorist infiltrate into India, infiltration patterns and use of drones by Pakistan to airdrop weapons meant for terrorists, they said. Use of tunnels for pushing terrorists into India, especially in the Samba sector of Jammu and Kashmir, was highlighted by the army, which also gave a detailed presentation about the weapons, bearing markings of the Pakistani army, seized from various militants. Tunnels were being used following a drop in the number of terrorists sneaking into India from across the Line of Control (LoC) due to heightened vigil and changed tactics in the army's counter-infiltration grid, the officials said. On the situation in the Kashmir Valley, the army officials highlighted Wednesday evening's incident when a son of a prominent eatery owner was shot and critically wounded by terrorists at his shop in a high-security area of the city. This was a part of the terrorists' game plan to silence either moderate voices in Kashmir or those who refused to follow their diktat, they said. The army also gave a detailed briefing on how internet-warfare was used by Pakistani establishments to brainwash youngsters through social media platforms. Coming to the situation post the abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and its bifurcation into union territories of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir in 2019, the army officials said there has been no loss of life due to the action of security forces. There has been a marked decrease in law and order problems and incidents of stone-pelting have seen a sharp decline, the army officials told the visiting envoys, and also shared their experience during the recent District Development Council (DDC) elections, which were conducted successfully. Besides terrorism and the situation along the LoC, the officials informed the envoys about the assistance being provided to people living in far-flung areas. They were also informed about the tourism sector in the Kashmir Valley and achievements of the Kashmiri people in various fields. The envoys from the EU, France, Malaysia, Brazil, Italy, Finland, Bangladesh, Cuba, Chile, Portugal, the Netherlands, Belgium, Spain, Sweden, Senegal, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Ireland, Ghana, Estonia, Bolivia, Malawi, Eritrea and Ivory Coast arrived here on Wednesday amid heightened security arrangements in the city and elsewhere in the Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-briefs-foreign-envoys-visiting-j-k-on-role-of-pak-in-running-terror-factories-across-loc-952581.html
18-02-2021||National||India tries to allay Russia’s concerns over its Indo-Pacific vision ahead of ‘Quad’ ministerial meet with US, Japan, Australia||The new US Secretary of State, Antony Blinken, will hold a meeting with his counterparts from India, Australia and Japan on Thursday to discuss the approach of President Joe Biden’s administration on the ‘Quad’ and its role in countering China in the Indo-Pacific region. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Australian Foreign Minister Maris Payne and Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi are expected to take part in the meeting. This is going to be the first meeting of the ‘Quad’ Foreign Ministers after the new administration has taken over in the US. The Biden Administration has already signalled its keenness to strengthen the four-nation coalition, including by elevating it to the level of the Heads of Governments. The ‘Quad’ is critical to advancing ‘shared goals’ of India, Australia, Japan and the US for “a free and open Indo-Pacific” and rising to the challenges, including coordinating efforts on Covid-19 response as well as climate change, Ned Price, the spokesperson of the US Department of State, said in Washington D.C. Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) of the Government of India, said that the Quad Foreign Ministers would exchange views on regional and global issues especially practical areas of cooperation towards maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. They would also discuss ongoing efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic, addressing global climate change and other issues of mutual interest, he added in a statement released in New Delhi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is cautiously studying the US proposal for holding a summit of the Quad Heads of Governments, factoring in its implication on India’s relations with Russia as well as on the “disengagement process” the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of late started on the banks of Pangong Tso as the first step to resolve the 10-month-long military stand-off along the disputed boundary between the two nations. A day before formally starting its engagement with the new US administration on Indo-Pacific within the framework of the ‘Quad’, India reassured Russia that its own vision for the region remained inclusive in nature, not targeted at any country, but supportive of freedom of navigation and overflight and peaceful settlement of territorial disputes. “No geopolitical discussion today can be complete without a mention of ‘Indo-Pacific’. (The) Indo-Pacific signifies the seamless interface of the Indian and Pacific Oceans,” Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla said while delivering a speech at the Diplomatic Academy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Russian Government in Moscow on Wednesday. “For India,” he said, “it (the Indo-Pacific) is the vast maritime space stretching from the western coast of North America to the eastern shores of Africa. We see this as a free, open, inclusive region, which embraces us all in a common pursuit of progress and prosperity.” Shringla is currently on a tour of Moscow. He had a meeting with his counterpart in Russian Government, Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov, on Wednesday. He also called on Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. Lavrov had in December 2020 made some hard-hitting comments about the ‘Quad’. He had called the informal coalition a ‘divisive’ and ‘exclusivist’ tool being used by the US to implement its “devious policy” of engaging New Delhi in games against China as well as to undermine Russia’s close partnership with India. The comment caused unease in New Delhi as it came at a time when Indian Army was engaged in an eyeball-to-eyeball stand-off with the Chinese PLA which sought to unilaterally alter the status quo along the de facto boundary between the two neighbouring nations. Shringla on Wednesday referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech at the Shangri La Dialogue in Singapore in 2018 to allay Russia’s concerns over India’s engagement with Japan, Australia and the US in the ‘Quad’ as well as its vision for the Indo-Pacific region. He said that the Prime Minister had described the Indo-Pacific vision in one word - ‘SAGAR’ (ocean) – an acronym for "Security and Growth for All in the Region”. “In 2019, at the East Asia Summit in Bangkok, Prime Minister Modi took the idea of SAGAR further and announced the "Indo-Pacific Oceans’ Initiative” to support the building of a rules-based regional architecture resting on seven pillars: maritime security; maritime ecology; maritime resources; capacity building/resource sharing; disaster risk reduction and management; science, technology and academic cooperation; and trade connectivity or transport,” added the Foreign Secretary. He said that India would like to work closely with Russia under the ASEAN and the East Asia Summit framework. “Over 50% of global trade traverses this maritime domain. It is also home to over 60% of the world’s population and the global GDP and hence the security, stability, peace and prosperity of the Indo-Pacific region is vital for the world.” India, US, Australia and Japan had first launched the 'quad' in 2007, but the initiative had fizzled out very soon. The four nations, however, re-launched the 'quad' in Manila in November 2017 – ostensibly to create a bulwark of democratic nations to counter expansionist moves of China in the Indo-Pacific region. The senior diplomats of the four nations had several meetings ever since the quad was re-launched. It was elevated to the level of Foreign Ministers when the then US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, hosted his counterparts from Japan, Australia and India on the side-line of the United Nations General Assembly in September 2019. Pompeo and the foreign ministers of the three other nations – Jaishankar of India, Payne of Australia and Motegi of Japan – had another meeting in Tokyo on October 6 last year. The second ministerial meeting was held amid the Covid-19 pandemic and the growing belligerence of China, not only along its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India but also in the disputed waters of South China Sea, the East China Sea and the Taiwan Strait. But the Trump Administration’s move to formalize and expand the ‘Quad’ and turn it into a NATO-like bloc for the Indo-Pacific region did not succeed as not only India, but Australia and Japan too were not yet ready to go the whole hog and overtly gang up with the US against China. The Modi Government is keen to have a clear understanding of the Biden Administration’s approach on the Indo-Pacific region, before responding to any US-led move to elevate the ‘Quad’. India over the past few years added military heft to its partnerships with the members of the ‘Quad’, inking military logistics sharing pacts with the US, Australia and Japan. But it last year also broad-based its Indo-Pacific engagements, by discussing its approach on the region with France and Germany, which however remained outside the ‘Quad’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-tries-to-allay-russia-s-concerns-over-its-indo-pacific-vision-ahead-of-quad-ministerial-meet-with-us-japan-australia-952583.html
18-02-2021||National||MP bus accident: Army's help sought to trace 3 missing persons||Two days after a bus plunged into a canal at Sidhi in Madhya Pradesh killing 51 people, three passengers are still missing and the Army's help has been sought to locate them, a district official said on Thursday. An over the three-km-long tunnel in the canal, where oxygen supply is low, is going to be searched for the missing persons, Sidhi Collector Ravindra Kumar Choudhary told PTI. "Experts are required for the search. An Army team from Jabalpur is shortly going to join the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to find the three missing persons," he said. Asked how many people were there in the 32-seater bus when it met with the accident on Tuesday, the official said the vehicle was carrying 61 people, including the driver. Fifty-one bodies have so far been recovered and seven people, including the driver, have been rescued. The bus driver was arrested on Wednesday, the official said. He said that the bus was overcrowded as more than 40 passengers were going to neighbouring Satna to appear for some exams. The accident took place on Tuesday morning near Patna village, about 80 km from the Sidhi district headquarters when the bus heading from Sidhi to Satna fell into the canal, which is part of the Bansagar dam project. The bus had diverted from its permitted route to avoid traffic jams, sources earlier said. On Wednesday, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan met families of the victims and offered condolences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mp-bus-accident-armys-help-sought-to-trace-3-missing-persons-952584.html
18-02-2021||National||Rashmi Samant resigns as Oxford Student Union President-elect amid row over her past remarks||Rashmi Samant, who made Oxford University history as the first Indian woman to be elected President of the Oxford Student Union (SU), has resigned from the post just days later amid controversy surrounding some of her past remarks and references. Some of Samant’s old social media posts had emerged, which were branded as “racist” and “insensitive”. These included a holocaust reference on a post during a visit to the Berlin Holocaust Memorial in Germany in 2017 and an Instagram caption on a picture of herself in Malaysia that read “Ching Chang”, which upset Chinese students. The 22-year-old also attracted criticism for a campaign post caption that separated women and trans women, with the Oxford LGBTQ+ campaign calling for her resignation. In an open letter published in the student newspaper ‘Cherwell’ earlier this week, Samant said: “Though the recent developments might make it hard for you to believe the sincerity of my apologies, it deeply pained me to note that I have lost the trust that the student community reposed in me with their votes and belief in my manifesto owing to my mistakes. “Regrettably, I alienated people within our wonderful student community to the extent that they deem me unfit to be the leader they rightfully deserve," she said. "I sincerely apologise to every student who has been hurt by my actions or words and seek a chance to gain your trust in me again,” she added. However, the row continued to escalate and she found her position as President-elect untenable and stepped down. “In light of the recent events surrounding my election to the Presidency of the Oxford SU, I believe it is best for me to step down from the role. It has been an honour to be your President-elect,” she said in a statement on Facebook on Tuesday, later published in ‘The Oxford Student’. A by-election will now need to be held to elect a new president, with nominations re-opened, which means the fresh election will not be limited to just the previously unsuccessful candidates. The current 2020-21 officers of the Student Union said they “sincerely apologise for the hurt and discomfort caused by the actions of the President-elect”. “Oxford SU has a no-tolerance policy towards discrimination. Racism, transphobia, and antisemitism have no place in our organisation,” their statement read. Samant, from Udupi in Karnataka, has since left for India to be with her family amid deep regret and many of her social media accounts have since been deleted. Last week, the graduate student reading for an MSc in energy systems at Linacre College at Oxford University, scored a landslide win in the Oxford Student Union election. The Manipal Institute of Technology student’s Indian roots were referenced in her manifesto as she highlighted the need for greater “decolonisation and inclusivity” on campus in the Oxford Student Union leadership election for the 2021-22 term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rashmi-samant-resigns-as-oxford-student-union-president-elect-amid-row-over-her-past-remarks-952585.html
18-02-2021||National||Pakistan's plan was brilliant, but it didn't factor India's air power: IAF chief on Battle of Longewala||Recalling the decisive Battle of Longewala, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria on Thursday said that the plan of armoured thrust by the Pakistan army was "brilliant" and could have changed the course of the 1971 war, but the only thing it probably forgot to factor, was India's air power. The Pakistan army forgot what half a squadron of Hunter aircraft sitting in Jaisalmer could do, and that was probably their "only mistake", he said. India is celebrating the 50th anniversary year of the country's victory over Pakistan in 1971 war. The Indian Air Force (IAF) chief was speaking at the launch of a book 'The Epic Battle of Longewala' authored by Air Marshal (retd) Bharat Kumar at the IAF Museum at Palam. The dais and chairs for the audience was placed centrally in an open courtyard flanked by two T-59 tanks of the Pakistan army damaged during the battle, and Hunter and Krishak and other aircraft, which played a critical role during the battle. "A lot has been said about the Battle of Longewala. And, the plan of armoured thrust by Pakistan army itself was brilliant in terms of the area and axis chosen, the Longewala-Jaisalmer axis, and if it had succeeded, it would have changed the course of the war on the western front and the final result," Bhadauria said. "The only thing the Pakistan army probably forgot to factor, was India's air power. And, they thought what half a squadron of Hunter aircraft sitting in Jaisalmer could do, and that was probably their only mistake," he said. The IAF chief also said the Battle of Longewala brings to light a scenario where air power can bring "asymmetric results if time and place have chosen correctly". "On airpower, over the decades, we have learned our lessons well, and graduated to a stage where it has been incorporated deep into our plan, synergy and interaction with the services," he said. The IAF chief said it was important that stories of valour are documented in books and passed on to the next generations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistans-plan-was-brilliant-but-it-didnt-factor-indias-air-power-iaf-chief-on-battle-of-longewala-952589.html
18-02-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on plea for voting rights to people stationed outside their constituencies||The Supreme Court Thursday sought response from the Centre and the Election Commission on a plea seeking voting rights through postal ballot for people stationed outside their constituency. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde issued notices to the Ministry of Law and Justice and the poll body seeking their replies on the petition. "What kind of plea is this? Sitting in England you will vote here? If you can't care enough to go to your constituency why should law help you," said the bench also comprising Justices  A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The apex court was hearing a plea filed by S Sathyan seeking voting rights for students, NRIs and other people stationed outside their constituency at the time of elections. The PIL has sought extension of postal ballot facility or electronically transmitted postal ballot system to all registered voters stationed outside their constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-voting-rights-to-people-stationed-outside-their-constituencies-952590.html
18-02-2021||National||Supreme Court notice to Centre, EC for voting through electronic means||The Supreme Court on Thursday sought a response from the Union government and the Election Commission on a plea to allow voting through electronic means too apart from the existing postal ballots in polls. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to the Centre and the poll panel on a PIL by K Sathyan. Advocate Kaleeswaram Raj, appearing for the petitioner, submitted that there should be an extension of postal ballot facility or electronically transmitted postal ballot system to all registered voters like migrant workers, students, NRIs and business people who were stationed outside. He sought a direction to strike down Section 60 (c) of the Representation of People Act which said "not in other manner" of voting as unconstitutional, illegal, arbitrary and unjust. The petitioner, a Kerala resident, who identified himself as a political activist said that the electoral roll should be prepared to contain a complete database of registered voters and technological advancements including OTP can be used for allowing such voting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-notice-to-centre-ec-for-voting-through-electronic-means-952591.html
18-02-2021||National||AI-based platform SAHI to help industry find skilled gig workers||SAHI, an artificial intelligence-based platform that would help the industry meet the rising demand for skilled gig workers, was launched on Thursday. Code on Social Security 2020 defines gig worker as a person who performs work or participates in a work arrangement and earns from such activities outside of the traditional employer-employee relationship. "SAHI, a B2B2C (Business-to-Business-to-Consumer) gig platform was launched today. The platform is backed by LabourNet, and leverages their experience of connecting over 1 million workers to jobs across 28 sectors in 28 states and union territories over the last decade," SAHI said in a statement. SAHI, powered by India’s largest pre-vetted contingent workforce, will make it easy for organisations looking to hire talent on a task-basis. "Workers require a platform that will protect their employment rights, help them access better wages and benefits, and help them transition from a ‘job-mind’ to a more entrepreneurial business mind. SAHI is built to drive this change," Gayathri Vasudevan, Chairperson, LabourNet Services, said. The platform’s AI-enabled job-matching, AI-task allocation, and performance management will drive smarter, more productive and more accountable execution with an ‘outcome-based’ engagement model, SAHI said. It will support business models that include a significant number of gig-workers, help organisations become cost-efficient, increase productivity and revenues, and enable faster go-to-market strategies. ASSOCHAM has predicted that India’s gig economy would grow at a CAGR (compound annual growth rate) of 17 per cent to $455 billion by 2024. The pandemic will further push more traditional workers towards the gig working culture in the country. Increasingly, organisations are also shrinking in size, outsourcing non-core activities on a contractual basis, SAHI added. "For India’s working-age population of over 500 million, the gig model can be a powerful agent of change. Upskilled and re-skilled workers can easily meet the industry’s demand. A gig worker can take up new gig jobs across industries, diversify their income, and become financially independent," Vasudevan said. "A lot of our efforts at LabourNet have been around harnessing this potential and enabling millions of gig-entrepreneurs to grow their daily wages from Rs 200 to Rs 2,000," she added. With several unprecedented changes at workplaces in Corporate India, industries have an urgent need for skilled workers. SAHI’s pool of 5,00,000 pre-vetted workers is the largest talent-bank of its kind in the country, and promises to provide industry-ready gig-talent for companies to hire or engage on a pay-per-task model, the statement said. Companies can reduce costs and save time by partnering with SAHI for hiring and managing the workforce, and direct their focus where it’s needed the most, on core tasks and business growth. According to Deep Mukherjee, CEO, SAHI, the platform is created to change the way India gets work done. LabourNet has trained and skilled 10 lakh candidates, assessed and placed 15 lakh candidates across 28 states and union territories in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ai-based-platform-sahi-to-help-industry-find-skilled-gig-workers-952604.html
18-02-2021||National||India third on list of countries with highest cumulative vaccination numbers: Health ministry||India is third globally, after the US and the UK, in highest cumulative vaccination numbers, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. Till 8 am on Thursday, the cumulative vaccination coverage of healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) against Covid-19 in the country has crossed 94 lakh, the ministry said. The daily Covid-19  positivity rate has also seen a constant decline in the last seven days. From 1.89 per cent on February 1, it has dropped to 1.69 per cent on Thursday, it said. A total of 94,22,228 vaccine doses have been given to beneficiaries through 1,99,305 sessions till 8 am on February 18, as per the provisional report. These include 61,96,641 HCWs (first dose), 3,69,167 HCWs (second dose) and 28,56,420 FLWs (first dose). The administration of the second dose of Covid-19 vaccination started on February 13 for those beneficiaries who had completed 28 days after receipt of the first dose. The vaccination of the FLWs started on February 2. As on day 33 (February 18) of the vaccination drive, a total of 4,22,998 vaccine doses were given across 7,932 sessions. Of which, 3,30,208 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 92,790 received the second dose. The ministry said 58.20 per cent of those who have received the second dose are concentrated in seven states while Karnataka alone accounts for 14.74 per cent (54,397 doses). India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1.06 crore (1,06,56,845) on Thursday, the ministry said.  "Rising recoveries along with contained daily deaths have ensured a sustained fall in the Covid-19 active caseload," the ministry underlined. India's present active cases (1,37,342) constitute just 1.25 per cent of the total infections with 11,987 patients having recuperated in a span of 24 hours, it said. The distribution of new cases depicts a positive picture. Only two states have registered more than 1,000 new cases during the period, it said. Sixteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours, it said. These are Delhi, Odisha, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Ladakh, Nagaland, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Tripura, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Arunachal Pradesh. In a span of 24 hours, only one state has recorded more than 20 deaths, the ministry said. Kerala and Maharashtra account for 75 per cent of the new cases, 72 per cent of new recovered cases and 55 per cent of new deaths, it said. According to the ministry, 85.14 per cent of the new recovered cases are concentrated in six states. At 4,932, Kerala has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries while 3,853 people recovered in Maharashtra followed by Karnataka (537). A total of 12,881 new daily cases have been recorded in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said 86.61 per cent of the new cases are from six states. Kerala continues to report the highest daily new cases at 4,892 followed by Maharashtra (4,787), while Tamil Nadu reported 454 new cases. Meanwhile, 101 fatalities were recorded in the last 24 hours, officials said, adding that five States account for 76.24 per cent of the new deaths, it said. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (40) followed by Kerala (16) and Punjab (10), it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-third-on-list-of-countries-with-highest-cumulative-vaccination-numbers-health-ministry-952610.html
18-02-2021||National||PM Modi’s 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' to be held online due to Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's annual interaction with students 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' will be held online this year in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The interaction with students from classes 9 to 12 ahead of their exams will be held in March. "As our brave #ExamWarriors start padding up for their exams, 'Pariksha Pe Charcha 2021' returns, this time fully online and open to students all over the world. Come, let us appear for the exams with a smile and without stress! #PPC2021," the prime minister tweeted. "On popular demand, 'Pariksha Pe Charcha 2021' will also include parents and teachers. It’ll be a fun-filled discussion on an otherwise serious subject. I call upon my student friends, their amazing parents and hardworking teachers to take part in #PPC2021 in large numbers,” he said. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said the registration process of the fourth edition of the interaction has started. Questions related to dealing with examination stress from school students of classes 9 to 12 will be invited through the 'MyGov' platform and selected questions will feature in the programme, he said. "I feel happy to share that the interaction every student was waiting for is back! Get ready to smile your way through exams with PM @narendramodi in #ParikshaPeCharcha2021," Nishank said in a tweet. "In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, this year the interaction will be conducted online," he said in another tweet. The registration for the programme began on Thursday and it will conclude on March 14. Students who will get to ask questions will be selected through a competition. The first edition of the prime minister's interaction programme with school and college students 'Pariksha Pe Charcha 1.0' was held at the Talkatora Stadium on February 16, 2018. "There are different topics assigned for students, parents and teachers in the contest. The applicants can also pose their questions on this platform. The selected participants will be participating in the programme online from their respective state and UT headquarters and will be presented with a special PPC kit (Pariksha Pe Charcha kit)," Nishank said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-s-pariksha-pe-charcha-to-be-held-online-due-to-covid-19-952613.html
18-02-2021||National||Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar launches applications for five pan-India surveys||Stressing on the importance of accurate data for policymaking, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar on Thursday launched software applications for five pan-India surveys, including on migrant and domestic workers. The minister also released instruction manuals with questionnaires for the five pan-India surveys being conducted by the Labour Bureau. Addressing the occasion, Gangwar said, "Accurate data plays an important role in policymaking. In the absence of accurate data, you cannot analyse the present situation and its impact in the future. It is important so that the benefits of policies percolate down to grass-route level." He informed that with the use of information technology, 30 to 40 per cent of time would be saved while conducting these five surveys and an IT partner would also be roped in for the purpose. These five surveys being undertaken by the Labour Bureau are -- All-India Survey on Migrant workers, All-India Survey on Domestic Workers, All-India Survey on Employment Generated by Professionals, All-India Survey on Employment Generated in Transport Sector, and All-India Quarterly Establishment based Employment Survey. On this occasion, Labour Secretary Apurva Chandra said that timely release of data is important as it enables to evaluate the efficacy of the government policies on the ground. He said, "A couple of months back, Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana (ABRY) with an outlay of Rs 25,000 crore for two years was launched. This is aimed at providing employment to 54 lakh new workers in fold of EPFO. The efficacy of these schemes would be known through these surveys." Under ABRY, the government of India will pay both 12 per cent employees' contribution and 12 per cent employers' contribution i.e. 24 per cent of wages towards EPF (employees provident fund scheme) in respect of new employees for two years. Chandra also said that repeatability of the surveys are also important for assessing the impact of policies over a period of time. The objective of the All-India Survey on Domestic Workers (DW) would be to estimate the proportion of DW in the workforce by major states and across India and percentage distribution of these DWs/households that employ them by important socio-demographic key characteristics. The survey on migrant workers is aimed at finding the estimated number of migrant workers in India and also collecting information on their living conditions, working conditions and other socio-economic conditions. The objectives of the all-India survey on employment generated by professionals are essentially two-fold, firstly to estimate the total number of active professionals in the country and secondly to capture the employment generated by these professionals. The survey on employment generated in the Transport Sector would assess the number of jobs generated in the said sector in the country. The main objective of the All-India Quarterly Establishment based Employment Survey is to measure the relative change in employment situation over successive quarters in a sizeable segment of the non-farm economy covering eight important sectors of the Indian economy. The results of these surveys will be declared within seven to eight months, including six months of fieldwork. The Labour Bureau, an attached office of the Ministry of Labour & Employment has been at the forefront in fulfilling the data needs of various stakeholders in the field of labour & employment since 1920.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/labour-minister-santosh-gangwar-launches-applications-for-five-pan-india-surveys-952620.html
18-02-2021||National||Ahead of Assembly elections in Assam, PM Modi lays foundation stone of country's longest bridge||Weeks before Assembly elections in Assam, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday laid the foundation stone of the country's longest bridge over the Brahmaputra river and launched projects to augment water transport system in the state. The 19-km-long bridge with an estimated expenditure of Rs 5,000 crore will connect Dhubri in eastern Assam with Phulbari in neighbouring Meghalaya. The bridge will reduce the travel distance from 250-km in six hours at present to only 19-km in 20 minutes. "Prior to Independence, Assam enjoyed a high per-capita income but since 1947 its development was neglected. Correcting the historical mistake of neglecting Assam had begun with former Prime Minister Atal Behari Vajpayee, and now it has gained strength with the BJP government taking its development as a priority," he said. The prime minister, who was in Assam for a second time in less than a fortnight, had unleashed a development offensive in the run up to the state polls on February 7 when he had launched and dedicated to the nation infrastructure projects involving Rs 9,310 crore. People in Dhubri has been demanding the bridge for long as they have to suffer, particularly during the monsoon season. "This is an important day in the history of Assam as this bridge will not only provide a quick and reliable mode of transport but will also help improve livelihoods. Our purpose is to make Assam and the Northeast as the centre of connectivity with the South East Asian nations," Modi said while virtually laying the foundation stone of the bridge from New Delhi. He also launched 'Mahabahu-Brahmaputra' project under which Ro-Pax vessel operations was started between Nemati-Majuli island, North Guwahati-South Guwahati and Dhubri-Hatsingimari. "The Brahmaputra is not just a river, it is the manifestation of the great saga of the north east's ethnic diversity and the region's harmonious co-existence. "Along the banks of this mighty river, grew the culture and civilisation of Assam... over the years, many things have changed but what has not is the Brahmaputra's countless blessings in the form of diverse religious, societal and cultural influences on different ethnic communities living on both banks of this river," Modi said. He also laid the foundation stone of Inland Water Transport terminal at Jogighopa and various tourist jetties on the Brahmaputra. Bhumipujon (earth breaking ceremony) for construction of an 8-km-long bridge to connect Majuli island district with Jorhat in eastern Assam was also done on Thursday. Foundation stone for the bridge was laid earlier. Lauding the foundation stone laying of the Dhubri-Phulbari bridge, Dhubri Lok Sabha member and Chief of All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), Maulana Badruddin Ajmal said: "It is a moment of immense happiness to me for it has been my long-cherished dream. I can not count the number of times I have visited different ministries and the number of letters I have written to different ministers to make it into reality." "In fact, I have written 38 letters and memoranda to various ministers since June 29, 2009 and the last one was on December 29, 2020 and also raised nine questions and delivered 16 speeches in the Parliament for the Dhubri-Phulbari bridge," Ajmal said. AIUDF recently joined the Congress-led grand alliance to fight the elections against BJP and its allies. Assembly elections in Assam is slated for April.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ahead-of-assembly-elections-in-assam-pm-modi-lays-foundation-stone-of-countrys-longest-bridge-952622.html
18-02-2021||National||SC stays Uttarakhand govt's decision on plying private buses in tiger reserve||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed a decision by the Uttarakhand government's forest department to allow a private company to ply its buses within the core area of Corbett Tiger Reserve. The court also issued notice to the state government on PIL challenging validity of the order issued on Dec. 23, 2020. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde and comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response from the state government on plea by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal. The petitioner contended that the Wildlife Protection Act was being violated by the state for "wrongful gains" with its decision. "The plying of buses and that too of a private sector company within the core area of Corbett Tiger Reserve is nothing but an act of compromise with the protection and conservation of our national animal," his plea stated. Bansal also cited an RTI response by the National Tiger Conservation Authority that forest officials of Uttarakhand have not taken its permission as provided under Section 38 (O) of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 for plying of buses by the private company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-uttarakhand-govts-decision-on-plying-private-buses-in-tiger-reserve-952624.html
18-02-2021||National||What Sputnik V's emergency approval may mean for India||India could have another vaccine in its arsenal to combat the coronavirus in a few weeks. Russia's Sputnik V vaccine, which is being manufactured by Indian pharma firm Dr. Reddy's, is nearing the end of its small clinical trials in the country, and the firm has also approached the drugs standard body for emergency use approval. The Sputnik V vaccine, according to a study posted in the reputed medical journal The Lancet has shown an encouraging 91 per cent efficacy. Should the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) give its nod to the vaccine, what are the likely implications? A third, more credible vaccine in India's fight against Covid-19 So far, the CDSCO has approved two vaccines, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, and Serum Institute of India's (SII) Covishield - the local name of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine. Covaxin, which was approved without finishing its clinical trials, is being administered to healthcare and frontline workers on trial mode. Currently, in phase 2 and 3 clinical trials, the efficacy of the vaccine is unknown. Covishield on the other hand does have an efficacy, ranging between 53 to 79 per cent based on the dosage interval.  Reduced spending on vaccine storage Sputnik V is cost-effective and space-effective in that it can be stored in a fridge. This eases the Union Health Ministry's financial burden on vaccine storage. No need to worry about side effects The clinical trials study that The Lancet published also noted that side effects, particularly adverse side effects, were rare. Should this hold true, Sputnik V's credibility could increase further, given the recent vaccination-related deaths in the country have gone above 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-sputnik-vs-emergency-approval-may-mean-for-india-952629.html
18-02-2021||National||TMC goons who killed BJP workers will be in jail after party comes to power in Bengal, says Amit Shah||Alleging that more than 130 BJP workers were killed by the "Trinamool Congress (TMC) goons" in West Bengal, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said that if the BJP is voted to power in the State, the "goons" would be tracked down and put behind bars. "Mamata didi's TMC goons killed more than 130 BJP workers in Bengal. Mamata didi thinks that by murdering someone she can stop the BJP. I want to tell her when the BJP comes to power in Bengal, the goons hiding in your (Mamata Banerjee's) shelter will be thrown behind bars," said Shah. Shah was addressing a gathering at a rally at Namkhana in South 24 Paraganas district where he flagged off the fifth and last leg of BJP's Parivartan Yatra in Bengal. The Home Minister alleged that the "TMC goons" usurped the funds sent by the Centre following the cyclone Amphan. He said that if the BJP is voted to power in Bengal, the matter will be investigated and those involved in corruption will be put behind bars. "The aid sent by the Centre after Amphan was usurped by the TMC goons. After the BJP comes to power in Bengal, a high level probe will be conducted and all those involved in corruption will be put behind bars," said Shah. He said that a task force would be set up to ensure people's safety during cyclones and natural disasters in the state. Shah sarcastically referring to Mamata's nephew Abhishek Banerjee, further alleged that TMC is only concerned about "Bhatija Kalyan" (nephew's welfare). Shah took dig at the Chief Minister for losing her cool following slogans of 'Jai Shree Ram' at an event in Kolkata. "Didi gets angry with the slogan. She feels insulted. How can anyone be insulted with slogans of 'Jai Shree Ram? The 'Jai Shree Ram' slogan is a symbol of protest against appeasement," said Shah. Alleging that the TMC leaders often threaten people during poll day, the BJP leader said that it will be ensured that not a single TMC "goon" be on the roads during the Assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-goons-who-killed-bjp-workers-will-be-in-jail-after-party-comes-to-power-in-bengal-says-amit-shah-952631.html
18-02-2021||National||Toolkit case: Have not leaked anything to media, police tells Delhi HC||Delhi Police Thursday told the Delhi High Court that it has not leaked any material to the media in relation to its probe in the FIR against climate activist Disha Ravi for her alleged involvement in sharing a toolkit backing the ongoing farmers' protest. The court was hearing Ravi's plea to restrain police from leaking to the media any probe material in relation to the FIR lodged against her. The submission was made before Justice Prathiba M Singh by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the police. The court asked the police to file an affidavit containing its submission that it has not leaked any material relating to the investigation to the media. Since there were no counsels representing the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) and some of the media houses named in Ravi's petition, the court issued notice to them and said it will hear the matter on Friday. The petition has also sought to restrain the media from publishing the content or extract of any private chats, including those on WhatsApp, between her and third parties. Ravi said she is "severely aggrieved and prejudiced by the media trial surrounding her arrest and the ongoing investigation, where she is being viscerally attacked by the respondent 1 (police) and several media houses". She claimed that her arrest from Bengaluru on February 13 by a Cyber Cell team of Delhi Police was "wholly unlawfully and without basis". She also contended that in the present circumstances, it was "highly likely" that the general public will perceive the news items "as being conclusive as to the guilt of the petitioner (Ravi)". "In these circumstances, and to restrain the respondents from further violating her privacy, her reputation, and her right to a fair trial, the petitioner is moving the present petition," the plea has said. Her petition has alleged that investigative matters have been leaked to the media and the press briefings by the police are "prejudicial" and "grossly violative of her right to a fair trial and presumption of innocence". "The illegal actions and omissions on part of the respondents has irrevocably violated the petitioner's fundamental right to privacy, her right to reputation, her dignity, and the consequent effect of the administration of justice and right to fair trial," the petition has said. It has claimed that the police first "leaked investigative material" -- like alleged WhatsApp chats -- the substance and details of which were only in the possession of the investigating agency. Thereafter, the "private alleged WhatsApp chats" were publicised and disseminated by various media houses which was a violation of the provisions of the Cable Televisions Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 (CTN Act), the Programme Code and the Uplinking and Downlinking Guidelines, the petition has contended. It has also claimed that the "media houses have published one-sided defamatory, suggestive innuendos, and half truths about the petitioner". Ravi's plea has further contended that the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting and the NBSA "have failed to exercise their statutory and self-regulatory powers in ensuring compliance with the Programme Code under the CTN Act and the Code of Ethics of National Broadcasting Standards Association". Delhi Police, probing the "toolkit Google doc" backing the farmers' agitation shared by climate activist Greta Thunberg, had arrested Ravi while Mumbai lawyer Jacob and Pune engineer Shantanu Muluk have been granted pre-arrest bail by court. A Delhi court had on February 14 sent Ravi to five day police custody after the agency said her custodial interrogation was required to probe an alleged larger conspiracy against the government of India and to ascertain her alleged role relating to the Khalistan movement. A toolkit is a document created to explain any issue. It also provides information on what one needs to do to address the issue. This might include information about petitions, details about protests and mass movements. Delhi Police had earlier asked Google and some social media giants to provide information about email ID, URLs and certain social media accounts related to the creators of the toolkit shared by Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg and others on Twitter in connection with the farmers' protest. The Cyber Cell had lodged an FIR against "pro-Khalistan" creators of the toolkit for waging a "social, cultural and economic war against the government of India". The case against unnamed persons was registered on charges of criminal conspiracy, sedition and various other sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The toolkit was aimed at spreading disaffection and ill-will against the government of India and creating disharmony among various social, religious and cultural groups, the police had claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-have-not-leaked-anything-to-media-police-tells-delhi-hc-952637.html
18-02-2021||National||JKYDF to strive for revival of Sufism, tolerance in Kashmir||With an aim to revive Sufism in Kashmir valley, a local NGO has decided to hold conferences in various areas of the Valley to spread the message of mystical form of the Islam. To begin with the Jammu and Kashmir Youth Development Forum (JKYDF), is holding a conference on Sufism in central Ganderbal district in the first week of March followed by a similar event in Kokernag area of south Kashmir’s Anantnag district in late March. “Sufism advocates the peaceful co-existence of all faiths and needs to be revived here. There is a need to take Sufism to every household in the Valley,” JKYDF chairman Farooq Ahmad told DH. He said his organization will rope in Sufi preachers during these conferences and the plan is to reach out to as many people as possible, especially the youth in next few months with the message of peace and co-existence. “There are not many places like Kashmir in the world where a number of great Sufis have lived and have their shrines also. Kashmir is land of saints, Sufis and is bestowed with religious wealth in the form of numerous shrines and places of worship enjoying reverence and allegiance of people professing different faiths,” Ahmad added. The JKYDF not only plans to reach out to the people at Muslim shrines, but its volunteers will also cover some Hindu and Sikh shrines during the reach out programme. “There is a need to establish a common and syncretic Kashmiri society, where Kashmiri Pandits and Kashmiri Muslims can again live in complete love like they did before 1990,”Ahmad said. Through Sufi conferences, he said, the JKYDF aims to reach out to the people, especially youth, about the real message of Sufi Islam. “The mainstay of Kashmir’s tolerance and co-existence has been our Sufism, which has come under attack from forces inimical to tolerance and co-existence. Unless Sufism is restored to its centuries old glory, we cannot have a peaceful, tolerant and progressive society,” the JKYDF chairman added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jkydf-to-strive-for-revival-of-sufism-tolerance-in-kashmir-952647.html
18-02-2021||National||India a critical partner, says Pentagon; Quad foreign ministers to meet virtually||India is a critical partner, especially when one considers all the challenges in the Indo-Pacific region, the Pentagon said on the eve of the maiden Quad ministerial meeting under the Biden administration. Quad ministerial is an informal grouping of four countries, namely, Australia, India, Japan and the United States. "India is a critical partner, especially when you consider all of the challenges in the Indo-Pacific region," Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby told reporters at a news conference on Wednesday. State Department Spokesperson Ned Price at his daily news conference announced that on Thursday morning, Secretary Blinken and his counterparts from Japan, Australia and India will speak together. "This discussion with the Quad foreign ministers is critical to advancing our shared goals of a free and open Indo-Pacific and rising to the defining challenges of our time, including coordinating our efforts on COVID-19 response as well as climate change," he said. Recent media reports in Japan have stated that a Quad leadership summit was in the works. So far, there has been no confirmation from the Biden administration. Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin would be supportive of such a gathering, Kirby said in response to a question. "It (India) is a very important bilateral relationship that we have and particularly military-to-military relations. India is a critical partner, especially when you consider all of the challenges in the Indo-Pacific region," he said. "What I can tell you plainly is that the (Defence) Secretary is prioritizing this relationship, wants to see it continue to grow and develop and to get stronger and he looks very much looking forward to working on initiatives to do just that,” Kirby added. In an op-ed in Newsweek this week, India’s Ambassador to the US Taranjit Sing Sandhu had said that the deepening defence and strategic partnership constituted an important area of cooperation, which rests on a strong institutional framework for defence collaboration and the shared strategic interests. "This will be particularly important in Asia where we will work bilaterally and with like-minded partners to pursue a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific, while advancing the security and economic interests of countries with legitimate and vital interests in the region. And we will build on the deepening trade and investment linkages that create economic opportunities and jobs in both countries," Sandhu wrote. Asked for her comments on the US renewing the Quad alliance, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying in Beijing hoped that relevant parties dialogue will be conducive to global stability. "I believe development and peace is the mainstream trend of the times. We hope relevant parties dialogue will be conducive to global stability,” Hua told a media briefing in Beijing. "It should be positive energy instead of any attempt to target a particular country. We will hope that relevant cooperation will be open and win-win," she said, adding that "only in this way, they will be keeping up with the trends of the time".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-a-critical-partner-says-pentagon-quad-foreign-ministers-to-meet-virtually-952651.html
18-02-2021||National||Nana Patole threatens to stop shoot of Akshay Kumar, Amitabh Bachchan's movies over their silence on fuel price rise||Taking an aggressive stance, newly-appointed Maharashtra Congress President Nana Patole on Thursday threatened to stop the shootings of films of Bollywood actors Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar for not speaking out on the rising petrol prices. “We will not allow their films to be shot in Maharashtra...we will not allow their film to be screened in Maharashtra,” Patole said. “Why are they not tweeting now when the petroleum prices are spiralling... are they under pressure from the (BJP-led NDA) government,” Patole asked. In 2017, Patole had resigned as BJP MP after raising a banner of revolt against Modi. “Compared with the rates during the UPA government, the prices of fuel are nearly double now in the seven years of BJP rule… At that time all these celebs spoke out against the government, but now they are scared of the BJP and are keeping mum,” Patole said. “The UPA Government was a democratic and constitutional administration, that is why Bachchan and Kumar and many other celebs were raising their voice without fear against it. Today, when they are expected to speak out, they have become puppets of the BJP,” alleged Patole. The actors had tweeted when petrol prices increased during the erstwhile Congress-led UPA regime under Dr Manmohan Singh. “The celebrities no longer talk about or speak out against inflation, spiralling fuel prices, atrocities against farmers and other sections of society though people from all over the world have tweeted and have backed the farmers of India,” he said. “These Indian celebs remained quiet even though the BJP and its IT Cell denounced the farmers' protests, labelling them as terrorists, Khalistanis, Maoists, etc. But at the behest of the BJP and its IT Cell, many celebrities resorted to anti-farmer tweets. Have the celebs become mere ‘parrots’ of the IT Cell...?” Patole asked. Soon after Patole’s statement, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said: “Some people make statements for publicity.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nana-patole-threatens-to-stop-shoot-of-akshay-kumar-amitabh-bachchans-movies-over-their-silence-on-fuel-price-rise-952657.html
18-02-2021||National||PM Modi calls for Covid-19 vaccine data sharing as exports increase||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday urged neighbouring countries to consider sharing data on the effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccines and explore special visas for medics to move around the region during health emergencies. As the dominant power in and around South Asia, and with the capacity to be the world's top maker of Covid-19 shots, India has gifted or sold more than 17 million doses to countries including Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and the Maldives. Indian companies have promised to produce billions of Covid-19 shots this year alone. Some analysts say India's high-profile vaccine diplomacy could help it win back strategic influence lost to richer rival China in many smaller countries in the region. "Can we consider creating a special visa scheme for our doctors and nurses, so that they can travel quickly within our region during health emergencies, on the request of the receiving country?" India, the world's biggest overall vaccine producer, has approved for emergency use Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine developed with the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research, and another licensed from AstraZeneca and Oxford University. The Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's biggest vaccine maker, is producing the AstraZeneca product for low and middle-income countries and will soon start bulk-manufacturing the Novavax shot. Several other vaccines are in the pipeline in India, which has supplied mainly SII-made shots to 25 countries with plans to add 49 more. It has also promised to gift 2,00,000 doses to UN peacekeepers around the world. India has reported about 11 million Covid-19 infections and more than 1,56,000 deaths. It has administered nearly 9.5 million vaccine doses since mid-January, although some Indians have criticised its focus on exports when they say more needs to be done to inoculate at home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-calls-for-covid-19-vaccine-data-sharing-as-exports-increase-952661.html
18-02-2021||National||Proof that protest not limited to Punjab and Haryana: Farmers on 'rail roko'||With farmers on Thursday blocking railway tracks across the country, at stations big and small, protesters at Singhu said it proves that the agitation is not just limited to Punjab and Haryana. "The government has constantly been saying that the protest against the three farm laws is being staged by the farmers of just two states, Punjab and Haryana, but the rail roko andolan shows that the government is wrong. "Farmers from so many states have participated. That is why it was important for us to protest on the railway tracks. Like the railways that has a nationwide network, our protest is also happening across the country," Krantikari Kisan Union's Gurdaspur district president Bhajan Singh said. Besides multiple railway stations across Punjab and Haryana, the "rail roko" protest was also staged at different places in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka, among others. According to another farmer leader, Amrik Singh, it was one of the many ways the protesters wanted to show their strength to the government. "The three laws need to be repealed and the Samyukt Kisan Morcha is trying to put pressure on the government from every angle. But we have been protesting peacefully and will continue to do so," the Jalandhar state unit president of the BKU (Kadia), said. He added that the "rail roko" event was limited to four hours because the farmers "only wanted to send a message to the government and not inconvenience the public". "We do not want to create problems for the passengers. We only want the government to accept our demands, so that they can also sleep peacefully and we can return home to our families," he said. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi's borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed their apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. Many farmers at the Singhu border protest site said their family members were sitting on railway tracks back in their villages. "Through today's event, the entire country is awakening. It shows that our demand is the country's demand. We are positive that we will resolve this, whether it takes two months or four," Jairam Singh from Punjab's Hoshiarpur said. He said while he had come all the way to Singhu to join the agitation, his family members, including his wife and brother, were sitting on railway tracks back in Desuya. Aman Sahota and Vivek Syal, also from Hoshiarpur, shared similar stories of family members participating in the "rail roko" event back home in Tanda and Jalandhar. "We will be peaceful, but we will protest. Nothing can stop us," Sahota said. Asked about the challenges of continuing with the protest in the impending summer heat, he said arrangements for generators and air-coolers are being made. "Heat is a very small factor, especially when there is a threat to our basic survival. These laws impact our ability to feed ourselves. "We are prepared to face the Delhi heat too. Arrangements for 10,000 air-coolers and generators to run those are being made. We are not moving from here unless the three laws are taken back," Sahota said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/proof-that-protest-not-limited-to-punjab-and-haryana-farmers-on-rail-roko-952663.html
18-02-2021||National||UP govt crushing honour of women: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday alleged that the Uttar Pradesh government is not only suppressing the Dalit society but is also crushing the honour and human rights of women in the state. Her comments came after the bodies of two minor Dalit girls were found in a field in Unnao on Wednesday. Another girl is undergoing treatment at a hospital. The three girls were found in the filed in the evening by the villagers when they did not return after they left their house to bring fodder for the cattle, the police said. "The UP government is not only crushing Dalit society, but also the honour and human rights of women. But they should remember that I and the entire Congress party will stand as the voice of victims and will endeavour to get them justice," she said in a tweet in Hindi. She also used the hashtag "Save_Unnao_Ki_Beti" with her tweet. A panel of three doctors on Thursday performed the autopsy of the two Dalit girls who were found dead and the report is awaited, police said on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-govt-crushing-honour-of-women-priyanka-gandhi-952665.html
18-02-2021||National||Weekend lockdown in Maharashtra's Amravati to curb Covid-19 cases||In view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the district administration on Thursday announced a weekend lockdown in Amravati, from 8 pm on Saturday to 7 am on Monday, a period during which markets and other establishments will remain shut. However, essential services will remain unaffected, it said. Collector Shailesh Naval said on weekdays, all establishments, including hotels and restaurants, would stay open only till 8 pm (from earlier 10 pm). "In view of a spurt in Covid-19 cases, I have decided to impose a weekend lockdown in the district. To avoid any stricter lockdown in the future, I appeal to people to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour," Naval said. He said during the weekend lockdown all markets and other establishments will remain shut. "Swimming pools and indoor games, too, will remain closed, while only five people will be allowed at religious ceremonies," he said. Of late, Maharashtra has been witnessing a steady rise in Covid-19 cases. The state reported 4,787 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest one-day count in more than two months. Among districts, Amravati reported 230 cases on Wednesday, a sharp rise from 82 infections registered on Tuesday. A few other districts in the Vidarbha region have also registered a steady rise in Covid-19 cases in recent weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/weekend-lockdown-in-maharashtras-amravati-to-curb-covid-19-cases-952671.html
18-02-2021||National||Puducherry Lt Guv orders assembly floor test on Feb 22||Hours after assuming charge, Puducherry Lt. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Thursday directed Chief Minister V Narayanasamy to prove his majority on the floor of the assembly on February 22, following resignation of four Congress MLAs in the past few weeks. Soundararajan, the Telangana Governor who assumed additional charge and was sworn-in as Lt. Governor on Thursday morning, received a delegation from the Opposition in the afternoon. A few hours later, the L-G Secretariat issued a detailed statement announcing that Soundararajan has directed Narayanasamy to prove his majority by 5 pm on February 22. The direction came after the Opposition parties – N R Congress, AIADMK, and BJP, which has three nominated members in the House – demanded that a floor test be ordered contending that Narayanasamy has lost majority. Taking the three nominated members into account, the strength of the assembly is 33, and with the resignation of four MLAs, and one being disqualified, the ruling and Opposition are on par with 14 seats each. Most likely, the UT might go in for a brief spell of President's rule if Narayanasamy is not able to prove his majority. “The session of the Legislative Assembly shall be summoned on Monday, February 22, 2021. The meeting to be convened in pursuance of (i) above shall be confined to a single agenda, namely whether the government of the incumbent Chief Minister continues to enjoy the confidence of the House,” the L-G Secretariat said in a statement. It further said Soundararajan has ordered that the majority will be decided in the form of “show of hands”, and video graphing of the entire proceedings. “The floor test shall be concluded by 5.00 pm on 22.02.2021 and the proceedings shall not be adjourned/delayed or suspended at any cost,” the statement said. It would be a herculean task for Narayanasamy to prove his majority, leaving things wide open. Two of the four MLAs who had quit Congress have joined the BJP, giving strength to the party that has hardly any base in the Union Territory. The MLAs blamed Narayanasamy's "unilateral" functioning for their decision. Tamilisai was given additional charge following removal of Bedi, who has had a running battle with Narayanasamy for about five years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puducherry-lt-guv-orders-assembly-floor-test-on-feb-22-952679.html
18-02-2021||National||Negligible impact of rail roko call on train services: Railways||There was negligible or minimal impact on railway services due to the rail roko agitation called by farmer groups on Thursday, a spokesperson for the national transporter said. He said the majority of the zonal railways reported no incident due to the protest. "The rail roko agitation passed off without any untoward incident. There was negligible or minimal impact on running of the trains across the country. Train movement in all the zones is normal now," the spokesperson said. "Majority of the zones have reported not a single case of any stoppage of train by the agitators. Few trains were stopped in some areas of some Railway zones but now train operation is normal and trains are being operated smoothly. While dealing with the Rail roko agitation, utmost patience was exercised by all concerned," he said. Earlier, around 25 trains were regulated by the Railways on account of the agitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/negligible-impact-of-rail-roko-call-on-train-services-railways-952680.html
18-02-2021||National||Republic Day clash | Khalistan outfit's $2.5 lakh bounty call contributed to Red Fort violence, say Delhi Police||The banned Khalistani organisation Sikhs for Justice's call for waving a secessionist flag at the India Gate on Republic Day and a reward of USD 2.5 lakh it announced "contributed to the violence" during the tractor rally by farmers, the Delhi Police has claimed in its FIR on the 'toolkit' case. It also claimed that there was a call for "economic warfare against India and certain Indian companies" in the toolkit and that the violence during the tractor rally was a "pre-planned conspiracy". The FIR was filed on February 4 on the basis of social media monitoring by the Cyber Crime Cell of Delhi Police's Special Cell, which claimed that investigators stumbled upon the 'toolkit' accidentally tweeted by Swedish teen activist Greta Thunberg, who deleted it later. Investigators claimed it was Bengaluru youth activist Disha Ravi who shared the toolkit with Thunberg and arrested her last Sunday, accusing her to be "one of the key conspirators" of formulating and disseminating the toolkit, which was a "detailed plan of a large conspiracy to wage economic social, cultural and regional war against India". Disha and others, including lawyer Nikita Jacob and engineer Shantanu Muluk whom police allege are the former's associates, have denied any wrongdoing. In its attempt to build its case and link Disha, Nikita and Shantanu with the larger conspiracy, the FIR goes on to claim that the contents of the toolkit makes it clear that the violence on January 26 in ITO, Nangloi and Red Fort was a "pre-planned conspiracy meant to India's sovereignty and integrity, security of the State and public order". "It is pertinent to mention that the secessionist banned organization, Sikhs for Justice, based in the US, had declared a reward of US 2.50 lakh for waving secessionist flat at the India Gate on Republic Day, which also contributed to the violence which happened as a result of the tractor rally," it claimed. However, no secessionist flag was waved at India Gate or at Red Fort during the protest. The rally was initially agreed to by the farmers union as a peaceful march but turned violence as a result of the "instigation by elements" behind the 'toolkit', the FIR further claimed. It went on to add, "the secessionist organizations that strongly advocates the secession of Punjab from India as Khalistan, has not only been pushing its agenda in the grab of farmers protests but also instigating people by offering monetary rewards and circulating unlawful material on social media to cause violence that would undermine the sovereignty and integrity of the nation and would be detrimental to public order." According to the FIR, the toolkit contained actions to be taken before and after January 26, which included organising protests near Indian embassies. It claimed that the toolkit was promoting campaign material by Poetic Justice Foundation (PJF), which police claimed is a pro-Khalistani outfit. Nikita and Shantanu are accused of being part of a Zoom meeting organised by PJF on preparing the toolkit. The toolkit also contained action plans for February 4 as well as for February 13-14 and February 21-26. "There is a call for economic warfare against India and certain Indian companies. Their assets in India and outside are to be made targets for physical as well as coordinated actions," the FIR claimed. It also added that there was a call to target Indian symbols like yoga and tea while emphasising that certain regions in India should be targeted to ""instigate enmity and divide".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/republic-day-clash-khalistan-outfits-25-lakh-bounty-call-contributed-to-red-fort-violence-say-delhi-police-952681.html
18-02-2021||National||Collaboration in fighting Covid-19 valuable takeaway: PM Modi at workshop with 10 nations||Citing the region's collaborative effort to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday called for greater integration among South Asia and the Indian Ocean island countries to deal with their challenges. "If the 21st century is to be the Asian century, it can not be so without greater integration among the countries of South Asia and the Indian Ocean islands. The spirit of regional solidarity shown during the pandemic has proven that such integration is possible," he said at a workshop on "Covid-19 Management: Experience, Good Practices and Way Forward" with 10 neighbouring countries, including those in the extended neighbourhood. In his virtual address, Modi said the spirit of collaboration among these countries is a valuable takeaway from this pandemic and pitched for a similar cooperation in the ongoing deployment of vaccine. "Through our openness and determination, we have managed to achieve one of the lowest fatality rates in the world. Today, the hopes of our region and the world are focused on rapid deployment of vaccines. In this too, we must maintain the same cooperative and collaborative spirit," he said. Addressing representatives of these countries, he said their cooperation in health has already achieved so much since the pandemic's outbreak and asked if they can raise their ambition further. The prime minister then offered some suggestions, including creating a special visa scheme for the region's doctors and nurses so that they can travel quickly within it during health emergencies on the request of the receiving country. He also wondered if civil aviation ministries of these countries coordinate a regional air ambulance agreement for medical contingencies. "Can we create a regional platform for collating, compiling and studying data about the effectiveness of Covid-19 vaccines among our populations? Can we similarly create a regional network for promoting technology-assisted epidemiology, for preventing future pandemics?" Modi said. Modi asked if these countries can share their successful public health policies and schemes beyond Covid-19 and offered Ayushman Bharat, a health insurance cover for the poor, and Jan Arogya scheme, under which medicines are sold at affordable rates, as case studies from India for its friends in the region. "Such collaboration can become the pathway for greater regional cooperation among us in other areas too. After all, we share so many common challenges – climate change, natural disasters, poverty, illiteracy, and social and gender imbalances. But we also share the power of centuries' old cultural and people-to-people linkages," he said. Modi asserted that if the countries focus on all that unites them, then the region can overcome not only the present pandemic but its other challenges too. Noting that experts had voiced concerns about the dangers the densely-populated region faced following the Covid-19 outbreak, he said it met this challenge from the very beginning with a coordinated response. In March last year, the region's countries were the first to come together for recognising the threat and committing to fight it together, and many other regions and groups followed our early example, he said. "We created the Covid-19 Emergency Response Fund to meet the immediate costs of fighting the pandemic. We shared our resources, medicines, PPE, and testing equipment. And, above all, we shared the most valuable commodity: knowledge, through collaborative training of our health workers," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/collaboration-in-fighting-covid-19-valuable-takeaway-pm-modi-at-workshop-with-10-nations-952683.html
18-02-2021||National||Outsiders will have to return after West Bengal Assembly polls: Abhishek Banerjee||Hinting at BJP leaders visiting the state from other states before the West Bengal Assembly election, the president of All India Trinamool Youth Congress Abhishek Banerjee Thursday said that "outsiders" will have to return after the state Assembly poll. Banerjee was speaking at a TMC rally at Pailan in South 24 Parganas district where Union Home Minister Amit Shah was on a visit during the day to flag off the fifth and last 'rathayatra' of BJP before the state election due in April-May. The BJP had failed to make any dent in the district though it had emerged as the main opposition in the state after the 2019 Lok Sabha poll. The ruling Trinamool Congress has often referred to BJP leaders from other states as "outsiders". "Those coming here are not aware of the unique culture of Bengal but are making promises of making the state Sonar Bangla (prosperous Bengal). Our leader Mamata Banerjee will score a hattrick this time and outsiders will have to return yet again. It is a matter of time," Banerjee, who is the nephew of the chief minister, said. TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee will seek to be returned to power for the third consecutive time in the coming poll. "Why can't they (BJP) make Sonar Uttar Pradesh, Sonar Rajasthan or a Sonar Haryana. I urge the people of West Bengal not to fall prey to their false campaign. The people must make sure that communal forces don't raise their ugly heads in the state", he said. Referring to the exodus from TMC, including ministers, Banerjee said that BJP has reached such a state that it was poaching leaders from the party to fight the state poll. "We will fight the saffron party tooth and nail. I am sure Trinamool Congress will get not less than 250 seats in the polls. The fight is to protect Bengal's rich culture," he asserted. West Bengal has a total of 294 seats in the Assembly. Referring to the state government's health scheme 'Swasthya Sathi', he claimed that nearly ten crore people in the state have been given the cards to avail benefits under it. The scheme, which was launched in 2016, was expanded by the TMC government in November 2020 to cover the entire population of the state and has a basic health cover for secondary and tertiary care up to Rs 5 lakh per annum per family. The state government will fund the scheme. "On the other hand, Ayushman Bharat health scheme (of the Centre) is not for all. Those having scooters or smartphones are not eligible for it. But Swasthya Sathi card is for all - no exclusions", the TMC MP said. Even West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh's family members have opted for the Swasthya Sathi card, he claimed. Banerjee criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for promising the people before the 2014 general election that every person's bank account will be credited with Rs 15 lakh and assuring two crore employments per year. "How many jobs have been created in the last seven years (since 2014)?" he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/outsiders-will-have-to-return-after-west-bengal-assembly-polls-abhishek-banerjee-952689.html
18-02-2021||National||Shringla holds 'productive' meeting with Russia's Deputy Foreign Minister||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla held a "productive" meeting with Russia's Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Ryabkov on Thursday during which the two sides exchanged views on a number of issues concerning regional and global security. Shringla, who arrived in Moscow on his first foreign trip this year, also briefed Ryabkov about India's priorities during its BRICS chairmanship in 2021. "FS @harshvshringla had a productive meeting with Deputy Foreign Minister H.E. Mr Sergey Ryabkov during which the two sides exchanged views on a number of issues concerning regional and global security," the Indian embassy here tweeted. India assumed the rotating Chairmanship of five-nation BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) in 2021. This is the third BRICS Presidency for India since its inception (after 2012 and 2016). On Wednesday, Shringla had "fruitful and productive" meetings with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov during which they discussed bilateral issues as well as regional and global issues of mutual interest. The two sides also discussed ways to further strengthen the bilateral Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership. Shringla also paid floral tributes at the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in the premises of the Indian embassy on Thursday. Earlier in the day, Shringla exchanged views with leading Russian academics and strategic thinkers on the India-Russia relationship in view of the fast-changing geopolitical landscape. Shringla highlighted the unique nature of India's close and trust-based partnership with Russia, as he called for greater interaction among the think tanks and strategic affairs analysts of the two nations in line with their strong comprehensive bilateral cooperation. "Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla called for greater interaction among the think tanks and strategic affairs analysts of #India and #Russia in line with our strong comprehensive bilateral cooperation," the Indian embassy tweeted. "Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla exchanged views with leading Russian academics and strategic thinkers on #India-#Russia relationship in view of the fast-changing geopolitical landscape. FS highlighted the unique nature of our close and trust-based partnership with Russia," the mission said. Speaking at the Russian Diplomatic Academy on Wednesday, Shringla said: "I had excellent meetings at the Russian Foreign Ministry, with Mr Morgulov, where we reviewed our bilateral relations, including forthcoming high-level exchanges." "We also discussed India-Russia cooperation in multilateral forums and exchanged views on issues of regional and international importance," he said. During Shringla's meeting with Foreign Minister Lavrov, he conveyed greetings of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar. "I just called on Mr Lavrov and it was an opportunity to listen to him. He spoke on Russia India relations, that it is very close, very special, very privileged, and strategic, so these were his words and for me, this was very instructive to listen to a personality like him. "Given the significance, we attach to the India-Russia Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership, it is only fitting that Moscow is the destination for my first visit abroad in2021," he said. In his address to the budding diplomats of the Diplomatic Academy, the foreign secretary emphasised that a multipolar world and multipolar Asia are not possible without India and Russia. Shringla’s two-day official visit will add momentum to the India-Russia special and privileged strategic partnership and exchange views on topical issues of regional and international importance. The trip is also expected to lay the groundwork regarding the high-level bilateral visits planned for this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shringla-holds-productive-meeting-with-russias-deputy-foreign-minister-952696.html
18-02-2021||National||After victory in Punjab civic polls, Congress launches 'Captain for 2022'||Buoyed by the victories in civic polls, Congress on Thursday virtually launched the campaign for the Assembly elections next year with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh as its face. In the civic polls results declared on Wednesday, Congress wrested 1,199 of the 1,815 municipal wards and 281 out of the 350 municipal corporation seats relegating rival Akali Dal to a distant second position. “The victory in the civic elections is a decisive vote against the farm policies pursued by the BJP government at the Centre,” AICC general secretary (in-charge of Punjab) Harish Rawat told DH. He said “no doubt the Assembly elections in the state will be contested with Amarinder Singh as the face of the Congress party. The state Congress, under the leadership of PCC chief Sunil Jakhar, launched the ‘Captain for 2022’ campaign describing the chief minister as the “undisputed leader” of the state. “The message is clear that people have voted for the chief minister. The result will serve as a launchpad for Captain Amarinder Singh as the CM face in 2022,” Jakhar said. “Captain Amarinder Singh has emerged as the real captain and undisputed leader of the state leading Congress party from the front and steering it to victory in every electoral battle since 2017,” senior leader and state minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said. The Congress won a clear majority in six of the seven corporations, including in Bhatinda, considered to be a bastion of the Akali Dal and in the Gurdaspur-Pathankot region which is a stronghold of the BJP. Amarinder-led Congress had ousted the 10-year-old Akali Dal-BJP government in 2017 by winning a two-thirds majority. He completes four years in the saddle next month and the civic polls win has proved to be a perfect launchpad for the party’s campaign for next year’s Assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-victory-in-punjab-civic-polls-congress-launches-captain-for-2022-952699.html
18-02-2021||National||Gradation of trees important to protect those which benefit from environment: SC to form expert panel||The Supreme Court on Thursday indicated to form an experts panel to lay down guidelines for cutting of trees for various projects, saying gradation of trees is important to protect those which benefit the environment. The court said it is essential to develop a policy focusing on the gradation of trees to formulate category of trees which can be cut down and which required protection throughout its lifespan. "We want to lay some guidelines a kind of cognitive pathway so that thinking takes place along those lines. The cost of the project to include, the value of the tree or its contribution to the environment. Trees of a certain type and certain age shall never be cut down," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said felling trees for developmental projects was a serious environmental issue. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the Association for Protection of Democratic Rights (APDR), cited two verdicts of the top court emphasising appointment of an independent environmental regulator. “We want to ask an expert, which trees are most beneficial to the environment, the one’s having ability to bind the soil," the bench said. The bench said the court is keen to have more information from an expert on certain species of trees and the age it reaches. The bench asked the Centre’s counsel and other parties in the matter to suggest some expert for this task.   The court was hearing a plea, related to felling of 356 trees, which includes several heritage trees, for construction of five railway over bridges on NH 35 in West Bengal. During the hearing, the court said the government has to explore other possibilities before coming to the conclusion of cutting trees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gradation-of-trees-important-to-protect-those-which-benefit-from-environment-sc-to-form-expert-panel-952705.html
18-02-2021||National||India stands on threshold of vaccinating each and every Indian against Covid-19: Harsh Vardhan||India stands on the threshold of vaccinating each and every Indian against Covid-19, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday, underlining that the country is looking towards a speedy and prudent return to normalcy while undertaking strategies to balance both health and economic stability of the nation. Addressing a workshop on 'Covid-19 Management: Experience, Good Practices and Way Forward', Vardhan said despite many constraints, India managed to keep its case per million figure as well as the number of deaths at the lowest level across the world. "The strength of India was that it adopted a 'whole of government' and 'whole of society' approach. A nation of 1.35 billion people exhibited the strength and determination to diligently follow the stringent containment guidelines imposed by the government," Vardhan said. "Today, India stands at another threshold of vaccinating each and every Indian against this dreaded disease. We have commenced the world's largest vaccination drive and I'm proud to say that to date, India has managed to vaccinate more than 8.8 million people," he said. "We are now looking towards a speedy and prudent return to normalcy, whilst undertaking strategies to balance both the health and economic stability of the country," the minister said. Vardhan said India as a nation is already providing thought leadership to the entire world in the sphere of public health, engaging in partnerships where joint action is needed, shaping the research agenda, and stimulating the dissemination of valuable knowledge. "We believe in the principle that the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of health is one of the fundamental rights of every human being without distinction of race, religion, political belief, economic or social condition," he said. "Our unique initiative of 'Vaccine Maitri', which means Vaccine Friendship, was launched because India's foreign policy is governed by its age-old maxim of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam-The World is One Family," Vardhan added. Health Secretaries and Technical Heads of Covid-19 management programme of India and nine neighbouring countries -- Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Mauritius, Nepal, Pakistan, Seychelles and Sri Lanka -- took part in the workshop. Prime Minister Narendra Modi delivered the inaugural address to the participants at the workshop.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-stands-on-threshold-of-vaccinating-each-and-every-indian-against-covid-19-harsh-vardhan-952710.html
18-02-2021||National||Feeling petrol price pinch? Get your tank full in Nepal||With fuel prices rising to record high, commoners living on Bihar-Nepal border have found a new way to get some relief from spike in prices of petrol and diesel. They are reportedly travelling to the Himalayan Kingdom through porous borders to get fuel, which is approximately Rs 23 less than what it is in India. Incidentally, most of the petrol pump outlets in Nepal are run by Indian Oil Corporation (IOC). As of today (February 18), the petrol price in Bihar’s Araria district is Rs 93.50. While in bordering Nepal, the same fuel is available for Rs 70.62 (the sharp difference is due to tax structure in both the countries). Taking advantage of the situation, some miscreants have started smuggling fuel too. According to reports from remote areas in Bihar, those residing in Araria, Jogbani and Forbesganj cross over to Nepal (through multiple porous borders) and bring in surplus fuel in their vehicle or tank/container and sell it at a premium price to small retailers in India. The DIG of Shashastra Seema Bal (SSB) SK Sarangi has asked his officials to maintain a strict vigil on the borders so that there is no smuggling of petrol or diesel from the neighbouring nation. “We have asked all the officers-in-charge of police station concerned to get in touch with SSB officials and patrol border areas so that people do not indulge in unscrupulous practice of smuggling fuel,” said Kumar Ashish, Superintendent of Police (SP) of Bihar’s Kishanganj district, which too shares border with Nepal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/feeling-petrol-price-pinch-get-your-tank-full-in-nepal-952713.html
18-02-2021||National||India visa curbs for Chinese workers hurting Taiwan tech giants||By Shruti Srivastava and Sudhi Ranjan Sen, Geopolitical tensions between India and China are beginning to hurt some of Taiwan’s biggest technology companies, including suppliers to Apple Inc. and hindering New Delhi’s much-vaunted incentive program for electronics manufacturing. India has been slow to issue visas to Chinese engineers, who are needed to help Taiwanese companies set up factories in the South Asian nation, people with knowledge of the matter said. India is also nudging companies to opt for the more difficult to obtain employment permits, they added, asking not to be identified discussing a private matter. The wrangling may delay Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s plan to bolster India’s manufacturing capacity and deter overseas investors, who invested $30 billion in the six months to September, with the maximum foreign direct investment flowing in the computer hardware and software sector. The companies are looking to India to diversify their supply chains. Modi has banned hundreds of Chinese apps and slowed approvals for Chinese investment after a deadly clash along the disputed border between the two neighbours left 20 Indian and an unknown number of Chinese soldiers dead. Last year, companies such as iPhone assemblers -- Foxconn Technology Group, Pegatron Corp., and Wistron Corp. -- along with many others pledged $1.5 billion to set up mobile-phone plants in India after the Modi government offered them specially-designed incentives to manufacture their products locally for global export. The move was also expected to shift supply lines to India from China. Visas are an important resource to help expand domestic manufacturing and the “government has to balance its existing policies with the genuine and short-term requirements of technical manpower for setting up new factories,” said Pankaj Mohindroo, chairman of the India Cellular and Electronics Association. “We are hopeful that this issue will be addressed soon to everyone’s satisfaction soon.” As tensions with China escalated along their Himalayan border over the summer last year, New Delhi stepped up curbs on Chinese activity in the country, adding extra scrutiny for visas for Chinese businessmen, academics, industry experts, and advocacy groups. The measures are similar to those that have long been employed with arch-rival and neighbour Pakistan. Apart from the delays in granting visas the Indian government has indicated a preference for issuing employment visas instead of business visas for people required to set up the production lines that are being imported by companies, the people said. Employment visas typically require more paperwork and background checks from India’s home ministry, and could therefore be the reason for India’s insistence. Business visas are also shorter duration. Companies have balked at the employment permits because it increases costs. It will also lead to double taxation for engineers and technicians since they will continue to be employed by their respective companies in China. Skilled professionals and experts are also needed for training and guidance on machines that are being installed for the first time in the country along with specialists to monitor the entire process. The development comes at a time when New Delhi is under pressure to boost growth in Asia’s third-largest economy which is set for its worst annual contraction since 1952 with millions losing their jobs and being pushed into poverty due to the pandemic. The incentive program for mobile-makers alone envisages the production of smartphones worth 10.5 trillion rupees and exports of 6.5 trillion rupees over the next five years. It is likely to create over 800,000 jobs. The New Delhi-based Taipei Economic Cultural Center and spokespersons for the department of industry, the Ministry of Home Affairs and the foreign ministry did not immediately comment on the matter. China’s Foreign Ministry also didn’t immediately reply to a request for comment. Wistron and Pegatron declined to comment while Foxconn did not respond to emailed questions. India and China have begun pulling back their troops from a part of their disputed border after several rounds of military and diplomatic talks. However, disengagement of troops from other contentious areas along the unmarked border is yet to happen.   (With assistance from Saritha Rai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-visa-curbs-for-chinese-workers-hurting-taiwan-tech-giants-952732.html
18-02-2021||National||100 million workers in eight of world's largest economies including India may need to switch job by 2030||By Lucy Meakin,Over 100 million workers in eight of the world’s largest economies may need to switch occupation by 2030 as the Covid-19 pandemic accelerates changes to the labor force, according to research by McKinsey & Co. One in 16 workers in China, France, Germany, India, Japan, Spain, the UK and US will likely need to change profession, a report published Thursday found. The less educated, women, ethnic minorities and young people will be most affected and, for many, it will mean retraining to seek work in higher-skilled roles as the share of employment in low-wage occupations declines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/100-million-workers-in-eight-of-worlds-largest-economies-including-india-may-need-to-switch-job-by-2030-952734.html
18-02-2021||National||From the Newsroom: 'Metroman' E Sreedharan to join BJP; China says LAC disengagement process progressing smoothly||In your evening news brief, 'Metroman' E Sreedharan is set to join BJP and may even contest the upcoming Assembly elections in Kerala; Novak Djokovic enters Australian Open finals and China says the disengagement process was progressing smoothly.  Hi, you are listening to From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald. Here is the top news of February 18, 2021: In an impetus to the BJP in Kerala, E Sreedharan, popularly known as 'Metroman', decided to join BJP. Sreedharan told a section of media that both the CPM-led Left Democratic Front and the Congress-led United Democratic Front that had been ruling Kerala over these years are only interested in political gains. He is hopeful that only the BJP-led NDA could initiate steps for Kerala's development. Hence, he decided to work with BJP, he said. Sreedharan, who is now 89, may also contest in the upcoming Assembly elections. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- World number one Novak Djokovic ended the dream run of Russian qualifier Aslan Karatsev in the Australian Open semi-finals Thursday, maintaining his bid for a record-extending ninth title. The 33-year-old Serb, showing no ill-effects from an abdomen injury sustained in the third round, overwhelmed the 114th-ranked Karatsev 6-3, 6-4 6-2 to reach his 28th Grand Slam final. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- China on Thursday said the disengagement process of the Chinese and Indian frontline troops at the eastern Ladakh border was progressing smoothly and expressed hope that both sides will make concerted efforts to achieve the goal. On February 10, China's Defence Ministry spokesman Senior Colonel Wu Qian in a brief press release announced that the Chinese and Indian frontline troops at the South and North banks of the Pangong lake in eastern Ladakh started synchronised and organised disengagement. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Source: DHNS/ PTI/ AFP -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   That is it today, From the Newsroom. Tune in tomorrow morning for our feature show, The Lead. If you liked this show, please share this podcast with your friends, family and on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-metroman-e-sreedharan-to-join-bjp-china-says-lac-disengagement-process-progressing-smoothly-952738.html
18-02-2021||National||Vote for BJP: Gujarat CM's appeal to people from hospital bed||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, who is undergoing treatment for coronavirus, has appealed to the people from the hospital bed to vote for the BJP in the upcoming polls to six municipal corporations. Rupani tested positive for coronavirus on February 15, a day after fainting at a poll rally in Vadodara. Since then, he has been undergoing treatment at U N Mehta Heart Hospital here. In a video message, Rupani urged the urban voters to support the BJP and re-elect the party to power in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Rajkot, Bhavnagar and Jamnagar, where polling will be held on February 21. "Election is a festival and voting is a pious duty of all the citizens. I am confident that you will come out in large numbers and vote in favour of BJP on February 21. With your blessings and prayers, my health is also improving," the CM said. "People have been putting their trust in the BJP since many years now. I am sure that you will once again support the BJP this time too. For us, power is a medium to serve the people. Our aim is to put our cities on the world map. I assure you that my government will not let you down," he added. Elections to six municipal corporations in Gujarat will take place on February 21, while polling for 81 municipalities, 31 district panchayats and 231 taluka panchayats is scheduled to be held on February 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vote-for-bjp-gujarat-cms-appeal-to-people-from-hospital-bed-952749.html
18-02-2021||National||Students protest demanding reopening of DU campus, resumption of offline classes||Members of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on Thursday held a protest march calling for the reopening of the Delhi University and resumption of offline classes. The protesting students also demanded for the right to choose between online and offline modes for their term-end examinations, reopening of all libraries for a period of at least 12 hours everyday, and reopening of all undergraduate and postgraduate hostels along with the prompt release of centralised PG hostel admission forms. A delegation of ABVP office-bearers called on the proctor and the dean, students welfare and presented a memorandum of grievances. The university officials assured that the existing hostel residents could continue to stay in the hostels as guests while appropriate arrangements for the permanent stay of first year students will be made after the conclusion of their term-end examinations in March, the ABVP said in a statement. "Furthermore, the library timings would be extended, e-library facility would come into being from the first week of March and the second phase of the campus reopening process, already underway in the present month, would also be completed by March," it said. The delegation also demanded for declaration of pending end-semester examination results, a one-time additional opportunity for ex-students to appear in qualifying examinations to secure their respective educational degrees and a reduced police presence within the campus. "...failing which the ABVP will conduct a gherao of the local police station to register its dissatisfaction with the peremptory and abusive behaviour of the police officials. The proctor assured that the university administration will consult the concerned police officials and the grievances would be promptly redressed," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/students-protest-demanding-reopening-of-du-campus-resumption-of-offline-classes-952752.html
18-02-2021||National||Doubling of South Western Railway tracks will be a game-changer for Goa: CM Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday said the South Western Railway track-doubling project, spread across Goa and Karnataka, would be a game-changer for the tourism industry and passenger traffic while arguing that project's critics were wrong about claiming that the project would be used largely for coal transportation. The chief minister, who is expected to conduct a high-level meeting with officials of the Goa government and the South Western Railways next week, also said new technology would be used to reduce the pollution caused by coal transportation along the rail tracks currently. "Yes, coal is being transported along the track for now, but we are looking to minimise it and use technology for reducing pollution. It will be a game-changer," Sawant told reporters in Margao town. "The South Western Railway (SWR) double-tracking is not for coal transportation. It is for passengers and tourism," Sawant also said. "Yes, coal is being transported along the track for now, but we are looking to minimise it and use technology for reducing pollution. It will be a game-changer," the chief minister said. SWR's rail track doubling project from Castle Rock railway station in Karnataka to the Tinai ghat railway station in Goa is one of the three projects being opposed by Opposition parties and civil society groups, claiming the projects would lead to the axing of nearly 50,000 trees in the reserved forests in and around Mollem village in South Goa. The opposition to the projects also stems from the argument put forth by critics, that the doubling tracking of railway tracks and expansion of the National Highway 4 would lead to increased transportation of coal imported to the Mormugao Port Trust in South Goa to steel mills in Karnataka's Bellary region. The entire track doubling project stretches over a tract of 342 km out of which a 90 kms stretch is located in Goa. Out of the 90 km stretch, the SWR has managed to complete double tracking along only 7 km in the state, in wake of the prolonged protests. SWR officials have also maintained that the track doubling was not being carried out to exclusively facilitate coal transport, but also to enhance passenger, logistics and military transport capabilities along the sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doubling-of-south-western-railway-tracks-will-be-a-game-changer-for-goa-cm-pramod-sawant-952766.html
18-02-2021||National||No proposal to hike food grains' rates under NFSA, says Union Minister Piyush Goyal||The Centre on Thursday said there was no proposal to increase the prices of food grains sold at fair price shops under the National Food Security Act. “There is no proposal before the ministry to increase the prices of foodgrains under the NFSA,” Food and Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal told reporters here. The Economic Survey, presented to Parliament on January 29, had recommended increasing the prices of foodgrains sold at fair price shops under NFSA as the food subsidy Bill had become “unmanageably large”. Under the NFSA, the Centre provides food grains at highly subsidised rates of Rs 3 per kg for rice, Rs 2 per kg for wheat and Rs 1 per kg for coarse grains through the Public Distribution System (PDS). In a bid to cut out the middlemen in the procurement of farm produce, the Centre is also pushing for reforms by introducing bio-authentication of farmers before purchasing their produce. “Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh are keen to adopt bio-authenticated procurement which will ensure transparency, tracking the end-user beneficiary,” Edwin Majhi, Additional Secretary, Department of Food and Public Distribution said. He said Uttar Pradesh has brought the comprehensive data of farmers in the states online with details such as total landholding and crops sown. “The payment for the crop procured is deposited in the bank accounts of farmers within 72 hours, thus eliminating the need for Food Corporation of India to raise loans from a consortium of banks,” Majhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-proposal-to-hike-food-grains-rates-under-nfsa-says-union-minister-piyush-goyal-952769.html
18-02-2021||National||PM Modi moots regional network for healthcare cooperation among 9 neighbouring nations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday proposed a regional air ambulance treaty, a regional platform for studying the efficacy of vaccines, and a regional network for cooperation among epidemiologists to prevent future pandemics, as India hosted a virtual workshop of health officials and experts of its nine neighbours, including Pakistan. Modi also proposed creating a special visa scheme for doctors and nurses so that they could travel quickly within the region during health emergencies like the one created during the outbreak of the SARS-CoV-2 virus around the world. India invited the health officials and experts from the nine nations in its immediate and extended neighbourhood in South Asia and the Indian Ocean region — Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Maldives, Mauritius, Nepal, Seychelles, Sri Lanka and Pakistan — to an online workshop on “Covid-19 Management: Experience, Good Practices and Way Forward”. Health secretary of the government chaired the workshop. “Over the past year, our health cooperation has already achieved so much,” the prime minister noted, wondering: “Can we now think of raising our ambition further?” He lauded the way the health systems of the countries cooperated during the pandemic and for meeting the challenge in the most densely populated region with a coordinated response. Modi suggested that the civil aviation ministers of India and its nine neighbours could work out a regional air ambulance treaty for medical contingencies. “Can we create a regional platform for collating, compiling and studying data about the effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines among our populations?,” he suggested, adding: “Can we similarly create a regional network for promoting technology-assisted epidemiology, for preventing future pandemics?” The prime minister also suggested that India and its neighbours could also share their successful public health policies and schemes even beyond the Covid-19 pandemic. “From India, our Ayushman Bharat and Jan Arogya schemes may be useful case-studies for our friends in the region,” he said. “Such collaboration can become the pathway for greater regional cooperation among us in other areas too. After all, we share so many common challenges – climate change; natural disasters, poverty, illiteracy, and social and gender imbalances.” He, however, also noted that the countries in South Asia and the Indian Ocean region shared the power of centuries-old cultural and people-to-people linkages. “If we focus on all that unites us, our region can overcome not only the present pandemic but our other challenges too.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-moots-regional-network-for-healthcare-cooperation-among-9-neighbouring-nations-952770.html
18-02-2021||National||Shringla inaugurates Indian Embassy's digital library in Russia||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Thursday inaugurated the digital and online library of the Indian Embassy to make around 4,400 books on India easily accessible to Russians. Shringla arrived in Moscow on Tuesday on his first foreign trip this year and called on Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and held wide ranging talks with Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov on Wednesday. "Foreign Secretary @harshvshringla inaugurated the Digital and Online Library of @IndEmbMoscow that makes available around 4,400 books on India in digital format for ease of access of our Russian friends," the Indian Embassy said in a tweet. On Thursday, he also exchanged views with leading Russian academics and strategic thinkers on the India-Russia relationship in view of the fast-changing geopolitical landscape. Earlier in the day, he also met with the officials of the Indian mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shringla-inaugurates-indian-embassys-digital-library-in-russia-952777.html
18-02-2021||National||Delhi HC issues notice to TV channels over Disha Ravi's plea on violating privacy||The Delhi High Court on Thursday issued notice to the News Broadcasting Standards Authority (NBSA) and some TV channels on a plea by climate activist Disha Ravi to restrain media from violating her rights to privacy and fair trial by publishing stories on alleged WhatsApp chats in the 'toolkit' case over farmer's protest. A single judge bench of Justice Pratibha Singh sought a response from TV channels News 18, India Today and Times Now after advocate Akhil Sibal, appearing for Disha, expressed concern over news reports. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Delhi police, denied any leak from them, maintaining the instant petition was filed to seek media attention. The court posted the matter for consideration on Friday. In her plea, Disha, arrested on February 13, asked the court to restrain Delhi Police from leaking any investigation material, including alleged contents of private chats and communication with the third parties. Disha contended, "She is severely aggrieved and prejudiced by the media trial surrounding her arrest and the ongoing investigation." "She is being viscerally attacked by the Delhi police and several media houses, including News 18, India Today and Times Now on the basis of leaked investigative matter and prejudicial press briefings, which is grossly violative of her right to a fair trial and presumption of innocence," her plea claimed. The plea sought directions to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to take appropriate action against a few TV channels including under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995. Disha was arrested by the Delhi police Special Cell on February 13 from Bengaluru for her alleged role in a case related to toolkit, posted online by Swedish teen activist Greta Thunberg with regard to farmers protests. She is at present in police custody. In her petition, Disha said the Union government's Information and Broadcasting Ministry, and News Broadcasting Standards Authority failed to exercise their statutory and self-regulatory powers in ensuring compliance with the Programme Code under the law and the Code of Ethics. "The leakage and dissemination of the alleged private WhatsApp chats, the ongoing disclosure of the status of the investigationand allegations as well as the subsequent biased and defamatory media reportage against her is illegal, false, malicious and severely compromises her rights to privacy, reputation, and fair trial," her petition said. She also sought a direction to take down articles related to her alleged chats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-issues-notice-to-tv-channels-over-disha-ravis-plea-on-violating-privacy-952779.html
18-02-2021||National Politics||Punjab civic polls: Opposition BJP, SAD allege Cong misused official machinery||The opposition BJP and SAD accused the Congress of misusing official machinery after it swept the civic body elections in Punjab on Wednesday. The ruling Congress won six municipal corporations and emerged as the largest party in the seventh. It also won a majority of the 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats, officials said. The polling was held on February 7, against the backdrop of the farmers' agitation over the new agri-marketing laws. Reacting to the poll outcome, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) state unit chief Ashwani Sharma said, "It was the worst day in Punjab's democracy today as the bullish power of the Congress seemed to be in full display." "The election results reflect the complete moral defeat of the Congress in the face of blatant misuse of official machinery. At more than two dozen places, Congress workers indulged in reckless violence against BJP workers while police took no action. "At numerous places, BJP candidates were denied a fair play even as we brought this to the notice of the State Election Commission time and again," he said in a statement. Sharma said the BJP would continue working for the people "undeterred by the outcome of the election". He also said the BJP would continue to uphold and popularise the development and progressive policies of the Narendra Modi government and would continue "highlighting the mafia raj of the Amarinder Singh government". The BJP's erstwhile ally SAD said the Congress party had secured a win in the municipal elections "by resorting to state-sponsored repression". "Our workers battled unprecedented repression, money bags & govt machinery & yet emerged as a force to reckon with. Writing on the wall: 2022 elections on - Congress gone," SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said in a tweet, referring to the assembly polls due in 2022. In a tweet, SAD MP from Bathinda and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal said, "Hearty congratulations to all@Akali Dal candidates, irrespective of votes, you are all winners! The results show that despite harassment, violence & booth capturing, SAD will form the govt in 2022 & those officials who indulged in malpractices should start counting their days." SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said, "The SAD has emerged as the principal opposition party in Punjab post municipal elections despite going alone for the first time, while the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had been completely eradicated in the state." The AAP is the main opposition party in the assembly. He said almost all seats witnessing a direct contest between the Congress and the SAD. "The vote share of the SAD has also increased in urban areas,” Cheema said in a statement. AAP leader and Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Harpal Singh Cheema, however, said the civic poll results "were a good sign for the party". He said that the party's base in urban areas has increased and the party's vote share has increased significantly. "This is a good sign for the party that the Aam Aadmi Party will be even stronger in the urban areas by 2022,” he added. He, however, said that the “party must have had some shortcomings in contesting the local body elections for the first time. These shortcomings will be rectified after self-assessment and work would be done to strengthen the party before the forthcoming assembly elections." The AAP leader said the farmers of Punjab “were being persecuted due to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's dictatorial attitude” and added the Centre was not listening to the demands of peasants protesting against the new farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/punjab-civic-polls-opposition-bjp-sad-allege-cong-misused-official-machinery-952495.html
18-02-2021||National Politics||PM Modi, Omani Sultan speak over phone; discuss Covid-19 cooperation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Oman's Sultan Haitham Bin Tarik spoke over phone on Wednesday and discussed the bilateral strategic partnership as well as the close cooperation during Covid-19. During the call, the Omani Sultan expressed his appreciation for the Covid-19 vaccines supplied by India to Oman. The leaders agreed to maintain close cooperation in the joint fight against the pandemic, the Prime Minister's Office said in a statement. "Spoke to HM Sultan Haitham bin Tarik of Oman. We discussed our Strategic Partnership, and our close cooperation during Covid-19. Conveyed my best wishes for one year of HM the Sultan's reign and his ‘Vision 2040’ for Oman," Modi tweeted. Spoke to HM Sultan Haitham bin Tarik of Oman. We discussed our Strategic Partnership, and our close cooperation during COVID-19. Conveyed my best wishes for one year of HM the Sultan's reign and his ‘Vision 2040’ for Oman. The leaders expressed satisfaction about the growing India-Oman cooperation in all areas including defence, health, trade and investment, the PMO said. Both leaders appreciated the role of the Indian diaspora in enhancing the economic and cultural ties between the two strategic partners, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-omani-sultan-speak-over-phone-discuss-covid-19-cooperation-952496.html
18-02-2021||National Politics||Does Modi govt still believe farm laws are popular, asks Chidambaram after Congress win in Punjab||After the Congress's victory in Punjab municipal elections, senior party leader P Chidambaram on Wednesday asked whether the Modi government still believed that farm laws are popular and only a small section of farmers of Punjab are protesting against them. "The farmers are voters. So are migrant workers, MSMEs, the unemployed and the very poor families. When it is their turn, they will vote against the BJP like the Punjab voters. "Does the Modi government still believe that the farm laws are popular and only a small 'section' of farmers of Punjab are protesting against them," he asked on Twitter. "The MEA is fast losing credibility by becoming the Ministry of Extraordinary Apologists for the government's wrong domestic policies," he also said. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also said that the anger brewing in Punjab has given a befitting reply to the BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The crop of anger and resentment brewing in the fields of Punjab has given a befitting reply to ruthlessness, sarcasm and confusion created by PM Modi and the BJP. Curse of Punjab...BJP's drop," he said in a tweet in Hindi on Punjab civil bodies polls. Surjewala also tweeted on the action of Delhi Police on the 'toolkit' issue, "Only a 'weak-kneed' government can shudder and shiver over a 'toolkit'. Only a 'lily-livered' ruler can heap 6,300 cases of 'Sedition' in 2 years. Only the 'limp-wristed' need to stifle opinion by 5,922 cases under UAPA. Stop being scared of democratic ethos of dissent-discussion." The Congress also tweeted from its official Twitter handle, "We will turn hatred into love. We will hold the hands that feed us. We will stand by every Indian. We will protect India's soul. Thank you Punjab for the massive mandate. We will deliver." The ruling Congress won six municipal corporations and emerged as the largest party in the seventh, sweeping the urban body polls in Punjab on Wednesday. The Congress won in Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, Abohar, Batala and Pathankot, in the civic polls held against the backdrop of the farmers' agitation. In Moga, it needed victories in six more wards to control the municipal corporation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/does-modi-govt-still-believe-farm-laws-are-popular-asks-chidambaram-after-congress-win-in-punjab-952500.html
18-02-2021||National Politics||West Bengal Assembly Elections | First contest against Abhishek, then me: CM Mamata challenges Amit Shah||Responding to Union Home Minister Amit Shah's repeated attacks on her nephew Abhishek Banerjee, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday challenged him to first contest against Abhishek and then think of fighting her. Referring to Shah's "Didi- bhatija" jibe, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo said that instead of just referring to Abhishek as "bhatija" (nephew), Shah should first contest against him and then take his name. "Everyday you (Shah) keep saying 'Didi-bhatija'. You can think of fighting Didi later, first you fight against Bhatija. I am challenging Amit Shah, first you contest against Abhishek Banerjee and take his name," said Mamata. She was speaking at a TMC rally at Pailan in South 24 Paraganas district. The TMC supremo dared Shah to publicly tell what Abhishek had done and said that if he failed to do so, then his son would also not be spared from corruption charges. However, the Chief Minister did not directly mention Jay Shah. Her comments came hours after Shah alleged that the TMC was only bothered about "Bhatija kalyan"( welfare of the nephew). "If you don't publicly say what Abhishek has done, then your son will also not be spared from corruption charges. You shield your son and abuse others. This can't go on.," said Mamata. "Your son (Jay Shah) is also my bhatija. How did he become a leader in cricket administration? How did he earn crores of rupees all of a  sudden?," said Mamata. She said that Abhishek was "never given any priority" in the TMC, adding that he could have taken the easy way of being elected to the Rajya Sabha but he decided to contest the Lok Sabha elections. Reacting to Shah's claim that the BJP would come to power in Bengal by winning more than 200 seats in the upcoming Assembly elections, Mamata said that the TMC would break all its previous records and would win highest number of seats in the 2021 Assembly elections. "Amit Shah, remember we will break all our records and win the highest number of seats in the Assembly elections. I will rather die than to bow down to the BJP. You can't even tackle farmers and you are talking about fighting Didi!" said Mamata. "Remember, the fight is between me and the BJP. Don't bother about who the (TMC) candidate is. I am the candidate in all the 294 Assembly seats," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-assembly-elections-first-contest-against-abhishek-then-me-cm-mamata-challenges-amit-shah-952672.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||No fresh Covid-19 death in Delhi, 3rd time single-day fatality count nil in February||No fresh death due to Covid-19 was recorded in Delhi on Wednesday, the third time single-day fatality count stood nil in February, while 134 new cases took the tally to 6,37,315, according to data shared by authorities. On February 9, no fatality from Covid-19 was registered in the national capital, first time this month, and after a gap of nearly nine months. No death from Covid-19 was recorded on Saturday as well, the second time in February when the single-day fatality count was nil. On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 134 fresh Covid-19 cases, while the positivity rate stood at 0.22 per cent, authorities said, adding that the tally in the city rose to 6,37,315. One fatality was registered on Tuesday, taking the death toll in the city to 10,894, according to the health bulletin issued by the city government a day earlier. Delhi recorded 94 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the lowest in over nine months, while the positivity rate had slipped to 0.17 per cent. Delhi had recorded 96 coronavirus cases on January 27, that time the lowest in over nine months, and the first time the daily count had stood below the 100-mark in that month. Also, on February 5 and 7, the fatality counts were two on both the days, same as on February 2. These new 134 cases came out of the 59,886 tests conducted the previous day, according to the health bulletin. The active cases tally on Wednesday rose to 1078 from 1036 the previous day, according to the bulletin. The total number of tests conducted the previous day, included 39,852 RT-PCR tests and 20,034 rapid antigen tests, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-fresh-covid-19-death-in-delhi-3rd-time-single-day-fatality-count-nil-in-february-952454.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||4 officials suspended over Madhya Pradesh bus tragedy||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday night suspended the Regional Transport Officer (RTO) of Sidhi district and three officials of the MP Road Development Corporation (MPRDC) after 51 persons lost their lives in a bus accident. "I am suspending MPRDC's divisional manager, AGM and manager," Chouhan told reporters at Sidhi on Wednesday night. "Sixty-two passengers were traveling in a 32-seater bus. Who was responsible for this? So the concerned RTO is also being suspended. Action will be taken against others who are responsible for the incident too," he added. The accident took place on Tuesday morning near Patna village, 80 km from the Sidhi district headquarters, when a bus heading from Sidhi to Satna fell into a canal which is part of the Bansagar dam project. The death toll went up to 51 with the recovery of four more bodies on Wednesday. Chouhan met bereaved families of victims during the day and offered condolences besides handing over cheques of financial assistance of Rs seven lakh. He reached Rampur Naikin at around 2 pm and met the family members of Atharv Gupta and Vimala Dwivedi who lost their lives in the accident. He also visited Churhat, Pachokhar, Padariya, Kukdijhar, Budhraha and some other villages to meet the kin of the deceased. Sources said the 38-seater bus -- 32-seater by some accounts -- had diverted from its permitted route to avoid traffic jams and bad roads. Meanwhile, bus driver Balendu Vishwakarma, who has been detained, claimed while speaking to reporters that he heard a strange sound before the bus plunged into the water. "The bus left at 5.30 am from Sidhi and reached the accident site at around 7.30 am. I heard a sound before it skidded into the canal," he said. He was apprehended on Wednesday morning from adjoining Satna district. Asked about the number of passengers inside, he said he didn't count, but the number should be around 55. The bus was 32-seater, he said. He was rescuedby some people and reached Satna after walking some distance and taking another bus, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-officials-suspended-over-madhya-pradesh-bus-tragedy-952457.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||2 minor Dalit girls found dead in field in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao, third girl in critical condition; murder case lodged||Police lodged a case of murder after two minor Dalit sisters were found dead under suspicious circumstances inside a forested area under the Asoha police station in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao district. Another girl, who was the cousin of the deceased, was found lying in an unconscious state near their bodies and was rushed to the hospital, where her condition was stated to be 'critical'. While the police claimed that the sisters might have died after consuming some poisonous substance, the family members cried foul and demanded a CBI probe into the incident. The father of the deceased lodged a complaint with the police alleging that their hands were tied and their 'dupattas' (scarf) were around their necks. The post-mortem reports of the deceased revealed some poisonous substance in their stomach but the doctors were not able to state what kind of poison it was. Chaotic scenes were witnessed at their village after the police allegedly forcibly took their father, who was staging a protest demanding a CBI probe, with them. The family members said they did not feel safe in the village. Police sources said that the three girls aged 13, 16 and 17, had gone to the forests near their village under the Asoha police station on Wednesday evening to bring green fodder for the cattle. The family members launched a search for them after they did not return till late in the evening. Sources said that all of them were found lying in an unconscious state near a tree a little later. They were rushed to the nearby primary health centre, where two of them, aged 13 and 16, were declared brought dead. The third sister is battling for her life in the hospital. Security personnel have been deployed at the village of the victims and the family members are said to not allowed to come out of their house. The entry of the media was also banned. "It is a shocking incident... There are reports that the family of the victims has been locked up in their house... The government should immediately shift the third girl to AIIMS in Delhi," Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said in a post on Twitter. Samajwadi Party (SP) spokesman Sunil Singh Sajan said that the incident had proved that 'jungle raj' prevailed in the state. ''The state government is trying to hush up the matter,'' Sajan alleged. Bhim Army President and Dalit leader Chandra Shekhar Azad said that atrocities on the Dalits have increased in the state under the present dispensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-minor-dalit-girls-found-dead-in-field-in-uttar-pradeshs-unnao-third-girl-in-critical-condition-murder-case-lodged-952480.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||New Delhi is the most polluted capital on Earth: Greenpeace report||New Delhi is the most polluted capital on Earth, where close to 54,000 deaths are estimated to have occurred due to air pollution, according to a report from Greenpeace Southeast Asia. The report states that serious pollution caused around 160,000 premature deaths in the world's five most populous cities last year, even as air quality improved in some places due to coronavirus lockdowns. Of these cities, New Delhi was the worst affected. In Tokyo, the figure was 40,000 with the rest spread across Shanghai, Sao Paulo and Mexico City, according to the report, which looked at the impact of microscopic PM2.5 matter produced by burning fossil fuels. "When governments choose coal, oil and gas over clean energy, it's our health that pays the price," said Avinash Chanchal, climate campaigner at Greenpeace India. PM2.5 particles are considered the most harmful for health. They damage the heart and lungs, and increase the chances of severe asthma attacks. Some studies have linked PM2.5 exposure to a higher risk of dying from Covid-19. The report used an online tool that estimates the impacts of PM 2.5 by taking air quality data from monitoring site IQAir and combining it with scientific risk models, as well as population and health data. The tool is a collaboration between Greenpeace, IQAir, and the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air. Despite the high numbers of deaths, coronavirus lockdowns imposed across the world -- that took traffic off the streets and shut down polluting industries -- did temporarily clear the skies above big cities. Delhi, for instance, underwent a dramatic transformation for a period last year when curbs were imposed, with residents revelling in azure skies and clean air. Scientists say that massive drops in some pollutants due to lockdowns are bound to have prevented deaths. Nevertheless, Greenpeace urged governments to put investment in renewable energy at the heart of plans to recover from the pandemic-triggered economic downturn. "To really clean up our air, governments must stop building new coal plants, retire existing coal plants, and invest in clean energy generation, such as wind and solar," said the group's air pollution scientist Aidan Farrow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-delhi-is-the-most-polluted-capital-on-earth-greenpeace-report-952532.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||Disha Ravi moves Delhi HC seeking direction to police to not leak probe material||Climate activist Disha Ravi has approached the Delhi High Court seeking a direction to restrain various media houses from violating her rights to privacy, reputation and fair trial.  She also asked the court to restrain Delhi Police from leaking any investigation material, including alleged contents of private WhatsApp chats and communication with the third parties. The plea filed sought directions to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting to take appropriate action against some TV channels including under the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995.  Disha was arrested by the Delhi Police Special Cell on February 13 from Bengaluru for her alleged role in a case related to the toolkit, posted on Twitter by Swedish teen activist Greta Thunberg with regard to farmers protests. She is at present in police custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/disha-ravi-moves-delhi-hc-seeking-direction-to-police-to-not-leak-probe-material-952546.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||After Rajasthan, petrol crosses Rs 100-mark in Madhya Pradesh||After Rajasthan, petrol price on Thursday crossed the Rs 100 per litre mark in Madhya Pradesh after fuel rates were increased for the tenth day in a row. Petrol price was hiked by 34 paise per litre and diesel by 32 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. While branded or additive-laced petrol, which attracts higher taxes, had crossed the Rs 100-mark in some places in states like Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, regular petrol crossed the physiological mark in Sriganganagar town of Rajasthan on Wednesday, and on Thursday it went past that mark in Madhya Pradesh. In Anuppur of Madhya Pradesh, petrol is priced at Rs 100.25 per litre and diesel at Rs 90.35. Fuel prices differ from state to state depending on the incidence of local taxes such as VAT and freight charges. Rajasthan levies the highest value-added tax (VAT) on petrol in the country, followed by Madhya Pradesh. Madhya Pradesh levies 33 per cent plus Rs 4.5 a litre and 1 per cent cess on petrol. On diesel, it charges 23 per cent plus Rs 3 per litre and 1 per cent cess. After Thursday's price increase, petrol in Delhi costs Rs 89.88 per litre and diesel Rs 80.27. In Mumbai, petrol price rose to Rs 96.32 a litre and diesel was priced at Rs 87.32. Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan had on Wednesday blamed output cut by oil-producing nations for the rally in international oil prices that have translated into higher retail rates in India. He urged Saudi Arabia and other global oil producers to ease production cuts, saying rising international oil prices are hurting economic recovery and demand. Demand recovery should take "primacy" over oil prices at least for the next few months, he had said. International oil prices have been on the boil since Saudi Arabia pledged additional voluntary output cuts of 1 million barrels per day in February and March under a deal between the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its allies including Russia, a group known as OPEC+. This has resulted in oil prices rising to $63 per barrel, the highest level in more than a year. "The rising crude oil prices during the last few weeks is hurting the fragile global economic recovery due to significant demand contraction, which might even mirror the impact of Covid-19 in its initial stages," Pradhan had said at the 11th IEA IEF OPEC Symposium on Energy Outlooks. India, he said, had contained the inflationary pressures on several fronts but not those impacted by crude prices. "The price-sensitive Indian consumers are affected by rising petroleum product prices. It also affects demand growth, which could potentially impact the delicate aspirational economic growth trajectory not just in India but in other developing countries as well," he said. Also, on Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi blamed India's over 85 per cent import dependence for the "burden" the common man was facing. In Sriganganagar, petrol price soared to Rs 100.49 a litre on Thursday. The record price in Rajasthan is despite the state government late last month cutting VAT on petrol and diesel by 2 per cent. VAT on petrol, after the cut, at 36 per cent plus Rs 1.5 per litre road cess is still the highest in the country. On diesel, the state levies 26 per cent and Rs 1.75 per litre road cess. Diesel in Sriganganagar is priced at 92.47 a litre. In 10 straight days, prices have gone up by Rs 2.93 per litre for petrol and Rs 3.14 per litre for diesel. The relentless hike in prices has been criticised by the opposition parties including the Congress, that has demanded an immediate cut in taxes to ease the burden on the common man. Pradhan last week had told Parliament that the government is not considering a reduction in excise duty to cool rates from their record highs. Central and state taxes make up for 60 per cent of the retail selling price of petrol and over 54 per cent of diesel. The union government levies Rs 32.90 per litre of excise duty on petrol and Rs 31.80 a litre on diesel. Retail petrol rates have risen by Rs 20.29 per litre since mid-March 2020, after the government raised taxes by a record margin to mop up gains arising from fall in international oil prices. Diesel rates have gone up by Rs 17.98.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-rajasthan-petrol-crosses-rs-100-mark-in-madhya-pradesh-952550.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||Rail Roko Protest: Delhi Police ups security near tracks||The Delhi Police on Thursday tightened security in several parts of the national capital, especially near railway tracks, in view of the "rail roko" (rail blockade) called by the farmer groups protesting against the Centre's new agri laws, officials said. According to a senior police officer, additional staff has been deployed at several points near railway tracks and patrolling has also been increased. Though there is no information on whether rail blockades will take place inside the national capital, police have made adequate security arrangements, another officer said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions which is spearheading the protest, last week had announced the rail blockade to press for its demand to repeal the legislations. The SKM had said that the blockade will be held across the country from 12 pm to 4 pm. The railways has deployed 20 additional companies of the Railway Protection Special Force across the country, with focus on Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, in the wake of the "rail roko" call. Earlier, farmer unions had called a 'chakka jam' on February 6 and a 'tractor parade' in Delhi on January 26, during which a section of protesters clashed with police, overturned vehicles while some hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the Red Fort. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, are protesting at Delhi's borders against the legislations since November 28 last year and demanding these be repealed. Their agitation is against the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rail-roko-protest-delhi-police-ups-security-near-tracks-952570.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||Rail Roko: Farmers sit on tracks in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan in protest against farm laws||Hundreds of farmers squatted on railway tracks in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan for four hours on Thursday to protest against the Centre’s farm laws, forcing railways to re-route, cancel or short-terminate at least 25 train services. A group of farmers, agitating against the three farm laws enacted by the Modi government, had last week announced the nationwide rail blockade to press for their demand for rollback of the agricultural reforms. In Punjab, the epicentre of the farmers’ agitation, protesters blocked the Delhi-Ludhiana-Amritsar and Jalandhar Cantt-Jammu railway track in Jalandhar. Farmers also squatted on railway tracks at Mullanpur, Dakha and Jagraon on Ludhiana-Ferozepur rail route in Ludhiana, said officials. Bathinda-Delhi rail track in Bathinda, Delhi-Amritsar track in Amritsar, Amritsar-Tarn Taran track were also blocked by protesters. Similar protests were witnessed in Kurukshetra, Ambala, Panipat, Panchkula, Rohtak, Sonipat, Hisar and Fatehabad districts. At some places, including those in Jind and Fatehabad districts, farmers could be seen smoking 'hookahs' while sitting on tracks. In Rajasthan, officials said the Rewari-Sri Ganganagar special train was the only train cancelled due to the agitation, while few others were delayed. A railways spokesperson said the ‘rail roko’ agitation had “minimal impact” on the running of trains across the country. “Few trains were stopped in some areas of Railway zones but now train operation is normal and trains are being operated smoothly. While dealing with the Rail roko agitation, utmost patience was exercised by all concerned,” a railways spokesperson said. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and parts of western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting against the farm laws since November 26 on the borders of the national capital and 11 rounds of talks with the government have borne no result. Farmers have been insisting on the repeal of the three farm laws and the government had ruled out such a possibility but offered to amend the laws to accommodate their apprehensions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rail-roko-farmers-sit-on-tracks-in-punjab-haryana-rajasthan-in-protest-against-farm-laws-952577.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||SP legislators stage protest outside UP assembly building in support of farmers||Samajwadi Party legislators on Thursday staged a protest outside the Uttar Pradesh Assembly building in support of the farmers' agitation before the beginning of the state's budget session.   Raising slogans against the government and in favour of farmers, the SP lawmakers sat before the statue of former prime minister and kisan leader Chaudhary Charan Singh in the Vidhan Bhawan compound and demanded that the Centre's three new farm laws be repealed. They also carried banners and placards criticising the state government for the alleged rise in crime against women, hike in LPG, petrol and diesel prices and pending cane dues among others. Earlier, some legislators arrived on a tractor carrying the party flag, sugarcane and a sack with 'dhaan' written on it as a mark of protest but were stopped by policemen. "These things are symbols of agriculture. Cane prices have not been increased but the prices of diesel and petrol have been hiked several times," said a legislator when asked why he had come to the Vidhan Sabha on a tractor.   Udayveer Singh, a member of legislative council, said issues are discussed inside the House while action is shown on the roads. "The tractor is a symbol of the country's prosperity. The green revolution and increase in income of farmers happened because of tractors. To give the message that the SP is with the farmers and will fight for them, we decided to come to the Vidhan Sabha on a vehicle (tractor) that is identified with farming," he said.   In a series of tweets, the opposition party slammed the Yogi Adityanath government for "betraying" farmers and failing to check inflation. "Demonstration by SP MLAs outside the Vidhan Bhawan to raise the voice of the people suffering due to inflation, unemployment and betrayal with farmers. Uttar Pradesh seeks answer for every injustice and atrocity,” it said. The party also alleged that some of its MLAs were arrested by police. “The arrest of SP MLAs, who were driving a tractor outside the Vidhan Sabha in Lucknow to protest against atrocities on farmers by the BJP government and failure to procure paddy at MSP, is the murder of democratic rights and utterly condemnable. Will not be afraid and Samajwadis will stay strong. Jai jawan, jai kisan'," the party said in a tweet. The budget session of the Uttar Pradesh Assembly began on Thursday with the address by the Governor. The state budget is scheduled to be tabled on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sp-legislators-stage-protest-outside-up-assembly-building-in-support-of-farmers-952593.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||SC notice to Uttarakhand govt on plea against playing of buses in Corbett Tiger Reserve||The Supreme Court on Thursday issued notice to the Uttarakhand government on a PIL against the decision of its forest department to allow a private company to ply its buses within a core area of Corbett Tiger Reserve. A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde sought a response from the state government on a plea by advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal contending the Wildlife Protection Act was being violated by the state for "wrongful gains" with its decision on December 23, 2020. "The plying of buses and that too of a private sector company within the core area of Corbett Tiger Reserve is nothing but an act of compromise with the protection and conservation of our national animal," his plea stated. Bansal also cited an RTI response by the National Tiger Conservation Authority that forest officials of Uttarakhand have not taken its permission as provided under Section 38 (O) of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 for plying of buses by the private company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-notice-to-uttarakhand-govt-on-plea-against-playing-of-buses-in-corbett-tiger-reserve-952598.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||Punjab Civic Polls: Congress wins Mohali Municipal Corporation||The ruling Congress in Punjab on Thursday won the Mohali municipal corporation with the ruling party registering victory in 35 out of the 50 wards. The counting for 47 wards has so far been completed. The Congress has won 35 wards while the Independents have bagged 12 wards, they said. The counting on remaining wards was underway, they said. Punjab cabinet minister Balbir Singh Sidhu's brother Amarjeet Singh Sidhu won from ward number 10 of the Mohali MC. Counting of votes for the Mohali municipal corporation was taken up on Thursday. It was delayed because of a repoll at two booths. The ruling Congress on Wednesday swept the urban body polls in Punjab, winning six municipal corporations, emerging as the largest party in Moga municipal corporation and bagging most of the 109 municipal council and nagar panchayats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-civic-polls-congress-wins-mohali-municipal-corporation-952612.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||UP Assembly Budget session: Opposition boycotts Governor’s address||Opposition parties raised slogans and staged a walkout during the Governor’s address in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly on the first day of the Budget session on Thursday, opposing the Centre’s three agriculture laws. Governor Anandiben Patel reached the assembly five minutes late, prompting the Leader of Opposition Ram Gobind Chaudhary to allege that she did not want to address the House due to the “atrocities” committed against the women in the state. “Seeing the atrocities committed against the women in the state, the Governor did not want to read her address. The Chief Minister and the Speaker convinced her. Then after seven-eight minutes, she completed her quorum,” Chaudhary told reporters outside the assembly without substantiating his claim. Chaudhary, who is the Samajwadi Party MLA, said his party first opposed the Governor's address when it began about five minutes late than the scheduled time and later boycotted it. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Khanna said the Opposition’s behaviour during the Governor's address was “irresponsible”. “The Governor's address is a reflection of the government's policies. The manner in which the Opposition parties behaved in the house during the address is irresponsible and condemnable,” Khanna said. Chaudhary demanded the resignation of the government, alleging “jungle raj” in the state. “There is no law and order, inflation is at an all-time high, atrocities against women are continuing and there is jungle raj. Even the Supreme Court and the high court have said there is nothing in the name of law and order in the state,” he alleged. Chaudhary also asked why media persons were not allowed to enter the assembly, citing COVID-19 protocol. “Why is the press seen so far from the Assembly? Is the COVID-19 only for journalists? Does it not infect MLAs, MLCs, CM, Speaker and Leader of Opposition? We condemn this.” He said the Governor’s address did not mention the deaths of farmers who have died during the course of the peasants’ agitation on Delhi’s borders. “We raised the slogan Governor Go Back. This is because over 200 farmers have died during the protest, and tributes should have been paid to them, which was not in your (Governor’s) address. Our party opposed it for five minutes and then we left the House,” Chaudhary told reporters. BSP leader Lalji Verma said he has seen it for the first time that the governor arrived late for the assembly address. Another party MLA Vinay Shankar Tiwari said people have lost faith in the government. “No one is talking about the issues affecting the farmer as well as on MSP. The law and order in the state is poor,” he said. Leader of the Congress Legislature Party Aradhana Misra said, “The government should have expressed sympathy towards more than 200 farmers who have died during the protest. Most of the farmers who died are from UP.” “We opposed the three black farm laws. If the Governor's address can start after five minutes (than the scheduled time), it shows the seriousness of the government on issues pertaining to the state,” she said. Misra also demanded a judicial inquiry into the Unnao incident, where two Dalit girls were found dead in a field.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-assembly-budget-session-opposition-boycotts-governor-s-address-952633.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||Coal-fired brick kilns cannot be allowed to operate in NCR during severe pollution, NGT says||Coal-fired brick kilns cannot be allowed to operate in the NCR even if zig-zag technology is used and improved procedures are followed during 'severe' pollution, the National Green Tribunal has said. Unless there is a change to a cleaner fuel (PNG), brick kilns beyond the number specified cannot be allowed in the NCR, the green panel said. It said that the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has found that there is no assimilative capacity during the period air quality is 'severe' and only during months of March to June, there is a limited capacity. "Those brick kilns which switch over to PNG will be entitled to operate even beyond months of March to June and even beyond limited number mentioned, subject to compliance with the law," said a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel. The tribunal said that a distance of at least 500 meters is required to be maintained in the location of brick kilns. "When brick kilns start, they should not be allowed to start simultaneously but their firing should be staggered to avoid adverse impact on the environment. Other safeguards of fugitive dust emission management need to be adopted," the bench said. The NGT said since there is the variance of figures given during March to June, only such number can be allowed which can be sustained throughout the period i.e. the minimum figure of a particular month out of the four months which comes to 444 in Haryana (in May) and 200 in UP (in June). Such shortlisting may be done applying suitable siting criteria taking into account inter se distance and distance from sensitive locations and compliance of consent conditions for which the CPCB, State PCB may work out an appropriate mechanism. Further, the location of brick kilns can be scattered on pro-rata basis, in different directions of the concerned area, having regard to background and carrying capacity parameters. The tribunal had earlier rejected a plea to allow brick kilns running on 'Zig-Zag' technology in NCR saying their operation will have a disastrous effect on the air quality. It had directed the CPCB to constitute a committee of five experts to suggest ways and means, if any, by which sustenance of brick kilns activities may be viable. The NGT had said it conscious that brick kilns may be necessary and the object of this order is not to stop any legitimate business activity but to enforce the right to breathe fresh air which is right to file. The tribunal was hearing a plea by brick kiln owners seeking permission to operate those units which are running on 'Zig-Zag' technology in NCR till the level of air pollution becomes normal. In Zig Zag kilns, bricks are arranged to allow hot air to travel in a zigzag path which results in better mixing of air and fuel allows complete combustion, reducing coal consumption by about 20 per cent. Other brick kilns (FCBTK) have already been prohibited by the order of the Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority to enforce Graded Response Action Plan, stipulating shutting of Brick kilns in NCR under severe conditions when particulate matter level is high in the air.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coal-fired-brick-kilns-cannot-be-allowed-to-operate-in-ncr-during-severe-pollution-ngt-says-952635.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||PAGD wins DDC chairperson posts in 2 Jammu districts||People's Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Thursday won the posts of District Development Council (DDC) chairpersons in Ramban and Kishtwar districts of the Jammu division, officials said. Both the districts were reserved for women and the PAGD, an alliance of various mainstream parties including the National Conference, the PDP and the CPI(M), easily secured the two posts. The NC, which had emerged as the single largest party in the DDC elections in Ramban district by winning six of the total 14 seats, received a shot in the arm ahead of the rescheduled election when three independent candidates joined the party on Wednesday. The election, which was earlier deferred due to lack of quorum on February 13, was held in a conducive atmosphere in the district during which NC's Shamshad Shan and Rabia Rashid Beig were elected to the posts of chairperson and vice-chairperson, respectively, the officials said. In Kishtwar district, NC's Pooja Thakur won the DDC chairperson post after securing eight votes against six by her rival Shariefa Begum who joined the J-K Apni Party on the day of the elections in the district on February 13. Begum had won the DDC seat on the NC ticket but later shifted her loyalty to the Apni Party. The NC had also won six DDC seats in the district and enjoyed the support of three Congress DDC members. The BJP has three DDC members while two are independents. Saima Shabir Lone of the Congress won the post of vice-chairperson by securing seven votes, the officials said. “It is a proud moment for the entire Kishtwar that a woman became the first DDC chairperson in the district. I will take the opposition along to ensure the development of the entire district,” Thakur told reporters after her victory. With the completion of the DDC chairperson elections in the two districts, the focus has now shifted to Rajouri district, where the election is slated on Friday in the last phase. In the earlier four phases, the BJP won the posts of DDC chairpersons in six districts of Jammu, Kathua, Samba, Udhampur, Doda and Reasi, while an independent was elected to the post in Poonch district. Five vice-chairperson posts also went to BJP, while independents emerged victorious by winning the posts of vice-chairpersons in Reasi and Poonch districts. In Rajouri district, the PAGD has won six seats (NC five and PDP one) and is eyeing the top post with the support of Congress which has three seats. The BJP has three DDC members and the Apni party and independents one each in the district. The election in the district, reserved for the scheduled tribes, was also deferred on February 13 due to lack of quorum.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pagd-wins-ddc-chairperson-posts-in-2-jammu-districts-952667.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||UP DGP says postmortem inconclusive on cause of death of Unnao Dalit girls, viscera test to be done||There were no injury marks on the bodies of the two teenage girls found dead in Unnao and the cause of their death could not be ascertained in postmortem, Uttar Pradesh Police chief Hitesh Chandra Awasthi said here on Thursday. A third girl, who was found in a field along with the two, was undergoing treatment at a Kanpur hospital and her condition was "critical but stable", he said. "The postmortem of the two girls was done by a panel of doctors and no injury before death or external injuries were found on their bodies. The cause of death could not be ascertained and viscera has been preserved for chemical analysis. We are taking help of forensic experts and looking into all possibilities," Director General of Police (DGP) Awasthi said. A medical bulletin issued by the Kanpur hospital treating the third girl has noted it is a suspected case of poisoning, the police chief said. The three girls, aged 15, 14 and 16, left their homes to collect fodder on Wednesday evening. As they did not return, their family members went out to search and found them tied in a field in Babuhara village in Asoha, around 36 km south of Lucknow. The villagers informed the police and rushed the girls to a local hospital where two of them were declared brought dead, while the third was rushed to the Unnao hospital and later referred to Kanpur. The DGP said six police teams have been constituted and senior officials are supervising the probe, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-dgp-says-postmortem-inconclusive-on-cause-of-death-of-unnao-dalit-girls-viscera-test-to-be-done-952692.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||Foreign envoys conclude Jammu and Kashmir visit, briefed by top officials about security situation||A delegation of foreign envoys concluded their two-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir on Thursday with briefings by top officials of Army and J&K Police about the security situation in the Union Territory. On the second day of their visit, the envoys from Asia, South America, Europe, Africa and some OIC member states had detailed meetings with J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, Chief Justice of High Court, Justice Pankaj Mittal and other senior officials in Jammu. An official spokesperson said that while interacting with the foreign envoys, the L-G spoke on the developmental changes J&K is witnessing. Sinha told the envoys that an ecosystem of democratic values, welfare principles and economic development has been developed in J&K and scores of measures are being taken by the government for development and prosperity of the UT. Replying to the queries by Emmanuel Lenain, Ambassador, France and Abdoul Wahab Haidara, Ambassador, Senegal pertaining to the economic development and investment friendly reforms taken place in the UT, the L-G observed that a new Industrial Development Scheme of Rs 28,400 crore has been unveiled for attracting investment in the UT, besides creating opportunities for the youth. L-G Sinha also thanked the envoys for making this trip to see reality on the ground. Officials said earlier the visiting envoys were briefed by J&K police and the Army about counter-radicalization efforts, support from Pakistan army in infiltration along the LoC, Army’s role in making militants surrender, and seizure of weapons supplied by Pakistan. They said several other issues were discussed in the meeting between the visiting envoys and police and army top brass, which included the situations after the abrogation of Article 370, peaceful holding of district development council (DDC) elections, and marked reduction in the stone-pelting incidents in Kashmir in the last 18-months. The envoys also held interactions with some political leaders and members of the civil society in Jammu before flying back to Delhi in the evening, officials added. The envoys from the EU, France, Malaysia, Brazil, Italy, Finland, Bangladesh, Cuba, Chile, Portugal, the Netherlands, Belgium, Spain, Sweden, Senegal, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Ireland, Ghana, Estonia, Bolivia, Malawi, Eritrea and Ivory Coast, who started their two-day visit to the UT on Wednesday, are assessing the development work and the security situation, especially after the abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile state in 2019. Sources said outreach to the OIC members was aimed at countering Pakistan’s propaganda on Kashmir. Tight security arrangements were put in place for the visit. This was the third group of envoys to visit J&K since the Center scrapped the region’s special status under Article 370 in August 2019. The first two groups visited J&K in January and February 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/foreign-envoys-conclude-jammu-and-kashmir-visit-briefed-by-top-officials-about-security-situation-952740.html
18-02-2021||North and Central||NIA arrests militant 'associate' in Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) Thursday arrested an alleged supporter of Hizbul Mujahideen outfit, who was ‘providing’ logistic support to militants in Kishtwar area of Jammu region. In a statement, a spokesperson of the probe agency said: "Yesterday (17.02.2021), the NIA arrested a militant harbourer and logistics provider of Hizbul Mujahideen namely Taraq Hussain Giri of Pochhal, Kishtwar J&K in case RC-08/2019/NIA/JMU (snatching of service rifle from escort in-charge of DM Kishtwar)." "The case was initially registered as FIR no. 31/2019 of Kishtwar PS on 08.03.2019 under sections 392 RPC, sections 7, 25 & 30 of Arms Act and sections 16,18 20 &23 of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act relating to snatching of service weapon from escort in charge of DM, Kishtwar," he said. The NIA re-registered the case on November 2, 2019, and took over the investigation. “The accused Taraq was arrested for harbouring and providing logistical support to HM militants namely Osama Bin Javed and Haroon Abbas Wani in the second week of March 2019 after the militants snatched the service rifle from the escort in charge,” the statement said. “This incident of weapon snatching was one of the four incidents of militant acts committed by HM terrorists in the period from November 2018 to September 2019,” it said and added that the accused was produced before the Special NIA Court, Jammu and taken on police remand for five days for further examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-arrests-militant-associate-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kishtwar-952759.html
18-02-2021||Oasis||Power of destiny||There are times when we are not able to quite enjoy or experience the very thing that we longed for, despite working hard for it. It is during these times we take cognizance of the omnipotent destiny which has probably not included our dearest wish in its design of our life just  because it cannot accommodate this feature in the scheme of the universe. A story from the Bhagavata Purana puts across this concept succinctly. There one lived a pious Brahmin called Atmadeva on the banks of river Godavari. He married a beautiful woman called Dhundhuli. Her diametrically opposite nature made it difficult for the couple to lead a happy married life. Atmadeva thought that things would fall into place, once they parented a child. His hope led to despair, when no such thing happened. The deeply frustrated young Brahmin set out to commit suicide. There he met a meritorious sage, who engaged him in a conversation. Soon enough the Rishi became privy to Atmadeva’s troubles. The sage’s far sightedness helped him to scan the journey of Atmadeva’s soul. He was able to see that Atmadeva was meant to be childless during his current birth. Nevertheless the goodness of the young man prompted the sage to help Atmadeva. He gave a magical fruit to the Brahmin. Atmadeva was told that if Dhundhuli consumed the fruit, she would conceive a child.  Man proposes God disposes. Dhundhuli was not keen on becoming a mother. She confided the same to her sister Mriduli. The two of them plotted. The pregnant Mriduli told her sister to feed the fruit to a cow and pretend to be pregnant. In due course of time, she said that she would hand over her baby to Dhundhuli. Atmadeva who was innocent of all that transpired was beside himself with joy when Dhundhuli passed of her sister’s baby as their child Dhundhukari. He also developed a deep affection for the cow’s human baby whom he brought up. For all practical purposes, Atmadeva thought that his dearest wish had come true. He did not realize that Karma had played its role. However, it had also cushioned him from the shock of recognising the truth because he had done no wrong during. Such is the power of destiny!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/power-of-destiny-952825.html
18-02-2021||Opinion||Why the China-Mauritius FTA matters||Last month, China’s Free Trade Agreement (FTA) with Mauritius came into effect. Mauritius is the first African country with whom China has signed an FTA. This agreement is significant not only for China’s trade relations with Africa but also for its implications on the geopolitics of the Indian Ocean. Traditionally, Mauritius is considered as India's key Indian Ocean partner and therefore, the FTA and consequently growing Chinese role has implications for India's influence in the region. It is well-known that China is the largest trading partner of Africa and in 2019, bilateral trade between China and Africa stood at $ 192 billion. Angola, South Africa, Nigeria, Egypt and the Republic of Congo are some of the major trading partners of China in Africa. It is expected that China’s FTA with Mauritius will prove crucial in further opening African markets for China. For Mauritius, China is the largest trading partner and the trade balance is heavily skewed in favour of the latter. Mauritius hopes to attract greater Chinese investment through the FTA. For Chinese firms, Mauritius can act as a gateway to Africa. Meanwhile, African countries are building a single market through the African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) which also came into effect last month. It is likely to create a single market of 1.2 billion people with a combined market worth of $ 3 trillion. China’s role as Africa’s foremost trading partner and easier access to the market facilitated by the FTA with Mauritius is likely to further boost China’s trade ties with Africa. China is also a key member of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) which brings 15 major economies of the Indo-Pacific region together. RCEP is already among the largest trading blocs in the world. Taken together, these two trading arrangements are bookending the Indian Ocean as RCEP covers the Eastern Indian Ocean and, AfCFTA covers the Western Indian Ocean. China enjoys robust trading relationships with Africa as well as RCEP countries and consequently, is likely to loom large over the trading dynamics of the Indian Ocean which will further enhance its geopolitical weight. Importance of Mauritius to China China’s choice of Mauritius for signing the FTA is also significant as the tiny Indian Ocean country does not produce anything significant but is located in a geostrategically valuable location. Mauritius, a country with a population of 1.3 million, lies at the crossroad of Asia, Africa and the Middle East. It is known as a hub of financial services and is more well-known as a tax haven. Based on this, it can be inferred that, for China, reasons for signing the FTA are not necessarily found in the trading potential of this economically rich and politically stable country but in other factors like geographic location. Over the years, China has built strong ties with the neighbours of Mauritius such as Seychelles and Madagascar to the South and Sri Lanka to the north. China is also an observer in the Indian Ocean Commission, a group of five island countries in the South-West Indian Ocean. For China’s international trade, the region around Mauritius is critical as a foothold in Mauritius could facilitate monitoring of shipping lanes that crisscross the Indian Ocean. China has opened a military base in Djibouti in 2017 and the Chinese Navy pays regular visits to the littoral and island countries of the Indian Ocean to conduct defence diplomacy. Therefore, China’s strategic interests in the Indian Ocean and geoeconomic realities are coming together in the maritime space around Mauritius. For China, Mauritius is an interesting choice also because of the geostrategic influences that run through this country. Mauritius was once a British colony and since the 1970s, hosts one of the largest American military bases in the world, Diego Garcia. Over the years, Diego Garcia has played a major role in the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan and ensured a firm American foothold in the Indian Ocean. In fact, it is indispensable to the American military strategy towards the Indian Ocean. However, Diego Garcia is located in the Chagos archipelago and Mauritius claims sovereignty over the archipelago. Mauritius, Britain and the US are locked in a dispute, especially since 2016, over the Mauritian claims of sovereignty on the Chagos archipelago. Sensing the firm stance of the Mauritian government, Britain and America sought India’s help to resolve this issue since the latter enjoys close relations with Mauritius. Indian interests in Mauritius India and Mauritius share cultural affinities and there exists a large presence of Indians in Mauritius dating back to the colonial times. However, despite this, India cannot take its influence in Mauritius for granted. Mauritius is smartly leveraging its geostrategic location and is playing major powers against each other. Other Indian Ocean states like Seychelles, Sri Lanka and the Maldives are also adept at playing this game. Although India is building dual-use infrastructure (naval jetty and airstrip) on the Agalega island of Mauritius and is a major defence partner, China remains the largest trading partner of Mauritius. In this evolving geopolitical scenario, the China-Mauritius FTA has become operational. Whether it will benefit Mauritius or not remains to be seen. In the meantime, the growing challenge of China in the Indian Ocean will continue to pose difficult questions for other major powers.   (Sankalp Gurjar is a Research Fellow with the Indian Council of World Affairs, New Delhi. Views are personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author’s own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-the-china-mauritius-fta-matters-952639.html
18-02-2021||Panorama||Why BJP is silent on CAA, NRC ahead of Assam polls||The promise to detect foreigners through the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and to grant citizenship, particularly to ‘harassed’ Hindu migrants, through the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, was the crux of the BJP’s campaign in Assam during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections and Assembly elections in 2016. It helped BJP and its allies win seven out of 14 Lok Sabha seats in 2014. The success prompted BJP to harp on it even more strongly ahead of the 2016 polls. This, according to political observers, helped BJP and its allies wrest power from the 15-year-old Congress government led by Tarun Gogoi and form its first government in the state, considered a Congress bastion till then.  If the poll pundits are to be believed, people of the ethnic communities voted for BJP hoping that the party would detect and deport “illegal migrants” from Bangladesh if it came to power. The CAA also pulled the votes of the large Bengali Hindu community -- nearly 25% of Assam’s population – to the BJP as it promised citizenship to all non-Muslim migrants who had come into Assam till 2014 and to those of them whose names were not on the NRC list.  Ahead of the Assembly elections slated for April though, the BJP has gone surprisingly silent on both CAA and NRC. From Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda, all have remained silent on the issue during the four mass functions they have addressed so far in the past few weeks. So is Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, one of the BJP’s poll strategists in the northeast. Sarma used to talk about CAA/NRC almost on a daily basis even during the coronavirus pandemic.  Why has BJP gone silent on CAA, NRC? “They are scared of the fallout,” Congress spokesperson in Assam Rituparna Konwar told DH in January when  Nadda sounded the BJP’s poll bugle at Silchar, the Bengali heartland in southern Assam. “If they talk about the CAA, the indigenous people will vote against them. They had promised to drive out foreigners, but they did the opposite by bringing in the CAA,” Konwar said.  Most indigenous people, particularly those in the Brahmaputra Valley, roared in protest in December 2019 when the CAA was passed by Parliament. The protest turned violent in Guwahati and other parts, and five protesters died in police firing. Life came to a complete halt as Assam burned and many BJP leaders faced the agitators’ anger. Those protesting against the CAA fear that it would reduce the ethnic communities of Assam to minorities by giving citizenship to large number of post-1971 Hindu Bengali migrants. This, according to them, would destroy their identity, culture and language. They want all foreigners to be detected as per the Assam Accord of 1985, irrespective of religion, and deported. The accord had promised to detect and deport all foreigners who had come in after March 24, 1971. Congress leaders claim that Hindu Bengalis would also vote against BJP as it had failed to implement the CAA. BJP spokesperson Rupam Goswami said recently, however, that the party’s victory in 50% of the panchayat seats in December 2018 and in the Bodoland Territorial Council polls in December 2020 proved that the CAA would make no difference to its prospect in the Assembly elections. “In fact, we (BJP and allies) will win more seats this time. Our target is to win more than 100 seats,” Goswami said. Assam has 126 Assembly seats. NRC flip-flop The BJP had gone to town when over 40 lakh people were dropped from the first draft of the NRC in 2018. “Hum mein himmat tha...humne kar ke dikhaya,” (we had the guts, we did it), Amit Shah had said as he and other BJP leaders tried to take credit for the NRC exercise although it was being done as per the Supreme Court’s orders and as a result of the Assam Accord.  The ruling party took a U-turn, however, when the final list of the NRC was published in which only 19.06 lakh people had failed to make it. Sarma publicly refused to accept the final NRC list saying that many ineligible persons were included and many genuine citizens had been left out. The BJP now wants a “sample reverification” or another NRC exercise, if the Supreme Court permits. Observers say the party is not talking about NRC ahead of elections fearing the anger of both indigenous people and those left out of the final list.  Poll strategy Many in Assam believe that the BJP is trying to downplay CAA and NRC in order to give an impression that the two were not factors in this election. This, according to them, could be due to the fact that the CAA brought Congress and the Badruddin Ajmal-led AIUDF together. They have stitched a “grand alliance” of six parties to contest the Assembly polls against the BJP. The “grand alliance” is eyeing the “united” Muslim vote (over 30%) and those strongly opposed to CAA and NRC. Congress leaders claimed the “grand alliance” will take away at least 25 more seats where BJP candidates had won in 2016 mainly due to the division of Muslim votes between Congress and AIUDF.  The anti-CAA agitation has also led to the birth of two regional parties: Assam Jatiya Parishad, led by All Assam Students’ Union leader Lurinjyoti Gogoi, and Raijor Dal, led by Akhil Gogoi, who is in jail since the agitation in December 2019. Akhil Gogoi has been booked under sedition charge. The two parties have also decided to contest the elections together.  Sensing an opportunity, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tried to win back the confidence of the indigenous communities in his party last week by promising that Congress would not allow implementation of CAA if it came to power in the state. He also promised that Congress would protect the Assam Accord, which was signed during his father Rajiv Gandhi’s tenure in 1985 following the six-year-long anti-foreigners movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-bjp-is-silent-on-caa-nrc-ahead-of-assam-polls-952823.html
18-02-2021||Panorama||Europe’s pandemic debt is dizzying. Who will pay?||For nearly six months, Philippe Boreal and 120 of his fellow workers have been paid to stay home from their jobs at a Cannes luxury hotel that was forced to close for the pandemic. Boreal, a janitor for 20 years, is grateful for the aid, which is bankrolled by the French government under a sweeping plan to rescue people and businesses from economic calamity. But as the Covid-19 crisis drags on, he wonders how long the largess can last. “At some point you ask yourself, ‘How are we going to pay for all this?’” asked Boreal, who is collecting more than 80% of his paycheck, allowing him to pay essential bills and buy food for his wife and teenage daughter. Most every other hotel along the Cannes waterfront is also keeping staff on state-funded furloughs — as are countless businesses across Europe. “The bill just seems so big,” Boreal said. “And it keeps on growing.” For households trying to balance their budget each month, the fact that European countries are incurring trillion-euro debts is dizzying. In France alone, the national debt has topped 2.7 trillion euros ($3.2 trillion) and will soon exceed 120% of the economy. But governments are far from worried about piling up debt right now, as rock-bottom interest rates empower them to spare no expense to shield their economies from the pandemic. And spend they do. Billions of euros are being deployed to nationalize payrolls, suppress bankruptcies and avoid mass unemployment. Trillions more are being earmarked for future stimulus to stoke a desperately needed recovery. The European Union has upended its policies to finance the largess, breaking with decades of strict limits on deficits, and overcoming visceral German resistance to high debt. Austerity mantras led by Germany dominated Europe during the 2010 debt crisis, when profligate spending in Greece, Italy and other southern eurozone countries pushed the currency bloc toward a breakup. The pandemic, which has killed over 450,000 people in Europe, is seen as a different animal altogether — a threat ravaging all the world’s economies simultaneously. While German officials initially warned about runaway spending on the pandemic, European policymakers agree it would be folly to cut spending or raise taxes now to pay debts incurred to counter the economic fallout. Those debts are surging to levels not seen since World War II. In some European countries, debt is growing so fast that it is outpacing the size of national economies. But interest rates for many rich nations are around zero because of years of low inflation. While the amount of debt that countries have taken on has grown, the amount that governments pay to service the debt has not. So can there be such a thing as a free lunch after all? In the current unusual zero-interest world, maybe yes. Governments are borrowing heavily, issuing an ever-growing pile of bonds. The European Central Bank is helping by buying large chunks of that debt, pushing already low-interest rates lower still, and creating a mountain of cheap money for countries to tap. In the United States, President Biden is pursuing an aggressive strategy to combat the pandemic’s toll with a $1.9 trillion economic aid plan. While the national debt is now almost as large as the economy, supporters say the benefits of spending big now outweigh the costs of higher debt. In Europe, pandemic spending has so far largely focused on floating people and businesses through the crisis. For Boreal and millions like him around Europe, the support has been vital for surviving through a sputtering recovery that now threatens to turn into a double-dip recession. The Gaza Strip gets its first vaccine doses, after a delay from Israel. Vaccinating Oregon’s teachers might not be enough to reopen its schools. “Without the aid, things would be much worse,” said Boreal, who receives an after-tax salary of €1,700 (about $2,050) a month while on furlough, financed by the state. “It’s allowing us to ride out the pandemic and hopefully get back to work soon.” For now, such spending is affordable. And government debt may never have to be fully paid back if central banks keep buying it. Countries can essentially roll over their debt at low interest rates, an operation akin to refinancing a mortgage. The European Central Bank effectively lent eurozone governments around €1.2 trillion last year, and pledged to continue through summer. Public debt in the euro area could rise as much as €4 trillion by the end of 2023, according to the Institut Montaigne, an independent think tank in Paris.  “If there’s no risk of a return of inflation, then the sky’s the limit for debt,” said Nicolas Véron, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. And that points to the risk in this strategy. Some economists worry that inflation and interest rates could rise if stimulus investment revives growth too rapidly, forcing central banks to put a brake on easy-money policies. If borrowing costs rise, weaker countries could fall into a debt trap, struggling to pay down what they owe. “If inflation starts to return but there’s no growth, then the situation gets a lot trickier,” said Simon Tilford, director of the Oracle Partnership, a strategic planning firm in London. And if debt piles up year after year, governments will have a harder time stimulating their economy when the next recession rolls around. To people in charge of steering their economies through the pandemic, those troubles seem far away. “We need to reimburse the debt, of course, and to work out a strategy for paying down the debt,” Bruno Le Maire said in an interview with a small group of journalists. “But we won’t do anything before growth returns — that would be crazy.” For the strategy to work, Europe must act quickly to ensure a robust recovery, economists warn. While leaders approved a €750 billion ($857 billion) stimulus deal last year, countries haven’t been unleashing stimulus spending nearly as rapidly as the United States has to kick-start a revival and create jobs. “With interest rates at historic lows, the smartest thing we can do is act big,” the new Treasury secretary, Janet L. Yellen, told senators during her confirmation hearing, adding that failing to do so would risk muddling a recovery.  By contrast, “most of what’s been done in Europe is survival support,” said Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “The current policies on their own will not bring back growth.” The International Monetary Fund expects growth to bounce back this year to 5.1%  in the United States, where Congress authorized a $900 billion package in late December. Europe will lag with a rebound of 4.2%, the fund said. As a more contagious variant of the virus races through Europe, triggering new lockdowns, recoveries that were expected as early as summer may be delayed, with implications for national finances. The halting rollout of vaccines adds a further complication to hopes for economic expansion. Thomas Flammang, 28, a materials engineer at an aerospace consulting company in Rouen, is under no illusions about the weakness of the recovery. During his first months on furlough, he kept expecting things to return to normal. Stuck at home, he went for long walks and caught up on his reading. But as weeks stretched into months, the company’s order books never picked up enough for him to return to the job. Without a full reopening of the economy, things are likely to get worse. “For now, my company has saved our jobs,” Flammang said. But if things don’t perk up, he said, layoffs may be inevitable. He sees little light at the end of the tunnel. “Our generation will have to pay for many things: the baby boomers who retire, the cost of the climate crisis,” Flammang said. “And now we are using the printing press for the pandemic, and we will have to pay back all this aid,” he said. “It’s maddening when you think about it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/europe-s-pandemic-debt-is-dizzying-who-will-pay-952824.html
18-02-2021||Right in the Middle||Hatching with trust||The Butterfly ginger lily plant, in a large clay pot, with its refreshingly fragrant white flowers, was easily one of the best smelling flowers on our balcony, matched only perhaps by the tantalising fragrance of the jasmine, growing in an adjoining pot. The mornings in the balcony, overlooking the stately river, meandering through a serpentine path was something I seldom missed. The experience of sipping my coffee, while seated on the balcony, drinking in the sights and sounds of the river below, and the sight of a motley collection of avians was far too precious for me to miss! It was on one such morning that my wife noticed one of the stalks of the lily plants had bent, and there in the dark brown soil of the pot, was an off-white oval-shaped egg, roughly the size of a lemon. A pigeon perched itself on the balcony railings and its mere presence told us in no uncertain terms as to where the egg’s ownership lay! Not wanting to frighten the bird, we quietly moved away. The pigeon didn’t lose time. It was back to doing what it was doing earlier. The next morning the egg had company, another one had found its place beside the one we noticed the previous day! I had umpteen occasions to do a study of pigeons in the days that followed. I realised that these creatures are so very common that most people don’t even look twice. Bluish grey in colour, two black bands across each of the wings, a multi-coloured neck, a white mark on the beak and a coloured pair of eyes makes them rather mundane. Initially, it felt threatened by our presence on the balcony and would scamper off leaving its hatching duties. The ‘escape’ was never so far as not to return as soon as we left! I realised that hatching was not just one pigeon’s responsibility. There was another partner and the job was distributed. The initial scampering on the sighting of a human in the balcony was followed by a hop, skip and jump to the railings from where the ‘intruder’ was assessed by a quixotic bobbing of its 360° head. Slowly it realised that the human meant no harm. The entry of one of us to the balcony would be greeted by some squirming at best. The pigeon has now reached a stage of stoicism where it remains seated in the pot, its eyes only half-open. A huge test of trust as far as the pigeon is concerned has been passed! I guess it is only a matter of time now before two tiny lives come out into this world!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/hatching-with-trust-952474.html
18-02-2021||Second Edit||Ministers cannot be leading protests||As two dominant communities in Karnataka have taken to the streets demanding reservations, a question has arisen about the propriety of ministers being in the forefront of these protests. While Panchamasali Lingayats are demanding inclusion under 2-A category, Kurubas, who currently are classified as Backward Classes (BC), want to be considered as Scheduled Tribes (ST). Ministers of the Kuruba community like K S Eshwarappa, B A Basavaraj and M T B Nagaraj are causing acute embarrassment to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa by openly protesting against their own government. This is only exposing their hypocrisy as being sitting ministers, the right way for them to approach the issue would be to move a resolution in the cabinet and bring pressure on the government from within, instead of creating a public spectacle. The politics behind this is more than evident, with Eshwarappa being accused of using the platform to realise his longstanding dream of replacing Congress’ Siddaramaiah as the top leader of the Kurubas. While community leaders have every right to protest in support of their demands, Yediyurappa should immediately direct his ministers to abandon the confrontationist path or resign. The ministers are showing up the state as well as his administration in poor light. On the Panchamashali Lingayat front, however, ministers Murugesh Nirani and C C Patil are trying to broker peace between their community leaders and the government without plunging into the protests head-on. This is a mess of Yediyurappa’s own creation as he had made an election promise that this sub-sect of the Lingayat community would be brought under reservations, knowing fully well that he does not have the power to do so as it falls within the domain of the Centre. Now, in a flip-flop that has become ever so common, the Chief Minister has washed his hands off the issue and has asked community leaders to approach the Centre, further angering them. To complicate matters, around 200 seers of the community have demanded that all 100-odd sub-sects of Veerashaiva-Lingayats be brought under the quota ambit. Not to be left out, many other communities such as Kodavas, too, have been demanding the ST tag. Given that the Supreme Court has capped reservations at 50% and the Constitution mandates a quota of 3% for STs, acceding to the request of all is no doubt a near-impossible task. While the government involves itself in finding ways to resolve the issue, Yediyurappa should ensure that his minsters become a part of the problem-solving mechanism rather than the problem itself.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/ministers-cannot-be-leading-protests-952470.html
18-02-2021||Second Edit||A lesson NHAI, govt should learn well||The controversy over a contentious affidavit filed by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) in the Karnataka High Court may well have ended with the court allowing the NHAI to withdraw the affidavit after it tendered an apology for some remarks in it and acted on the court’s suggestions. The NHAI had said in its affidavit that the Environment Protection Act (EPA), 1986, was enacted by Parliament at the instance of foreign powers and that non-profit organisations which file public interest litigation (PIL) petitions under the Act were acting at the instance of such powers. It is surprising that a government agency could make such a statement about a law passed by Parliament, and the court rightly pointed out that the officers of the organisation should show sensitivity to laws relating to the environment. The NHAI’s statement was in response to a PIL challenging an order issued by the ministry of environment in 2013 granting exemption for the expansion of national highways without conducting an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). It is not the substance of the case but the NHAI’s controversial remarks that attracted attention. The EPA is one of the most important legislations passed by Parliament to address various concerns over damage to the environment. It was passed when the need for protection of the environment was being increasingly realised by the government, the political class and civil society. It has been in force for 35 years and has helped on many occasions to stop attacks on the environment or to soften the assaults. In fact, there have been demands to make it stronger and to make its implementation more effective. Courts have settled many cases filed by citizens on the basis of the law.  The NHAI also said that environmental groups in India were “attacking development projects” and “doing anti-national activities.’’ Its remarks reflect the view held by many sections, including those in government, that concern for the environment is antagonistic to development and NGOs are involved in anti-national activities. Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka not only took strong exception to the affidavit but also observed that he had never come across such obnoxious arguments by a government agency. The NHAI paid two environmental organisations Rs 2.5 lakh each as a donation, as suggested by the court. It is strange and unfortunate that an important organisation like the NHAI thought that concern for the environment was the result of a foreign conspiracy. Those who filed the affidavit did not have the sense to realise that the statement was a denigration of Parliament. The hope expressed by the court that environmental laws will be respected should be considered as a directive.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-lesson-nhai-govt-should-learn-well-952819.html
18-02-2021||South||Biggest challenge in 2021 is to ensure people in all countries get access to COVID-19 vaccine:WHO||The single biggest challenge in 2021 would be ensuring that people in all the countries, both rich and poor, get access to the Covid-19 vaccine, World Health Organisation's Assistant Director General Dr Peter Singer said on Wednesday. Singer pointed out that WHO Director General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus had observed that the "world is on the brink of a moral catastrophe" as the vaccine distribution had so far been skewed in favour of high-income countries. He commended the role of Kerala and India in checking the spread of Covid-19 in the face of several difficulties and said "what we saw was a test of global solidarity" in 2020. He said there were clear signs of the pandemic receding as the number of recoveries had far exceeded the number of people still affected. Also, the vaccination process was gaining momentum. Overcoming the pandemic was crucial to achieving the other UN goals such as reduction of poverty, hunger, illiteracy, gender inequality and air pollution, besides ensuring availability of clean water and sanitation, he said. According to a state government release, Singer was addressing a virtual international conference on 'Kerala Health : Making the SDG A Reality', organised by the Health and Family Welfare Department of Kerala government. Singerexpressed hope that the situation was "quickly correcting now" following the approval of more and more vaccine candidates, including that of AstraZeneca and of Serum Institute of India. The Special Advisor to the WHO Director General said 2021 would turn out to be the year of "vaccine equity." WHO was keen on ensuring equity "among countries and within individual countries" so that COVID-19 vaccines were available to all sections of people as this was crucial to achieving United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including Universal Health Coverage, he said. Singer acknowledged that all the countries were lagging behind in the matter of SDGs even before the outbreak of Covid-19. The pandemic had thrown the SDG goals further off-track and it would require a great deal of effort to cover the lost ground and restore and accelerate the momentum on health targets so that the goals could be achieved by 2030 as originally envisaged. "2022 is hopefully going to be primary healthcare- based recovery, for achieving SDGs," he said. As for Kerala, he said tackling the high prevalence of hypertension and diabetes was the challenge in meeting social health parameters. Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) accounted for most of the deaths across the globe, he pointed out. Former Union Health and Family Welfare Secretary Sujatha Rao said Universal Health Coverage (UHC) can be achieved only through a system anchored on primary health care (PHC), which requires micro-level planning and deliberate institutional reform. Rajeev Sadanandan, Former state Additional Chief Secretary of Health and Family Welfare, said the huge prevalence of Non-Communicable Diseases in Kerala will be a real burden for the state. "To tackle it conventional strategies won't work. It is time the state turned to Artificial Intelligence and digitisation to counter the problem," he said. The speakers were part of a panel discussion on the inaugural day of the five-day Kerala Health Conference focusing on various aspects of health system development centered on the Sustainable Development Goals||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/biggest-challenge-in-2021-is-to-ensure-people-in-all-countries-get-access-to-covid-19-vaccinewho-952487.html
18-02-2021||South||Telangana Guv Tamilisai Soundararajan sworn in as Puducherry Lt Governor||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan, who was given additional charge of Puducherry, was sworn in as Lt Governor of the Union Territory on Thursday. Chief Justice of the Madras High Court Sanjib Banerjee administered the oath of office to her at a simple function at the Raj Nivas. Soundararajan took the oath in Tamil. Earlier the Chief Secretary to Puducherry government Ashwani Kumar read out the warrant issued by President Ram Nath Kovind giving additional charge of the union territory to Tamilisai Soundararajan on February 16. Soundararajan taking charge as Lt Governor comes at a time when the ruling Congress-led government has been reduced to a minority after one more MLA quit the party on Tuesday. Puducherry Assembly Speaker V P Sivakolundhu, Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, Ministers, Leader of the opposition N Rangasamy, former PWD Minister A Namassivayam (now in BJP) and officials of Puducherry administration were among those present at the swearing-in ceremony. After the swearing-in, the Lt Governor was presented a guard of honour by the Puducherry police outside Raj Nivas. Tamilisai Soundararajan is the fifth woman to hold the post of Lt Governor of Puducherry. The others were Chandrawati, Rajendra Kumari Bajpai, Rajani Rai and Kiran Bedi. She was given additional charge of Puducherry after former IPS officer Kiran Bedi was removed from office through a Presidential order on Tuesday. The Congress party had been demanding her recall for long, with Narayanasamy and Bedi being at odds over a host of issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-guv-tamilisai-soundararajan-sworn-in-as-puducherry-lt-governor-952549.html
18-02-2021||South||'Metro man' E Sreedharan set to join BJP ahead of elections||In an impetus to the BJP in Kerala, E Sreedharan, popularly known as 'Metroman', decided to join BJP. Kerala BJP state president K Surendran made the announcement in this regard. Sreedharan later confirmed it to the media. He told a section of media that both the CPM-led Left Democratic Front and the Congress-led United Democratic Front that had been ruling Kerala over these years are only interested in political gains. He is hopeful that only the BJP-led NDA could initiate steps for Kerala's development. Hence, he decided to work with BJP, he said. Sreedharan, who is now 89, may also contest in the upcoming Assembly elections. Surendran said that many more eminent personalities in Kerala would soon join the BJP and contest in the polls. The party has urged Sreedharan to contest in the polls, he said. He said that Sreedharan became a mote in the eye of both the LDF and UDF that successively ruled Kerala over these years as he was objecting to commissions being taken by political parties in development works. Sreedharan, who led the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and is the principal advisor for Kochi Metro project, was closely associated with the Kerala government over the last many years and he was also carrying out reconstruction of the Palarivattom fly-over in Kochi that suffered damages due to poor quality of construction within three years after commissioning. Sreedharan, who is a Padma Vibhushan recipient, is a native of Palakkad district in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/metro-man-e-sreedharan-set-to-join-bjp-ahead-of-elections-952574.html
18-02-2021||South||Sasikala revives case against AIADMK general council for sacking her from party post||After walking out of Parappana Agrahara prison following completion of a four-year jail term in a disproportionate assets case, V K Sasikala has revived a case filed in 2017 challenging the AIADMK general council's decision of removing her as interim general secretary of the party. The case, which was originally filed in Madras High Court and was transferred to a lower court on the count of jurisdiction, has now been listed before an additional judge of the City Civil Court. The case challenging the general council's decision to remove Sasikala as interim general secretary of the AIADMK will now be heard on March 15. Sasikala's legal team says only the general secretary or the presidium chairman of the party has powers to convene the general council. But the notification for the September 12, 2017 meeting was issued by the “headquarters.” Hence, the general council itself was illegal and the decisions taken at the meeting should be quashed, the team argues. “This is not a new case. The original case was filed by my client, Ms V K Sasikala, in October 2017 in Madras High Court. But the case was transferred to a lower court. Due to some administrative hiccups, the case was not listed in any court. After much efforts, we have got the case listed now,” N Raja Senthoor Pandian, Sasikala's counsel, told DH. The efforts to expedite the case come just months before Tamil Nadu heads to its most crucial elections in recent times. Sasikala, who has challenged her removal from the post, had used the AIADMK flag more than once after walking free from the jail, inviting criticism and a police complaint from the ruling party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sasikala-revives-case-against-aiadmk-general-council-for-sacking-her-from-party-post-952741.html
18-02-2021||South||Kerala tops in global health coverage, say experts||Kerala has been the first in the world to effectively invest in primary healthcare to achieve the standards of the universal health coverage laid down by the WHO (World Health Organization), a global summit noted. The summit, a virtual international conference on 'Kerala Health: Making the SDG a Reality' organised by the state Health Ministry, said the focus of the state on integrated services enables its welfare system to nullify conventional socio-economic inequities owing to urban-rural and the elite-poor divide. The development of family health centres (FHCs) in the past four years under Kerala's Aardram Mission as a pioneering people-friendly project is set to eliminate such variations, speakers opined here on Wednesday, an official press release said. UNICEF Chief of Health (India) Luigi D'Aquino, who was part of the discussion, said the universal health coverage cannot ignore the private sector from regulation to participation to delivery of services. "All the same, public financing for health must prioritise PHCs (primary health centres)," he said. State Health SecretaryRajan Khobragade said the incredible transformation of a PHC in hilly Wayanad into a modern medical facility since 2017 exemplifies the successful profile of Aardram as a pioneering people-friendly project. "The FHC in the tribal belt of interior Noolpuzha with its new OP and in-patient blocks, physiotherapy and antenatal wings, telemedicine facilities and e-rickshaws besides children's park and an open-air geriatric corner stands proof to the critical role of community participation in developmental initiatives," he said. He said Kerala has succeeded in making communities aware of their entitlements and promoted a healthcare system that is accountable. The 2017-initiated Aardram has by far upgraded 767 PHCs in Kerala to FHCs as first-level health delivery points of high quality, Khobragade said. "The rest of the 200-odd PHCs in the state will be made FHCs by the end of 2020. The process generates 4,000 posts which are getting filled," he said. Medical Officer of the Noolpuzha FHC Dr Dahar Muhammed revealed that the Aardram-triggered enhancement in the centre's health services has raised OP count from 40-60 a day to close to 250. Daily lab tests have risen by five times from what was 20 four years ago, he added. At the discussion moderated by NHM Kerala Mission Director Dr Rathan Kelkar, ex-lead health specialist, World Bank, Dr G N V Ramana spoke on the UHC experiences from the African countries. The webinar series that began on February 17 with focus on the prospects of achieving sustainable development goals (SDGs) amid an added challenge posed by Covid-19 is being held across five days this month and early March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-tops-in-global-health-coverage-say-experts-952743.html
18-02-2021||South||Puducherry CM convenes meeting of Congress MLAs after Lt Guv's trust vote direction||A meeting of ruling Congress MLAs is underway on Thursday night to decide the next course of action after Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan directed Chief Minister V Narayanasamy to prove his majority in the assembly on February 22. The MLAs are meeting at the residence of Narayanasamy, whose government is facing a crisis following the resignations of four MLAs, including two ministers since last month. Earlier, Narayanasamy offered prayers at a Lord Shiva temple in the heart of the town and told reporters that the MLAs would meet at his residence to decide the next course of action. Soundararajan directed the summoning of the Assembly on February 22 for the "single agenda namely whether the government of the incumbent Chief Minister continues to enjoy the confidence of the House." In the 33-member Assembly with an effective strength of 28, the Congress has ten members, including Speaker, while its alliance partner DMK has three and lone independent from Mahe region also supports it. The opposition parties also have 14 members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-cm-convenes-meeting-of-congress-mlas-after-lt-guvs-trust-vote-direction-952753.html
18-02-2021||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan comes under fire again over job aspirants' protest||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has come under fire yet again over the way the CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government is dealing with ongoing stir by job aspirants. While Vijayan clarified the government's stand on the reason why all candidates in the rank lists published by the Kerala Public Service Commission (KPSC) could not be given appointments, he is adamant that the government would not initiate talks with the candidates. Allegations by Vijayan that the stir was politically motivated and insulting remarks against the stir by some of his cabinet colleagues have put the party in a spot. Veteran political commentator BRP Bhaskar said that Vijayan's present approach towards job aspirants on stir is similar to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's approach towards the farmers' stir. The job aspirants on stir deserve a humanitarian approach as they are seeking jobs after clearing the recruitment tests, he said. K Venu, a senior social activist and communist thinker, said that Vijayan's adamant stand might adversely affect the LDF in the upcoming Assembly elections. In a democracy, it is important to have talks with people to address their grievances, he said. Vijayan's adamant stand was criticised when his government decided to enforce women's entry in Sabarimala Ayyappa temple using force without holding discussions with concerned sections. In the Lok Sabha election that followed, the LDF lost 19 of the 20 seats in Kerala. Meanwhile, a protest by Youth Congress and Kerala Students' Union in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday in support of the stir by the job aspirants turned violent and many activists and police personnel were injured in the clashes. The chief minister later reacted that it was pre-planned violence by the Youth Congress for political gains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-comes-under-fire-again-over-job-aspirants-protest-952755.html
18-02-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh Panchayat polls: TDP suffers major defeat on Chandrababu Naidu's home turf||The ruling YSRCP has shown dominance in former Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu’s pocket borough Kuppam in the third phase of Panchayat polls held on Wednesday. Though the rural local body polls are held in a party-less manner officially, on the ground the elections are fought by the candidates supported by the political parties, which take this referendum prestigiously. According to the Panchayati Raj and Rural Development Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy, out of the 89 Panchayats falling under the Kuppam constituency in Chittoor district, 75 seats were taken by YSRCP supported candidates. The TDP tally is the remaining 14 bodies. The numbers reflect a reversal of the two parties’ position when compared to the 2013 poll results when TDP won 81 Panchayats. Such is the hold Naidu has on Kuppam, lying at the tri-junction of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, that he went to the state Assembly from there for seven consecutive terms, beginning in 1989 and the latest in 2019.  The TDP’s rout in its chief’s bastion has let the YSRCP leaders question if Naidu would remain in electoral politics. “Kuppam voters have endorsed the welfare-centric rule of Jaganmohan Reddy. Naidu should accept his defeat and start pondering about contesting from another constituency or leave politics altogether,” said Peddireddi. The former CM has alleged large-scale distribution of inducement money for votes and atrocities on the TDP supporters. “It is the democracy which is defeated in Kuppam, not me. I have been associated with Kuppam for 35 years and am considered a family member by the people there,” Naidu told reporters, alleging that the YSRCP is disturbing the peace and tranquillity of Kuppam. Naidu also expressed discontent saying that the state election commission failed in acting on their complaints. Minister Peddireddi said that YSRCP backed candidates have won 2,574 out of 3,221 Panchayats in the third phase elections, taking over 80% seats, followed by the TDP with 509 Panchayats translating to about 14%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-panchayat-polls-tdp-suffers-major-defeat-on-chandrababu-naidus-home-turf-952776.html
18-02-2021||South||TRS govt, state police face Oppn's heat over lawyer couple's murder||The Opposition Congress and BJP have blamed the TRS, K Chandrashekar Rao government and the state police department for the brutal murder of a lawyer couple in broad daylight in Telangana on Wednesday. A Mandal-level leader of the ruling party -- Kunta Srinivas -- said to be close to the higher up leaders, is among the prime accused in the case of the murder of G Vaman Rao and PV Nagamani. On Wednesday afternoon, the offenders intercepted the car in which Rao and his wife were travelling on a highway in Peddapalli district towards Hyderabad, after attending some court work in Manthani. Rao was pulled out of the car and stabbed several times in full public view. Both were practising advocates in the Telangana High Court and succumbed to the savage attack, after being rushed to a hospital. In his final moments, Rao had reportedly mentioned the name of Kunta Srinivas, President of the TRS's Manthani unit. Police said they have arrested Srinivas, the main accused,  and two others on Thursday. The victims and the accused are from the same area and have some long-standing disputes, including a temple land-related issue, between them. The advocate couple is known for cases challenging the alleged misdeeds of politicians, and also had petitioned against the actions of some officials and police officers in the past. According to the family, the couple had, in September, moved the HC complaining that they were being harassed, threatened by the police after they moved a PIL in the court regarding a custodial death in the Manthani police station. Telangana Congress leader Uttam Kumar Reddy described the advocate couple's murder “as TRS's biggest attack on the legal fraternity, system.” Uttam Kumar also accused some police officers of functioning in favour of the TRS. “Culprits should be punished and those officers whose negligence allowed the murder should be suspended within 24 hours. We demand a CBI probe into the whole episode,” he said. On Thursday, Telangana BJP's women wing attempted to lay siege to the DGP office in Hyderabad, condemning the murders and “police laxity.” “The victims were selflessly filing PILs in the judicial platforms against perceived injustices. They filed cases against the land-sand mafia in the region and incurred their wrath. They had also filed a case against the local police for an alleged custodial death,” Telangana BJP said in a letter to the state DGP Mahender Reddy, demanding the suspension of Ramagundam police commissioner and ACP “to ensure free and fair investigation into the horrendous incident.” “The couple had sought police protection which was denied to them despite awareness that they face threat perception. Had they been given police protection as sought by them several times, they would not have been killed. The culprits, who explicitly enjoy the patronage of the ruling masters, were aware that the couple had no protection and were, therefore, were able to effect the brutal murder in full public view,” the BJP stated. Following the opposition onslaught, the TRS has announced the suspension of Kunta from the party. Meanwhile, the HC took suo motu cognizance of the murders and asked the state government to conduct a proper investigation. Posting the matter to March 1, the court issued notices to the Rao's government, asking for submission of a status report on the probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/trs-govt-state-police-face-oppns-heat-over-lawyer-couples-murder-952788.html
18-02-2021||South||CM post not sold in shops: Palaniswami attacks Stalin||Hitting out at DMK President M K Stalin for his Chief Ministerial aspirations, incumbent K Palaniswami on Thursday wondered if the post was something that could be purchased from a shop and said it has to be decided by the people. Noting that he hailed from a humble rural background to scale the present heights, the chief minister said Stalin's case was not so, indicating he grew with the support of his father, the late DMK chief M Karunanidhi. He also took a swipe at DMK Youth Wing chief and Stalin's son Udhayanaidhi for his persistent criticism of the ruling party, questioning his qualification to do so and asserting "my political experience is his age." Addressing an election rally here, he questioned Stalin holding meetings in Assembly constituencies to listen to people's grievances and assuring to reddress them in 100 days if voted to power in the coming elections. "DMK was in power five times. You were a Minister and deputy CM. Why didn't you take care of people then? They won't cater to people while in power but are speaking lies (now) to come to power," the AIADMK Joint Coordinator charged. Palaniswami said that while Stalin had his father's backing, he climbed the ladder of success from a rural background. Anyone from AIADMK can reach the top with hardwork, but that was not the case in the DMK where the party's first family was at the helm of affairs, he said. The present government was that of people and "I never saw myself as a chief minister but you (people) are" and the post was meant to serve the public, he said. "But Stalin is not like that. He says he will become CM in three months. How is that possible? People have to vote, you need majority. Is a CM post some commodity that is available in a shop? It is a post given by people," he added. Further, targeting Udhayanidhi, he pointed out at his repeated criticism of the government and said his qualification was none other than being Stalin's son and Karunanidhi's grandson. "My political experience is his age. He is criticising the AIADMK. Look at the irony... the party has slipped to such depths that DMK's announcements are now not made by Stalin but Udhayanidhi.. it is a family party, a corporate company," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-post-not-sold-in-shops-palaniswami-attacks-stalin-952832.html
18-02-2021||State||Reality check: Karnataka's RTI portal takes transparency for a ride||It was exactly a year ago that Karnataka launched an online service for citizens to file Right to Information (RTI) applications. The portal, however, is so glitched that the State Information Commission (SIC) has repeatedly asked the government to fix the problems. But, the Centre for e-Governance (CeG) appears to have turned a blind eye. None of the RTI applications filed by DH has elicited any response. In the first week of January, several RTI applications were filed by DH at rtionline.karnataka.gov.in to assess the utility of the website launched with much fanfare in February 2020. One of the RTI applications was filed on January 3 with the Revenue Department, to which the portal acknowledged receipt of the query. However, no additional information such as contact details of the nodal officer concerned, was provided. More than a month since the application, there is s no update on whether the query was approved or rejected. Similarly, there was a lack response from departments to a few other RTI applications filed. It can be noted that only a handful of Secretariat offices are 'empanelled' to accept RTI applications online. Three-fourth of the Secretariat offices are yet to be empanelled according to the State Information Commission. Documents show that the CeG did not act on multiple letters by the SIC to address the problems faced by the portal. SIC authorities had also pulled up CeG for misleading the public in the RTI online portal as the website claimed — contents of the site provided by the Karnataka Information Commission, Government of Karnataka. The Commission wrote to the CeG in November last to remove the text from the webpage, documents show. RTI activist Venkatesh Nayak said that though Karnataka is recognised as a better-governed state, it has not been effective in implementing online RTI services as in Maharashtra and Delhi. "It is extremely unfortunate that adequate seriousness is not shown at various government levels, despite Supreme Court directions (on providing RTI services online)," he said. According to Rajeev Chawla, Additional Chief Secretary (e-Governance), the website would be set right in a month or two. “This portal was implemented because of a Supreme Court directive. The software was borrowed from NIC Delhi as they had given it to everybody. But, there were issues with support from NIC. About a week ago, NIC Karnataka took the source code. It will be set right in a month or two," he said. Also, we had implemented the portal only in a couple of departments because we wanted to scale up slowly, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/reality-check-karnatakas-rti-portal-takes-transparency-for-a-ride-952466.html
18-02-2021||State||Karnataka Legislative Council seat bypoll on March 15||The polling for the by-election to fill a vacancy in the Legislative Council of Karnataka will be held on March 15. The vacancy in the Legislative Council was created due to the death of S L Dharme Gowda of the Janata Dal (Secular) on December 28.  The Election Commission on Thursday announced the schedule of the bye-election to fill the vacancy. The notification for the by-election would be issued on February 21 and the candidates would be allowed to file nomination papers till March 4 and to withdraw till March 8, the Election Commission stated. Gowda, who was also the deputy chairman of the Legislative Council, was found dead on railway tracks near his hometown at Gunasagara in Chikkamagaluru district a couple of weeks after he was forcibly removed from the chair of the presiding officer by the Opposition members of the Council during a ruckus over a no-confidence motion moved against the chairman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-legislative-council-seat-bypoll-on-march-15-952644.html
18-02-2021||State||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa’s son sent money to Bihar to defeat BJP: Yatnal’s new bomb||In a serious charge, disgruntled former union minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Thursday claimed that Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s son BY Vijayendra funded the RJD and Congress to defeat the BJP in the Bihar elections. Vijayendra is also the BJP vice-president. Yatnal said he mentioned this charge in an 11-page reply to a show-cause notice the party had issued for having made “embarrassing” statements against the Yediyurappa-led BJP government. “How much did Vijayendra send to Lalu Prasad Yadav's RJD and Congress during the Bihar elections through one prominent JD(S) and one Congress leader in Karnataka? I have asked this question in my reply, for which I want Vijayendra and Yediyurappa to answer,” Yatnal said, adding that the party top brass should probe this. The BJP central leadership is aware of discussions around Vijayendra’s alleged funding, Yatnal claimed, calling it “a betrayal”. "People of the state are talking about the money (Vijayendra) sent to defeat BJP in Bihar," he said. Yatnal is not new to controversy. He had publicly claimed that Yediyurappa would be removed as the CM and replaced with “someone from north Karnataka”. Yatnal said he had not indulged in any anti-party activity nor had he issued statements against the party. “I have spoken against Yediyurappa and his family,” he said. “The Yediyurappa government is bringing disrepute to BJP and there’s no respect for MLAs,” Yatnal said, adding that the administration was “running contrary” to the principles of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for corruption-free and dynasty-free governance. Yatnal also said that he had raised several other issues in his response to the high command. “There are 45 paras in my reply. I will reveal them one-by-one in the days to come.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-s-son-sent-money-to-bihar-to-defeat-bjp-yatnal-s-new-bomb-952653.html
18-02-2021||State||No bus fare hike in state, clarifies Karnataka Dy CM Lakshman Savadi||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister Lakshman Savadi who holds transport portfolio clarified on Thursday that there is no proposal before the government to hike bus fare even as prices of fuel is skyrocketing. Speaking to reporters here, he said Road Transport Corporations (RTCs) have submitted their proposal requesting the government to increase bus fare. Common people are already in dire straits due to the scourge of Covid-19 and natural disaster like unprecedented floods. They will face more trouble if fare is hiked, the DyCM remarked. Savadi said a total of 4,000 news buses (1,000 buses each to four transport utilities) were announced in the previous budget but the buses couldn't be inducted as the state faced financial crisis in the changed scenario. The bus operation will back to normalcy by the month of April. Post-lockdown, North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) is operating 90% of its buses, about 80 per cent of the buses of North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWRKTC) have hit the roads, Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is running about 75% buses and Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is operating 60% buses. The BMTC is incurring about 1.5 crore loss every day, he explained. A pre-budget meeting has been scheduled with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in Bengaluru on Friday and a request for 3,000 new buses will be placed in the meeting and 1000 each buses will be allotted to NEKRTC, NWRKTC and KSRTC. Instead of scrapping the old buses, the transport department will convert them into toilet, daycare and feeding centres in the bus stands at district and taluk headquarters, Savadi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-bus-fare-hike-in-state-clarifies-karnataka-dy-cm-lakshman-savadi-952690.html
18-02-2021||State||Wistron to resume its operations in Karnataka soon, company tells govt||Apple's contract manufacturer Wistron will resume operations at its Narasapura facility soon, a delegation from the company told Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar on Thursday. Wistron's iPhone manufacturing plant at Narasapura in Kolar, about 50 km from Bengaluru, was shut in December 2020 after workers went on a rampage at the facility. A Wistron team led by managing director Sudipto Gupta met Shettar at Vidhana Soudha and told him that the company had started recruitment and preparations were on to restart production. "Production work will resume soon," the company told Shettar, according to a release from the minister’s office. The Taiwanese company also thanked Shettar for the government's support in the aftermath of the violence. During the meeting, Shettar expressed regret over the violence. "But, Karnataka being an industry-friendly state has always strived to provide a conducive atmosphere for industrial activity," the minister was quoted as having said. "The state government and the industries department will continue all kinds of support," he added and urged Wistron to recruit people from other districts of the state as well. Following the violence, Apple put Wistron on probation and said that it will no longer receive any new business "before they complete corrective actions." Apple had said that preliminary findings into the violence indicated violations of its Supplier Code of Conduct by "failing to implement proper working hour management processes." After the incident, the state government appointed Additional DGP (law and order) Pratap Reddy as the superintendent for the ongoing police probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/wistron-to-resume-its-operations-in-karnataka-soon-company-tells-govt-952693.html
18-02-2021||State||Disaster Rapid Action Team set up for disaster relief in Chamarajanagar||The Chamarajanagar district administration has made preparations to establish a Disaster Rapid Action Team (D-RAT) comprising 50 volunteers, to take up emergency disaster relief work. Nehru Yuva Kendra has joined hands with the scheme conceptualised by Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi. The team is being formed, keeping in mind the various natural disasters that may occur in the border district. The volunteers, under Nehru Yuva Kendra, will be trained in disaster relief work. The district administration will begin training for the volunteers from February 22. As per the plans of the district administration, 10 volunteers from each taluk have been identified for the training, who will in turn train the representatives of various youth groups, volunteer organisations, in their respective taluks. Speaking to DH, Ravi said, each district has a district disaster management authority, presided over by the respective deputy commissioners and it is their responsibility to manage it during the times of disaster. The officers of various departments will be the members of the authority. But, no one is trained under disaster management. There is a need for a separate team for this purpose and the scheme was devised, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/disaster-rapid-action-team-set-up-for-disaster-relief-in-chamarajanagar-952709.html
18-02-2021||State||Lightning strike kills one in Khanapur taluk||A person working in a brick kiln in Nidhagal village of Khanapur taluk was killed in a lightning strike on Thursday evening. Parts of the district received heavy unseasonal rains with thunders. The deceased has been identified as Gurunath Pandurang Narvekar (20), resident of Asu village of Joida taluk, Uttar Kannada district. He had come to work in the brick kiln with his family members recently. He was struck by lightning when attempting to cover bricks with plastic sheets during the downpour, sources said. Khanapur police visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/lightning-strike-kills-one-in-khanapur-taluk-952781.html
18-02-2021||State||Bus priority lane in Kalaburagi, Vijayapura cities soon||The North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) is preparing a draft to create a bus priority lane (BPL) in Kalaburagi and Vijayapura cities. Urban local bodies (ULBs), along with the transport utility, have decided to create the lane to provide sustainable transport mode. The BPL will be created within five km distance in the two cities. An RTI query by DH revealed, “Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT), Bengaluru will provide complete financial assistance to create the bus priority lane. At least 3.5 metres of road on either side is required for it. The project would cost around Rs 80 lakh to Rs 90 lakh per km to erect bollards, barricades and concrete structures. The DULT joint director held a video conference meeting thrice in September 2020 and it has been decided to create a single priority lane in Kalaburagi and Vijayapur cities on a pilot basis. The lane will be created from the central bus stand to Sedam ring road via Rashtrapati Chowk, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Circle, Annapurna Cross, Basaveshwara Hospital in Kalaburagi. In Vijayapur city, the BPL will be created from the railway station to Al Ameen Medical College, Gol Gumbaz and Gandhi Chowk. The issue was discussed in detail in the 63rd meeting of the board of directors of NEKRTC held in November 2020. A NEKRTC official told DH that the objective of the bus priority lane was to provide fast, comfortable, safe, reliable and affordable public transport service to the commuters in the city and to address traffic jams at intersections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bus-priority-lane-in-kalaburagi-vijayapura-cities-soon-952800.html
18-02-2021||State||It's golden jubilee for Tulu's tryst with silver screen||Tulu film industry or Coastalwood is completing 50 years on Friday. The first-ever Tulu film ‘Yenna Thangadi’ (my sister) was released on February 19, 1971.  Efforts for the first-ever Tulu film had begun as early as 1967. Well-known actor and director of Tulu dramas K N Taylor, who had formed Shri Ganesh Nataka Sabha in 1958, decided to take up the mammoth challenge of making the first Tulu film. To help matters at that time, the state government promised subsidy for films made in Tulu. Taylor, with the help of entrepreneurs based in Chennai, launched the Tulu film Industry’s first movie production company ‘Shri Sharavu Pictures’ on September 4, 1970. He sought the help of director Aroor Pattabhi, a native of the then undivided Dakshina Kannada district, to make the first film. As planned, the recordings of songs for the film was completed at Vijaya Studio in Chennai. Lack of proper planning proved costly and delayed the release of another Tulu film ‘Dareda Budadi’ (official’s wife). At about the same time, entrepreneur S R Rajan from Kodagu district, with help from friends in Mangaluru, completed the shooting of ‘Yenna Thangadi’ and released the film at Jyothi theatre on February 19, 1971. The film, made at a cost of Rs 50,000, failed to draw audiences to the theatre. T A Srinivas of Chitra Bharati, which had purchased rights for distributing the film, recollects investing Rs 35,000 and losing Rs 20,000. “The film was rejected by the audience on the grounds of being technically unsound,” he said. Taylor’s ‘Dareda Budedi’, which was released the following month, ran for eight weeks at Roopavani talkies. Only 40 Tulu films were released in a span of 40 years till 2011. The floodgates for Coastalwood opened in 2013 and now the industry’s 115th film, ‘Gamjaal’ (fun), is all set to be released in theatres on Friday. Among directors, Aroor Pattabhi stands out for having directed 10 Tulu films. Despite many setbacks, the Tulu film industry takes pride in introducing many skilled technicians and talented directors like Richard Castelino. Many actors like Jayamala began their film careers in the Tulu industry. Fans celebrating the Tulu film industry’s important milestone believe that Coastalwood has a potential to achieve greater glory, if it sheds its obsession with comedy. Though the industry is stepping into its 50th year, its demands continue to be ignored by the government. Prominent among the demands of Coastalwood include setting up a film city in Mangaluru and forming a separate film chamber of commerce for films made in Tulu, Konkani, Beary, Kodava and Lambani languages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/its-golden-jubilee-for-tulus-tryst-with-silver-screen-952809.html
18-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||DH Impact | Archaeology dept seeks protection for Koppal Neolithic sites||The Karnataka Department of Archaeology, Museums and Heritage (DAMH) will shortly send a proposal to the state government requesting it to protect Neolithic sites in Gangavathi taluk of Koppal district. The DH report mentioned in detail the unabated stone quarrying in Koppal district’s Rampura, Sangapur and Karadivatlu, which has put the very existence of more than 4,000-year-old cave and shelter paintings in danger. Gopal said: “Soon, our officials will file a detailed report about those Neolithic era paintings and based on the report, I will forward a proposal to the state government seeking protection for these sites.” The director noted that report will also include details while pointing out if the monuments are in the core or buffer villages of Hampi World Heritage Area Management Authority (HWHAMA). “If they come under the core area, we will ask HWHAMA to ensure proper protection to those monuments,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-impact-archaeology-dept-seeks-protection-for-koppal-neolithic-sites-952465.html
18-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah pays last respects to departed fan in Mandya||Former chief minister Siddaramaiah visited the house of a youth, who ended his life by suicide in Kodidoddi village, near Keragodu, Mandya district on Thursday, and consoled the family members. The deceased Ramakrishna (25), son of late Chandrappa, was a hardcore fan of Siddaramaiah. Of late, Ramakrishna was suffering from depression and took the extreme step, it is said. He had left a death note before dying by suicide, requesting Siddaramaiah and actor Yash to come to see his body. Ramakrishna, who was a bachelor, was working at a petrol bunk at Besagarahalli in Maddur taluk. He was living with his mother and elder brother. According to sources, Ramakrishna had not gone for work for the last four to five days. On Wednesday, he hung himself with a saree, when no one was there in the house. The incident came to light when his mother returned home. Post mortem was conducted at the district hospital and body was handed over to the family. Keragodu police have registered a case. Speaking after paying his last respects, Siddaramaiah said, "The young man was like a pillar to the family and was also my follower. But, his suicide has caused pain. Nobody should opt for suicide, but develop the strength to face the challenges in life," he said. Actor Yash did not visit the village but has tweeted about the incident. "The fans love are our life and pride. But, is it possible to be proud over the suicide of Ramakrishna of Mandya. Let this not be a model for others. Let him rest in peace. Om Shanti". ಅಭಿಮಾನಿಗಳ ಅಭಿಮಾನವೇ ನಮ್ಮ ಬದುಕು.. ಜೀವನ.. ಹೆಮ್ಮೆ..ಆದರೆ ಮಂಡ್ಯದ ರಾಮಕೃಷ್ಣನ ಅಭಿಮಾನಕ್ಕೆ ಹೆಮ್ಮೆಪಡಲು ಸಾಧ್ಯವೇ...ಅಭಿಮಾನಿಗಳ ಅಭಿಮಾನಕ್ಕೆ ಇದು ಮಾದರಿಯಾಗದಿರಲಿ.. ಕೋಡಿ ದೊಡ್ಡಿ ರಾಮಕೃಷ್ಣನ ಆತ್ಮಕ್ಕೆ ಚಿರಶಾಂತಿ ಸಿಗಲಿ...ಓಂ ಶಾಂತಿ...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-pays-last-respects-to-departed-fan-in-mandya-952582.html
18-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Second Covid-19 vaccine dose not recommended for recipients with neurological effects'||Karnataka would not recommend a second dose for three of 12 AEFI cases, who had neurological effects post-Covid-19 vaccination, said the immunisation officials. The state had, so far, recorded 15 serious adverse events following immunisation (AEFIs), including three deaths. In Dharwad, one patient had slurred speech and right hemiparesis (weakness and paralysis of half of the body). Similarly, a patient in Shivamogga developed a disorder in which the immune system mistakenly attacks healthy nerve cells in the peripheral nervous system. The third AEFI with neurological effects was reported in Kalaburagi, where the patient had five episodes of convulsions minutes after vaccination. Immunisation officials said the state would not recommend a second dose in such cases.  “Persons with anaphylactic or allergic reaction to a previous dose cannot be given the second vaccine dose. This is a contraindication,” said Dr Lokesh Alahari, the WHO consultant who is part of the National Polio Surveillance Project in the state. He was speaking at a state media workshop on Covid vaccines. However, only after two weeks post the second dose can the individual expect to develop immunogenicity. On the sidelines of the event, an immunisation official told DH, “The state will not recommend a second dose in Dharwad, Shivamogga and Kalaburagi cases. After suffering serious effects like temporary partial paralysis, slurred speech, convulsions, seizures and GB syndrome, I don’t think they will come forward for a second dose even if offered. The state will soon deliberate on whether it is vaccine product-related.” Dr Rajani Nageshrao, Deputy Director, Immunisation, Health department, said, “Kerala has also reported neurological consequences similar to those reported from Karnataka’s Shivamogga (GB syndrome) and Dharwad (partial paralysis). Discussion has happened at the national level. We are waiting for outcome.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/second-covid-19-vaccine-dose-not-recommended-for-recipients-with-neurological-effects-952594.html
18-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BSY, ST leaders meet to discuss quota rejig||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa huddled with a group of Valmiki (ST) leaders from the party on Thursday morning and assured them that he would try to hike reservation for them.  The ST community, of which Valmikis are influential, are seen as an important support base for the BJP.  The Valmiki community led by Social Welfare Minister B Sreeramulu has been rallying for a hike in the ST quota from 3 per cent to 7.5 per cent. “I had called them. I spoke to them. I said I'll try to do justice (to their demand) and that whatever that can be done within the legal and constitutional framework will be done,” Yediyurappa told reporters. The meeting was attended by Sreeramulu, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, legislators Narasimha Nayak (Rajugouda) and Shivanagouda Naik among others. According to sources, the leaders discussed the Justice Nagmohan Das Commission report, which examined hiking the SC quota from 15 per cent to 17 per cent and the ST quota from 3 per cent to 7.5 per cent. The Commission submitted its report in July 2020 reportedly favouring the hike. “We discussed the 7.5 per cent reservation among other things. It was a hopeful meeting,” Nayak told reporters. “The CM said he’d discuss it with legal experts and get a legal opinion. He assured us that he’d try to provide reservation based on who deserves how much." The government has also constituted a Cabinet sub-committee headed by Sreeramulu to decide on revising the existing quota for SCs and STs. At present, Karnataka provides 32 per cent reservation for OBCs, 15 per cent for SCs and 3 per cent for STs, totalling 50 per cent as capped by the Supreme Court. If the BJP government decides to go ahead with hiking the SC/ST quota, the 50 per cent cap will be breached, a legal quagmire. The Cabinet is scheduled to meet later in the day where the reservation issue may come up for discussion. The Veerashaiva-Lingayats, the Panchamasali Lingayats and Kurubas are also seeking a revision in their quota. “We’ll discuss it, let’s see. I can’t tell in advance what will happen in the Cabinet. There are many things that will be discussed,” Yediyurappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bsy-st-leaders-meet-to-discuss-quota-rejig-952596.html
18-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Comply with Covid-19 protocols, till it's zero cases: Karnataka health official||A reduction in Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and increasing movement from endemic zones has led to alarming cluster outbreaks in the past one week, said newly appointed Health commissioner Dr Trilok Chandra, who took charge on Wednesday. “Everyone should follow the rules issued during the first wave and assume that anyone they’re interacting with can be a potential carrier. They themselves can be carriers. Until there are zero cases, that should be the way forward,” he said.  Speaking about the vaccination programme, he said February 20 has been set as the deadline for vaccinating healthcare workers. More targeted testing and random testing in places where there are large crowds - markets, malls, bus stands and closed environments - will, henceforth, be the focus of the state in the backdrop of the new clusters of cases. “All contacts, ILI and SARI cases are to be mandatorily tested. Our testing figures are slightly lower than expected. Positives could be getting missed. We’re ensuring that the districts start testing again,” said the state’s director of the National Health Mission Dr Arundhati Chandrashekhar.  Trilok Chandra said, “For example, BBMP is reporting 200 cases every day. They should be testing only 2,000, but are testing 20,000. Randomly picking up people will not help. Targeted testing should be the focus.” BBMP on Monday tested 22,175 samples.  Vaccine hesitancy “There is 60% vaccine coverage among anganwadi workers and ASHA workers. Among nursing and medical college students, there are reasons like exams and problems like taking the second dose when they need to go back to their native places,” Arundhati said.   If any health worker misses vaccination this month, no extension of the deadline will be given and he or she has to wait till it is available for the public, she clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/comply-with-covid-19-protocols-till-its-zero-cases-karnataka-health-official-952617.html
18-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmers' protests: Mixed response to rail-roko in Karnataka||The call for a nationwide rail-roko campaign by the farmer-leaders in Delhi against the Centre's farm laws evoked a mixed response in Karnataka on Thursday. In Bengaluru, the protest was low-key but there was a good turnout of protesters in Raichur, Belagavi and Davangere. According to information received, the agitation took place in Yeshwanthpur Railway station in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Raichur, Belagavi, Vijayapura, Davangere, Hubballi-Dharwad, Koppal and Kolar. The agitators tried in vain to storm into the railway station to stop the trains. In Raichur, Belagavi and Davangere, protesters were arrested, sources said. In Bengaluru, the agitation was led by farmer-leader Kuruburu Shanthakumar but there was no great impact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farmers-protests-mixed-response-to-rail-roko-in-karnataka-952626.html
18-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Cabinet prefers slow but steady move on quota demands||The Cabinet on Thursday is learned to have decided to tread cautiously on demands made by various communities to revise the existing reservation.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa told his Cabinet colleagues that he would come back to them again with more clarity on the way forward even as he is facing quota demands from communities, including the Veerashaiva-Lingayats to which he belongs.  “We discussed the issue. It was decided to get all details and place it before the Cabinet to decide the extent to which the government can meet the demands of various communities under the framework of the Constitution,” Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said, briefing reporters after the Cabinet meeting.  According to Bommai, the CM took note of opinions expressed by ministers. “The CM suggested that we take suggestions from legal experts and also review all court orders concerning the issue,” he said.  The Cabinet is expected to decide on this once the government takes a comprehensive view on what can be done. “There’s a genealogy study that’s underway in 4-5 districts (for Kurubas). Once that’s complete, a decision will be taken. Even smaller communities have come forward with demands. All of this will be considered comprehensively,” Bommai said.  At present, Karnataka provides 32 per cent reservation for OBCs, 15 per cent for SCs and 3 per cent for STs, totalling to 50 per cent as capped by the Supreme Court. If the BJP government decides to hike quotas, the 50 per cent cap will be breached, a legal quagmire. The Veerashaiva-Lingayats are rallying for national OBC status whereas, the Panchamasali Lingayat sub-sect wants to be put under Category 2A in the state quota. The backward Kurubas have demanded ST status and the Valmiki (ST) community is looking for a hike in reservation.  Earlier in the day, Yediyurappa huddled with a group of Valmiki leaders and assured them that he would try to hike reservation for them.  They want the ST quota to go up from 3 per cent to 7.5 per cent.  The meeting was attended by Social Welfare Minister B Sreeramulu, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, legislators Narasimha Nayak (Rajugouda), Shivanagouda Naik and others. “It was a hopeful meeting. The CM assured us that he’d try to provide reservation based on who deserves how much,” Nayak told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-prefers-slow-but-steady-move-on-quota-demands-952762.html
18-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka High Court asks political parties to frame SOPs||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday said the political parties should formulate standard operating procedure (SOP) and also instruct party workers to follow the same. The court again issued notice to Kannada Chalavali Vatal Paksha which failed to appear. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing the PIL filed by Letzkit Foundation, a Bengaluru-based NGO, praying for directions to strictly implement the provisions of SOP issued in view of Covid-19. The court said the political parties, which hold rallies and meetings, should issue necessary instructions to their workers and followers in the backdrop of the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation. The court also asked other political parties, arrayed as respondents in the PIL, to submit their response. The next hearing on the PIL has been posted to March 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-high-court-asks-political-parties-to-frame-sops-952798.html
18-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Income Tax Department unearths Rs 400-crore medical seat-blocking scam in Karnataka||The Income Tax Department, which conducted search and seizure operations on nine educational institutions registered in Bengaluru and Mangaluru, said on Thursday that it has uncovered a major seat-blocking scam worth over Rs 400 crore where the transparent selection process for medical colleges was subverted. The department found that trustees and key persons running the medical colleges worked in collusion with agents/brokers. Providing details of the malpractice, it said high ranking students in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) would take admission to MBBS through state counseling and block the seat without any intention of joining the colleges. Once the counselling by the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) is done, "in connivance with agents/middlemen/converters", the students withdraw from the admission process thereby making the seats available for the college management. Essentially, the process converted the "regular" (merit) seats into "management seats" which the management filled up through "stray vacancies round" which is used to fill seats remaining vacant after the "mop-up round." "The seats were filled by the college management by admitting less meritorious candidates (with low rank in NEET) after collecting huge sums as capitation fee/donations in cash, which are illegal under the Karnataka Educational Institutions (Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1984. The capitation fee/donations are collected through a network of brokers/ agents employed by the key persons/trustees of these medical colleges," it said. So far, the evidence indicates that Rs 402.78 crore has been accepted as illegal capitation fees and the same has not been disclosed to the Income Tax Department. Incriminating evidence It said that the management, faculty, staff, meritorious students and brokers worked in close nexus to manipulate the online admission process. "There is evidence indicating that one of the medical colleges has some sort of 'package arrangement' for passing management quota students in written examination and viva voce for a fixed sum ranging from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2 lakh," it said. The release said that the sleuths have detected incriminating evidence, including notebooks, handwritten diaries and excel sheets containing details of the cash received from students/brokers for admission to MBBS, BDS and postgraduate seats for various years. Evidence also showed that money has been diverted for non-charitable purposes, including investment made in immovable properties with huge cash components, violating provisions of the Income Tax Act. "One of the colleges has diversified into the business of timber/plywood industries where evidence regarding under-invoicing has also been found," the release said. Searches have resulted in the seizure of cash amounting to Rs 15.09 crore, 81 kg gold jewellery valued at Rs 30 crore, 50-carat diamonds and 40 kg silver articles have been found from the residential premises of the trustees and are prima facie unexplained. Evidence of undisclosed foreign assets of Rs. 2.39 crore in Ghana has also been found apart from that of huge investments in 35 luxury cars under benami names, the release said. In 2019, the department had conducted similar raids to unearth a similar scam. In the aftermath, the committee set up by the state government to inquire into role of eight medical colleges and over 200 students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/income-tax-department-unearths-rs-400-crore-medical-seat-blocking-scam-in-karnataka-952826.html
18-02-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt colleges to get 2,500 smart classrooms soon||Teaching in government colleges in the state will get a hi-tech touch with the Department of Collegiate Education launching "smart classrooms". This new initiative is to improve teaching and learning levels at colleges by utilising all the available digital resources. "Over 2,500 smart classrooms will be ready by the next two months," said Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan. However, the department aims to turn the rest of the 6,500 classrooms into smart classrooms and has submitted a proposal to the Chief Minister to allocate funds in the 2021-22 Budget and plans to complete it over six months. According to details available from the department, it costs Rs 27 crore to turn 2,500 classrooms into smart classrooms. Elaborating, commissioner, Department of Collegiate Education P Pradeep told DH, "Under the smart classrooms project, we will turn all colleges into wi-fi campuses and projectors will be installed in classrooms for better teaching-learning management." "As second-year students have been given laptops by the government, we have decided to convert those classrooms into smart classrooms in the first phase. For the remaining 6,500 classrooms, students will be given tablets," said Pradeep. Along with digital equipment in classrooms, whiteboards will be retained. "The concept of white boards will continue along with smart classes. Sometimes, teachers need whiteboards to explain subjects to students," added Pradeep. Smart classrooms: - WiFi campus- Projector and UPS in classrooms- Android box- Teachers will conduct classes with PPT presentations- If teachers find anything interesting or beneficial for students, they can display it though the projector, it could even be a movie- Content created by teachers for digital classrooms will be uploaded on Learning Management System created by the department and can be accessed by students||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-colleges-to-get-2500-smart-classrooms-soon-952831.html
18-02-2021||West||Maharashtra minister Jayant Patil tests positive for Covid-19||NCP president and Maharashtra water resources minister and state NCP chief Jayant Patil on Thursday said he has tested positive for coronavirus. In a post on Twitter, the minister also said he is doing fine and taking appropriate medical advice. Patil, who earlier this month visited parts of the state during the 'Rashtravadi Parivar Samvad Yatra' (an initiative to reach out to NCP leaders and workers), also asked those who came in contact with him recently to be observant and self-isolate. "I have tested COVID positive. Whilst I am doing fine, I am taking appropriate medical advice and hope to recover soon. I shall be undertaking my duties via video-conference," he tweeted. I have tested COVID positive. Whilst I am doing fine, I am taking appropriate medical advice and hope to recover soon. I shall be undertaking my duties via video-conference. I request those who have come in contact with me recently to be observant and self-isolate.🙏 Earlier this month, state ministers Anil Deshmukh, Satej Patil and Rajendra Shingne also tested positive for the coronavirus infection. Deshmukh was discharged from a hospital in Nagpur, where he was undergoing treatment, on February 15. Last year, over a dozen state ministers, including Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, were infected by the virus.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-minister-jayant-patil-tests-positive-for-covid-19-952535.html
18-02-2021||West||Rising Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha rattles Maharashtra govt||The rising Covid-19 graph in the vast Vidarbha region of Maharashtra – that touches three neighbouring states of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Telangana – has rattled the government. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government is in the process of a series of consultation processes to decide on the future course of action. Thackeray has already made it clear that if people do not cooperate, there could be strict measures or lockdown. Close on the heels of the visit of the Central team last week, the state's advisor on Covid-19, Dr Subhash Salunke, had visited and taken stock of the situation. The Covid-19 task force of the state also has called for strict measures in the Vidarbha region. Vidarbha is divided into two revenue divisions -- Nagpur and Amravati. While Nagpur division comprises six districts of Bhandara, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Gondia, Nagpur and Wardha, the Amravati division comprises five districts of Akola, Amravati, Buldhana, Yavatmal and Washim. Besides the orange city of Nagpur, the hub of Vidarbha region, the other districts of concern are Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal, Buldhana and Wardha. When one looks at the figures, one can see the Vidarbha region is adding 1,000-plus cases of Covid-19 on a daily basis. According to figures compiled by the State’s Public Health Department, during the week 8 to 14, the spike in cases in Amravati was 10.69 per cent followed by Wardha (4.62 per cent), Akola (4.27 per cent), Yavatmal (3.96 per cent) and Buldhana (2.28 per cent). "We have given instructions that the 3T formula of tracing, testing and treatment be implemented strictly, effectively. Testing needs to be increased. Meanwhile, people also need to follow Covid-19 guidelines," state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said. “There has been carelessness on part of people...citizens need to be careful,” said Women and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur, who is the guardian minister of Amravati district.  “Necessary instructions and advisory has been issued to people,” added Minister of State for Labour Bacchu Kadu, the guardian minister of Akola district. In these worst-affected districts, prohibitory orders are in places in certain parts while in some areas, colleges are shut.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rising-covid-19-cases-in-vidarbha-rattles-maharashtra-govt-952567.html
18-02-2021||West||Covid-19: 3 Maharashtra cities likely to face stricter curbs||The Maharashtra government may impose a stricter lockdown in Yavatmal, Amravati and Akola cities of Vidarbha region of the state "at any moment" in view of the Covid-19 situation there, government sources said on Thursday. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his deputy Ajit Pawar discussed the issue on Thursday morning and the step is likely to be taken accordingly, according to the sources. Of late, Maharashtra has been witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases. The state reported 4,787 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest one-day count this year. Among the districts, Amravati reported the highest rise in a day, from 82 cases on Tuesday to 230 cases on Wednesday. The Akola Municipal Corporation, which reported 67 cases under its areas on Tuesday, recorded 105 cases on Wednesday, an official earlier said. "The government may impose a stricter lockdown at any moment in Yavatmal, Amravati and Akola cities. The chief minister and deputy CM Pawar discussed the issue in the morning," a source said. A (government) doctor was sent to Amravati for taking stock of the situation and he has given a telephonic report about the situation there. Accordingly, the decision is expected, the source said. In view of the recent spurt in cases, Chief Minister Thackeray on Tuesday warned that if Covid-19 norms are not followed, people should be prepared for a fresh round of strict lockdown. The government last month extended the coronavirus- induced lockdown in the state till February 28, even as a lot of restrictions have been eased in the last few months. The government's guidelines to operationalise 'Mission Begin Again' for easing of restrictions and phase-wise opening will remain in force till February 28, it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-3-maharashtra-cities-likely-to-face-stricter-curbs-952571.html
18-02-2021||West||JNPT faces heat over alleged destruction of mangroves in Maharashtra||Even as environmentalists have been agitating against the alleged destruction of mangroves under Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), a Maharashtra mangroves cell has asked the country’s largest container port to hand over the sea forests under its area to the State government body. Environmentalists have, therefore, requested the state government to keep JNPT construction activities on hold till the mangroves are transferred to the Forest Department. JNPT in Nhava Sheva is located in the Raigad district of Konkan region of Maharashtra. In a letter to JNPT Chairman, Virendra Tiwari, Additional Chief Conservator Of Forests – Mangrove Cell, has reminded the former of the Bombay High Court order dated September 17, 2018, that directed handing over of all mangroves to the forest department. Since there is nothing on the record on this, the Mangrove Cell requested JNPT to immediately initiate the process of transfer of the mangroves through the Raigad District Collector. “This is a welcome development,” said B N Kumar, director of NatConnect Foundation, who has requested the State Environment Minister Aditya Thackeray to ensure that the mangroves under JNPT are declared as reserved forest and handed over to the Mangrove Cell for conservation without any delay.  With photographic evidence, NatConnect raised alarm over the massive burial of mangroves for JNPT SEZ and other works. As per JNPT’s own official admission on its website, there are 900 hectares of mangroves in its area, Kumar said and pointed out “it is huge and equivalent to the size of 90 Azad Maidans.” By the thumb rule of 1,000 mangroves-a-hectare, JNPT is sitting on 9,00,000 mangroves, he said. The State Environment Department, acting on NatConnect complaint, has just asked the Raigad Collector to probe into the destruction of mangroves under JNPT. TheMaharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority (MCZMA) has also confirmed to NatConnect in response to an application under RTI that JNPT has not been given CRZ clearance for destroying mangroves for the port-based SEZ in Uran. It is mandatory for JNPT to get the MCZMA and High Court clearances before doing any construction in mangrove zones, Nandakumar Pawar, head of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan, pointed out. The High Court by an explicit order banned the killing of mangroves and the latest CRZ rules ban construction within 50 metres of the high tide zone, Pawar said and alleged that JNPT has been violating all these. In a related development, Kharghar-based activist Naresh Chandra Singh appealed to the government to ensure that its own organisation CIDCO complied with the High Court and mangrove committee orders and hand over the mangroves in the node. Despite inspections of the destruction of mangroves in Kharghar, the authorities are not acting, Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jnpt-faces-heat-over-alleged-destruction-of-mangroves-in-maharashtra-952636.html
18-02-2021||West||Governor asks Maharashtra govt to hold Speaker election in Budget session||The tussle between Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government seems to be escalating further. Even as the MVA is contemplating legal options over the delay over the clearing of 12 nominations for the vacancies to the Maharashtra Legislative Council from the Governor’s quota, Koshyari has hit back and asked that the post of Speaker of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly be filled during the ensuing Budget session. The vacancy arose after incumbent Nana Patole resigned to take over as Maharashtra Congress President. After Thackeray refused permission to Koshyari to take the state government aircraft to Uttarakhand to attend an official function, the decision has rattled Koshyari, who had reportedly also conveyed the episode to Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Now Koshyari has shot off a letter to the Vidhan Sabha secretariat asking for the election of Speaker. In fact, the Budget session would commence on 1 March with the address by Koshyari to the joint session of the Legislature. The Maharashtra Legislative Assembly has a tradition of nominating the Speaker by consensus, however, in case polling his held through a secret ballot, there could be chances of cross-voting. Though the MVA leaders are confident they fear that the Opposition BJP would try to seize the opportunity to bring the numbers down. The simple majority mark in the House is 145 and the MVA constituents have more than 150 MLAs - Shiv Sena (56), NCP (53) and Congress (44) besides the support of independents and smaller parties. The NCP’s strength was 54, however, one MLA has died. During the trust vote in December 2019, the MVA secured 169 votes. The BJP has 105 MLAs and has the support of 10 to 12 others. The Governor’s message to Vidhan Bhavan secretariat has not gone down well within the government. On the delay in clearing the names for Council, MVA leaders have termed it as the murder of democracy. "This is a murder of democracy. The cabinet, in the exercise of its rights, sent the names to the Governor. How long will the governor delay it?" Patole said. It may be mentioned, on November 6, 2020, a ministerial delegation comprising Parliamentary Affairs minister Anil Parab of Shiv Sena, Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik of NCP and medical education and Cultural Affairs Minister Amit Deshmukh called on Koshyari at the Raj Bhavan and submitted the 12 names. The Governor nominates 12 MLCs for a tenure of six years – based on the recommendations of the state Cabinet. According to Article171(5) of the Constitution: “(5) The members to be nominated by the Governor under sub-clause (e) of clause (3) shall consist of persons having special knowledge or practical experience in respect of such matters as the following, namely: literature, science, art, co-operative movement and social service.” However, no time frame is mentioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/governor-asks-maharashtra-govt-to-hold-speaker-election-in-budget-session-952677.html
18-02-2021||West||Why is Maharashtra govt allowing gatherings by MVA allies? asks Fadnavis||Maharashtra opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday said the Shiv Sena-led MVA government is adopting different yardsticks on adherence to Covid-19 protocols and sought to know why it is allowing gatherings by ruling allies. The BJP leader said the Uddhav Thackeray government is allowing large gatherings by ruling parties, but appealing to others to avoid crowding to curb the spread of coronavirus. Speaking to reporters, Fadnavis said, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has asked us to follow Covid-19 protocols and avoid gatherings. "However, we pointed out to him that this message should be given to political parties sharing power with him. They should be the ones who should be following Covid-19 guidelines strictly." The former chief minister took a dig at new Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole, who has been holding rallies across the state after taking charge. The Leader of Opposition in the assembly was at Vidhan Bhavan to attend a Business Advisory Committee (BAC) meeting held ahead of the start of the budget session of the state legislature from March 1. He said, "The state government does not appear very keen on holding a long session. We have demanded a four-week -long session for discussing all issues." "The next round of meeting will be held on February 25 which will finalise the agenda for the first week of the session."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-is-maharashtra-govt-allowing-gatherings-by-mva-allies-asks-fadnavis-952695.html
18-02-2021||West||Gujarat RS bypolls: 2 BJP nominees expected to win unopposed||BJP candidates on Thursday filed nominations for bypolls to two Rajya Sabha seats in Gujarat and are expected to be declared winners as the Congress did not field any candidate, an official said. Thursday was the last day for filing nominations. As the main opposition party in the state did not field any candidate, two BJP candidates are expected to be declared winners in the elections scheduled for March 1, returning officer C B Pandya said. "BJP's Dinesh Anavadiya and Ram Mokariya and their two dummy candidates submitted their papers. We have not received any nominations from Congress," he said. In this situation, voting will not be necessary as the dummy candidates are expected to withdraw, Pandya said. The last date for withdrawing nominations is February 22. Anavadiya is the state BJP's OBC Morcha president, while Mokariya runs a courier company. The byelections were necessitated by the death of Congress veteran Ahmed Patel in November and BJP leader Abhay Bhardwaj in December last year. The Rajya Sabha terms of Patel and Bhardwaj were to end in August 2023 and June 2026. Anavadiya has been chosen by the BJP to fill up Patel's seat, while Mokariya will replace Bhardwaj. The BJP and Congress have 111 and 65 MLAs in the Gujarat Legislative Assembly, respectively. The Congress did not have the numbers to win even one seat as voting was to be conducted separately for the two seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-rs-bypolls-2-bjp-nominees-expected-to-win-unopposed-952698.html
18-02-2021||West||Covid-19 containment measures in 3 Maharashtra districts||With spiralling Covid-19 cases in parts of Vidarbha region districts of Amravati, Akola and Yavatmal, the Maharashtra government on Thursday evening announced containment measures in thickly-populated areas in the three districts to combat the pandemic. The measures were taken after a series of meetings during the day, in which Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar reviewed the situation. Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar has asked District Collectors of the districts to declare areas having a high prevalence of Covid-19 as “containment zones”. These include areas of Amravati municipal corporation and Achalpur town in Amravati district, Yavatmal, Pusad and Pandharkawada in Yavatmal district and Akot and Murtizapur tehsils and Akola municipal corporation in Akoka district. In some of the areas, prohibitory orders are already in place and schools and colleges have been shut.  Home isolation and quarantine measures have to be strictly followed else action would be taken. “The Collectors have been authorised to take decisions depending on the situation,” state Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab told reporters in Mumbai. On Thursday, coronavirus cases in Maharashtra shot up to 20,81,530 with an addition of 5,427 cases. The rising Covid-19 graph in the vast Vidarbha region of Maharashtra – that touches three neighbouring states of Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Telangana – has rattled the government. Close on the heels of the visit of the Central team last week, the state's advisor on Covid-19 had visited and took stock of the situation. The Covid-19 task force of the state too has called for strict measures in the Vidarbha region which is divided into two revenue divisions of Nagpur and Amravati. The region is adding 1,000-plus cases of Covid-19 on a daily basis. While Nagpur division comprises six districts of Bhandara, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Gondia, Nagpur and Wardha, the Amravati division comprises five districts of Akola, Amravati, Buldhana, Yavatmal and Washim. Besides the orange city of Nagpur, the other districts of concern are Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal, Buldhana and Wardha. According to figures compiled by the State’s Public Health Department, during the week 8-14 February, the spike in cases in Amravati was 10.69 per cent followed by Wardha (4.62 per cent), Akola (4.27 per cent), Yavatmal (3.96 per cent) and Buldhana (2.28 per cent). "We have given instructions that the 3T formula of tracing, testing and treatment be implemented strictly, effectively. Testing needs to be increased. Meanwhile, people also need to follow Covid-19 guidelines," state’s public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said. “There has been carelessness on part of people...citizens need to be careful,” said women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur, who is the guardian minister of Amravati district.   “Necessary instructions and advisory have been issued to people,” added minister of state for labour Bacchu Kadu, the guardian minister of Akola district. In the worst-affected districts, prohibitory orders are in places in certain parts while in some areas, colleges are shut.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-containment-measures-in-3-maharashtra-districts-952725.html
18-02-2021||West||Mumbai to take strict Covid-19 measures||With the sudden surge of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai’s suburban areas, the financial capital has been put under strict measures and the authorities decided to review the bed strength and capacity in the hospitals. If more than five cases are found in a building, it would be sealed and people under home quarantine would be stamped by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). After a review meeting by Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, the city administration decided to act strictly against people not following the precautions/SOPs. To ensure that train commuters in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) wear masks, the BMC decided to deploy 300 marshals in suburban locals. The target of imposing fines on people for not wearing masks has been scaled up to 25,000 persons per day. On Thursday, the cases in Mumbai and overall MMR went up by 736 and 1,432, respectively. According to the BMC’s measures, there would be a special focus on marriage halls, gymkhanas, night clubs, restaurants, cinema halls, public places, playgrounds, shopping malls and offices to ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour is maintained. To check on spitting in public places, the marshals deployed has been doubled and taken to a strength of 4,800.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-to-take-strict-covid-19-measures-952737.html
18-02-2021||West||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope tests positive for coronavirus||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. "My corona test result has returned positive. I'm in good health and am consulting a doctor. With your blessings, I will soon be in your service after defeating corona," Tope said in a tweet. माझी कोरोना चाचणी पॉझिटिव्ह आली आहे. माझी प्रकृती चांगली असून मी डॉक्टरांचा सल्ला घेत आहे. आपल्या सर्वांच्या आशीर्वादाने कोरोनाला हरवून लवकरच मी आपल्या सेवेत रुजू होईल. माझ्या संपर्कात आलेल्यांनी काळजी घ्यावी आणि लक्षणे दिसल्यास तत्काळ आपली कोरोना चाचणी करून घ्यावी. "Anybody who has come in contact with me should be careful and get your corona test done immediately if symptoms appear," he added. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-health-minister-rajesh-tope-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-952829.html
